GLOBAL                II2 D . - i
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
February 1993
PROJECT DOCUMENT
a



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
USS1 = TL 7,000 (appraisal: June 1992)
US$l = TL 8,200 (November 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imperial Units                           Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                              30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 square foot (ft2)          =           0.093 square meters (m2)
1 cubic foot (ft3)           =           0.028 Cubic meters (m3
1 mile (mi)                              1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                              0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)        =           259 ha
1 pound (lb)                             0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (1.ton)           =           1,016 kg (1.016 metric ton)
1 ft3/sec (cusec)                        0.028 m3/sec
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GEF      -    Global Environment Facility
GET      -    Global Environment Trust
GMZ      -    Gene Management Zones
GOT      -    Government of Turkey
IBPGR    -    International Bank for Plant Genetic Resources
ICARDA   -    International Center for Agricultural Research in Dryland Areas
IUCN     -    International Union for the Conservation of Nature
MARA     -    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MOE      -    Ministry of Environment
MOF      -    Ministry of Forestry
NPGRI    -    National Plant Genetic Resources Institute
GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December



TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
GRANT PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient:                  Government of Turkey
Beneficiaries:              Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA)
Minictry of Forestry (MOF)
Ministry of Environment (MOE)
Amount:                     SDR 3.71 million (US$5.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Grant through the Global Environment Facility
Financing Plan:             Government  US$0.6 million (equivalent)
GET         USS5.1 million (equivalent)
US$5.7 million (equivalent)
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
MaU:                         IBRD 24479



I
I
I
I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR OF COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I,
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
Backaround.
1.           Turkey is an agriculturally diverse and rich nation that is self-sufficient in most
foods and a net agricultural exporter. Agriculture accounts for about 18% of GDP, 18% of exports
and 45% of employment. Turkey's total area is 78 million ha including lakes and urban areas.
Excluding these, it can be broadly divided into cultivated land (21 million ha), forest land (20
million ha, half of which is classified as productive forest), rangeland (12 million ha) and land
unsuitable for fanning (11 million ha). Natural resources degradation, particularly soil erosion, is
the most serious environmental issue facing the sustainability of Turkey's agriculture. This has been
caused by overgrazing, deforestation and inappropriate cultivation practices on fragile soils. GOT is
aware of the problem; a recently approved Bank funded Agricultural Research Project will address
soil management issues, and the Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project, to which this
GET subproject is attached, aims to improve sustainable range, forest and farming management to
three provinces in eastern Turkey, in the upper Euphrates watershed.
2.            Despite this degradation, Turkey is one of the world's most important centers of
plant genetic resources. Of the more than 3,000 plant species in Turkey know to be endemic,
several are relatives of important crop species that feed the world (wheat, barley, lentils, chickpeas,
pasture plants, and horticultural plants). Many of Turkey's medicinal plants and horticultural and
forest trees are also of global importance because of their unique genetic biodiversity. The reason
for the extremely wide variation of herbaceous and woody plants in Turkey is the country's location
at the junction of three major phytogeographical regions -- the Irano-Turanian, Euro-Siberian and
Mediterranean regions. Plant breeders from all over the world use strains of the wild progenitors,
primitive forms, and landraces of major crops in Turkey to develop plants that are more productive
and that are resistant to cold, drought, salinity, pests and disease.
3.            Three broad regions in Turkey have been identified as important centers of
biodiversity in wild relatives of cultured crops: (a) Southeastern Anatolia (wheat, barley, oats,
chickpeas, lentils, alfalfa, apples, grapevine, melons, cucumber, broad beans, fodder plants); (b)
South-Central Anatolia (wheat, barley, oats, rye, apples, almonds, pears, grapevine, lentils,
chickpeas, clover, trefoil); and (c) the Aegean region (fruit trees and forage legumes). Turkey also
contains unique subspecies of important forest tree species, including red pine, black pine, scotch
pine and the Kazdagi mountain fir. Since Turkey is at the southernmost part of the range of major
European forest species, the species in Turkey contain unique genetic characteristics such as drought
hardiness and insect resistance.
4.            The Government of Turkey (GOT) is aware of the unique biological diversity of
Turkey's flora. The National Plant Genetic Resources Program was established in 1977, and
collects seeds of wild crop relatives and landraces for ex-situ conservation, mostly at the National
Plant Genetic Resources Institute (NPGRI) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
(MARA). Other regional research institutes also participate in the program. Forest seeds are also
collected for ex-situ conservation by the Ministry of Forestry (MOF), which maintains seed orchards
and clone banks. The Ministry of Forestry also manages 55,492 ha of nature conservation areas for
ecosystem conservation, 42,000 ha, representing 25 forest tree species, as natural tree stands, and



2
about 265,000 ha of National Parks. It has extensive experience with land management. There is,
however, no specific program for in-situ management of the wild crop relatives or landraces of
herbaceous species, even though these exist in gazetted forest areas. The Ministry of Environment
was recently established (August 1991) in Turkey and is now responsible for establishment of basic
policies and strategies to conserve biological diversity.
5.            While ex-situ conservation is an essential element in a biodiversity conservation
strategy, there has been increasing awareness that it is not sufficient. Ex-situ conservation is geared
principally to a small number of known plants, and it "fixes" the genetic material at the time of
extraction. In-situ conservation, or "the maintenance of reproducing organisms in the area where
they developed their distinctive properties" (FAO definition), would permit natural genetic evolution
and maintenance of biodiversity of species in their habitat. GOT is committed to complement ex-
situ programs with in-situ conservation. but lacks experience with this approach, which has not yet
been systematically developed in any country.
Subproiect obiectives.
6.            This subproject would seek to identify and establish in-situ conservation areas in
Turkey, for the protection of genetic resources and wild relatives of important crops and forest tree
species that originated in Turkey. It would provide for sustainable in-situ conservation of genetic
resources in cereals, horticultural crops, medicinal plants, forest trees, and pasture grasses and
legumes through an integrated ecosystem approach. It would contribute to the broader objective of
conserving sustainable farming and forest systems that is a key element of the Watershed
Rehabilitation project. It would develop the institutional capacity in Turkey for preparing and
implementing a national strategy for in-situ conservation which could include landraces in a second
phase project, for which support from the GET will be sought. The aim is to test and develop a
new approach to conservation of genetic diversity which has not been tried on a large scale
anywhere in the world. Given Turkey's unique biological diversity, particularly in wild relatives of
globally significant species such as wheat, the project could potentially be of great benefit to plant
breeders in Turkey and worldwide.
Proiect activities.
7.            The subproject is designed around the following five components:
(a)    Site surveys and inventories. There will be an initial assessment of suitable sites in
Turkey for wild crop relatives, focussing on wheat, chickpea, lentils and barley as
the priority species, but also including other herbaceous and woody species. Given
the state of current knowledge and habitat requirement for wheat, the selection
process will focus on areas in Kazdagi National Forest representing the Aegean
region, Karacadag Plateau and Ceylanpinar State Farm representing Southeastern
Turkey, and a site yet too be identified in Southem Anatolia. Within these sites,
ecosystem based surveys will be conducted to deternine suitable habitats with regard
to representativeness, diversity, naturalness and management considerations for in-
situ gene management. Following the surveys, a species-specific inventory will be
conducted at each site with regard to species abundance, distribution and
management needs. To support a complementary approach between in- and ex-situ
conservation, a few select germplasm samples will be collected for ex-situ



3
preservation.
(b)    Gene management zones (GMZs). This component expands the scope of component
(a) and will involve the formalization of sites selected into protected areas with
specific management requirements, adapted to different species. A series of
preserves will be selected to represent the ecogeographic ranges needed for targeted
wild relatives in order to support sufficient environmental heterogeneity for both
wild crop woody and non-woody species. Monitoring species incidence and
diversity will be a key element of this activity, which will also monitor and evaluate
different approaches to management of GMZ for particular species and ecosystems.
(c)    Data management. This component will build a database for the complex array of
information that will be acquired in activities (a) and (b). The data will be
assembled at a common site that can be shared between agencies and universities
and a data management plan will be developed.
(d)    National plan for in-situ conservation. This plan will (i) provide the foundation for
review of the project to date; (ii) facilitate coordination of the GMZs into other
nature conservation strategies in Turkey; and (iii) outline a strategic and
implementation plan for in-situ genetic resource conservation for landraces as well as
wild relatives throughout Turkey beyond the life of the project.
(e)    Institutional strengthening. This component focuses on professional development
and training of staff from the implementing agencies as well as Turkish scientists
and students through specialized workshops, technical assistance and training
courses, in topics such as conservation biology, biosystematics, survey and inventory
techniques and Geographical Information Systems (GIS). Study tours are provided.
The project would also finance an international scientific advisory committee
comprised of Turkish and international scientists and officials, to provide scientific
support to the project.
8.            Project costs are estimated at US$4.8 million over a three-year period, or US$5.7
million including physical and price contingencies. The GET grant would cover 89% of total costs,
or US5.1 million. In addition to its contribution to project costs, GOT would provide personnel and
use of existing research institutes and laboratories. About 67% of project costs are foreign
exchange, and 9% are taxes. Schedule A shows a breakdown of costs and the financing plan, while
Schedule B indicates methods of procurement and disbursement and the disbursement schedule. A
timetable of key processing events is given in Schedule C. A detailed description of the project is
given in the Technical Annex entitled "In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity" dated February 9,
1993.
Proiect implementation.
9.            The project would use the complementary strengths of the Ministries of Forestry,
Agriculture and Rural Affairs and Environment. The coordinating agency would be the Plant
Breeding and Agronomy Department of the General Directorate for Agricultural Research (GDAR)
in MARA. The lead institutes would be, for herbaceous species, the NPGRI near lzmir for the
work in Kazdagi, with the collaboration of the Ankara Field Crops Central Research Institute for the



1                          4
work in Central Southern Anatolia, and the Southeast Anatolia Regional Research Institute at
Diyarbakir for the work in Southeast Anatolia. Allocation of support to and staff from these
institutions has been determined, and all institutes report to the General Directorate for Agricultural
Research in Ankara. The Research and Environment Department within the Research, Planning and
Coordination Board would be the lead agency for the Ministry of Forestry in Ankara, supported by
the regional research institutes in Ankara and Izmir, the Forest Tree and Seed Improvement
Research Institute, and the General Directorate of National Parks, Wildlife and Hunting, Forestry,
and Reforestation and Erosion Control. The Ministry of Environment (Department of Protection of
Nature in the General Directorate for the Protection of the Environment) would have responsibility
for preparation of the National Plan for Gene Conservation. Representatives from all these agencies
would form a Project Implementation Committee for ongoing coordination of activities at central
level, and collaborate with staff who would work together at the relevant regional sites. Project
managers would report to an interministerial steering committee with high-level representatives from
the three Ministries, and the Scientific Advisory Committee would provide overall technical
guidance. A detailed work plan has also been agreed upon, with reporting schedules and monitoring
indicators.
Proiect sustainability.
10.           Research institutes are relatively well established and staffed Turkey. The
incremental recurrent costs of m-situ gene management would be very small in relation to the
existing research establishment (there are 65 research institutes with a staff of over 8,000, and the
GET project would require only 11 MSc level staff and 27 BSc or technician level staff, not all full-
time). The project aims to build the institutional capacity for in-situ management by existing
institutes and staff. GOT are committed to the project, have agreed to allocate the necessary staff
and aim to expand the project scope to other areas if it proves successful. Nevertheless, given the
global importance of the project, and if GOT's current budgetary difficulties persist, the GEF may
consider establishing an Endowment Fund in two to three years, to finance recurrent costs in a
second phase of the project. Local NGOs such as the Turkish Foundation for the Protection of
Nature (DHIKD) have shown an interest' in the project.
Lessons from previous Bank/IDA involvement.
11.           The Bank has not financed a similar project in Turkey or elsewhere. Agricultural
projects in Turkey have suffered from procurement delays, insufficient counterpart funds, and
ministerial reorganizations. The proposed Project contains few civil works (a principal cause of
delay in earlier Bank-supported projects) and fully funds project activities in this preliminary phase.
Under the recently approved Agricultural Research Project, research has been reorganized under one
directorate in MARA, while the organizational relationships for research in the MOF are also clear.
The institutional environment is now more stabilized.
Rationale for GET funding.
12.           The project is the first of its kind in the world and is essential to the conservation of
the biodiversity of the wild relatives of important herbaceous and woody species worldwide. It
would provide a model for in-situ gene conservation in other countries. It aims to develop the
institutional capacity in Turkey for in-situ gene conservation. The data management component and
Scientific Review Committee provide the means for monitoring project progress and sharing project



1                       5
results with the international scientific community (e.g. ICARDA, IUCN, IBPGR). GET funding
provides the means for achieving these broader goals.
Agreed actions.
13.          GOT have agreed on project content, on an agreed work plan, on organizational
arrangements and allocation of necessary staff from existing research institutes, on procurement
arrangements, on appropriate accounting and auditing procedures, and on opening a Special
Account.
Environmental aspects.
14.          The project would have very important environmental benefits due to biodiversity
conservation and identification of wild crop relatives, with unique disease or climate resistant
qualities, of globally significant species. The present project is limited in scope, will be largely
confined to public land, and will not cover land on which local populations depend for their
livelihood.
Proiect benefits.
15.          The project would protect in-situ biodiversity and could potentially play a major role
in developing new more productive strains of economically important crops and trees. By
complementing ex-situ activities, it would develop the institutional and technical mechanisms for a
comprehensive strategy for genetic resource conservation in Turkey. Success in these endeavors
could provide a model applicable elsewhere.
Risks.
16.          The principal risks are institutional. The Ministries of Forestry, and Agriculture and
Rural Affairs have limited experience in working together, while the Ministry of the Environment
has been only recently established. Mechanisms for cooperation have been set in place. To
simplifv the project and reduce administrative risks, only wild relatives of agricultural and forest
species are being included at this stage. Conservation of landraces, which involves more complex
socioeconomic and community participation issues, is inappropriate for this phase.
Attachments



6
Schedule A
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
US$'000 Equivalent         % of Total
Local  Foreign Total    Foreign   Base
Exchange Costs
COMPONENTS:
1. Inventory/Survey
a. Inventory and Survey              447   1,411    1857         76      38
b. Germplasm Management              264      238     548        52      11
Sub-Total                                711   1,694   2,405         70      49
2.  Designation of GMZ                   172        0     172         0        4
3. National Plan                         238      250     488        51       10
4.  Institutional Strengthening          222      809   1,032        78      21
5.  Data Management                      226      543     768        71       16
Total BASELINE COSTS                   1,569   3,296   4,865         68      100
Physical Contingencies                 157      330     487        68       10
Price Contingencies                    120      201     321        63        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1,846   3,827   5,673         67     117
Financina Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local         Foreign           Total
GOT                            0.6             0.0             0.6
GET                            1.3             3.8             5-1
Total                          1.9             3.8             5.7



7
Schedule B
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
Procurement Methods (USS million eouivalent)
Procurement Element                         ICS                 La              Other               Totat
CiviL Works                                                                      0.41/                0.4
(0.35)              (0.35)
Goods                                      1.9                                   1.0W                 2.9
(1.7)                                (0.9)                (2.6)
Training & TA                                                                    1.7g/                1.7
(1.7)               (1.7)
Transport & Accomiodation                                                        0.25/                0.2
(0.18)              (0.18)
Recurrent Costs & Labor                                                          0.4dJ                0.4
(0.27)               (0.27)
Total                                      1.9                                   3.7                  5.7
(1.7)                                i3.4                 (5.1)
Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by GET.
Disbursements
CategorY                                    GET Grant Allocation                                   Amount
USSM eouiv         SDR M
CiviL Works                                 U% of expenditures                               0.35           (0.25)
Goods                                       1002 of foreign expenditures                     2.6            t1.9)
1002 of Local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) nd 902
expenditures for other
item procured Locally
Training & Tech. Assistance                 1002 of expenditures                             1.7            (1.24)
Training & Accommodation                    88% of expenditures                              0.18           (0.13)
Recurrent Costs & Labor                     67% of expenditures                              Q.27           (0.19)
TotaL                                                                                  5.1              3.71
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (USS miLLion eouivalent)
IBRD FiscaL Year                               FY93            FY94           FY95           FY96           FY97
Annual                                          0.2             3.1            1.0             0.6           0.2
Cumulative                                      0.2             3.3            4.3            4.9            5.1
!/ Force account
gW Local shopping
S/ IBRD guidelines for procurement of consuLtants
41 GOT procedures



8
Schedule C
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
Timetable of Key Processino Events
(a)  Time to Prepare:            One year (initial mission 11/91)
(b)  Prepared by:                GOT, Consultants & Bank staff
(c)  First IBRD/GET Mission:    November 1991
(d)  Appraisal Mission:          June 1992
(e)  Negotiations:               January 25, 1993
(f) Planned Date of
Effectiveness:              April 1993
(g)  Supervision Plan:           Two per year to coincide with Eastern
Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project.
Special skills needed; herbaceous plant
geneticist, woody plant geneticist, land
management specialist. Incremental
supervision requirements: year 1 10 weeks;
year 2 10 weeks; year 3 10 weeks (The
Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation
Project supervision missions will include
M&E and community participation skills).
Reporting requirements and the
implementation plan are detailed in Annex 3
of Technical Annex and include detailed 6
monthly progress reports for project
monitoring. Scientific Advisory Committee
meetings will also allow for project
reorientation if necessary.
(h)  Relevant PCRs:              Erzurum Rural Development Project, Ln.
2094-TU (PCR 6/92); Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development Project, Ln 1130-TU (PPAR
No. 6756)



TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION    ............................
II.   GENETIC RESOURCES AND THE CONCEPT OF IN-SITU CONSERVATION  . . . . . .  3
A.  Types of Genetic Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
B.  In-situ Conservation in Perspective  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
C.  Existing In-situ and Ex-situ Conservation Strategies in Turkey                6
III.   MAJOR REQUIREMENTS FOR IN-SITU CONSERVATION IN TURKEY  . . . . . . . .  9
A.  Rationale ........................... .  9
B.  Designation of Conservation Areas ............... .  9
C.  Conservation Biology Research for Site Management  . . . . . . . . 10
D.  Complementarity of In-situ and Ex-situ Conservation  . . . . . . . 10
E.  Need of Joint Agricultural and Forestry Government Involvement . .11
F.  Public Involvement  . ..................... . 11
G.  Policy Design for Long-Term In-situ Conservation   . . . . . . . . 12
IV.   THE PROJECT ............................ . 12
A.  Summary Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
B.  Project Component Details  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
1.  Surveys and Inventories  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 15
2.  Gene Management Zones ................... . 21
3.  Data Management  .....  ..  .           .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .   . 24
4.  National Plan for In-situ Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
5.  Institutional Strengthening  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 27
C.  Projects Cost and Financing  ......                . .........  .         .   . 30
D.  Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .    .  31
E.  Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
F.  Supervision  ..........                   .............  ...                  . 34
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ......  .             ..  .    .........  .          . 34
A.  Lead Agencies and Institutes    .....  .             .....  .    .  .  .  .  .    . 34
B.  Coordination and Advisory Committees    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
C.  Affiliated Groups  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
D.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS   ........  ..  ...                    . ..........            . 38
A.  Benefits    ...........                   ............              ....      . 38
B.   Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   39
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Attachments
1.    Detailed Work Plan
2.    Institutional Strengthening and Training
3.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training
4.    Terms of Reference for National Plan In-situ Conservation of
Genetic Resources
5.    Site Selection Criteria
6.    Types of Genetic Resources to be Inventoried at Kazdagi
7.    Glossary
8.    Selected Bibliography
9.    Project Cost Estimates and Disbursement Profile
Tables
4.1    Project Cost Summary
4.2    Financing Plan
4.3    Procurement
4.4    Disbursements
5.1    Suggested Allocation of GOT Personnel
A-4    Technical Assistance Summary for In-situ National Plan
MAR         IBRD No. 24479
This report in based on findings of four missions that visited Turkey during
1992. Missions members included Marjory-Anne Bromhead (Task Manager),
Meriwether Wilson (Biodiversity Specialist), Calvin Sperling, Stanley Krugman
and Ekren Run (Consultant.).



Technical Annex
Page 1 of 40
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The flora of Turkey is exceedingly rich as a temperate flora,
comparable to the high species diversity found in tropical climates. Diverse
geological and climatic conditions have given rise to a number of unique
species represented nowhere else in the world. Over 30X of the 8,800 plant
species found in the country are endemic to Turkey. In addition to the
diverse geological and climatic conditions, this rich biodiversity is also due
to Turkey's location at the junction of several major floristic regions;
Europe, the Mediterranean, and Central Asia.
1.02      Turkey is a center of origin and still a source of important genetic
diversity for numerous globally important agricultural, horticultural,
medicinal and ornamental and woody crop plants.  These crops were first
domesticated from wild species which still exist in Turkey. The primary wild
progenitor non-woody and woody species include: wheat, barley, lentil,
chickpea, pear, apple, cherry, walnut, pistachio and chestnut. There are also
globally and regionally significant, unique adaptations of woody species,
including pine, fir and cedar which are at the extreme limits of their
distribution in Turkey and found nowhere else.
1.03      Throughout history Turkey has also been a crossroads at the junction
of cultures between Europe, Asia and Africa. Migrations of peoples and
cultures in the region have contributed to the diversity of cultivated plants
which moved with people as they settled in what is today Turkey. These
diverse primitive cultivated varieties, or landraces, have evolved under the
influence of natural and human selection pressure.
1.04      These rich plant genetic resources have provided the raw material
for much of temperate world agriculture. Primitive landraces and wild crop
relatives from Turkey continue to provide new sources of important traits
needed to maintain and improve agriculture production and efficiency
worldwide. The importance of these wild relatives is usually forgotten in
efforts to protect rare species or threatened species as part of biodiversity
conservation efforts.
1.05      Centuries of overgrazing have changed the original distribution of
wild legumes and cereals. Today, wild progenitors of some of the food
legumes, such as chickpea (Cicer arietinum subsR. reticulatum) are almost
exclusively confined to steep rocky slopes where grazing pressure is not as
severe. Some geographic sources of trees are endangered or have already been
destroyed from over use. Such is the case with Oriental Spruce (Picea
orientalis) which is abundant at the higher elevations but now infrequent at
lower elevations.



2
Technical Annex
Page 2 of 40
1.06      To date, many nations of the world have undertaken ex-situ
conservation programs to preserve samples of crop genetic diversity in gene
banks, including wild relatives. Many of these programs have collections
representing some of Turkey's unique wild and cultivated flora. However
extensive or well managed these programs are, they can only preserve small
samples of the overall genetic diversity of the wild crop relatives found in
Turkey. Ex-situ programs can not preserve the diverse interactions of plants
with their natural pests, predators and the environment and evolutionary
processes cease when the genetic resources are placed in ex-situ conditions.
Such interactions are necessary to allow natural evolutionary processes to
continue and are what have given rise to the plant genetic diversity which has
been crucial to crop improvement programs globally.
1.07      In-situ conservation refers to the maintenance of genetic resources
in their natural settings. One object of in-situ conservation is to maintain
the evolutionary system of useful plants by preserving variable populations in
natural habitats. Which contain wild and weedy crop relatives, primitive crop
types, pests and pathogens that are agents of natural selection. This
requires the maintenance of a sufficiently large habitat to accommodate the
greatest variability of wild crop species, trees and other plants, animals and
microorganism species that interact in a common evolutionary system.
1.08      Although Turkey has considerable experience with ex-situ
conservation, in-situ conservation of wild crop relatives has not been
practiced despite the rich genetic diversity of this country. Incidental
conservation has inadvertently occurred where wild relatives exist on
protected lands such as national parks or national forests. However, no
inventories have been conducted to determine what species are preserved or
priorities determined as to what species should be protected on state owned
lands. It is knovn that some forests contain wild crop relatives, especially
of woody crops such as wild walnut, chestnut, fruit trees, bulbous plants and
aromatic herbs. However, representatives of herbaceous crops, particularly
the progenitor species of major cereals and important food legumes, are not
adequately preserved or managed in any currently protected areas in Turkey.
1.09      Existing biodiversity conservation programs worldwide have generally
failed to recognize the significance and need to protect important wild crop
relatives in their natural habitat. With some exceptions, such as in Mexico,
Brazil and Israel, there are few active national programs designed to protect
wild crop relatives la-situ but these have focused on single species only.
Thus, there is a well documented justification and need to develop a mechanism
to preserve the plant genetic diversity of Turkey in nature (in-situ).
1.10      This Global Environment Facility (GEF) project is the first of its
kind in the in-situ world to protect both woody and non-woody wild crop
relatives from an integrated multi-species approach. It will do this through
conducting eco-geographic surveys and inventories to provide the basis for the
establishment of in-sit  Gene Management Zone (GMZs) in selected areas that
are rich in key wild crop relatives. Since it is beyond the scope of the
project to survey and establish conservation priorities for all of the species
in the GMZs, highest priority will be given to globally significant non-woody
crops including: wild wheat, barley, chickpea and lentis, as well as
important woody species such as pear, walnut, chestnut, olive, apple,



3
Technical Annex
Page 3 of 40
pistachio and selected fir tree species. The project aims to make in-situ
conservation of wild crop relatives an integral part of existing state-owned
lands. It will also initiate and develop a mechanism to foster an ongoing
national program for identifying, designating and managing areas specifically
for in-situ conservation of nationally and globally significant wild crop
relatives.
II. GENETIC RESOURCES AND THE CONCEPT OF IN-SITU CONSERVATION
A. TvRes of Genetic Resources
2.01      Genetic resources are defined as the different combinations of
genetic information of crop and tree species and their relatives. The genetic
code that gives rise to the physical characteristics of each individual
organism varies naturally across the total population of the organism. The
object of conservation programs in agriculture and forestry is to capture this
natural variability in order to use it to improve the crops and trees that are
planted for food and market. The variability of tree and crop populations is
unevenly distributed so that some areas are very rich in different genetic
material while others are less rich.
(a)       The Genepool Concept
2.02      A crop genepool includes all of the species which can potentially
exchange genes with a particular crop species. A refined genepool concept is
often used to classify the relative utility of a wild species for use in crop
improvement programs. All varieties of a crop (landraces and the wild
progenitor species from which a crop was domesticated) can easily form hybrids
with the cultivated crop and provide useful genes in crop improvement
programs.
2.03      Those cultivated forms and wild species which are closely related to
the cultivated forms, are classified as belonging to the primary genepool.
Wild species more distantly related to the cultivated crop are classified as
belonging to the secondary genepool. They can, with special effort and
techniques, exchange genes with the cultivated crop. The tertiary genepool
contains those species even more distantly related to the crop and which using
present technology can not yet exchange genes with the cultivated crop.
(b)       Wild Crop Relatives
2.04      The distribution of wild crop relatives are largely determined by
natural conditions, such as soil type, moisture, plant diseases, and physical
isolating factors such as mountains. The evolution (changing patterns of
genetic characteristics) of wild crop species follows the processes of the
rise of variability followed by natural selection. Wild crop relatives may
belong to any one of the three levels of genepools outlined above. The wild
species that originally gave rise to crops are still found in areas where
domestication took place. In many crops, several wild species and subspecies
contributed genetic material to domesticated crops. Wild crop relatives still
retain the natural ability to exchange genes (hybridize) with domesticated



4
Technical Annex
Page 4 of 40
species. In many species, the diversity of wild relatives is far greater than
in domesticated forms, since domestication represents a genetic bottle neck.
2.05      The genetic variability found in wild crop progenitors is
increasingly called upon by plant breeders worldwide in their search for
increased resistance to disease, stresses and adaptiveness. The importance of
these wild crop relatives has driven national and international efforts to
preserve samples of their genetic diversity in ex-situ gene bank facilities.
(c)       Landraces
2.06      Landraces are genetically heterogenous crop populations, often
representing older varieties, that are still cultivated. They are highly
variable since they may be comprised of different species and sub-species of
domesticated crops as well as numerous local varieties with unique
characteristics. Landraces are found in areas where crop species first arose
through domestication. These areas are often highly heterogeneous in their
environmental characteristics and they are often produced in "traditional"
farming systems characterized by small scale farms and subsistence level
production. Farmers who maintain these ancient crop populations are often
poor and isolated from modern technology and communication means.
2.07      Landraces comprise the most variable populations of cultivated crops
and belong to the primary crop genepool. This variation results from the
ability of these types of crops to hybridize with wild crop populations, based
on the selection for diversity by farmers who work in marginal environments
and from generations of crop evolution. The production of landraces may be
stable because they are well adapted to local environments, but their yield is
usually lower than modern crop varieties.
(d)       High Yield Varieties
2.08      Modern high yielding varieties (HYVs) have been developed in the
last half of this century. In most places they have replaced landraces
because of higher yield or stress resistance. HYVs are genetically more
uniform than the heterogenous landraces and belong to the primary genepool.
Use of selected genetic diversity in traditional landraces by breeding
programs has contributed to the development of modern improved varieties.
(e)       Forest Genetic Resources
2.09      Approximately 26% of the land base of Turkey is covered with forests
which contains a rich array of plant communities which is especially rich in a
diversity of forest ecosystems. The forests have a wide range of values
including: watershed management, traditional wood products (lumber, wood
fiber, resin and fuelwood), fruit and nut food sources (e.g. woody crop
species of walnut, chestnut, pistachio, pear, apple, olive, etc.) and
medicinal plant products. Of equal importance is the function of various
forest ecosystems to provide habits for wild relatives and landraces of non-
woody plants of agricultural value. Forest management strategies are still
timber production-oriented and do not incorporate the value of forests from a
more comprehensive perspective as genetic resource reservoirs.



5
Technical Annex
Page 5 of 40
2.10      Unfortunately, 56% of Turkey's forested area is now classified as
unproductive and the mature forested area is decreasing due to various forms
of deforestation. Thus there remains a continuous threat to the maintenance
of the native flora of Turkish forested lands.
B. In-Situ Conservation in Perspective
2.11      Preserving the wild progenitors of agricultural and woody wild crop
and relatives in their natural habitat (in-situ) is of increasing importance.
Preservation of seed samples or other plant parts in a gene bank facility (ex-
situ) can only preserve genes and selected genotypes, and does not allow
ongoing evolution of those genes with their natural environment. Wild species
in nature are part of the complex ecological web involving interactions with
pests, predators and pathogens.
2.12      The living laboratory of wild crop progenitors in their environment
provides a baseline from which can measure the efficiency and productivity of
modern agriculture. Wild populations without the aid of modern crop breeding
efforts have developed natural resistance to a multitude of pest predators and
pathogens. When new or little known disease epidemics threaten a crop the
wild populations can be a source of natural resistance.
2.13      Examples include "wheat take-all disease" (Gaumannomyces graminis)
which is a serious threat to wheat cultivation in the Near East. Until
recently there was no known resistance in cultivated wheat or any knowledge of
where this disease originated. Studies on natural wild populations of wheat
in Israel revealed that take-all disease infects wild wheat and indicates that
segments of the wild wheat population have natural resistance. Without this
living laboratory scientists would lack an understanding of the disease and
where natural resistance might be found.
2.14      Not to be overlooked are those wild types of woody plants that are
valuable genetic resources as food crops. Because of their resistance to
insects, disease and their natural adaptability to an array of sites, such
species as chestnut (Castanea sativa), olive (Olea europea) and walnut
(Juglans regia) must be protected. It should also be noted that wild rela-
tives of apple (Malus spR.), pear (Pyrus spp.) and plum (Prunus sDp.) are also
found in the forest. As is often the case, the value of woody shrubs are
little appreciated or understood. Such species may well be of value for their
secondary products such as industrial chemicals and medicines. The size and
extent of these resources are not fully known nor is the genetic value of
these resources understood. Their contribution to protecting and even
expanding future food supply is little appreciated at this time.
2.15      Also significant are the woody ornamental species found in Turkey.
The most northern Mediterranean sources of Cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani)
occur here. In fact, if there is to be restoration of the once-prized
species, much of the seed source must come from Turkey since there are
relatively few plants/trees left in the rest of its natural range.
2.16      Turkey also contains some of the more southern sources of important
forest tree species. These geographic populations exhibit their own unique
genetic structure and could prove invaluable in future forest restoration



6
Technical Annex
Page 6 of 40
activities. Species included in this group are: red pine (Pinus brutia),
black pine (Pinus nigra subsp. Rallasiana) and scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris).
There are also the umbrella pine (Pinus pinea) valuable for its shape and nut
production which because of its isolated populations could contribute to a
broader genetic base for this commonly planted tree.
2.17      There are two native fir species in Turkey, the Cilician Fir (Abies
cilicica) and Caucasian Fir (Abies nordmanniana), both of vhich are widely
distributed elsewhere.  However, these species  have unique subspecies that
are endemic in Turkey.  Because of their unique growth forms and their ability
to survive in difficult environments these sub-species are a valuable genetic
resource for future breeding programs. Abies cilicica subsp. isaurica is
found around Antalya and Konya-Bozkir and Uludag Fir (Abies nordmanniana
subsp. bornmuelleriana) grows between Samsun and Mt. Uludag and the Kazdagi
Mountain Fir (Abies nordmanniana subsR. eguitroiani) which grows on the
Kazdagi Mountain.
In-Situ and Ex-Situ ComRlementarity
2.18      It is now recognized that es-situ methods of conservation of genetic
biodiversity should be complemented with ij-situ conservation methods,
especially since the storage of seeds under suitable long or medium term
laboratory conditions can have a number of problems if ex-situ is the only
type of conservation practiced. E-situ conservation: (i) is principally
geared towards a small number of known plants; (ii) is not widely used for
horticultural, vegetable or ornamental plants; (iii) "fixes" the genetic
material of a plant at the time of extraction, vhich leads to subsequent loss
of diversity; and (iv) can conserve only a sample of the total genetic
diversity present in a wild species.
2.19      Therefore, there is a general endorsement of J_n-situ conservation
and integration with ex-situ techniques among the inter-national community as
well as the external support agencies such as FAO, IBPGR (the International
Board for Plant Genetic Resources), United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
and the World Bank. Other international institutions that are active in this
area include the Consultative Group for International Agriculture Research
(CGIAR) specialized centers, the World Conservation Union (IUCN), and various
botanical gardens around the world.
C. Existina In-Situ and Ex-Situ Conservation Strategies in Turkey
2.20      Most in-situ conservation in Turkey has been unintentional, with the
exception of some areas managed by the Ministry of Forestry (MOF) to protect
rare or unique species, and several Specially Protected Areas (SPAs)
designated by the Ministry of Environment (MOE) to protect rare species which
fall outside the traditional interests of MOF and The Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Affairs (MARA). However, existing lands under the control of MOF or
MOE have not been subject to an in-depth inventory or even a cursory survey of
wild crop genetic resources preserved on those lands.



7
Technical Annex
Page 7 of 40
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL AFFAIRS (MARA)
In-situ Agricultural Conservation:
2.21      MARA, through the Plant Genetic Resources Research Institute
(PGRRI), has a program to conserve cultivated and wild species ex-situ yet in
does not have a program to preserve wild species in-situ. The priority of
PGRRI is to maintain improved varieties, crop landraces and wild relatives of
crops primarily of Turkish origin. PGRRI makes genetic resources available
for crop improvement programs nationally and internationally. PGRRI utilizes
the research staff of the Aegean Agricultural Research Institute (AARI). It
has a minimal professional staff with full time responsibilities for
conservation.
2.22      PGRRI does not have any assessment of what agriculturally important
wild species may exist on the national network of state farms covering
3,765,161 ha. While these farms are mainly managed for production
agriculture, there are marginal areas, mostly grazed, that may contain
significant wild crop relatives. This is probably the case for farms in the
southern half of the country, such as the largest farm, Ceylanpinar (1,693,113
ha total) which has 48,000 ha of rangelands in a:.region known to have
significant wild crop relatives. However, it is not known to what extent
significant wild crop relatives occur, the number of sites requiring
protection, or the sustainability of state farm lands to contribute to a
national in-situ conservation network.
Ex-Situ Aaricultural Conservation:
2.23      To date wild crop relatives are preserved only by ex-situ means in
Turkey through preservation of a limited amount of germplasm at the various
gene bank facilities. PGRRI has the largest collection of wild species in
Turkey. These collections have been developed from ecogeographic survey/
collection missions, primarily in the western half of Turkey.
2.24      The Field Crops Research Institute (FCRI) in Ankara also maintains a
small collection of field crops, primarily for breeding purposes, as a working
collection, and as a security backup for collections of the PGRRI. Their
mandate does not encompass the broad range of species for which PGRRI has
national responsibility, but does serve as an important safeguard through
duplication of PGRRI collections.
2.25      A small gene bank in Ankara, the Osman Tosun Gene Bank (OTGB), is a
facility of the Faculty of Field Crops at Ankara University. The collections
at the OTGB include cereals and foods legumes collected by faculty of Ankara
University and primarily used as a working collection by faculty for research
and breeding activities. The collection does contain the significant
historical collections of Jack Harlan and Osman Tosun from the 1940s. These
and other recent collections are not all duplicated at PGRRI.
2.26      In addition to the above ex-situ efforts, the National Plant Genetic
Resources Project was established in 1976 and began work in 1977. National
responsibility for collecting and conserving genetic resources for all crops
is assigned to PGRRI. Annual collecting trips of the National Crop Genetic



8
Technical Annex
Page 8 of 40
Resource Conservation program are coordinated by the PGRRI. Collections made
during surveys are kept as bulk populations in cold storage at PGRRI. Three
different storage modes are employed; base collection, active collection, and
working collection. The collections are tested for viability according to
international standards and regenerated when viability reaches a critically
low level.
2.27      There are 18 institutes participating in the National Plant Genetic
Resources Program. Some small but minor genetic resource collections are held
at sites other than PGRRI, including a small collection of fruit and nut trees
maintained at Yalova at the Horticultural Research Institute. However, these
institutes do not maintain extensive collections or participate in national
surveys for numerous crops as does PGRRI.
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY (MOF)
In-Situ Forest Conservation:
2.28      Turkey has a long established National Parks Program.  The
protection of some unique forest ecosystems under a Nature Conservation Area
Program was initiated in 1987, establishing 23 conservation areas totalling
55,492 ha. These areas protect and maintain a collection of unique flora and
woody plant species which represent rare tree species or forest types, but
also include important ecosystems. Although these areas are protected, they
are not managed for wild crop relatives or biodiversity conservation in the
modern sense and the current management system may not, in fact, maintain the
complete natural vegetation cover since a degree of disturbance i.e. grazing,
may occur. Some smaller biogenetic reserve areas were created as early as
1955 and 42,000 ha have been selected as natural seed stands in 314 locations,
representing 25 forest tree species. An additional 894 ha., protecting 11
species in 12 locations, have been established as "gene conservation areas".
These latter efforts provide a modest degree of protection for a unified
number of seed sources for production forestry, but need to be expanded and
need to incorporate in-situ strategies for wild relatives.
Ex-situ Forest Conservation:
2.29      In the forestry sector some 300 tons of seeds of various species are
collected yearly and approximately 200 tons are used for production purposes
with 75 tons stored for future use. Currently there are also 944 ha of seed
orchards and clone banks of 24 species established in 149 locations.
Presently, natural regeneration of the forest tree species remains the
preferred method of regeneration and to date approximately 100,000 ha have
been regenerated. Yet, not all woody species can be rapidly reestablished
following harvesting and some problems still exist with firs, spruce, and to
some extent with beech. It is apparent that natural regeneration done cannot
be entirely depended upon.
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT (MOE)
2.30      MOE was recently established (August 1991) in Turkey and has as one
of its responsibilities conservation of biological diversity. MOE sets up the
basic policies and strategies to conserve the flora and fauna of Turkey and



9
Technical Annex
Page 9 of 40
has established 12 Specially Protected Areas (SPAs) which have ecological,
cultural, scientific and/or aesthetic values but primarily protect endemic and
endangered species of flora and fauna. These areas have been created under
the Authority for the Protection of Special Areas, which develops plans and
projects for the protection and rational management of biological resources in
these areas according to national and international criteria.
III. MAJOR REOUIREMENTS FOR IN-SITU CONSERVATION IN TURKEY
A. Rationale
3.01      Protected areas have been established throughout the world to
protect rare species of animals, plants, diverse ecosystems and natural
landscapes. Special reserves have been established to protect all types of
plant species, yet some of the most important plants for human survival have
been given no protection in nature. It is significant that no permanently
protected areas have been established to preserve the wild progenitors non-
woody species, including: wheat, barley, lentils, chickpeas, and woody crops
such as pear, walnut, chestnut, apple, as well as a host of other globally
valuable wild crop relatives. While habitat conversion, especially
overgrazing, is decreasing the abundance of these species, most of them are
not immediately endangered with extinction, nor are they likely to be in the
near future. The value in establishing in-situ protection for these species
is that a much greater range of genetic diversity can be preserved and
maintained in its natural environment than in ex-situ collections. In-situ
conservation will result in maintenance of living agricultural laboratories
where evolutionary processes can continue, where natural pests and pathogens
co-evolve with progenitors of the world's most important wild plant species.
B. Designation of Conservation Areas
3.02      In-situ conservation of wild crop relatives and tree species depends
on selecting appropriate sites and designating them for permanent protection
and management as natural areas. The number, size and distribution of sites
must be determined according to the species and seed sources that are selected
for conservation. Criteria for site selection should include the possibility
to conserve a wide range of genetic diversity in one or a few species at a
single site and in some cases the opportunity to preserve many wild crop
relatives at a single site. Other criteria should include ecological
heterogeneity, the ability to control the site, and ease of access to the site
for monitoring and management. For this GEF project it is necessary that
greater priority be given to selecting globally significant crop relatives
such as wild wheat, chickpea, barley and lentil and woody crops, than to
species which are only of local importance.
3.03      The number of protected areas is a function of the numbers and type
of species targeted for conservation, as well as the size of the protected
sites. In general the larger the area the fewer the number of sites in a
particular region. Determining the size, number and distribution of protected
sites is one of the principal subjects of current conservation biology
research.



10
Technical Annex
Page 10 of 40
3.04      The numerous crop species in Turkey, size of the country and its
range over several major biogeographic regions mean that numerous sites for
crop and tree species are necessary for an in-situ conservation program.
Turkey is conventionally divided into nine major agricultural regions, all of
which contain at least some wild crop relatives. Particularly, rich in
progenitors of major crops are three of these regions: Aegean, South Central
Anatolian and Southeastern Anatolian. Ideally, protected areas should be
located in each biogeographic region if significant crop resources are located
there. In practice, some regions may be more important for crop relatives and
some regions may be so diverse as to require several genetic conservation
areas. The number of protected areas will be determined by assessing the
distribution of genetic resources at national, regional and sub-regional
levels.
3.05      Attachment 4 provides additional detail on site-selection criteria.
C. Conservation Biology Research for Site Management
3.06      As implied above, determining the size, number and distribution of
protected sites is one of the principal subjects of current conservation
biology research. Conservation biology studies on the dynamics of plant
populations is essential for proper management of the site. For example,
conservation biology can address questions such as the required size of the
site to maintain minimum plant populations for genetic resource conservation.
Management issues may include decisions on whether grazing by livestock or
natural fires should be allowed. Monitoring the status of targeted plant
populations will be an ongoing need. The presence or extent to which alien
species will be permitted on a site must also be determined.
3.07      The numerous crop species in Turkey, size of the country and its
range over several major biogeographic regions mean that numerous sites for
crop and tree species are necessary for an in-situ conservation program.
Turkey is conventionally divided into nine major agricultural regions, all of
which contain at least some wild crop relatives. Particularly rich in
progenitors of major crops are three of these regions: Agean, South Central
Anatolian and Southeastern Anatolian. Ideally, protected areas should be
located in each biogeographic region if significant crop resources are located
there. In practice, some regions may be more important for crop relatives and
some regions may be so diverse as to require several genetic conservation
areas. The number of protected areas will be determined by assessing the
distribution of genetic resources at national, regional and sub-regional
levels.
D. Complementarity of In-situ and Ex-situ Conservation
3.08      The PGRRI has considerable experience in ex-situ conservation of
crop genetic resources. This activity is an essential part of Turkey's
agricultural development program, and it serves an important role in linking
Turkey to the global network of genetic resources.  The in-situ program is
proposed as an additional responsibility of MARA, MOF and MOE. Besides its
intrinsic conservation merit, the in-situ program has interested MARA as an
important opportunity to complement its ex-situ program. For instance, in-
situ research will require a laboratory capacity at PGRRI and MOF (Ankara) to



11
Technical Annex
Page 11 of 40
assess the amount and distribution of genetic diversity at conservation sites.
The laboratories could also be used to evaluate ex-situ collections. PGRRI
has expressed an interest in this complementarity.
3.09       a-jsitu conservation will also complement the existing ex-situ gene
bank activities at PGRRI. In-&J= conservation can be viewed as a type of
germplasm acquisition since it results in knowledge of specific sites where a
particular species occurs, its conservation status at that site and detailed
information on how samples can be obtained by a gene bank curator or
scientists. For reasons of security and immediate availability, maintaining
small subsamples of a few select wild populations in an ex-situ gene bank can
complement in-situ conservation. Should the vild population become extinct or
extirpated from the natural site, the population can possibly be reintroduced
into nature from the ex-situ gene bank collection.
E. Need for Joint Agricultural and Forestr= Government Involvement
3.10      As described earlier, the forests of Turkey contain in addition to a
number of valuable timber species, woody species valuable for their food
value, such as wild walnuts, wild apple or pear among others. The only sure
means of maintaining these sources is under natural conditions or in-situ
conservation strategies. Thus the same conservation strategy can be applied
to both traditional woody species as well as agricultural species. The normal
approach is the establishment of designated gene resource conservation areas.
To a limited extent this has been done in the current 23 Nature Conservation
Areas managed by XOF. However, such areas do not adequately protect nor
maintain the vast array of germplasm requiring protection. Nor is the current
level of management adequate to maintain both the woody and non-woody flora.
3.11      Although the same area may house a valuable mix of germplasm, there
is still a need to identify and apply an array of conservation strategies to
ensure sustainability of the genetic resources being conserved. To insure
that a mix of strategies vill prove successful for both forestry and
agriculture a carefully planned and applied integrated approach must be
adopted.
3.12      The Government of Turkey (GOT) is committed to an in-situ
conservation program and has requested GEF funding for this purpose. Linkages
between MOF and MOE's conservation activities and those of MARA are needed.
In-situ conservation would be integrated with the National Plant Genetic
Resources Project (NPGRP). Training local personnel and strengthening
existing institutions would be supported through the GEF together with
identification and establishment of Gene Management Zones. Forestry,
agricultural and environmental agencies would all assume an active role in
coordinating 1a-situ conservation efforts.
F. Public Involvement
3.13      Two types of public involvement are essential to the sustainability
of in-situ conservation, technical and popular support. Technical support in
conservation biology and nature preserve management will be an important asset
to complement the work at Ministry facilities. The support of environmental
interest groups will help build a national consensus for in-situ conservation.



12
Technical Annex
Page 12 of 40
3.14      Universities are logical institutions to bring into this project for
a number of reasons. Their staffs have scientific skills and capabilities
that are lacking at ministry facilities. They are effective in disseminating
knowledge about the value of in-situ conservation. Universities are essential
to train new generations of scientists who will be necessary for long-term
conservation programs.
3.15      Environmental interest groups and non-governmental organizations
(NGO) are the other major type of private group that could be brought into
this program. For example, The Turkish Association for Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resources (SACNNR - based in Ankara) and the Turkish Society for
Protection of Nature (DHKD - based in Istanbul) are active in the conservation
of biological diversity. These groups can be very valuable in building public
relations for this program and in community development activities supporting
the conservation of biological diversity. Possible activities for these
groups include education campaigns in conjunction with extension efforts of
the Ministries and as ad hoc advisors to the project.
G. Policy Design for Long-Term In-situ Conservation
3.16      In-situ conservation will require a sustained effort beyond the
three year life of the project. Additional sites will need to be identified
and protected, ongoing management and monitoring activities are necessary.
Training in conservation management should continue, and staff and facility
support for in-situ conservation activities will require funding. The
institutional development for addressing these policy issues will be part of
project activities. If this project proves successful, GEF could consider
establishment of an endowment fund to finance the recurrent costs of
continuing the program.
3.17      Conservation of strains with key drought, disease and pest
resistance could play a major role in protecting the world's food supplies.
Alternative sources of financing are not available. The activities would be
of long-term global rather than short-term national benefit, and do not
generate short-term revenues for Turkey.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary DescriRtion
Proiect Objectives
4.01      This project would seek to identify and establish in-situ
conservation areas in Turkey, for the protection of genetic resources and wild
relatives of important crops and forest tree species that originated in
Turkey. It would provide for sustainable in-situ conservation of genetic
resources in cereals, horticultural and ornamental crops, medicinal plants,
forest trees, and pasture grasses and legumes. It would develop the
institutional capacity in Turkey for preparing and implementing a national
strategy for in-situ conservation which could include landraces in a second
phase. The aim is to test and develop a new approach for the conservation of



13
Technical Annex
Page 13 of 40
genetic diversity which has not been tried on a large scale anywhere in the
world. Given Turkey's unique biological diversity, particularly in wild
relatives of globally significant species such as wheat, chickpea, lentil,
barley, plus valuable woody crops, the project could potentially be of great
benefit to plant breeders in Turkey and worldwide.
Proiect Overview
4.02      The global scope of this project necessitates that the major focus
be on in-situ conservation of wild species, with an emphasis on the following
wild relatives: (a) non-woody species - wheat, chickpea, lentils and barley;
and (b) woody species - pear, apple, walnut, chestnut and pistachio because
these are the most globally significant genetic resources found in Turkey.
The project will also address the management of woody species from an
ecosystem approach rather than a species-specific approach. Therefore,
important associated forest germ plasm, such as fir, cedar and pine will be
incorporated into the project scope.
4.03      Landraces will not be a major focus of this project.  Conservation
of landraces involves complex social, biological and policy issues which are
beyond the scope of the GEF to conserve wild species in nature. There is, as
yet, no proven method to promote conservation of land-races in the communities
where they are cultivated. Currently, the institutions involved do not have
the expertise to undertake a program which would require linking economic
incentives with cultivation of traditional varieties.  In-situ conservation of
landraces could, however, be a key element at a second phase of this project.
4.04      Research is an essential part of any conservation program, therefore
researchers will continue to be strong proponents of conservation and monitors
of the project status.
4.05      The project is designed around the following five components:
(1) Site Surveys and Inventories: First there will be an initial
assessment of suitable sites in Turkey for wild crop relatives,
focusing on wheat, chickpea, lentils and barley as the priority
species, but also including other herbaceous and woody species.
Given the state of current knowledge and habitat requirements for
these species, the selection process will focus on areas in the
Kazdagi National Forest representing the Aegean region, the
Karacadag Plateau and the Ceylanpinar State Farm representing
Southeastern Turkey, and a site yet to be identified in Southern
Anatolia. Within these sites, ecosystem based surveys will be
conducted to determine suitable habitats with regard to repre-
sentativeness, diversity, naturalness and management considerations
for in-situ gene management. Following the survey, a species-
specific inventory will be conducted at each site with regard to
species abundance, distribution and management needs. To support a
complementary approach between in- and ex-situ conservation, a few
select representative germplasm samples will be collected for ex-
situ preservation.



14
Technical Annex
Page 14 of 40
(2) Gene Management Zones (GMZs): This component expands the scope of
Component 1 and will involve the formalization of sites selected
into protected areas with specific management requirements, adapted
to different species. A series of preserves will be selected to
represent the ecogeographic ranges needed for targeted wild
relatives in order to support sufficient environmental heterogeneity
for both wild crop woody and non-woody species.
(3) Data Mana2ement: This component will build a database for the
complex array of information that will be acquired in Components 1
and 2. The data will be assembled at a common site that can be
shared between agencies and universities and a data management plan
will be developed.
(4) National Plan for In-Situ Conservation: This plan will (i) provide
the foundation for review of the project to date; (ii) facilitate
coordination and cooperation of the GMZs into other nature
conservation strategies in Turkey; and (iii) outline an
implementation plan for continued in-situ genetic resource
activities for landraces as well as wild relatives throughout Turkey
beyond the life of the project.
(5) Institutional Strengthening: This component is integral to the
above and will support all of the above components. This component
focuses on professional development and training of staff from the
implementing agencies as well as Turkish scientists and students
through specialized workshops, study tours, technical assistance and
training courses, in topics such as conservation biology, bio-
systematics, survey and inventory techniques and GIS. The project
would also finance an international scientific advisory committee
comprised of Turkish and international scientists and officials, to
provide scientific support to the project.
Overview of Institutional Arrangements
4.06      The project would use the complementary strengths of the Ministries
of Forestry (MOF), which has experience in local management, Agriculture and
Rural Affairs (MARA), with experience in ex-situ conservation, and the
Ministry of the Environment (MOE) which has a strategic outlook on resource
management. MOE would have responsibility for extension and publicity for
gene conservation in Turkey, and for preparation of the National Plan for In-
situ Conservation through the establishment of 30 new regional offices which
will have scientists available for the project.
4.07      The lead institutes under MARA for herbaceous species would be the
NPGRI near Izmir for the work in Kazdagi, with the collaboration of the Ankara
Field Crops Central Research Institute for the work in Central Southern
Anatolia, and the Southeast Anatolia Regional Research Institute at Diyarbakir
for the work in Southeast Anatolia. Allocation of support to and staff from
these institutions has been determined, and all institutes report to the
General Directorate for Agricultural Research in Ankara. The Research and
Environment Department would be the lead institute for the Ministry of
Forestry in Ankara, supported by the relevant regional research institutes at



15
Technical Annex
Page 15 of 40
Ankara and Izmir. The lead institutes for MOF would be: Directorate of
National Parks, Wildlife and Hunting, Department of Research and Environment,
Forestry Research Institute; Forest Tree and Seed Improvement Research
Institute, General Directorate of Reforestation and Erosion Control; and
Department of Foreign Affairs. The Department of Protection of Nature,
Directorate of Protection of the Environment would be the lead institute for
the MOE.
4.08      Representatives from all these agencies would form a Project
Implementation Committee for coordination of activities at central level, and
staff would work together at the relevant regional sites. Project staff would
report to an inter-ministerial steering committee with representatives from
the three Ministries, and a Scientific Advisory Committee would provide
overall technical guidance. Additional details on these committees and the
lead institutes are described in Chapter V.
B. Proiect Component Details
COMPONENT 1: SURVEYS AND INVENTORIES (US$2.4 million)
C2omonent l.A.(a): Regional Surveys for Significant Wild Crop Relatives
4.09      The GEF project, as a pilot program, can not cover all of Turkey or
even all of those areas with wild crop relatives. Therefore, the GEF project
will be limited to the following broad regions. The rationale for the
selection of these areas is described in Attachment 4.
(i) The Kazdali area of Aegean Northwestern Turkey (Balikeshir);
(ii)  Ceylanpinar State Farm (Southeastern Turkey);
(iii) Karacadag Plateau (Southeast Anatolia);
(iv)  Southern Anatolia (along the diagonal from the Amanos Mts. to Sivas;
sites yet to be identified).
4.10      Surveys are broad in scope and not as detailed as an inventory.  A
survey will consist of a field assessment of selected sites (they are not
collection oriented) to determine suitable habitats where wild crop relatives
are likely to occur, notes on the presence or absence of priority target
species, i.e. wild progenitors of wheat or chickpea and notes on suitability
of the site(s) for potential designation as a GMZ. These sites afford the
opportunity to develop strategies to designate GMZs on land under differing
types of land ownership and varying degrees of management. The surveys will
assess the extent to which wild crop relatives are already preserved in
existing protected areas, including state farms. These will be rapid surveys
designed to produce a preliminary report of the current state of conservation
and assess potential designation as GMZ which would be developed in
Component 2.
4.11      Survey teams will be small and highly mobile, consisting of 2-3
people with general expertise in identifying cereals, legumes and fruit or nut



16
Technical Annex
Page 16 of 40
species. Seasonal labor, such as college students can be helpful. A survey
will likely require only two or three short visits (approx. one week duration)
during the flowering and fruiting season of the target species. Surveys, and
follow-up inventories, will require equipment such as 4-wheel drive vehicles,
notebook computers, altimeters, global positioning devices, etc. (Details on
equipment are provided at the end of this component description, as well as in
the computerized cost tables in Attachment 9.)
(i) Survey of Kazdagi Area in Aegean Northwestern Turkey (MARA, MOF):
The PGRRI and the Izmir Forestry Research Institute will conduct a
survey and inventory to identify potential GMZ sites. These sites
are likely to be rich in wild fruit progenitor species, nut species
and wild ornamental species (bulbs, carnations, etc.). Attachment 6
describes detailed information on the genetic resources to be
inventoried at Kazdagi and a species list.
(ii) Survey of Ceylanpinar State Farm (MARA):
The PGRRI will have by this time developed considerable expertise in
survey methods but will require the knowledge of regional
agricultural scientists. They will be incorporated at this phase to
expand the survey activities. The Southeast Anatolian Agricultural
Research Institute (SEARARI) is the logical institution to lead
survey activities in this region. They will be funded for this
portion of the project and receive a vehicle to support field work
as well as be represented on oversight or advisory committees. MOF
manages important oak-pistachio park forests in this area, but other
flora need identification. The open structure park forests are
important vegetation types for progenitors and relatives of numerous
cereals and legumes. A high priority site(s) would need to be
inventoried in this area, should Ceylanpinar State Farm ultimately
be found unsuitable for in-situ conservation of wild wheat,
chickpea, lentil and barley genetic resources.
(iii) Karacadag Plateau area in Southeastern Turkey/Southeast Anatolia
(MARA):
One site for survey and potential inventory will be Karacadag
Plateau area. This site was mutually identified by MOF and MARA as
being an area which may be rich with wild crop progenitors. Based
on the findings of the survey, detailed inventories will be
developed as warranted. If there is no site in this area that is
owned by MOF or MARA, the resulting GMZ for this region can be
managed by MOE as a Special Protected Area (SPA).
(iv)  Survey of Sites in Southern Anatolia along the Anatolian Diagonal
from the Amanos Mountains to Sivas (MARA, MOF):
South Central Anatolia is at the northern end of the "fertile
crescent" and contains sites at the extreme limit of distribution
for several significant wild crop relatives, including wheat,
chickpea, barley and lentil. The adjacent transitional areas



17
Technical Annex
Page 17 of 40
contain several sites managed by MOF. The forest resources of this
area, especially the Lake District are rich and include the
northernmost extent of Cedar of Lebanon.
Component l.A.(b):  Detailed Inventories of Surveyed Areas
4.12      Once the surveys are completed for the selected sites, inventories
will be conducted. These will consist of detailed descriptions of which plant
species occur a site, their abundance, distribution and suggested management
needs.  A thorough inventory of wild crop relatives at each of the sites is
essential to assess the value of the sites as an in-situ gene repository for
establishment of GMZs. In addition to herbaceous and woody wild crop genetic
resources, other useful or potentially useful species will be inventoried.
This will include aromatic, medicinal and ornamental species.
4.13      The inventories will require repeated visits throughout at least one
complete growing cycle by specialists on the targeted field botanists, natural
resource management, forestry and germplasm preservation. Measurement of the
genetic diversity found in select wild populations of crop relatives will
provide crucial information to answer questions of how many individuals,
populations and areas are needed to adequately preserve particular species.
Intra-specific diversity will be measured by use of iso-enzyme scanning and
separation apparatus.
4.14      The total number of sites selected for inventory (where GMZs will be
established) will not exceed 5-6. These will include Kazdagi, Ceylanpinar,
Karacadag and 2 or more sites in southern Anatolia. The following section
describes the inventory process for Kazdagi as the "pilot site", from which
lessons learned will be applied to the inventories of other sites.
Attachment 4 describes the selection process and criteria for these sites.
Kazdali Pilot Site
4.15      Kazdagi, has been selected to be an initial site for development of
a pilot program of integrated in-situ conservation of wild crop relatives.
The Kazdagi MOF site will be inventoried for wild crop relatives so that an
integrated in-situ management plan can be developed. An in-depth inventory is
necessary, but should not consume the entire resources of the in-situ
conservation project during its first phase. It is essential to develop a
detailed inventory of the basic forest types present at Kazdagi and to
delineate those plant communities where crop relatives occur.
4.16      The Kazdagi region is ecologically and floristically diverse,
containing a number of interesting and rare tree species. Some Kazdagi forest
sites contain wild relatives of apple, plum, pistachio (Pistacia sDp.),
chestnut, hazelnut (Corylus spp.), forage legumes, chickpea and other crops.
(A detailed list of species is provided in Attachment 6.) For the most part
the species present are relatives of and not direct progenitors of cultivated
crops. Other sites to be surveyed in later stages of the project are likely
to contain more important crop progenitors. Habitats in active agricultural
sites at the margin of forested areas contain a greater diversity of crop
relatives than densely forested sites at Kazdagi. Wild relatives of peas,



18
Technical Annex
Page 18 of 40
faba bean, forages, ornamentals and medicinal plants are to be found in the
agricultural zones.
4.17      Current management includes protection of rare tree species,
reforestation, forest regeneration, select harvesting techniques and watershed
management. From a pure forestry perspective of biodiversity conservation,
Kazdagi is a site with many opportunities. It includes nearly all the
components for an integrated strategy. The Kazdagi area is managed by MOF as
a forest reserve and is proposed as a National Park.
4.18      The entire Kazdagi region, not just the currently protected area,
will be surveyed and selected portions inventoried. With regard to importance
for conserving wild crop relatives of major crops, the Kazdagi site is of
regional rather than global significance. However, its value is that as a
pilot site it meets all of the criteria and can serve as a focal point to
develop skills and expertise which can be applied to other sites and regions
of Turkey. It will also serve to demonstrate the value of existing protected
lands as potential sites for designated gene management zones to promote in-
situ conservation of wild crop relatives.
Survey Outputs
4.19      1)   Physical Description of Area Surveyed:  Physical description
including size, topography (elevation ranges), access, land ownership,
designation (Forest Protected Area, Special Protected Area, National Park,
National Forest, etc.) and ownership of adjacent land. Maps should show the
access roads and trails.
4.20      2)   Ecological DescriRtion of Area Surveyed:  Detailed description
of plant community types currently present at the site. A standardized
ecological classification system would be used if available, which includes
hectare sizes of each ecological type.
(a) For each plant community type where wild crop relatives occur,
a quantitative description of species composition and a plant species list
based on field sampling would be provided. Scientific names of all species
would be used. Sampling would include preparation of duplicate herbarium
specimens for MARA, MOF and a major internationally recognized university
herbarium in Turkey (i.e., Ege University, Istanbul University, or Ankara
Univ). These quantitative descriptions will serve to provide information
needed for selection of sites for more intensive inventory activities.
Estimates of plant densities and population characteristics for wild crop
relatives would be provided.
(b) Detailed black and white maps of plant community types present
at the site surveyed with a topographical background map would be prepared.
The scale would be large enough that community type boundaries and codes are
clearly discernable.
(c) Occurrence according to the Red Data Book of rare and
endangered plants would be listed and any locations within or adjacent to the
GHZ where these species might be expected to occur based on existing
biological information and previously recorded occurrences would be



19
Technical Annex
Page 19 of 40
identified. These species would be sought in the course of field work, and
indicate locations of observed individuals or populations on a separate map.
3)   SamRling:  The objective of the sampling effort is to provide a
quantitative description of general plant species associated with the
inventoried areas. The data would be needed to provide a baseline for
monitoring vegetation changes which might affect the population of wild crop
relatives.
4.21      Sampling methods would be appropriate to the number, size and
distribution of wild crop relatives on the site as well as the life history of
the species in question. A method is needed that would provide a good
baseline for monitoring changes in abundance and distribution of the species
within a potential GMZ. Methods and locations would be described in
sufficient detail so that sampling can be repeated in the future and
observations would be documented with voucher specimens. For any forest sites
containing wild crop relatives MOF would produce quantitative descriptions of
tree stand characteristics to supplement herbaceous species composition data.
If age data is essential to evaluation of the site as representative of a
particular community type or condition, it should be obtained using
appropriate non-destructive techniques.
4.22      4)  Additional Descriptions:  This may be obtained from literature
or actual field sampling and includes geology; soils (maps if available;
erosion hazards); climate information (including distance, direction and
elevation of nearest weather station and length of data record available);
fire history; logging, grazing, or other human impacts or uses; and cultural
(historical) values.
ImRlementation Arrangements for Survey and Inventors Sub-components
4.23      PGRRI has experience in ecogeographic surveys to collect germplasm
for ex-situ storage. This experience will be valuable in developing survey
techniques to conserve globally significant crop progenitors in-situ. PGRRI
will lead and coordinate survey activities but will require the assistance of
agri-culture specialists in the various regions to be surveyed, particularly
that of SEARARI at Diyarbakir. Southeastern Turkey is rich in the progenitor
species of cereals and major food legumes and some GMZs will likely be
identified at Ceylanpinar State Farm in that part of Turkey. The FCRI in
Ankara will be a cooperating participant. Regional MARA institutes must have
an active role in identification and management of in-situ conservation sites,
thus their participation at the survey and inventory stage is essential.
Other MARA expertise, such as wheat specialists at Eskisehir, will likely be
needed to complement expertise found at Menemen.
4.24      MOF will lead the large scale inventory of ecosystems with
assistance from MARA1 These sites are difficult to manage in a traditional
sense and would require involvement of the local community for long-term
management stability. At the Kazdagi area, the appropriate Division Director
of Forest Regional Conservancy Directorate will be responsible for carrying
out and monitoring project activities.



20
Technical Annex
Page 20 of 40
4.25      The subsequent Data Management Component (3) will handle integrating
the range of information to be generated from each component of the project.
For example computer software, such as ALICE, can be used to manage species
lists accumulated during surveys.   During the surveys, a standardized data
format will be used to assess sites for easy comparison between sites.
Eguipment for the Survey and Inventory Sub-components
4.26      The project will fund the following equipment and recurrent costs
for MARA and MOF in order to implement the survey and inventory sub-
components. Detailed costs are provided in Attachment 11.
MARA:
(a) field equipment - 4 GPS receivers; 3 Ph meters, 6 altimeters, 3
soil and sieve sets, 3 clinometers, 10 compasses;
(b) laboratory equipment - electrophoresis supplies, 4 growth
chambers, 1 drying oven, 5 thermometers, 1 incubator, 1
centrifuge, 6 microscopes and 1 camera, 3 balances;
(c) vehicles - 4 four-wheel drive jeeps, 2 Land Cruisers and 1
pickup truck, 1 minibus, 1 mobil lab and 4 motor bikes;
and
(d) recurrent costs including laboratory supplies and vehicle
maintenance.
MOF:
(a) field equipment - 3 GPS receivers, altimeters and Ph meters;
(b) laboratory equipment - 2 electrophoresis supplies, 3 Ph
meters and balances, 1 gel reader and 1 microscope, 3
incubators;
(c) vehicles - 3 four-wheel drive jeeps, 4 Land Cruisers and 3
pickup trucks, 2 minibuses, 1 mobil lab;
(d) transport, housing and fuel;
(e) field labor; and
(f) recurrent costs including laboratory supplies and vehicle
maintenance.
Component 1.B. Germplasm Management in Ex-situ Gene Banks
4.27      A complementary approach requires that a few select representative
germplasm samples, but not all populations, of some species will be collected
for ex-sit preservation at PGRRI. Plant species will be documented by
herbarium specimens and a limited number of germplasm collections will be
selected to be conserved ex-situ as well as in-situ.   These collections will
be preserved in duplicate for MOF and MARA and are to be shared with expert
botanists. This will require some additional financial support for the
existing herbarium at PGRRI and the central MOF herbarium in Ankara.
Regeneration of these collections will not be necessary, except for research
purposes, as it will likely be less costly in the long term to recollect from
known sites.



21
Technical Annex
Page 21 of 40
EguiRment for the Germplasm Management Sub-component
4.28      The project will fund the following equipment and recurrent costs
for MARA and MOF in order to implement the germplasm sub-component. Detailed
costs are provided in Attachment 9.
MARA:
2 seed blowers, 2 moisture meters, 1 multispec grain analyzer, 3
storage rack systems and supplies, 2 compressors, 1 refrigerator, 10
herbarium cabinets, propagation supplies and greenhouse expansion.
MOF:
1 seed blower, 1 moisture meter, 1 multispec grain analyzer, 1
storage rack system and supplies, 1 compressor, 2 refrigerators, 4
herbarium cabinets, propagation supplies, greenhouse expansion and
fencing.
COMPONENT 2: GENE MANAGEMENT ZONES (GMZs) (US$172,000)
(a) Habitat Protection of Wild CroR Relatives
4.29      The in-situ conservation of wild crop relatives will be accomplished
through establishing biological reserves, called GENE MANAGEMENT ZONES, where
natural conditions of wild crop relatives are maintained. Such preserves
should include sufficient environmental heterogeneity to provide the major
ecological niches that influence wild crop population distribution. A single
preserve is likely to be insufficient for this as wild species are genetically
diverse and no one preserve can be said to encompass the range'of genetic
variability. Ideally, a series of preserves (GMZ's) representing the
ecogeographic range of a species is needed. To date, there has been no direct
protection of wild crop relatives in Turkey. Some protection has occurred
where species occur on protected lands but these have been unintentional and
existing management plans for those sites do not include wild crop relatives.
4.30      These sites will likely be from 20-70 ha in size and will require
specific management, such as fencing and/or limited managed grazing to
maintain the genetic diversity of the plant populations conserved. It is best
to think of a GMZ as a protected island in a much larger area where the
conserved genes also occur, but the surrounding area is not given specific
management as is the resource within a GMZ. As described in component 1,
these sites will be integrated into the existing state-owned land system of
MOF and/or MOE. If any site that warrants protection lies outside the
management areas of MOF or MARA, it can be managed by MOE as a SPA.
(b) Habitat Protection of Trees and Woody Wild Crop SRecies
4.31      In-situ conservation of tree species is often accomplished through
the creation of national forests and nature preserves. These preserves are,
however, rarely managed with the idea of maintaining biological diversity.
The planning of forest use for biological conservation might include such
steps as determining minimal critical size to preserve a large portion of
variability or the limiting of such practices as forest livestock grazing that



22
Technical Annex
Page 22 of 40
changes the composition of the forest plant community. Currently a series of
potential strategies are available such as, expanding national parks,
traditional protection areas, and research natural areas (areas for protection
and research) and use of a never concept of the application of forest gene
resource management areas. In this last method it is still possible to manage
a forest genetic resource while at the same time meeting needs and services
from the area protected.
(c) Manaeement of GMZs
4.32      Management strategies vill vary depending on target species
conserved in a gene management zone. The appropriate number and size of sites
will be determined based on the genetic diversity analysis during Component 1.
Based on current knowledge of the genetic diversity and population biology of
wild wheat, it is expected that there will be a network of small GMZs at each
site within the regions of southeast and south central Turkey.
4.33      In some cases, depending on the site selected, immediate management
will be required. This could include fencing as well as construction of
public facilities for extension or interpretive purposes. Fencing, especially
in heavily grazed areas is essential to control, but not necessarily eliminate
grazing   Grazing control is essential in forested areas where it is desirable
to allow natural regeneration of forest understory vegetation.
4.34      In any GMZ, permanent areas should be selected as control sites
where no management will take place so as to have a measure of the effects of
particular management practices. This is important also for long term
ecological monitoring.
gi) Non-woody strategies
4.35      In selecting GMZs to conserve genetic resources of the target
species, such as wild wheat, priority will be given to identifying areas with
a diversity of factors affecting genetic diversity in that species; rainfall,
rockiness and grazing. These factors have been identified as primary
predictors of genetic diversity in wild wheat in Israel. Therefore, selection
of a site in the largest and central portion of wheat's ecogeographic
distribution, that being Turkey, will build upon this knowledge base and
designate GMZs that have variation in rockiness, grazing history and be spread
across a rainfall gradient in southern and southeastern Turkey.
4.36      The management objective for wild wheat will be to maintain and or
increase the abundance and perhaps the genetic diversity of wild wheat in each
GMZ and to prevent perennial grasses or forbs from overtaking wild wheat
habitats. These objectives can be accomplished through controlled grazing,
mowing or fire management to discourage perennial grasses from displacing the
annual wild wheat. Grazing, if alloved, should not be continuous, rather it
may be best to restrict limited grazing to the spring cool season when wild
wheat is tillering and late in the growing season after mature spikelets have
been shed. Grazing should not be alloved on a yearly basis but only as
necessary to control dominance of perennial species. Some grazing may act as
a stimulus to wild wheat populations as can fire.



23
Technical Annex
Page 23 of 40
4.37      Controlled fire management might be used if vegetation litter
becomes abundant in the GNZ. Heat from fires can scarify seeds and release
much needed nutrients back intp the soil. However, any use of controlled fire
must be closely supervised so as not to endanger surrounding lands and or
adversely effect the resources of local people.
4.38      Invasive weed populations should be kept under control in the GMZ.
Moving, either by machine or hand, can be an appropriate means to control such
invasions where fire and grazing are not suitable. Mowing will not be
possible on steep slopes or rocky areas.
4.39      Management objectives and methods for wild barley (Hordeum
spontaneum) present together with wild wheat at GMZs will be the same as those
for wild wheat since they have similar life histories.
4.40      The wild relatives of food legumes (Lens orientalis and Cicer spp.
but especially annual Cicer species and particularly C. reticulatum) present
in GMZs for wild wheat are likely to require the elimination of grazing during
critical life history phases such as flowering and fruiting periods. Grazing
might be permitted after the seeds have naturally dispersed or early in the
season before flowering and when grazing is permitted for wild wheat.
(ii) Woody mana ement strategies
4.41      The management of woody crop genetic resources will have the same
objectives as for herbaceous species, that is to maintain and or increase the
abundance and perhaps the genetic diversity of species being conserved. A GMZ
for wild apple, walnut or chestnut would likely require larger sites than
required for annual grasses and legumes.
4.42      For woody species, planting of trees from seed sources outside of
the GMZs would not be permitted so as to prevent pollution of the genepool
from exotic sources. Grazing would not be permitted in forest areas to
encourage development of seedlings, associated species and a forest
understory. There should not be grafting or other forms of propagation. If
restoration (rebuilding populations) is necessary, then only "local" natural
seeds should be used (local means within in "sight" of the GMZ, having similar
aspect slope, water regimes, edaphic conditions, ecotypes...).
4.43      For wild apple, the removal of mature overstory trees may be
necessary to allow development of young apple trees which are
characteristically found at forest margins or as understory components where
light intensity is greater. Depending on location of a GMZ, restoring the
natural water relations in drained wet meadows where apples can occur may also
be required. If fruit set is observed to be low in wild populations,
introduction of managed apiaries may be attempted.
4.44      For walnuts, which often occur along streams, protection of riparian
habitats may require management of streamside erosion or flood control.
Should harvesting of vild walnuts occur, proper management will require
leaving sufficient seed stock for natural regeneration of wild populations.
Improved fruit or nut species must not be introduced or grafted in situ onto
rootstocks of wild plants. For wind pollinated species such as walnut and



24
Technical Annex
Page 24 of 40
chestnut, orchards of cultivated improved varieties should be located
considerable distance from the GMZ to reduce the influx of foreign pollen.
Implementation Arrangements
4.45      It is essential that the Government of Turkey will identify and
support an agency (possibly MOF, MARA or MOE) to oversee the long-term
preservation and necessary management of the designated sites. Designated
sites should serve as natural laboratories where scientists can conduct
research on the ecology of crop relatives in their native habitats. Since the
designated GMZ will have national and global significance they should be
available to the international research community. With respect to Turkey's
sovereign control over its land and resources, the sites and the national in-
situ conservation program will both benefit by serving the global research
community as permanent natural laboratories. Additional implementation
arrangements are provided in Chapter V.
Equipment for Implementation of GMZs
4.46      The project will fund the following activities and equipment for
MARA and MOE in order to implement the GMZ component. Detailed costs are
provided in Attachment 9.
MARA: survey and boundaries of GMZs and fencing.
MOF:   survey and boundaries of GMZs and fencing.
COMPONENT 3: DATA MANAGEMENT (US$768,200)
4.47      An in-situ conservation project will depend upon the acquisition of
existing data and result in generation of substantial quantities of new data.
These data must be efficiently managed for success of the project. New
techniques of data management will be required as there are no models to
follow for incorporating an in-situ gene conservation scheme into existing ex-
situ gene bank data management.
4.48      Much information concerning the distribution of crop relatives
exists in diverse sources such as published floras, herbaria and gene banks in
many countries. Rather than duplicate existing information these existing
data will be assembled at a common site and incorporated into a central data
management plan. The need to share data among scientists at the different
institutes involved will require the use of a standardized protocol and
perhaps a central data network.
4.49      The first year survey and later inventory activities will generate
considerable data. The best management of this type of quantitative and
spatial data will be through use of a Geographic Information System (GIS) (see
terms of reference for GIS training in Attachment 3). Three systems are
required as the three agencies involved have different but overlapping needs
for use of the data in developing management plans. Management of species
data will require the use of special computer software such as ALICE. ALICE
or other comparable software packages can interface with a GIS which will be
helpful in managing spatial data.



25
Technical Annex
Page 25 of 40
4.50      Remote Sensing for the Ecosystem and Plant Community Inventory
(Component 1) vill require the use of large scale land information. Remote
satellite images will form the basis for guiding the later, in depth,
inventories of plant species present. Current land use management identified
by remote imagery will be ground verified.
Eguipment for Data Management Component
4.51      A broad range of data will be generated by the project which must be
coordinated within and between MOF, MARA and MOE, as well as the sharing of
information on wild crop relative with universities and the international
community. Therefore, the project will fund the following activities,
equipment and recurrent costs for MARA, MOF and MOE in order to implement this
component. Detailed costs are provided in Attachment 9.
MARA: data acquisition and management training, literature,
books, Geographic Information System and software, 2 computer
printers, software, 1 pen plotter, 1 mini computer, 4 desktop
and 4 notebook computers, 1 laser printer, 3 photocopiers and 3
fax machines.
MOF: Same as above, except 4 printers and 5 desktop computers.
MOE: Same as above, except 6 desktop and 2 notebook computers,
1 photocopier and 1 fax machine.
All: recurrent costs of supplies, materials and report
expenses.
COMPONENT 4:  NATIONAL PLAN FOR IN-SITU CONSERVATION (US$488,000)
4.52      A strategic plan is needed to provide a mechanism for the GOT to set
priorities and present a plan of actions that will ensure the protection of
wild crop relatives and forest genetic resources in their native habitat
beyond the three year GEF pilot program. This plan should help the GOT expand
in-situ conservation activities into a network of GMZs which include other
areas of the country and incorporate additional important wild crop, forest
species and endangered species found in GMZs beyond those targeted in the GEF
pilot project. The plan will also address the needs and opportunities for
landraces as part of the in-situ genetic resources spectrum.
4.53      The expansion of GMZ's through the plan should be integrated with
existing protected area strategies and relevant Turkish legislation. It should
be consistent and complementary with other national, regional or global
efforts to conserve wild plant genetic resources. For example, the plan
should be compatible with and support MARA's National Plant Genetic Resources
Research Project. The plan would contribute to but not replace the more
comprehensive "National Conservation Plan" which is in preparation by the GOT,
in that it will only address the primary elements of in-situ crop (woody and
non-woody) resources. It is understood that the focus of the GEF project is
on in-situ gene conservation and that a national plan for all biodiversity of
Turkey is beyond the scope of this project.



26
Technical Annex
Page 26 of 40
4.54      The plan should lead the vay for continuation and replication of the
GEF pilot project which can provide a supportive platform for continued
assistance from the international donor community.
4.55      The total preparation time of the Plan would be 20 months, beginning
with month 17 of the project and ending in month 36, the last month of the 3
year GEF project. The plan will be developed in four distinct "phases"
resulting in four reports. The timing, purpose and detailed description of
activities for each phase as vell as the functions, time frames and costs of
local and international technical assistance is outlined in Attachment 4 and
detailed costs are identified in Attachment 9. The phases are summarized
below:
i) INCEPTION: To design the foundation of the plan through the
development of an overall strategy and work plan for plan. The
preparation will be done in coordination and cooperation between
NOE. HOF and MARA, the international advisors and the local experts.
ii) CORE DEVELOPMENT: This is the core time in which background
information for the plan will be gathered and then written into a
proactive, long-term conservation strategy to meet the objectives
outlined in this TOR. A draft final plan will be developed during
the second half of this phase and presented at the international
symposium scheduled for the beginning of year 3 of the project.
iii)  FINAL PLAN: Revision of the draft plan based on information gathered
at the International Symposium and from-the SAC.
iv) PLAN APPROVAL: This phase will focus on coordination with other
concerned agencies and communities involved for acceptance of the
plan and incorporation with the broader GOT National Conservation
plan.
Implementation:
4.56      MOE will be the lead agency for developing the plan with support
from MARA, HOF through local and foreign technical assistance. MOE will
oversee all contractual arrangements with the contractor for the technical
assistance. MOE will also coordinate additional support form relevant
international agencies such as IUCN, WWF, IBPOR, and FAO as needed. The GEF
grant will cover the technical assistance-costs as well as report production
costs including translation. The contractor(s) will be responsible for
overhead responsible for overhead responsibilities such as secretarial
assistance.   Technical assistance will be required at different times
throughout this development of the plan and will be approximately 25% foreign
and 75% local experts in the following disciplines:
International Advisors: Conservation Biologist, Conservation
Management Expert, and Landrace expert;
Local Experts: Botanist, Agriculturalist, Forester and
Anthropologist-Sociologist, Protected Area Specialist, Resource



27
Technical Annex
Page 27 of 40
Economist, Socio-economist, Legal and Institutions Expert, and an
Extension/Education Expert.
4.57      Detailed information on the timing, duration, costs and
qualifications for the technical assistance is provided in Attachment 4 and
Table 405 of Attachment 9.
COMPONENT 5: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (US$1,032, 800)
4.58      This component is designed to strengthen both the individual
agencies of MOF, MARA and HOE as well as support their complementary strengths
and capabilities through four types of input including: a) collaboration
through the Project Implementation and the Scientific Advisory Committees, b)
extension and public awareness, c) a broad range of in-country and
international training activities, and d) sponsoring of an international
symposium on in-situ conservation of genetic resources.
4.59      The need for coordination between the agencies cannot be overstated.
For example, MARA will be implementing conservation activities on land that is
in some cases controlled by MOF, and XARAs primary interest in wild crop
resources may in some cases require HOF to modify its management scope and
scale for selected national parks and forests (such as expanding the
boundaries of a national park to accommodate crop genetic resources through
the establishment of a GMZ). MOR will need to be involved and develop a level
of scientific expertise appropriate to support the long-term goals of steering
this pilot GEF project into an ongoing effort as described in the previous
component on the National Plan.
a) Committee Coordination:
4.60      This is a complex and innovative project with requires considerable
coordination and communication between different governmental levels and
scientific disciplines as part of the institutional strengthening process.
Therefore, three types of committees have been designed for project
implementation including: the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee to initiate
support at the highest ministerial levels; the Project Implementation
Committee which will provide overall project coordination and implementation
through designated institutes, and a Scientific Advisory Committee for broad
technical guidance and exchange between government, university and
international organizations. These committees are described fully in Chapter
5 in the section on Coordination and Advisory Committees and detailed costs
are provided in Attachment 9. The project will provide the following funds in
mandays (md) for participation by local staff and foreign and local advisors
at the following committee meetings. These times are also outlined in the
workplan in Attachment 1.
4.61      MARA: Scientific Advisory Committee - local staff (20 md in year 1,
20 md in year 2 and 30 md in year 3); foreign advisors (24 md in year 1, 24
md in year 2, and 24 md in year 3); and local advisors (24 md in year 1, 24 md
in year 2 and 24 md in year 3); Project Implementation Committee (30 md in
year 1, 50 md in year 2 and 50 ad in year 3).



28
Technical Annex
Page 28 of 40
MOF: Project Implementation Committee (30 md in year 1, 50 md
in year 2 and 50 md in year 3).
MOE: Coordination of committee meetings (20 md in year 1, 30 md
in year 2 and 30 md in year 3).
b) Extension and Public Awareness:
4.62      This project has tremendous potential to capture the support of the
general public as a valuable example of how conservation of biodiversity can
benefit human life. The project, being the first of its kind in the world,
can serve as a pilot in Turkey and as a model for other countries rich in wild
crop genetic resources. It is important that the success of this project be
documented through informational brochures and visual means.
Turkish nationals living near the GMZs need to understand and be supportive of
the project. This requires public education and awareness building also
through the use of a wide range of published material and media including
television documentaries, videos, books and brochures. For example, the
project would benefit from production of a short video based on the well
received booklet "Conserving the Wild Relatives of Crops". To further
strengthen support in Turkey the same booklet can be translated into Turkish
for wide dissemination. (See Attachment 8 for bibliography.)
4.63      MOE has extensive experience in the production of such materials and
will take the lead role in developing these materials for the National Plan as
well as ongoing public education activities of the project. MOF and MARA
would also develop materials reflecting their active involvement in the
project.
4.64      The project will fund the following equipment to support extension
and public awareness activities (detailed costs are provided in Attachment 9).
MARA, MOF and MOE: 2 cameras, 2 video sets and 3 slide
projectors (per agency). MOE will receive additional funds for
overall publication costs about the report and the National
Plan (see Component 4).
c) Training:
4.65      To effectively implement this project a broad spectrum of training
opportunities are needed for MARA, MOF and MOE and are outlined below. A full
description of training needs is described in Attachment 2, with TOR's
provided in Attachment 3. Detailed costs for the following activities are
described in Attachment 9.
4.66      Short-Overseas Courses:  MOF has virtually no experience in in-situ
conservation of important species and will send selected representatives for
short-term courses abroad to universities such as University of
California/Davis or The University of Birmingham. All of these will take
place at the beginning of the project to lay the groundwork for successful
starting of the project. The following describes the ccurses and man-months
(mm) per course targeted to scientists from MOF: GIS/GPS (4mm), Population



29
Technical Annex
Page 29 of 40
Genetics (3mm), Survey/Inventory Techniques (2mm), Conservation Biology (9mm)
and Seed/Pollen Management (4mm).
4.67      In-country Training:  Training of Turkish scientists has been
identified as critical to the success of this project and necessary for the
development of a long term program for in-situ conservation of wild crop
genetic resources. Development of expertise and application of conservation
biology theory will require that training workshops be jointly held with MARA,
MOF and MOE. Specialized in-country training in conservation biology,
biosystematics and electrophoretic techniques, survey and inventory
techniques, and data management through the use of GIS will be funded during
the first year of the project in order to develop a baseline level of
knowledge and skills to be expanded upon throughout the project. The project
will fund the following number of man-weeks (my) for both participants from
MARA, MOF and MOE as well as the foreign technical assistance required to
prepare and conduct these courses:
Course                  Students (mw)          Foreign
Trainers (mw)
Iso-ensyme:                    60                  8
GIS:                           80                 10
Consv. Biol.                  250                 18
Survey/Inv.                   150                 16
4.68      Study Tours:  To acquire additional expertise several learning tours
will be required for MARA, MOF and MOE personnel involved with the project.
Study tours will occur during year two. These will be learning tours which
specifically relate to skill development for in-situ conservation of plant
genetic resources and will build upon training given in Turkey during the year
one (see previous two paragraphs) of the GEF project. These tours will focus
on acquiring knowledge about population genetics, conservation biology and the
integration of in-situ and ex-situ-techniques. Funds are provided for six
study tours, each lasting approximately one month in foreign countries where
desired expertise can be found. This will enable MOF, MAR& and MOE each have
two scientists participate in the study tours.
4.69      Long-term international degree training:  For institutional
strengthening it is necessary to provide advanced degree training in selected
areas of plant genetic resource conservation. For the purposes of the project
four Masters Degree candidates from MARA (2), MOE (1) and/or MOF (1) will be
selected and funded for one year Masters programs. Suitable programs are
offered in genetic resources at the University of Birmingham, England. Other
suitable courses may exist elsewhere.
d) International Svmposium:
4.70      The project's survey, inventory and management activities will
generate a considerable amount of information on the abundance and current
preservation status of Turkey's wild crop genetic diversity. A successful
realization of all the goals will require the advice and input of acknowledged
international specialists. An international seminar will allow for exchange



30
Technical Annex
Page 30 of 40
of ideas and current literature on integrating fl-situ conservation into a
comprehensive biodiversity strategy for Turkey. This seminar will be an
opportunity to feature the work of MOF, MARA, MOE and other Turkish scientists
working on biodiversity conservation with the broad international community.
Therefore, international scientists will be invited to broaden the scope of
presentations. The SAC will play a key useful role in identifying results and
accomplishments of the GEF.
4.71      The project will benefit from a workshop style seminar which can
allow for free exchange of ideas and provide further direction. This meeting
is best held at midpoint in year three for a number of reasons: (a) The
project needs to be well into the implementation of all components before
there can adequate information to share; (b) this is the optimum time with
regard to growing seasons and academic schedules and (c) so that the last year
of the project may benefit from ideas generated during the meeting.
Information on the project will be disseminated to national and international
NGOs and governments, International Agricultural Research Centers (IBPGR,
ICARDA etc.) and other conservation organizations such as IUCN and WWF through
this seminar. This meeting will contribute to the development of an
international network on genetic resources for Turkey.
4.72      The draft final version of the National Plan (see component 4 and
Attachment 4) will be presented at this symposium which will present the
suimmary of activities to date and an action plan for priorities of in-situ
conservation beyond the GEF pilot.
4.73      Turkish scientists participating in the GEF project will be
encouraged to prepare scientific papers for presentation at the international
symposium. These will either be published as part of proceedings or submitted
to peer reviewed journals. There will be many opportunities for long-term
ecological research publications, graduate student research projects and
collaborative research projects with international scientists. This
interaction and involvement should be encouraged and fostered by the SAC.
4.74      The project will provide perdiems for seventy local participants
from MARA, MOF and MOE as well as travel and perdiems for ten invited
scientists and/or resource managers from other countries that are conducting
parallel conservation activities. It is assumed that representatives from
international agencies will provide their own costs to attend the symposium.
Detailed information on the symposium costs are provided in Table 405 of
Attachment 9.
C. Proiect Costs and Financing
4.75      Total project costs are indicated below in Table 4.1.  They are
estimated at US$4.9 million excluding physical and price contingencies and
US$5.7 million with all contingencies. Foreign exchange comprises 67X and
taxes 9X of total project costs.



31
Technical Annex
Page 31 of 40
Table 4.1:  Project Cost Summary
US$'000              X of Total
Local  Foreign Total    Foreign   Base
Exchange  Costs
COMPONENTS:
1. Inventory/Survey
a. Inventory and Survey             447    1411    1857        76       38
b. Germplasm Management             264     238      548       52       11
Sub-Total                               711    1694    2405        70       49
2.  Designation of GMZ                  172        0     172        0        4
3.  National Plan                       238      250     488       51       10
4.  Institutional Strengthening         222      809    1032       78       21
5.  Data Management                     226      543     768       71       16
Total BASELINE COSTS                   1569    3296    4865         68     100
Physical Contingencies                157      330     487       68       10
Price Contingencies                   120     201      321       63        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1846    3828    5673        68      117
4.76        The financing plan is indicated belov in Table 4.2.  The GEF would
finance 100X of foreign exchange and 89X of total project costs. GOT would in
addition provide local staff, use of existing research facilities and use of
some existing vehicles and laboratory equipment. These items have not been
costed, however, since they are not incremental to the project.
Table 4:2 Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Local         Forein          Total
GOT                           0.6             0.0             0.6
GEF                           1.3             3.8             5.1
D. Procurement
4.77      Procurement methods are indicated in Table 4.3.  Procurement
comprises US$0.9 million for vehicles, motorbikes and mobile laboratories, all
to be procured through ICB. Equipment and materials total US$2 million,
principally for various types of field and laboratory equipment, but also for
office equipment and computers. At least US$0.9 million of these items would
be grouped and procured for ICB as large packages. Contracts estimated to
cost less than US$100,000, up to a total value of no more than US$1 million,
vould be awarded after local shopping on the basis of comparison of at least
three quotations from eligible suppliers. Civil works (US$437,000) comprise



32
Technical Annex
Page 32 of 40
principally construction of fencing around gene management zones. GMZs would
be widely scattered in different parts of Turkey, and the fencing would be
constructed using force account by MOF, which has considerable experience in
this field.
4.78      Training and technical assistance totals US$1.7 million, of which
US$1.5 million is for training, principally in-country, and US$200,000 for
foreign and local technical assistance to carry out the training. Consultants
to provide this assistance would be recruited according to IBRD guidelines for
use of consultants, and the contracts would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. All arrangements for training would be subject to IBRD approval. All
contracts for goods and equipment above US$100,000 would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. The items cover about 80X of procurement outside force
account and recurrent costs.
4.79      The final items, transport and accommodation for local staff to
attend project related meetings, local labor for field activities, and
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment purchased under the
project totalling US$0.6 million would be purchased directly using GOT
procedures. GOT agreed at negotiations to follow the procurement practices
outlined above (para 7.01(d)).
Table 4.3: Procurement
Procurement Methods (US$ millions)
ICB        LCB       Other        Total
Civil Works                                           0.4'u       0.4
(0.35)      (0.35)
Goods                          1.9                    1.02/       2.9
(1.7)                 (0.9)        (2.6)
Training & TA                                         1.7-'       1.7
(1.7)       (1.7)
Transport & Accommodation                             0.24        0.2
(0.18)      (0.18)
Recurrent Costs & Labor                               0.44        0.4
(0.27)      (0.27)
Total                     1.9                   3.7          5.7
(1.7)                 (3.4)        (5.1)
(Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by GEF.)
1/ Force Account
2/ Local shopping
3/ IBRD guidelines for use of consultants
4/ GOT procedures



33
Technical Annex
Page 33 of 40
E. Disbursements
4.80      The project is expected to be completed in about three and a half
years and the grant to be disbursed over four years. Project completion is
expected by September 30, 1996 and grant closing by March 31, 1997. The
estimated disbursement profile is indicated in Attachment 9.
4.81      The GEF grant would disburse funds at the following rates:
Table 4.4: Disbursements
Category                         GET Grant Allocation                Amount
(US$M equivalent)
Civil Works                      88% of expenditures                   0.35
Goods                            100% of foreign expenditures          2.6
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90%
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Training & Tech. Assistance      100% of expenditures                  1.7
Transport & Accommodation        88% of expenditures                   0.18
Recurrent Costs & Labor          67% of expenditures                   0.27
5.1
Table 4.5 Estimated Disbursement Schedule (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                FY93        FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97
Annual                           0.2         3.1        1.0       0.6        0.2
Cumulative                       0.0         3.3       4.3        4.9        5.1
4.82      Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure for
incremental operating costs, civil works, goods procured through direct
purchases or prudent shopping, and training and technical assistance locally
and abroad. Implementing agencies would retain support documentation for
these items for review by IBRD and external auditors.
4.83      GOT would establish a special account at the Central Bank to
facilitate implementation of the project into which it would deposit
US$400,000 of GEF grant funds. This account would be opened in accordance
with arrangements for existing Bank assisted projects, and would be used for
most disbursements except those in excess of US$150,000 (see para 7.01(f)).
4.84      Each implementing agency (including the GDAR of MARA, the Research
and Environment Department of MOF and the General Directorate for the
Protection of Environment, Department of Protection of Nature for MOE) would
prepare detailed reports on expenditures on a semiannual basis. A
consolidated report would be prepared annually by GDAR, within 2 months of



34
Technical Annex
Page 34 of 40
each calendar year. In addition, an annual audit vould be carried out by the
Treasury inspectors, including specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs
and supporting documents and disbursements from the special account, and
submitted to the Bank vithin nine months of the end of each fiscal year. It
was agreed with GOT at negotiations that the implementing agencies would
follow these accounting and auditing practices (para 4.82).
F. Suervision
4.85      It is estimated that the GEF subproject would require approximately
10 weeks of supervision per year.  Special skills needed would include a
herbaceous plant geneticist, a woody plant geneticist and a land management
specialist (from year 2). The Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation
project, to which this subproject is attached, vould provide administrative,
MOE and community participation skills.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Lead Agencies and Institutes
5.01      As stated in the beginning of the previous chapter in the
Institutional Overviev section, the project requires the complementary
capabilities of MARK, MOF and MOE to be successfully implemented, yet each has
clear roles and areas of responsibility.   It is imperative that regional
agricultural and forestry research centers in the vicinity of the designated
in-situ conservation sites be also be given a major role in managing those
sites. (Throughout the project component descriptions, institutional roles
are also identified).
5.02      MARA is primarily responsible for the non-voody species and MOF for
the trees and woody crop relatives. MARA has identified the Plant Breeding
and Agronomy Department of GDAR to have overall responsibility for project
coordination and procurement. They identified the Plant Genetic Resources
Research Institute (PGRRI) at Menemen to be the lead institute for activities
at Kazdagi. Collaborating institutes vill be the Ankara Field Crops Research
Institute (FCRI) and the Southeast Anatolian Regional Agriculture Research
Institute at Diyarbakir (SEAARI).
5.03      The MOF has overall responsibility for the tree and voody crop
species. They have identified the Research and Environment Department within
the Research, Planning and Coordination Board (APKKB) to be the lead
institute. The Forestry Institute at Izmir vill be a regional institute to
carry out collaborative projects, specifically activities at Kazdai.
Collaborative institutes of MOF will be those of the Department of National
Parks, the Forestry Research Institute in Ankara, Forest Tree and Seed
Improvement Research Institute, General Directorate of National Parks,
Wildlife and Hunting, General Directorate of Forestry, General Directorate of
Reforestation and Erosion Control, and other central and regional units of
MOF.



35
Technical Annex
Page 35 of 40
5.04      MOE will not be a primary implementing agency, but their involvement
will strengthen many elements of the GEF project. Specifically, they have
expertise in public awareness and environmental conservation. MOE has
identified the General Directorate of Protection of Environment, Department of
Protection of Nature, to be the lead institute for this project. Since MOE is
a coordinating organization, it can be also instrumental in the selection of
Technical Advisory Committee and Project Implementation Committee.
5.05      At the above institutes both MOF, MARA and MOE have agreed to
provide scientists who will be assigned to the GEF project. This is outlined
below:
Table 5.1: Suggested Allocation of GOT Personnel (person/year)
Personnel            MARA    MARA       MARA       MOF    MOF   MOE
Iz      Ank      Diybk      Ank     Iz    Ank
Ph.D. Level Biologists/         1        1                                  1
agronomists/foresters
MS Biologists/forest             2       2         2         3       2      2
engineer/agronomists
BS Agronomists/Biologists       8        4         3         4       4      2
Bio. Tech./data management      2        1         1         4       4
Support Staff                   4        2         1         2       2
(Note: Not all personnel will be full-time through the project period.)
5.06      The GDAR has demonstrated efficiency at managing foreign financed
projects. For ease of administration GDAR will be responsible for procurement
of equipment and materials for the GEF project. MARA and MOF will have
responsibility for preparing specifications of all equipment and materials
necessary for their Institutes to implement the GEF. This will streamline
procurement as in most cases needs of MARA and MOF will be identical.
5.07      Government agreed at negotiations to follow these organizational
arrangements (para 7.01(c), to allocate the staff necessary to implement the
project, and to allocate the staff to carry out the work at Kazdagi within 2
months of negotiations (para 7.01(b).
B.   Coordination and Advisory Committees
Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (IMSC-
5.08      Since this project vill require close linkage of the two
implementing ministries and a supporting ministry which historically have not
had such linkages; therefor, there is a need for support from the highest
ministerial levels. The IMSC would be composed of the Deputy



36
Technical Annex
Page 36 of 40
Undersecretaries, related General Directors and related Head of Departments
from each Ministry (MARA, NOF, MOE) and would meet at the beginning of each
year. This interaction would reinforce the importance of the GEF project to
Turkey and assure that the required support is given to the two following
committees.
Proiect Implementation Committee (PIC)
5.09      Since it is essential that this be a joint program between the
agricultural and forestry sectors a Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
would be established at the start of the project. It will coordinate the GEF
project through a person(s) to serve specifically as the GEF project
manager/advisor within each lead agency. The lead agencies (MOF and MARA) may
also appoint expert ad hoc advisory committees to coordinate activities within
each agency. The chair of the PIC will rotate between MOF, MARA and MOE. The
eleven members of the PIC will be composed of responsible officials from the
following Institutes:
MOF
Directorate of National Parks, Wildlife and Hunting
Department of Research and Environment
Forestry Research Institute
Forest Tree and Seed Improvement Research Institute
Department of Foreign Affairs
MARA
Department of Breeding and Agronomy Research
Plant Genetic Resources Research Institute/AARI, Izmir
Field Crop Central Research Center, Ankara
Southeastern Anatolia Agricu. Res. Inst. Diyarbakir
National Coordinator of PGRRI, Izmir
MOE
Department of Protection of Nature, Directorate of Protection of
Environment
5.10      Not all members of the PIC would participate in all meetings.
However, monthly meetings in Ankara between MOF (Department of Research and
Environment and MARA (Breeding and Agronomy Research Department and the
PGRRI/AARI) would be held at a minimnm. MOE will not be actively involved in
this committee,.however, all reports will be shared with MOE.
5.11      Nominated staff members of each agency that are located in the
different project areas throughout the life of the project, would be
responsible for the day to day project coordination. The PIC will assist with
this intergovernmental project coordination.
Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC)
5.12      In-situ conservation is so complex and novel as to require the
support and guidance of a scientific technical advisory committee. This
committee should be comprised of members from the primary governmental
institutions involved and of Turkish scientists with expertise in conservation



37
Technical Annex
Page 37 of 40
biology. In order to establish links with related international institutions
and facilitate the international cooperation and data exchange, the Government
of Turkey (GOT) should select international scientists to be part of the SAC.
Involvement of the international community is also important for data sharing
and exchange of research results. The composition of a scientific based SAC
to assist and support the initial development of the GEF project should be:
MOF              2
MARA             2
MOE              2
Universities    2 (representing botanical expertise in the area)
Turkish NGO      1
Foreign          3 (invited representatives of IBPGR, FAO and one 1
international non-governmental conservation
organization)
5.13      The first meeting of the SAC will be crucial to development of the
project. It will serve as a mini-work group to aid in guiding direction of
later project stages, especially the preparation of the International
Symposium in year 3 and the preparation of the National Plan as outlined in
components 4 and 5. For these reasons additional foreign representatives will
be invited to attend this working group.
5.14      The project would fund the travel and per diem costs of the
international members of the SAC. Details of these costs are outlined in
Attachment 9.
C. Affiliated Groups
Universities and NGOs
5.15      NGOs that specialize in environmental issues, such as The Turkish
Society for the Protection of Nature (DHKD), may be important contributors to
this project and should be included on SAC on an ad hoc basis. The GOT and
the SAC have agreed to fund NGOs for small projects in support of the overall
in-situ conservation effort. These projects should emphasize education of the
general public on the importance of conserving Turkey's rich heritage of plant
genetic resources, especially in-situ.
5.16      Universities have been identified as important partners with
government ministries in the in-situ conservation program. There are
university-based biological scientists with specific expertise in conservation
biology and management and with extensive knowledge of the ecology of regions
that are important to conserving genetic resources. It is highly recommended
that these scientists be incorporated into the program. It is difficult to
envision an active university role in the in-situ effort without some direct
support from the project. While the scope of the project is insufficient to
design and implement major university programs in conservation biology, a
commitment of a portion of project funds for university-based research and
training activities is recommended. This would also be accomplished through a
small grants program administered by the Scientific Advisory Committee of the
project. Small research grants for university-based research on selected
sites where MOF and MARA staff are working or in direct support of site



38
Technical Annex
Page 38 of 40
selection and management may have a very large benefit for both the university
and the ministries.
D. ReRorting. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      In conjunction with HOF, HAR& and MOE, a draft work plan has been
prepared. This plan, together with reporting requirements, is described in
Attachment 1.  Scheduled reporting will document progress and assess project
success.  Reports will be produced every six months and will include progress
on training, results of the inventory/survey vork, including species list and
distribution, and criteria for selection of potential sites for GMZ; progress
on the public awareness/information campaigns; on the recommendation of the
Steering committee; detailed management plan for GMZ; results of the National
Plan and recommendations for continuation.
5.18      The final report, after 36 months, would include a summary of accom-
plishments, including survey and inventory data of all sites, distribution
maps of wild crop relatives, and for designated GMZs, maps, locations,
ecological descriptions and management plans; extension material produced and
their distribution and of other GEF publications; results of the Nation In-
Situ Management Plan, including recommendations for project continuation; an
overall evaluation of project progress and lessons learnt, with consideration
about how the Turkish GEF project could form the basis for a regional or
global approach to in-situ conservation of wild crop relatives.
5.19      GOT agreed at negotiations to follow the reporting, monitoring and
evaluation outline indicated in Attachment 1 and summarized in paragraph (para
7.01(a)).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
Global Benefits
6.01      The project would protect in-situ biodiversity of globally
significant wild crop relatives of herbaceous and woody species, and could
potentially play a major role in developing new, more productive strains of
economically and ecologically important crops and trees. By complementing
ongoing ex-situ activities it would develop the institutional and technical
mechanisms for a comprehensive strategy for genetic resource conservation in
Turkey. Success in these endeavors could provide a model applicable in other
parts of the world.
Form of Innovation
6.02      This is the first attempt to integrate the various components of in-
situ conservation project (target species identification, establishment and
management of conservation areas, and monitoring of genetic diversity), in the
world through protecting wild crop relatives in their natural habitat. There
have been a few national programs in Mexico, Brazil and Israel but these have



39
Technical Annex
Page 39 of 40
only targeted single species and have not focusdd on ecosystem management.
The integrated  i-situ/ex-situ strategies for genetic resources conservation
on this project will also be innovative through the use of participatory
approaches between different ministries for the siting, design, and
maintenance of i-siItu conservation areas.
Demonstration Value and Replicability
6.03      This project aims at demonstrating the feasibility of a
comprehensive approach to the conservation of genetic diversity by
strengthening the capacity of government agencies in effective on-site
conservation of plant genetic diversity where it is most threatened. All
aspects of this project are of importance for the advancement of the concept
of in-situ conservation globally. Lessons learned will be disseminated to
other countries through existing international networks and NGOs (IUCN, WWF,
etc.). and through the organization of international seminars.
Contribution to the GEF Portfolio
6.04      This project will target the conservation of wild relatives of crop
species and other selected plants with significant genetic variability. This
type of activity is not yet represented in the portfolio. In-situ
conservation is different from the concept of "protected areas" that is
supported by GEF in other projects. In this respect, the significance of in-
situ conservation is that it targets the conservation of genetic variability
in specific plants, and not necessarily the protection of entire ecosystems.
B. Risks
6.05      The principal risks are institutional.  The Ministries of Forestry,
and Agriculture and Rural Affairs have limited experience in working together,
while the Ministry of the Environment has been only recently established.
Mechanisms for cooperation have been set in place. To simplify the project
and reduce administrative risks, only wild relatives are being included at
this stage. Conservation of landraces, which involves more complex
socioeconomic and community participation issues, would be addressed at a
later date.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01     At negotiations, GOT agreed:
(a) to follow the work plan and reporting schedule for project
implementation summarized in paras 5.17-5.18 indicated in the Chart
at the end of Attachment 1;
(b) to allocate the staff indicated in Table 5.1 necessary to implement
the project and, within 2 months of negotiations, to have nominated
the staff necessary to carry out the survey, inventory and
designation of Gene Management Zones at the Kazdagi site; (para 5.05)



40
Technical Annex
Page 40 of 40
(c) to follow the organizational arrangements for project implementation
indicated in Chapter 5, paras 5.02-5.10, and in particular, to
nominate the Project Implementation Committee and Steering Committee
within two months of negotiations, and the Scientific Advisory
Committee within six months of negotiations;
(d) to follow the procurement arrangements indicated in paras 4.75-4.79.
(e) to follow the accounting and auditing arrangements indicated in
para 4.84; and
(f) to open a Special Account as indicated in para 4.83.



41
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 5
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
DETAILED WORK PLAN
1.       In conjunction with both MOF and MARA a draft work plan time schedule
has been prepared (Table 1, Attachment 1). The number of personnel required to
meet the goals of the project is presented in table 5.1 and has been agreed to
by MOF, MARA and MOE.  Together they agree to commit to the staffing levels
required to implement the GEF project.  These will be personnel dedicated to
working on the GEF project, not personnel taken from existing projects. MOE will
coordinate all reports.
Products. Reports and Conditions
2.       Each activity outlined in the work plan requires that certain accom-
plishments are achieved before progressing to the next activity.   Scheduled
reporting will document progress and serve to evaluate and assess the success of
the GEF project. These reports are required to inform the Scientific Advisory
Committee, Project Implementation Committee and for the World Bank to assess
progress of the GEF.  Each report should include the accomplishments of both
joint and individual activities of MOP and MARA. The individual selected as the
lead coordinator for each Ministry will be responsible for coordinating the pre-
paration and timely submission of reports. A proposed reporting schedule and
expected report contents is outlined in the work plan and detailed below (actual
dates will be established following World Bank funding).
6 Month Report
O  A brief report documenting the results of the training courses to-date.
It would be useful to include a summary course rating of the quality of
the course and instructors.
O  Proposed plans for learning tours to include; purpose, place, duration
and number of individuals to participate.
12 Month Report
O  A report detailing the final training courses as above.
O  Progress made in the first eight months survey/inventory at Kazdagi.
This should be a summary of the data collected and decisions made. As
part of the summary there should be plant species lists, distribution
maps of wild crop relatives, both herbaceous and woody.
O  Results of the initial survey of Southern Anatolia.   This should
include a map of the areas surveyed, potentiaL sites identified which
are candidates for later inventory and decisions made.



42
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 5
O Species, quantities and locations of the limited number of samples
placed in ex-situ storage by MOF and MARA.
O A brief summary of plans to-date for the international symposium. This
might include dates, place, suggested topics and invited participants.
O An accounting of all expenditures by MOF, MARA and MOE during the year.
O Extension of project information to the public will begin at the
beginning of the second year with contributions by MARA, MOF and MOE.
18 Month Report
O Trip reports of completed learning tours
o Progress report on survey/inventory of Ceylanpinar State Farm and
Karacadag plateau to include the same scientific details as those
reported for Kazdagi.
o A continuation report for the Kazdagi inventory.
o A continuation report for the survey/inventory of Southern Anatolia.
O Species, quantities and locations cf the limited number of samples
placed in ex-situ complementary storage by MOF and MARA.   These
collections should not be the primary focus as this is an in-situ
conservation project.
o A plan for which species of wild crop relatives from what sites will be
examined for their genetic diversity, and for what purpose.
O A contractor identified for implementation of the writing and video
documentation.
O For an international symposium at least one year advance notice is
required.  For this reason the 18 month report should include; progress
on preparation, the final announcement, selection of speakers,
preparation of invitations, location for the symposium and logistics,
any proposed field excursions to accompany the symposium, plan for
production of symposium output i.e, proceedings and the number of
invited speakers to be funded.
24 Month Report
O A final report of learning tours to include a complete summary of
activities undertaken and accomplishments.
O A final report on all Kazdagi activities. This will include; specimens
collected, species found, maps of distribution of all wild crop
relatives, their distribution and abundance, identification of sites
which will be reviewed to establish gene management zones for wild crop
relatives, distribution of forest communities where wild crop relatives



43
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 5
are found.   Results of genetic analysis of vild crop relatives,
especially woody species i.e., wild apple, plum, walnut, chestnut and
pistachio, with the goal of identifying diverse representative
populations for designation as gene management zones.
O A continuation report on inventory of Ceylanpinar State Farm and
Karacadag to include scientific details of the distribution of wild
wheat, chickpea, lentil and barley and other wild crop relatives as
encountered.   Also,  an analysis  of isozyme analysis of selected
populations with the goal of identifying diverse representative
populations for designation as gene management zones.
O Site(s) selected in Southern Anatolia for inventory and preliminary
findings of that inventory.
o Species, quantities and locations of the limited number of samples
placed in ex-situ complementary storage by MOF and MARA.   These
collections should not be the primary focus as this is an in-situ
conservation project.
o A preliminary plan folloving the criteria developed for designating
gene management zones for inventoried sites (Kazdagi, Karacadag,
Ceylanpinar State Farm and the Southern Anatolia site.
O A preliminary report from MOE outlining considerations for a National
Plan for in-situ Conservation of Wild Crop Relatives to carry on the
this activity beyond life of the GEF.
o A preliminary report form MOE and the contractor with progress on
extension materials.
O  The final program, final announcement, all speakers identified and
meeting logistics for the International Symposium.
O An accounting of all expenditures by MOF, MARA and MOE during the year.
30 Month Report
o A final report on inventory of Ceylanpinar State Farm and Karacadag
National Park to include scientific details on the distribution of wild
wheat, chickpea, lentil and barley and any other wild crop relatives as
encountered. This will include; specimens collected, species found,
maps of distribution of all wild crop relatives, their distribution and
abundance, identification of sites which will be reviewed to establish
gene management zones for wild crop relatives and distribution of
forest communities at Karacadag where wild crop relatives are found.
Results of genetic analysis of wild crop relative populations from the
sites.
O A list of designated GMZs at all of the inventoried sites. For each
GMZ; their purpose, location on maps, floras of the GMZs, management
requirements i.e., fencing, forest rehabilitation needs and a summary



44
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 5
report on the measure of genetic diversity of wild crop relative
populations conserved in the GMZs. Also, a plan for incorporating the
GMZs   into  a  comprehensive  complementary  in-_situ/ex-situ  gene
conservation program.
O Progress on land acquisition for establishing GMZs.
O A reviewed draft of the National In-situ Conservation Plan prepared by
MOE in consultation with MOF and MARA.
O Examples of all extension materials produced by MOE and the
consultant(s).
0 Report of the International Symposium and plan for publication of the
proceedings.
Final Report (36 Month)
The final report should be the summary of all that was accomplished during
the term of the GEF project. It is important for several reasons; it will
serve as an evaluation of the GEF project for the Ministries involved and
the World Bank, it can serve as a model for similar activities in Turkey
and other countries, and will serve, it will serve as a document
describing how the Turkish GEF project can form the basis of a regional or
global approach to in-situ conservation of wild crop relatives, it can be
the basis for grant proposals to fund additional projects in Turkey. The
final closure report will include;
o A detailed description all the activities accomplished during the
project, including; survey and inventory data of all sites,
distribution maps of wild crop relatives.   For the designated GMZs;
maps, locations, ecological descriptions, floras, summary of genetic
diversity of wild crop relatives present, and management plans.
o The final extension materials produced and reports on their
distribution to professional or popular audiences.
o Copies of publications produced or in press based on the GEF project
activities.
o A final accounting of all expenditures by MOF, MARA and MOE during the
three years.



D R A F T                   W O R K                  P L A ?1
ActMtily                                                    Ye.r I                                   Year 2                                   Year 3
Consorvation BiologY Trnin_r_
SurveyAnventory Training
Biomystmatie Training
GIS Treirng
Learnirg Tors
S-,evArtwntaty of Koadagl
Survey Ceylttrtinr State Farm
Survsy K rte de Pt late u 
Surv .yof rhwn Anetolia                                                                           *       4 d    _        a A          * E     *       i *d    B  a    *a 
tar AddlUane Sitelo                                                                                                                                    r    IA 
Inmvntory of Additional Site                                                                                                                              _             -
Comp     nlemritary Et-Situ                                                                        _      _      _      _     _      -      _          _        - _                        -                                    U
Un
Management of G.rmpl*m_
Meetingi, of the Project Scientific
Ad.ao,ry Committee
Meetinge of the Proidrt
Impl-mentaion committ._
Moeeinge of the IntrerMiniletrial
Steering Committee
M.,ournte"s of Genetic Dlvaraity In                                                                                                         _      _      _
Poebtaione df Witd Crop Relative=
Do_bnltion of OWN M ianreet Zone__
Management of Get Managemn   Zonoe
Development of a National Pit n                                                                                                _           _     _                           _  _ 
for In-Situ Corservetion                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
Extenslon of Project d0  (_
Information to Pr_=-ic                                                                                                                                                        =ft t
Internationa Symposium on InS9tu                                                                   S       * 4 B .   *    a. *     P       a *    *e *    e * s t
Conservation an GEF Project in T.ktreY
Reporting



46
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING
The following training needs are to support the activities identified in
component 5 on Institutional strengthening. Terms of reference for
instructors (technical assistance) for the course vork described below is
provided in Attachment 3.
1.    Training Needs for DeveloDment of ExRertise in Conservation Biology
The staff of PGRRI are familiar with ecogeographic and floristic survey
techniques, but they are not familiar with conservation biology that will be
necessary in designing and implementing in-situ management. The staff of the MOF
is very similar to MARA in this regard.   A period of research training and
experience that will allow PGRRI and MOF staff to develop skills in conservation
biology is essential to the success of this GEF project. The research methods
that are now in place in both MOF and PGRRI can be improved with the addition of
complementary conservation biology skills. Once these skills are established,
it will be necessary to allow them to mature with practice on selecting and
analyzing sites for in-situ management. The judgement of the mission, MOF and
MARA was that the necessary training could be accomplished during the first year
while inventory and survey activities were implemented on selected sites and
species.   The  second year would focus on expanding survey and inventory
activities to sites in other regions of turkey. Surveys will continue in the
final year but more activity should be devoted to continued survey and to long-
term planning efforts including designation of additional conservation sites as
well as the development of a national strategy to conserve wild crop genetic
resources in-situ. Training needs were identified and four specific training
workshops are proposed (see contractor's Terms of Reference for subjects to be
covered).
2.    Conservation Biology and Its Application to In-Situ Conservation
Conservation biology is an emerging discipline which applies current
scientific knowledge to the global need of conserving genetic diversity.
Conservation biology employs the use of diverse sources of information which must
be assimilated into a management plan.  Acquisition of data, especially that
about vegetation, ecology and current land use, is essential. Rapid Ecological
Assessment (REA) is a technique which has recently been applied in tropical
regions to quickly identify priority sites for protection.   The technique
involves use of remote images and limited ground verification to expand upon
existing knowledge about an ecosystem. Several methods developed by an American
NGO, The Nature Conservancy (TNC), and are available to the World Bank and GEF.
The World Bank will provide details to MOF and MARA for testing and modifying to
meet the needs of in-situ genetic conservation in Turkey.



47
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
Conservation management requires scientists to assess the future status of
plant populations under different conditions. One difficult task is to estimate
critical population sizes and densities for sustaining a plant population.
Another task is to model the impact of such changes as physical changes (e.g.
erosion) predation (e.g. insects) and disease on the plant population. Another
task is to understand the ecological community of plants and other organisms that
interact in a single location.   The initial step is the development of an
understanding for the principles of conservation biology as they apply to
agriculture and forestry. The basic goal is to identify, establish, protect and
manage a series of areas that will provide for natural evolution of complex plant
and animal systems.  It is the intent, in fact, the purpose of such areas to
serve the needs of the nation and the world. The goal is to provide on an on-
going basis for now and into the future  the broad genetic base needed for
sustainable agriculture and forestry.
3.    Survey and Inventory Trainine in Gene Resource Conservation
In-situ conservation requires that sites be chosen and inventoried in a
thorough manner.   Inventories for biodiversity conservation are required and
differ from traditional inventories of forest resources. Surveys of a species
throughout its range, both ecological and geographical, within Turkey will be
required for globally significant species. Training in the latest techniques and
technology are required for both MARA and MOF.  The use of rapid ecological
assessment (REA) can greatly speed the survey process. While MARA has conducted
ecogeographic surveys before they have not been with the goal of identifying in-
situ conservation sites or used REA techniques. designed.
4.    Isoenzyme Training and ARplication to Biosvstematic Problems
Biosystematics is a rapidly changing field especially as new biochemical
techniques are developed to identify genetic composition of different organisms.
Isozyme analysis is a widely used tool that has been available for many years in
developed nations but they are not widely used in either agriculture or forestry
in Turkey. Biochemical techniques for measuring and analyzing genetic diversity
require start-up cost, but they can provide valuable data to supplement less
expensive conventional methods that depend on plant morphology. Adding more
advanced biosystematic laboratory capacity and data management skills will
complement existing strengths in conventional botany at both MOF and MARA.
5.    Data Management with a Geographic Information System (GIS)
In any conservation system, considerable data will be gathered and such
data to be useful must be organized and evaluated. Since the biological systems
with a Geographic Information System selected to be managed are extremely complex
biologically, since they will cover a wide geographic area and since many
different factors are influencing them, a map modeling system through the
application of a Geographic Information System (GIS) would be most appropriate.
A properly designed GIS can handle the basic data management in addition to the
necessary modelling activity. In its basic mode the GIS system uses spatial data
which can then display a range of themes, i.e. ecosystem distributions, species
locations, array of habitats, forest cover damage, etc. Employed with remote



48
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
sensing, a powerful analytical tool is available to the managers. In addition
to displaying current data information, the GIS can be used to predict changes
associated with various activities on a given site. Thus, the GIS can assist in
site evaluation and selection of management strategies for sustainable use with
an area.



49
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 5
TURREY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE and TRAINING
This attachment provides detailed terms of reference for the instructors of
the courses which has vere previously described in Attachment 2.
. Conservation Biology training;
. Survey and Inventory training;
. Isoenzyme training;
Data Management / GIS.
The expert or contractor(s) for the technical assistance vould be responsible
for administrative costs including any necessary translations and production
of materials for the courses. The courses will take place at the Menemen
Research Institute.
1. Conservation Biologv and its ARRlication to In-Situ Conservation
Qualifications:
The local and foreign experts (contractors) should show scientific
knowledge in current theory and application of conservation biology to
plant genetic resources, including;
a. Scientific knowledge of appropriate methods of conservation. This will
include in situ, ex situ, site selection techniques, preserve design
(size, buffer zones etc.), monitoring, management and restoration
biology.
b. Training experience, preferably in temperate ecosystems and in
practical field experience.
c. Experience in application of conservation biology to conservation of
plant genetic resources.
d. Knowledge of applications of in situ conservation techniques comparable
to GEF activities in Turkey.
e. Ability to travel and conduct field courses.



50
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 5
Scope of Work:
a. Planning and Preparation Phase (10 days)
In Turkey the contractor vill identify priority issues relating to in
situ conservation of plant genetic diversity.
Prepare course materials, literature, lectures and supplies for next
phase.
b. Training phase (5 weeks)
Contractor will be expected to prepare lectures and field exercises to
illustrate current theory and practices in conservation biology. The
level of knowledge gained should enable participants to understand
theory and practice of conservation biology as it relates to
populations, species, communities and ecosystems.
c. Application/interpretation phase (1-2 weeks)
Contractor will conduct field site visits to one or more of the
selected sites to illustrate application of theory to this GEF project.
d. Reporting (3 days)
Contractor will prepare a detailed report of all above phases to
include; areas of training which need to be strengthened, suggest
further areas of investigation to meet management needs of the GEF
project, identify problem areas where multipurpose uses may conflict
with goals of the GEF.
2. Survey and Inventory Training in Gene Resource Conservation
Qualifications:
The local and foreign experts should shov scientific knowledge in current
theory and application of survey and inventory of plant genetic resources.
Ideally  this  should  involve  three  specialists  from  disciplines
representing crop genetic resources, forestry and rapid ecological
assessment. The three specialists should have experience with practical
application in their disciplines.
a. Scientific knowledge of current methods for survey and inventory of
plant genetic resources.   This will include current use of remote
sensing technology, rapid assessment/inventory techniques, site
selection techniques, statistical analysis of data, mapping technology
and use of GIS technology.  The contractor must have the ability to
discuss application of those methods at the level of ecosystem, plant
community, species and population level and appropriate sampling
strategies for each level.
b. Training experience, preferably in temperate ecosystems and in
practical field application.



51
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 5
c. Experience in application of techniques to both woody and herbaceous
species.
d. Knowledge of applications of sampling to conservation of crop genetic
resources.
e. Ability to travel and conduct field courses.
Scope of Work:
a. Planning and Preparation Phase (2 weeks)
In Turkey the experts will identify priority issues relating to the
survey and inventory of areas for the GEF project. This will include
sampling/inventory issues at the ecosystem, community, species and
population level.
Prepare course materials, literature, lectures and supplies for next
phase.
b. Training/application phase (6 weeks)
Experts will be expected to prepare lectures and field exercises to
illustrate current theory and practices in survey and inventory. The
level of knowledge gained should enable participants to undertake
surveys and inventory of areas and site identified as a priority for
the GEF project in Turkey.
c. Reporting (3 days)
Experts will prepare a detailed report of all above phases to include;
areas of training which need to be strengthened, suggest further areas
of investigation to meet management needs of the GEF project, identify
problem areas where multipurpose uses may conflict with goals of the
GEF.    Identify appropriate application of GIS technology to the
survey/inventory of GEF project sites.
3. Isoenzyme Training and Application to Biosvstematic Problems
Qualifications:
The local and foreign experts should show technical capacity and
experience in five areas:
a. Scientific knowledge and experience with current techniques in
isoenzyme analysis, interpretation and data management.
b. Training experience, preferably introduction to techniques.
c. Experience in broad application of current technology in analysis of
plant genetic diversity.



52
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 5
d. Knowledge of equipment operation, setup, maintenance and preparation of
plant materials for analysis.
e. Ability to travel.
Scope of Work:
a. Planning and Preparation Phase (2 weeks)
In Turkey the experts will identify priority issues relating to in situ
conservation of plant genetic diversity.
Prepare course materials, literature, equipment and supplies for next
phase.
b. Training phase (4 weeks)
Experts  will  be  expected  to  prepare  lecture  and  laboratory
demonstrations to convey current techniques in isoenzyme analysis,
interpretation and data management.   The level of knowledge gained
should enable participants to undertake independent investigations on
management problems of plant populations for in situ conservation of
genetic resources.
c. Application/interpretation phase (3 weeks)
Experts will assist participants in application of above training to
individual projects using plant materials of interest to participants
and directly related to goals of the GEF project.  MOF participants
will be expected to work on woody crop genetic resources.   MARA
participants will be expected to work on crop genetic resources of
significance as identified in the GEF project.
d. Reporting (3 days)
Experts will prepare a detailed report of all above phases to include;
areas of training which need to be strengthened, suggest further areas
of investigation to meet management needs of the GEF project.
4. Data Management with a Geographical Information System
Qualifications
The experts should show technical knowledge in use and application of GIS
to the survey and inventory of plant genetic resources. This must have
experience and be familiar with plant ecology and conservation biology.
Knowledge of software design and computer science would be beneficial.
a. Technical and operation knowledge of current GIS application.
Familiarity with more than one GIS software package which can be used
on a personal computer.   The contractor must have the ability to
discuss application of GIS at the level of ecosystem, plant community,
species and populations.



53
Attachment 3
Page 5 of 5
b. Experience in application of GIS to plant biology and preferably in
training others in its application.
c. Ability to travel and conduct field courses.
Scope of Work:
a. Planning and Preparation Phase (7 days)
In Turkey the experts will identify priority issues relating to the
application of GIS to survey and inventory of areas for the GEF
project.
Prepare course materials, literature, software and computers for
teaching.
b. Training/application phase (4 weeks)
Expert will be expected to prepare lectures and computer exercises to
demonstrate current application of GIS technology to data management.
This must include mapping of survey/inventory data at the ecosystem,
community, species and population level. The level of knowledge gained
should enable participants to manage data generated by the GEF and
future projects.
c. Demonstration (3 days)
The expert will be required to arrange for demonstration of several
different GIS software packages.  Vendors may be solicited for this
purpose.
d. Reporting (3 days)
Experts will prepare a detailed report of all above phases to include;
areas of training which need to be strengthened, suggest further areas
of investigation to meet data management needs of the GEF project.
Together with MOF and MARA participants identify the GIS software
package which best meets the needs of the GEF project in Turkey.



54
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 8
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR NATIONAL PLAN IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC RESOURCES
National Plan for In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Resources
MOE would be the the lead agency on this plan and coordinate the technical
assistance needs with regard to discipline and timing (as described in the Scope
of Work).  MOE would work with MOF and MARA in the identification of which
experts/disciplines are needed to assist which Ministry, in light of their
respective strengths and weaknesses. They will start developing the Plan in the
second half of the second year of the project with the support from MARA, MOF and
through local and foreign technical assistance. MOE will oversee all contractual
arrangements with the contractor for the technical asistance as well as
coordinate additional support for relevant international agencies such as IUCN,
WWF, IBPGR, and FAO as needed.
The GEF grant will cover the technical assistance costs as well as report
production costs including translation. The contractor(s) will be responsible
for overhead such as secretarial assistance. With regard to basic office support
for MOE, MARA and NOF that may be required in the preparation of this plan,
office equipment such as computers is being provided by the GEF project through
Component 4: Institutional Strenathenina. Details can be found in chapter III
and Attachment 9.
Oblectives of the Plan:
- The overall goal of this Plan is to provide a mechanism for the GOT (primarily
through MOE, MARA and MOF) to set priorities and present a plan of actions that
will ensure the protection of wild crop relatives and forest genetic resources
in their native habitat beyond the three year GEF pilot program.
- Based on findings of the GEF pilot an array of successful strategies to address
conservation needs for the targeted species of wild crop, forest genetic
resources and landraces would be developed.
- This Plan should help the GOT expand in-zjj conservation activities
(specifically the establishment of a network of GNZs) to other areas of the
country not developed through the GEF pilot project.



55
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 8
- This Plan should help the GOT expand in-situ conservation activities to other
important wild crop and forest species beyond those targeted for protection in
the GEF pilot project including endangered flora species found in GMZs.
- The expansion of GMZ's through the Plan should be integrated with existing
protected area strategies and relevant Turkish legislation.
- The Plan should be consistent and complementary with other national, regional
or global efforts to conserve wild plant genetic resources. For example, the
plan should be compatible with and support MA.RA's National Plant Genetic
Resources Research Project.
- The Plan should lead the way for continuation and replication of the GEF pilot
project which can provide a supportive platform for continued assistance from the
international donor community.
- The Plan would provide a contribution to, and not replace the more
comprehensive "National Conservation Plan" to be prepared by the GOT, in that it
will only address the primary elements of in-situ crop (woody and non-woody)
resources.   It is understood that the focus of the GEF project is on in-situ
gene conservation and that a national plan for all biodiversity of Turkey is
beyond the scope of this project.
Sco2e of Work:
The total preparation time of the Plan would be 2O months, beginning with month
17 of the project and ending in month 36, the last month of the 3rd year GEF
project. During this time there will be four distinct "phases" (INCEPTION, CORE
DEVELOPMENT, FINAL PLAN, PLAN APPROVAL) resulting in 4 reports. The timing and
purpose of each phase are outlined below. Table A-3: National Plan Technical
Assistance Summary provides a summary of the schedule of the technical assistance
discipline and time.   Additional instruction and costs are presented in the
subsequent section on "Qualifications".
I. INCEPTION (3 months, mo. 17-19):
1. Purpose: To design the foundation of the plan through the development
of an overall strategy and work plan for Plan. The preparation will be
done in coordination and cooperation between MOE, MOF and MARA, the
international advisors and the experts as identified below.
2. Activities:
- Each ministry to prepare summaries of the status of GEF project to date;
- Have a series of workshops to develop the inception report:
a) presentation of GEF project status, successes and problems;
b) Ministries and experts to exchange ideas on what would be
feasible and desired for sustaining in-situ genetic resource
conservation beyond the GEF project time frame;



56
Attachment 4
Page 3 of 8
c) based on a) and b) outline plan of action for 9 month "Core
Development Phase, identifying questions, roles between ministries,
assessment needs, etc.
3. Reporting: An inception report will be due at the end of month 19.
4. Technical Assistance:
International   Advisors:   Conservation   Biologist   (1  month),
conservation Management Expert (1 month), Landrace expert (1 month)I
Local   Experts:   Botanist,   Agriculturalist,    Forester   and
Anthropologist (each for 1 month).
II. CORE PLAN DEVELOPMENT (9 months, mo. 20-29):
1. PurDose: This is the core time in which background information for the
Plan will be gathered and then written into a proactive, long-term
conservation strategy to meet the objectives outlined in this TOR.
2. Activities:
- assess the inventory and survey components for information on
species, area, in-situ and ex-situ compatibility, benefits and
results of training, and institutional coordination and cooperation;
- assess the GMZ component in terms of success of management
strategies, biodiversity conservation, impacts on adjacent areas and
communities, institutional cooperation and coordination, and
compatibility with other protected area strategies;
- identify conservation regions and strategies;
- outline means for extension and public awareness activities;
- develop new policies and regulations for wild crop relatives and
forest resources;
- compile assessment information into form that can be presented as
an interim report to the World Bank and the SAC;
- identify recurrent funding mechanisms and potential donor
activities;
- identify ways to work with different institutional sectors to
implement an ongoing in-situ conservation program which utilize
existing governmental and community authority arrangements, and does
not create new Governmental entities;
- based on information from assessments, prepare strategic outline
for the Plan to ensure Plan objectives; and



57
Attachment 4
Page 4 of 8
- develop Plan in full written form that can be presented at the
International Symposium.
3. Reportina: An interim report will be due at month 25 along with
presentation to SAC as reviewers; a draft final will be due in month
30.
4. Technical Assistance:
International  Advisors:   Conservation  Biologist   (3  months),
Conservation Management Expert (2 months), Landrace expert (2
month);
Local   Experts:    Botanist,   Agriculturalist,    Forester   and
Anthropologist and Protected Area Specialist Resource Economist
(each for 3 months); Socio-economist, Legal and Institutions Expert,
and Extension/Public Awareness Expert, Protected Area Management
Expert (each for 2 months).
III. FINAL PLAN PRODUCTION: (5 months, mo. 30-34)
1. Purpose: Revision of the draft Plan based on information gathered at
the International Symposium and from the SAC.
2. Activities:
- Attend and present draft Plan at the International Symposium;
- Have follow-up workshop with MOF, MARA, MOE and experts to
identify new ideas learned from workshop, applications from other
parts of the world and discuss, evaluate changes in Plan
accordingly;
- Revise Plan as necessary; and
- Prepare Plan in its final form both in terms of content and
presentation style.
3. Reporting: Final Plan due month 34.
4. Technical Assistance:
International   Advisors:   Conservation   Biologist   (1  month),
Conservation Management Expert (1 month), Landrace expert (1 month);
Local Experts: Botanist, Agriculturalist, Forester and
Anthropologist, Resource economist, Socio-economist,
Legal and Institution Specialist, Extention/Public
Awareness Expert and Protected Area management Expert,
(each for 1 month).
IV. PLAN APPROVAL (2 months, mo 35-36)
1. Purpose: coordination with other concerned agencies and communities
involved for acceptance of the plan and incorporation with larger plan.



58
Attachment 4
Page 5 of 8
2. Activities:
Meet with other agencies and communities who would be involved in
implementing and/or possibly funding the Plan to get their support.
3. Technical Assistance:
Local Experts: Protected Area Specialist, Legal and Institutions
Expert, and Extension/Public Awareness Expert (each for 1 month).
Table A-4: National Plan Technicat Assistance Summarv (narvnonths)
Project Phases     Pase I    Phsse II   Phase III   Phase IV   SubtotaL
Inception  Core Dev.   FinaL Draft  Plan
(mo.17-19)  (mo.20-28)  (mo. 29-34)  Approval
l_________  ___________         (m ao.35-36)
Foreign Technical Assistance
Conservation Biologist         1         3          2          0        6
Conservation Mgmt. Spec.       1         2          2          0        5
Landraces Specialist           1         2          2          0        5
Subtotal                       3         7          6          0        16
Local Technical Assistance
Botanist                       1         3          1          0        5
Forester                       1         3          1          0        5
Agriculturalist                1         3          1          0        5
Antropologist/Sociologist    !1          3          1          0        5
Resource Economist             1         3          1          1        5
Socio-Economnist               1         2          1          1        5
Legal and Instit. Spec.      r 1         2          1          1        5
Extension/Public Awareness     1         2          1          1        5
Protected Area/Mgmt. Expert    1         2          1          1        5
Subtotal                       9         23         9          4        45
Technical Assistance Oualifications:
To meet the above objectives and scope of work, the contractors would be
a multi-disciplinary team of experts comprised of both international advisors and
local consultants who would assist MOE, MARA and MOF with preparation of the
Plan. The contractors would also work with the SAC, experts from Turkish and
other universities, and local and international NGOs. For each expert, the total
expected man-months is provided in parenthesis. Also see the above "Scope of
Work section and table A-3 for the breakdown of Plan Phase/discipline/mm.
International Advisors:
The following three advisors are to be extremely experienced in their
respective fields throughout the world and also familiar with Turkey. Together
they will be provide the core guidance and coordination from an international
perspective. They will provide guidance to MOE on the overall design, preparation
and implementation of the Plan component. They will work closely with the local



59
Attachment 4
Page 6 of 8
experts in a guidance capacity, but all aspects of the Plan are done in a spirit
of shared knowledge and recognition that local knowledge must be the foundation
upon which the Plan is based.
1. Conservation Bioloaists  This person will have the lead "expert" role and
should have the most comprehensive knowledge and worldwide experience in the
global field of in-situ conservation for genetic resources. While they may
themselves be an expert in one type of genetic resource, they should have a
familiarity with woody and non-woody species, relationships between in-situ and
ex-situ, landraces as well as "hands on" research and management experience in
this field.   They should have a familiarity with Turkey and other in-situ
projects. They will also serve as the primary technical assistant to MOE in the
overall development of the Plan including design and coordination. Time Summary:
Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 3 mo.; Phase III: FINAL
PLAN - 2 mo.
2. Conservation Manacement SRecialist:   This person would have experience
primarily in the practical, implementation aspects of establishing and managing
protected areas for in-situ conservation, but should have an ecological training
in plant resources that would make them familiar with the overall research
aspects of conservation biology and landraces. They will work with MOE primarily
in developing the Plan to be compatible with other conservation plans and
strategies ongoing in Turkey and in particular ensure that the Plan is compatible
with and support MOE's Special Protected Areas Program, MOF's National Park
Program, MOF's Natural Areas Program and MARA's National Plant genetic Resources
Research Project.  Tim  Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE
DEVELOPMENT - 2 mo.; Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 2 mo.
3. Landraces Specialist: This person would understand the current theory and
application of in-situ conservation technologies for cultivated landraces both
in Turkey as well as other parts of the world. They would be able to develop and
integrate the ecological, cultural and socio-economic aspects of landraces. They
would have practical experience in working with local communities about
landraces. Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT
- 2 mo.; Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 2 mo.
Local Consultants:
1. Botanist: Should have an excellent knowledge of Turkish plants, in particular
non-woody crops including wheat, chickpeas, lentils, etc., with a clear
understanding of their role in and need for in-situ conservation.
Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 3 mo.;
Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.
2. Forester: Should have an excellent knowledge of Turkish trees, in particular
woody crops including apple, pear, chestnut, pistachio, etc., with a clear
understanding of their role in and need for in-situ conservation, as well as the
role these trees play in the overall forest ecosystem and the resource management
considerations of "traditional, production" forestry.



60
Attachment 4
Page 7 of 8
Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 3 mo.;
Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.
3. Agriculturalist: This person would have an excellent understanding of both in-
situ and ex-situ conservation techniques and related agricultural practices in
Turkey, including research and management of areas for particular purposes.
Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 3 mo.;
Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.
4. Anthropologist/Sociologist: This person should have a clear understanding of
the social and economic issues that impact on the GOT's ability to implement the
conservation and management of wild crop relatives and landraces, with a strong
emphasis on landraces and community involvement.
Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 3 mo.;
Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.
S. Resource Economist:  This person would have demonstrated knowledge of the
economic and ecological aspects of forestry and agriculture as they would be
applied to wild crop relatives and landraces.
Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 3 mo.;
Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo; Phase IV: APPROVAL - 7 mo.
6. Socio-Economist:   This person would have demonstrated knowledge of the
economic and social conditions of Turkey as they relate to agriculture, and
forestry land-use in light of practical applications for genetic resources and
protected area management. Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II:
CORE DEVELOPMENT - 2 mo.; Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.; Phase IV: APPROVAL -
1 mo.
7. Legal and Institution Specialist: This person would have extensive knowledge
of the institutional and legal considerations of Turkey as they would relate to
land management, institutional roles and project management, establishment of
protected areas, legislation for protected areas and species, and international
treaties relevant to in-situ conservation.
Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE DEVELOPMENT - 2 mo.;
Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.; Phase IV: APPROVAL - 1 mo.
8. Extension/Public Awareness Expert: This person would have the ability to
communicate   scientific   information  into  general  terms,   concepts  and
recommendations for a broader audience; familiarity with on-site training
programs and activities related to agriculture, forestry and nature conservation;
ability to develop public awareness activities for governmental agencies and
local communities.  Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE
DEVELOPMENT - 2 mo.;  Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.; Phase IV: APPROVAL - 1 mo.
9. Protected Area Management Expert: They would have extensive experience in the
planning and management of protected areas from both a policy level and actual
management of protected areas for nature conservation. They would have a clear
understanding of in-situ conservation goals for genetic resources. This person



61
Attachment
Page 8 of 8
would be able to assess other planning initiatives in Turkey and assist in the
preparation of this plan in a way that is both contributing and complementary
with these initiatives. Time Summary: Phase I: INCEPTION - 1 mo.; Phase II: CORE
DEVELOPMENT - 2 mo.;  Phase III: FINAL PLAN - 1 mo.; Phase IV: APPROVAL - 1 mo.



62
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
SITE SELECTION CRITERIA
1. Species vs. Area Approach
In-situ conservation of plant genetic diversity can be approached from
two perspectives, each with different methods and goals. A species approach,
identifying globally significant species (e.g. wheat, chickpea, barley and lentil
relatives), will be used in conjunction with area approach for this project.
The species approach selects priority species and seeks to preserve
representative examples of their wild relatives wherever they may naturally grow.
This approach requires broad ecological surveys to identify the geographical and
ecological range of habitats where the selected species occur. Genetic diversity
within the target species must be considered in identifying suitable sites for
conservation (isozyme data can be helpful). A single site for each species is
unlikely to contain the range of genetic variability which should ideally be
conserved.
Sites designated using a species approach do not necessarily need to be
of a pristine nature.  Suitable sites representing an abundance and/or great
genetic diversity of the target species can be partially degraded from over-
grazing or other activities. Some management activities, such as limited grazing
or timber harvesting may be necessary to maintain the habitat for a selected
species to be managed in-situ.
In addition to the conservation benefits, the species approach has the
advantage in that selecting a globally important species is likely to result in
much interest from other nations seeking to replicate the Turkish project.
The area approach to in-situ conservation identifies an area that is
rich in the important wild relatives of several agricultural or forestry species.
This approach gives additional significance to areas which are already protected,
such as MOF or MOE managed areas. The concept that currently protected areas can
also serve to preserve wild crop relatives of importance to agriculture will
serve to expand the role and importance of existing areas. Such an approach will
require some changes in current management plans of MOF areas so that an
integrated in- situ management plan includes sites with wild crop relatives and
priority species.



63
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 4
2. Background: Site Selection Criteria
Site selection for a demonstration in-situ conservation project can be
done at the level of ecosystems, communities or species. Each level reflects the
desired goals and number of species to be preserved. Selection at the ecosystem
level will involve larger areas and include a range of habitats where priority
species may occur.   An ecosystem level of conservation vill likely include
several levels of habitat disturbance from pristine to degraded or cultivated
environments.  An example of an ecosystem approach vould be the selection of
Aegean forests as a priority for conservation. A plant community approach will
involve identifying a particular community, such as the oak-pistachio forests
which are rich in wild crop progenitors.   A species approach would involve
establishment of several preserves to protect sites representative of the eco-
geographic range of one species.   The latter include habitats which require
continual disturbance such as weedy environments associated vith agricultural
practices.
The criteria to be employed in the selection of the appropriate sites
can be s-mmarized in the folloving general terms:
(a) Representativeness. Does the area, large or small, truly represent the
populations to be protected and maintained? It is essential that the
genetic mix of an area be known to a reasonable degree to ensure that
the investment will in fact ensure adequate protection of the priority
resource.
(b) Diversity. It is both feasible and desirable in selecting a given site
that ecosystem, species and population diversity is included. Forests
are dynamic, living systems, and as such communities contribute to the
evolution of species development.   Whenever possible rich species
diversity as well as community diversity should be considered.
(c) Naturalness.   Since natural processes are to be maintained it is
essential that the protected system be as natural as possible.
However, pure natural forest systems are rarely found. This being the
case, a degree of compromise is called for. It is possible under some
conditions to actually restore a degree of naturalness and this may
well be part of the management strategy.
(d) The Likelihood of Success.   Before selecting a strategy and approxi-
mate area what will be the degree of success? With limited funding
only priority areas should be selected that have a high degree of
success in achieving the conservation goals.
3. Rationale for Site Selection
One benefit of initially using an area approach is to strengthen the
capacity of MOF and MARA in jointly designing a comprehensive Ji-situ conserv-
ation project. Surveying an existing MOF managed area vill provide useful data



64
Attachment 5
Page 3 of 4
on the utility of designating gene management zones on existing state owned
lands. It is important that the project begin with an initial in-depth survey
of a HOF managed area.
The hOF and MARA have agreed that for establishment of in-situ gene
management zones, wheat, chickpea, barley and lentil will be the highest
priority. A site to preserve and study the genetic diversity of wild wheat has
been established at the southern extreme of its range in Israel. As Turkey is
the center of distribution of the species a comparative site with parallel
research projects is of global significance and will complement any future
activities to conserve wild wheat in Syria and Jordan.
As described in Component 1., MOF and MARA independently identified
Kazdagi in northwestern Turkey as the initial site to begin the project since
both of the lead institutes of MOF and MARA are located near Kazdagi in Izmir.
Wheat and its close relatives are not abundant at Kazdagi, yet this site affords
excellent opportunities for protection of major fruit, nut and timber crop
relatives of global significance.   In addition,  the richness of species,
communities and ecosystems affords excellent opportunities for institutional
strengthening and application of a multi-disciplinary approach to in-situ gene
resource management.
During the preparation mission, an initial assessment of the sites in
Turkey which contain wild progenitors of several important crops such as wheat,
barley, oats, rye, lentil, chickpea and pea was conducted. Ceylanpinar State
Farm and Karacadag were proposed as suitable sites to meet both area and species
approach considerations. Surveys and inventories of these sites for wild crop
relatives will be conducted during Component 1.
The Karaca Dag plateau near Diyarbakir and a site in Southern Anatolia
will be investigated for sites which can be adequately protected for management
purposes. Land would need to be purchased and allocations made of current land
usage of sites designated as gene management zones.
Additional sites for inventory and creation of GMZs for wild wheat,
chickpea, lentil and barley will be sought through surveys in Southern Anatolia.
At the sites chosen and inventoried selected areas will be designated as gene
management zones.
Based on the criteria outlined previously, the following guidelines will
be used in selecting the additional sites during Components 1 and 2:
o  Selection  of  sites  with  plant  species  of  global  significance,
especially the close wild relatives of wheat, chickpea, lentil and
barley.
O  Designation of a site which contributes new or significant genetic
diversity to the gene pool of the priority species.
o  A site which can be managed and protected, with priority given to MOF
and MARA lands, but not ignoring the potential to acquire and manage
new lands.



65
Attachment 5
Page 4 of 4
O Sites which are of interest to nearby research scientists of MOF and/or
MARA so that they may oversee and manage the site following designation
of an in-situ gene management zone.
O Sites which will not adversely impact local people or require sub-
stantial land use compensation cost. Lands which are likely to have
suitable wild wheat, chickpea, lentil or barley populations are
marginal rocky lands used only for grazing during part of the growing
season.



66
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 6
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
TYPES OF GENETIC RESOURCES TO BE INVENTORIED AT KAZDAdI
1.        Inventory activities at Kazdagi will focus primarily on wild crop
relatives, both herbaceous and woody. In addition, other plant genetic
resources to be part of the survey will include; forest trees, medicinal
resources, aromatic, spice, industrial, ornamental and bulbous species.
Forest Trees
2.        MOF manages over 90% of the forest resources of Turkey.  However the
current emphasis of such management is mainly focused on the traditional woody
plants. Although there is an interest in broader conservation issues, there
is little to no consideration given to non-woody plants and their management.
Still, there is a direct link between forestry and agriculture that has
received modest consideration in that there is some modest conservation
management provided to such food cropo as walnut, chestnut, apple and cherry.
Such conservation management has for the most part been passive rather than
active.
3.        A reasonable starting point would be joint consideration by MOF and
MARA to develop a common conservation plan for valuable woody food crops.
Such a plan would consist of the following elements:
(a) The strict protection of native woody food crops.
(b) The removal of improved crops from the selected areas.
(c) Using modern genetic techniques of selection, mitigate a forest
restoration project for several selected areas of mutual interest to
agricultural and forestry concerns.
4.        A more serious concern is the mutual protection, management and
restoration of non-woody crops found in the forests. These crops have
essentially received little or no attention and are rapidly disappearing.
Thus a mutually agreed upon plan is essential if these invaluable crop
resources are to be maintained. With direct cooperation of the MOF and MARA a
series of Gene Resource Conservation Areas need to be established. Such areas
require protection, management and often a degree of restoration.
Wild Relatives of Aromatic. Spice and Industrial CroRs
5.        The flora of Turkey contains wild relatives or progenitor species of
a number of spice and aromatic, spice and industrial crops. These include
anise, black cumin, coriander, basis, parsley, hop fennel, oregano, marjoram,
mint, sage, thyme, fenugreek, poppy, digitalis and many other.   A number of



67
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 6
these crops are significant sources of export income for Turkey and their wild
relatives will be included in the inventory.
6.        wild orchids (Orchis spp.) are another group of plants which are
harvested from the wild for ornamental use or for production products used in
flavoring industries i.e, beverages such as salep or in ice cream. Like the
bulbous ornamentals, these are not always harvested in a sustainable manner,
especially due to their slow reproductive rate. At PGRRI there is a program
to propagate Orchis spp. which can form the basis for future efforts at
complementary ex-situ - in-situ preservation.
7.        Used locally by forest dwellers are an array of forest plants with
considerable value for plant dyes used in the paint, carpet making and related
industries of Turkey. Such plants as indigo (Isatis sp.), madder (Rubia
tinctoria), alkanet (Alkanna tinctoria) and walnut (Juglans regis) are
commonly harvested. Since many of these can not be adequately cultivated and
since little is known as to their genetic structure it is essential and
necessary to maintain them in their natural conditions. Under proper
management such plants can be developed as a source of a modest but productive
forest industry.
Herbaceous Ornamentals Orieinatinf in Turkev
8.        Turkey is the origin of numerous herbaceous ornamentals, especially
bulbs. Tulips (Tulipa app.), Daffodils (Narcissus spp.), Snow Drops
(Galanthus spp.) Cyclamen (Cyclamen spp.) Eranthus spp., Anemone app.,
Gladiolus spp., Frltillaria spp., Sternbergia, Lily (Lilium spp.), Grape
Hyacinth (Muscaria spp. ), Carnation (Dianthus spp.) and others. Many of
these bulbous species are harvested from wild populations and shipped to
foreign countries for resale. Some 60,000,000 bulbs are exported annually and
form a source of income for local villagers. Over harvesting and
nonsustainable production methods are a problem in many ares of the country.
The Turkish Society for the Protection of Nature (DHKD) is investigating
methods to sustainably propagate and/or harvest these important ornamental
resources. It is important that these species be included in the inventory of
potentially useful plants of Kazdai.
Ornamental Woody Species Originating in Turkey
9.        The Cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani) is widely planted around the
world as an attractive ornamental. Most of the various ornamental forms have
come from selections from the forests of Turkey. This species is also of
considerable value as a timber species. However over the last centuries this
species has been over harvested and destroyed over much of its natural range.
Today sparse damaged forests are still to be found at altitudes of 1400-1700m
between Maras and Antalya. However, remnants of the once great cedar forests
can also be found in the Ciglikara District of Antalya-Elmali, as well as on
the northern slopes between Afyon and Sultandag and Isparta Barla Mountain.
It should be noted that Turkey represents the most northern extension of this
species and as such its genetic composition represents a valuable and unique
resource. Because of its potential direct value to the forest ecosystems of
Turkey as well as its value to other nations it is essential that the



68
Attachment 6
Page 3 of 6
remaining populations be protected and restored. In order to accomplish this
task an ecosystem approach must be instituted since other valuable woody and
non-woody species are associated with this species. Both an u-situ and in-
situ program should be developed.
Medicinal Resources
A valuable source of secondary income for rural families are selected
plants of medicinal usage. Although most such plants are non-woody, it is
important that woody plants not be overlooked. The recent discovery of the
cancer cure by taxol, a chemical product found in the needles, bark and wood
of the yew strongly suggests that such trees as the European yew (Taxus
baccata) be protected. In Turkey, this species does not appear in pure
forests but scattered among other species. In Turkey this species essentially
reaches its most southern part of its natural range and as such represents a
unique genetic base. Somewhat less dramatic are 3 species of joint fir
(Ephedra) which are small woody bushes found in stony and rocky places in the
steppe regions and have been utilized for many years because of their unique
medicinal value as a vasopressor.
Existina Inventory Data for the Kazdadi Nature Reserve Area
Location    -  Aegean Region, West Turkey
Elevation   -  1375 m. 1424 m
Province    -  Balikesir
Area (ha)   -  240 - Nature Reserve
Land Owner  -  State
Main Characteristics - A unique ecosystem that possesses a fir species which
is endemic and whose race is exposed to danger. Rich plant species and rich
wildlife.
Main Tree SDecies -
Fir (Abies equi-trojani)
Pine (Pinus nigra)
Beech (Fagus orientalis
Oak (Quercus Sp.)
Main fauna -
Roe Deer (Capreoius Capreolus)
Wolf (Canis Lupus)
Jackal (Canis Bureas)
Wild Boar (Sus Sorafa)
Deer (Cervus Elaphus)
Main Flora -
Medical Plants
Lobaria pulmonaria (L) Hoffm.
Cladonia pyxidata (L) Fr.



69
Attachment 6
Page 4 of 6
Other Plant Species
Achillea millefolium L.
Agrostemma githago L.
Alnus sp.
Alyssum campestre L.
Alyssum erosulum Gennar et. Pestal
Alyssum smyraheum Meyer.
Alyssum unibellatum Desu.
Alyssum venustum Nyar
Amaranthus Sp.
Ammi visnaga (L.) Lam.
Anemone sp.
Aristolochia clematitis L.
Arthemisia op.
Arum italicum Mill. et Gard.
Asphodelus microcarpus salzm.
Asplenium nigrum L.
Asplenium trichomanes (L)
Astragalns op.
Athyrium filix-femina (L.) Roth.
Brassia nigra (L) Koch.
Calendula aruensis L.
Cannabis sativa L.
Capparis sicula Duh.
Capsella bursa-pastoris (L.) Mch.
Cephalanthera op.
Cercis siliquastrum L.
Cicer montbretii Saub. et Spach.
Cichorium intybus L.
Cistus Bp.
Colchicum autumnale L.
Conium maculatum L.
Centaurea depressa M.B.
Crataegus orientalis Poll.
Crocus sp.
Delphinium staphisagria L.
Dianthus erinaceus Boiss.
Digitalis ferruginea L.
Digitalis trojani
Dryopteris filix-mas (L.) Schoff
Ecbalium elaterium (L.) Rich.
Crocus gargoricus Herbert (Endemic)
Epipactis sp.
Erica arborea L.
Euphorbia sp.
Fagus up.
Fragaria vesca
Galium op.
Gentiana ascelepiadea L.
Geranium asphodeloides Burm
Hedera helix L.



70
Attachment 6
Page 5 of 6
Humulus lupulus L.
Hypericum olympicum (L.)
Hyporicum perfoliatum L.
Iris kernerinana Anchors et sint.
Jasminum fruticans L.
Lamium op.
Lathyrus op.
Laurus nobilic L.
Linum op.
Lonicera etrusca santi
Malus orientalis
Matricaria chamomilla L.
Medicago op.
Mentha op.
Muscaria op.
Nigella arvensis L.
Orchis anatolica
Orchis op.
Paeonia up.
Peganum harmala L.
Pistachio lentiscus L.
Pistachio terebinthuu L.
Polypodium vulgare (L)
Prunum spinooa L.
Pteridium aquilinum (L) Kohn
Ranunculus orientalis L.
Ranunculue sp.
Reseda lutea L.
Rhus coriaria L.
Rosa sicula Tratt
Rubus op.
Rumex acetossella L.
Ruecus aculeatus L.
Salvia sp.
Saponaria officianalis L.
Scilla sp.
Sedum album L.
Silene compacta Fisch.
Silene inflata L.
Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke
Sorbus torminalia L.
Styrax officinale L.
Tamarix pallesir Deru.
Tamus communis L.
Taraxacum op.
Teucrium Sp.
Thymus up.
Tilia officinarum Cr. anp. rubra
Tilia op.
Trifolium up.
Tulipa up.
Urtica dioica L.



71
Attachment 6
Page 6 of 6
Urtica pilulifera L.
Vaccinium myrtillus L.
Valeriana alliariaefolia Vahl.
Verbascum op.
Vicia cracca
Vicia narbonensis
Vicia Bp.
Viscum album L.
Vitex agnus castus L.
Kazdadi Forest Main Products
Juniperus oxycedrus (L.)
Cupressus sempervirens L.
Endemic                  Abies equi-trojani (Asch. et Sint.) Mattf
Pinus pallasiana lamb
P. pinea L.
Alnus glutinosa (L.) Gartn.
Corylus avellana L.
C. colurna L.
(Natural Monuments)      Fagus orientalis Lipsky
Castanea satiua Mill.
Quercus pedunculiflora K.. Koch.
Q. frainettoe Ten. ve Quercus Sp.
Juglans regia L.
Populus alba L.
P. tremula L.
Salix alba L.
Morus alba L.
Ulmus op.
Arbutus unedo L.
Fraxinus oxycarpa Willd.
Phillyrea media L.
Olea europaea L.
Atropa belladona L.
Muscari sp.
Viburnum op.
Main Problems - Overgrazing, clearing the forest land for agriculture,
collecting the plants for marketing.
Other Information - The ecological system contains a very rich flora, mixed
forests, rich wildlife, stable rivers. Mediterranean climate, summers are dry
and hot, winters are rainy and moderate. It snows high elevations, especially
in Winter. It has some historical places like Thebe, Lyrnessoc, Khrysa,
Killa, anderia, Antandros, Adremittion, Astrya, Gorgora, etc.



72
Attachment 7
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
GLOSSARY
Biodiversity             (Biological diversity) means the variability among
living organisms from all sources including
terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecosystems and
the ecological complexes of which they are part. This
includes diversity within species, between species and
of ecosystems.
Clone (Clonal)           Group of genetically identical plants produced by
vegetatively propagating a single plant over one or
more vegetative generations. Clones may become widely
dispersed through human dispersal and propagation.
Coppiced forest          A forest of trees grown from re-sprouts of the stumps
following harvesting or excessive grazing.
Ecogeographic            Involving both the entire ecological range and
geographic range of a species.
Ex-situ                  The off-site management of plants outside their
natural range; the conservation of plant seeds or
propagating parts in genetic resource collections.
Gene bank                A center or institution that manages genetic
resources, in particular, maintaining ex-situ or in-
situ collections.
Gene Management Zone    An area selected for the natural occurrence of genetic
resources found at the site and which is managed
specifically so as to maintain the natural diversity
of the species at the site.
Genepool                 The total of all species or populations, wild or
cultivated, that can potentially exchange genes with a
cultivated species.
Genetic Resources Genetic resources of actual or potential value to humanity.
Germplasm                Living reproductive material including seeds, pollen
and plants or their parts.



73
Attachment 7
Page 2 of 2
Germplasm collection    A collection of many different individuals,
populations, varieties, subspecies or species
representing a diverse collection of genetic material.
In-situ                  The management of organisms in their natural state or
within their natural range. For domesticated or
cultivated species, in the surroundings where they
have developed their distinctive properties.
Inventory                An inventory is a detailed assessment of what plant
species occur at the site, their abundance,
distribution and suggested management needs.
Landraces                A cultivated (domesticated) population that is
genetically heterogenous and over generations has
become adapted to the local environment and cultural
conditions under which it is grown.
Seed Orchard             A collection of selected trees planted or natural
which are managed for the purpose of producing seeds.
Survey                   Surveys are broader in scope and not as detailed as an
inventory. A survey consists of a field inventory of
the site (not collection oriented) to determine
suitable habitats where wild crop relatives are likely
to occur, notes on the presence or absence of priority
target species and notes on suitability of the site
for designation of a gene management zone.



74
Attchment 8f
Page 1 of 3
lTURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
Aniketer, Yehoshua, Imanuel Noy-Meir 1991. The Wild-Wheat Field Laboratory at
Ammiad. Israel Journal of Botany, Vol 40: 351-362.
Aslan, S. 1988. Importance of Juglans regia L. in the Adaptation of the
Broadleaved Species in the Central Part of Anatolia. Pages 99-108 in
International Conference on Walnuts. Ataturk Central Horticultural
Research Institute. Turkey.
Benz, B.F. (CIMMYT). 1988. "Ln-situ Conservation of the Genus Zea in the
Sierra de Manantlan Biosphere Reserve". Pages 59-69. Laboratorio Natural
Las Joyas, University of Guadalajara, Mexico.
Blockatein, D.E. 1991. "In Review: Economics and Biological Diversity and The
Value of Conserving Genetic Resources". Diversity, Vol. 7 no. 4.
Brubaker, H.W., D.B. Corzilius, A.R. Dumas, J.J. Meaney, J.A. O'neil, D.E. Onsi,
D Pimentel, U Stachow, and D.A. Takacs, "Conserving Biological Diversity
in Agricultural/Forestry Systems". BioScience Vol. 42 No. 5. Pages 354-
62.
Brush, S.B. 1991. "A Farmer-Based Approach to Conserving Crop Germplasm".
Economic Botany 45 pp. 153-165. The New York Botanical Garden, Bronx,
NY.
Davis, P.H., P.C. Harper and I.C. Hedge eds. 1971. "Plant Life of South-West
Asia".
Botanical Society of Edinburgh. 335 pages.
Debouk, D.G. 1991. "Ecogeographical Surveying and Sampling Techniques in
Protected Ares". IV World Congress on National Parks and Protected Areas
Caracas, Venezuela 2-92.
Elci, S. 1990. "Socio-economic Aspects of the Traditional Systems of Arid Land
Management in Turkey". FAO. Rome, Italy. 172 pages.
Falk, D.A. "Joining Biological and Economic Models for Conserving Plant Genetic
Diversity". Conservation Strategies for Genetic Diversity.
FAO/IBPGR, Plant Genetic Resources Newsletter, "Population dynamics research for
In-situ conservation: wild wheat in Israel".  75/76:9-11.



75
Attachment 8
Page 2 of 3
FAO. 1973-1990. "Forest Genetic Resources Information" NO. 1-17. FAO. Rome.
FAO. 1989. "Plant Genetic Resources". Food and Agriculture organization of
the United Nations", Rome.
FAO. 1991. "FAO Activities on jn-jjtU Conservation of Plant Genetic
Resources". Forest Genetic Resources. Info No. 19.
FAO.  1990.  "Requirements for the Establishment of a Global Network of in-situ
Conservation Areas for Plants and Animals". Forestry Department, Rome.
Food and Agriculture organization of the United Nations. 1989. "Plant Genetic
Resources: their conservation in-situ for human use." FAO Rome, Italy.
Forest Ecology and Management, 1990. "The role of the United Nations and other
major International Organizations in the Conservation of Plant Genetic
Resources". Elsevier Science Publishers B.V. 35 171-97.
General Directorate of Forestry. 1989. "The Turkish Forestry in the 150th Year
of its Establishment". Ankara, 1989. 126 pa4en.
Gbnulgen, N. and MacJ.t Ulubelde, 1988. Temperate Tree Fruit Germplasm in
Turkey. Pages 125-37 in International Conference on Walnuts. Ataturk
Central Horticultural Research Institute. Turkey.
Graudal, F. 1988. "Forest Genetic Resources: the work and program of FAO's
Forestry Department." In: Forest Genetic Resources. 16:21-26.
Hoyt, E. 1992. "Conserving the Wild Relatives of Crops". IBPGR/IUCN/WWF. 52P.
IBPGR.  1985.  "Ecogeographical Surveying and in-situ conservation of crop
relatives. IBPGR Secretariat. Rome. 27 pages.
Ingram, G.B., Hugh Syng-, Alix Flavelle, Workshop IV.6 Managing protected areas
to conserve genetic resources, "Global status report on in-situ
conservation of crops and wild relatives of crops".
Kence, A. et al., 1987. "Biological Diversity in Turkey". Environmental
Problems Foundation of Turkey. Ankara, Turkey, 235 pages.
Koopowitz, H. and H. Kays. 1984. "Plant Extinction: A Global Crisis".
Winchester Press, Piscataway, N.J. 239 pages.
Linden, E. 1991. "Will we run low on food?" time, Time, August 19 Issue:48- 50.
Lleras, E. 1991. "Conservation of Genetic Resources na-sjta". Diversity, Vol.
7, nos. 1&2.
Maxted, N., M.W. van Slager-n and J.R. Rihan. 1993. "Ecogeographic Surveys" in
Plant Genetic Resources Collecting Manual. IBPGR, in press.



76
Attachment 8
Page 3 of 3
Miller, K.R. and J.A. McNedy (editors) 1984. "The Role of Protected Areas in
Sustaining Society". National Parks, Conservation and Development.
Ministry of Forestry, 1991. "In-situ Conservation of Forest Genetic Resources
in Turkey: Project Proposal". General Directorate of Forestry, Ankara.
Noy-Mair, I., M. Agami, Y. Anikster. 1991. Chages in the Population Density of
Wild Emmer Wheat (Triticum turaidum var. dicoccoides) in a Mediterranean
Grassland. Israel Journal of Botany, Vol. 40: 385-395.
Ozer, A.S. 1990. "Plant Resources and Medicinal Plants of Turkey". Forest
Research Institute Publication. 36 (71):39-57.
Palmberg, C. 1987. "Conservation of Genetic Resources of Woody Species".
Forestry Department FAO, Rome.
Plant Genetic Resources.  1991.  "Plant Genetic Resources of Turkey".   Research
Institute, Turkey.
Prescott-Allen, C. and R. 1984. Park Your Genes: Protected Areas as in-situ
enebanks for the Maintenance of Wild Genetic Resources Pages 634-38 in
J.M. Mcnedy and K.R. Miller, ed., The Role of Protected Areas is
Sustaining Society, National Park, Conservation, and Development.
Smithsonian Institution Press.
Rhoades, R.E. 1991. "The world's food supply at risk". National Geographic.
179:74-105.
Shands, H.L. 1991, Complementarity of In Situ and Ex Situ Germplasm Conservation
from the Standpoint of the Future User. Israel Journal of Botany. Vol.
40:521-528.
Srivastava, J.P., and A.B. Damania (editors). "Wheat Genetic Resources:
Meeting Diverse Needs". John Wiley and Sons, New York, 391 pages.
Stein, B.A. 1991. "Rapid Ecological Assessment: The Big Picture Approach to
Conservation". The Nature Conservancy.
Tatli, A. 1988. "Important Range Plants of Erzurum Province". FAO, Aralik,
Turkey. 77 pages.
Wilcox, B.A. "In-situ Conservation of Genetic Resources: Determinants of
Minimum Area Requirements". New Directions in Protected Area Management,
National Parks, Conservation, and Development.
Williams, J.T. 1991. "Plant Genetic Resources: Some New Directions". Adv.
Agron. 45:61-91.
Williams, J.T. 1991. "The Time has Come to Clarify and Implement Strategies for
Plant Conservation". Viewpoints, Vol. 7 no. 4.



77
Attacbent 
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
A.       Summary Cost Tables
Table
1.       Project Cost Summary
2A/2B    Project Components by Year
3.       Summary Accounts Cost Summary
4A/4B    Summary Accounts by Year
5.       Summary Account by Project Component
6.       Estimated Disbursement Schedule
7.       Price Contingency Assumptions
B.       Detailed Cost Tables
Table
101      Eco-System, Community and Species Inventory/Survey (MARA)
102      Eco-System, Community and Species Inventory/Survey (MOF)
103      Germplasm Management (MARA)
104      Germplasm Management (MOF)
201      Designation of Gene Management Zones (MARA)
202      Designation of Gene Management Zones (MOF)
301      National Plan for In-Situ Conservation of Wild Crop Relatives (MOE)
401      Institutional Strengthening (MARA)
402      Institutional Strengthening (MOF)
403      Institutional Strengthening (MOE)
404      Institutional Strengthening Training (MARA, MOF, MOE)
405      International Symposium (MARA)
501      Data Management (MARA)
502      Data Management (MOP)
503      Data Management (MOE)



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Project Cost Summary
TLOOO                                US$000                             X Total
--   ---------------------------    ---------------------------    X Foreign         Base
Local     Foreign        Total        Local  Foreign    Total         Exchange        Costs
A . Inventory/Survey
1. Inventory and Survey           3927954.1  12411952.9  16339907.0         446.8   1410.6   1857.4              76.0         38.2
2. Germptasm Management           2325383.8   2493207.9   4818591.7          264.5    283.3    547.7             51.7         11.3
Sub-Total                             6253337.9  14905160.8  21158498.7          711.3   1693.8   2405.1             70.4         49.4
B . Designation of Gmz               1512822.1          0.0   1512822.1         172.0       0.0    172.0             0.0          3.5
C . Nat. Plan for in Situ Con        2085988.6   2207779.0   4293767.6          237.6    250.5    488.1             51.4         10.0
D . Institutional Strenghth.         1952360.3   7124277.3   9076637.7          222.3    809.4   1031.8             78.5         21.2
E . Data Management                  1982377.0   4775598.0   6757974.9          225.6    542.6    768.2             70.7         15.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                 13786885.9  29012815.1  42799701.0         1568.8   3296.3   4865.2             67.8        100.0
PhysicaL Contingencies             1378688.6   2901281.5   4279970.1          156.7    329.8    486.5             67.8         10.0
Price Contingencies               20420368.6  30163560.7  50583929.3          120.2    200.7    320.8             62.5          6.6
TotaL PROJECTS COSTS                 35585943.0  62077657.4  97663600.4         1845.7   3826.8   5672.5             67.5        116.6
3X==s=z===f    =23=uzasrflr=s              ==S=S=SU=Z2SS=S===   ===S=SS==S====
VaLues Scaled by 1000.0   12/14/1992  14:57
X P  rt
b    0
00 
rt4
N)



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                       Totals Including Contingenrcies
TLOOO                                                USSCOf0
1993        1994        1995       Total           1993        1994        1995       Total
A. Inventory/Survey
1. Inventory and Survey         24680077.5   400427.7  5199357.7  33883862.9            1751.9       196.6       202.8      2151.4
2. Germplasm Management          6672949.8   1437466.5  2353857.9  10464274.3            473.7        70.6        91.8       636.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__............. ..... ...............................    ........................................ ..........
Sub-Total                           31353027.3  5441894.2  7553215.6 44348137.1             2225.6       267.2       294.6       2787.4
B. Designation of Gmi                     0.0          0.0   5410867.4   5410867.4            0.0         0.0       211.1        211.1
C. Nat. Plan for in Situ Con              0.0   7716874.1   5226474.0  12943348.1             0.0       379.0       203.9        582.8
D. Institutional Strenghth.         8355008.5  10330186.5   2652594.1  21337789.1           593.1       507.3        103.5      1203.8
E. Data Management                 10639461.3   1556232.7   1427764.6  13623458.7           755.2        76.4        55.7        887.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS                50347497.1  25045187.5  22270915.8  97663600.4          3573.9      1229.9       868.7       5672.5
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/14/1992 14:57
>
r 7q rt
f    n
D .O in
rt
3 %o



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
TLOOO
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                           Totat
1993        1994         1995     TLOOO      USS000
A. Inventory/Survey
1. Inventory and Survey          13412838.8   1463611.1   1463457.1  16339907.0        1857.4
2. Germplasm Management           3634340.7    525441.9    658809.1   4818591.7         547.7
Sib-total                           17047179.5   1989053.0   2122266.2  21158498.7        2405.1
B. Designation of Gmz                     0.0          0.0   1512822.1   1512822.1        172.0
C. Nat. PLan for in Situ Con              0.0   2820487.2   1473280.4   4293767.6         488.1
D. InstitutionaL Strenghth.         4554106.8   3775137.1    747393.7   9076637.7        1031.8
E. Data Management                  5787828.5    568806.1    401340.3   6757974.9         768.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                27389114.8   9153483.5   6257102.7  42799701.0        4865.2
Physical Contingencies            2738911.5    915348.4    625710.3   4279970.1         486.5
Price Contingencies              20219470.8  14976355.7  15388102.8  50583929.3         320.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 50347497.1  25045187.5  22270915.8  97663600.4        5672.5
Taxes                             5331004.8   1015871.3   2058973.5   8405849.6         508.6
Foreign Exchange                 38774102.0  16376088.3   6927467.1  62077657.4        3826.8
----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ---- - - ---------------------------------                                                    co
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/14/1992  14:57                                                                                                                     0
9) 0 rt
a a rt
W    ro
ol   m
009
rt rt



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Sumtary Accounts Cost Summary
TLOOO                               USS000                            % Total
------------------------------------    ---------------------------       X Foreign         Base
Local     Foreign        Total       Local  Foreign    Total        Exchange        Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Work                      3043580.7    161151.8   3204732.4         346.1      18.2    364.3             5.0         7.5
B. Equipment & Materials           3151699.1  12343535.0  15495234.1         358.5   1402.9   1761.4             79.7        36.2
C. Vehicles                         834754.9   5843284.3   6678039.2          94.9    664.2    759.1            87.5         15.6
D. Training & Tech. Assist.        3802344.8   8912408.3  12714753.0         433.1   1012.2   1445.3             70.1        29.7
E. Transport & Accommodation        813433.9    736284.5   1549718.4          92.6     83.5    176.2            47.5          3.6
F. Labor                            800905.8          0.0    800905.8         91.0      0.0      91.0            0.0          1.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            12446719.1  27996663.8  40443382.9        1416.3   3181.0   4597.3            69.2         94.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicles Maintenance             867898.3    290968.4   1158866.7          98.8     32.9    131.7             25.1         2.7
B. Labratories Maintenance          223051.6    671465.6    894517.2          25.4     76.3    101.7            75.1          2.1
C. Supplies                          53439.9      53717.3    107157.2          6.1      6.1      12.2           50.1          0.3
D. Report Expenses                   1957f7.0         0.0    195777.0         22.3       0.0     22.3             0.0         0.5
------------.---- -----------------   ---------------------------. .........  ................................... ..
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1340166.8   1016151.3   2356318.1         152.6    115.3    267.8            43.1          5.5
Total BASELINE COSTS              13786885.9  29012815.1  42799701.0        1568.8   3296.3   4865.2            67.8        100.0                               co
Physical Contingencies          1378688.6   2901281.5   4279970.1         156.7    329.8    486.5            67.8         10.0
Price Contingencies            20420368.6  30163560.7  50583929.3         120.2    200.7    320.8            62.5          6.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS              35585943.0  62077657.4  97663600.4        1845.7   3826.8   5672.5            67.5        116.6
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   12/14/1992  14:57
oa go rt
a, IQ rt
n    0
w    X
o X
rt



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Sutmary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                         TotaLs Including Contingencies
TLOOO                                                  USSOOO
. ............ .......................................... .............. ..............................  --------------------------
1993        1994         1995       Totat            1993         1994         1995       Totat
3332  CUE  223333333333z-asssssXaaSsrs= ................... ........... 23533ar-----r3 --u-=3=z=sa5S3Wz=s
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
.... ._.. .._. ..
A. Civit Work                        1464121.8    97370.6   7320585.3   9758M.6                104.0         47.8       285.5        437.3
B. Equipment   1 Materials          26212012.1   1874438.4   1995398.2  30081SU8.8            1860.7         92.0        77.8       2030.5
C. Vehictes                         12293534.4          0.0          0.0  12293534.4           872.7          0.0         0.0        872.7
D. Training S Tech. Assist.          8288632.2  18052273.7   5667191.2  32008097.1             588.4        886.5       221.1       1695.9
E. Trwaport   A ccommodation          621520.6    97210.9   3035741.8   4629366.2               44.1         47.7       '18.4        210.3
F. Labor                              486274.8    730327.9    954859.0   2171461.6              34.5        35.9         37.2        107.6
........... ........................_,________.................................................    .................................................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              49366395.9  22602914.5  18973M.5  90943085.9              3504.3       1110.0       740.1       5354.3
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehictle  Naintenance                717n2s   1219417.3   1746255.1   3372845.0              28.9         59.9        68.1        156.9
B. Labratories Maintenance            411059.6    979060.5   1105755.5   2495875.6              29.2         48.1        43.1        120.4
C. SuppLes                             81823.2      97729.7     95014.7    274567.6              5.8          4.8         3.7         14.3
P. Report Expenses                     81045.8    146065.6    350114.9    577226.3               5.8          7.2         13.7        26.6
.... .......... ...........................................................................  -------- -------------- ------- ------- -------
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                 981101.2   2442273.1   3297140.3   6720514.5              69.6        119.9       128.6        318.2                          0
Total PROJECT COSTS                 50347497.1  25045187.5  22270915.8  97663600.4            3573.9       1229.9       868.7       5672.5
.,
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/14/1992 14:57
>
c X rt
(7*3Q rt
0 C)
m    n
-1'
Ft



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
TLOO0
Sumuwry Accounts by Year
Base Costs                           Foreign Exchange
1993       1994        1995       Total           X     Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
..................
A. Civil Work                     802015.0   355958.1  2046759.3  3204732.4              5.0   161151.8
B. Equlpment & Materials         14247579.3   685097.2   562557.5  15495234.1           79.7  12343535.0
C. Vehicles                      6678039.2         0.0         0.0  6678039.2           87.5  5843284.3
D. Training 4 Tech. Assist.      4519616.2  6597524.5  1597612.3  12714753.0            70.1  8912408.3
E. Transport * Accommodation      339264.5   355297.5   855156.4  1549718.4             47.5   736284.5
F. Labor                          266968.6   266968.6   266968.6   800905.8             0.0         0.0
........ ....... ........ ....... ........ ...  ..  ................. . . .
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          26853482.9  8260845.9  5329054.1  40443382.9            69.2  27996663.8
II. REOCERENT COSTS
...............
G. Vehicles Maintenance           222859.0   445718.0   490289.8  1158866.7             25.1   290968.4
H. Labratories Maintenance        223629.3   357806.9   313081.0   894517.2             75.1   67145.6
1. Supplfes                        44648.8    35719.1    26789.3   107157.2            50.1    53717.3
J. Report Expenses                 44494.8    53393.7    97888.5   195177.0             0.0         0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS             535631.9   892637.6   928048.6  2356318.1             43.1  1016151.3                                            00
Total BASELINE COSTS            27389114.8  9153483.5  6257102.7  42799701.0            67.8  29012815.1
Physical Contingencies        2738911.5   915348.4   625710.3  4279970.1             67.8  2901281.5
Price Contingencies          20219470.8  14976355.7  15388102.8  50583929.3          59.6  30163560.7
Total PROJECT COSTS             50347497.1 25045187.5  22270915.8  97663600.4          63.6 62077657.4
Taxes                         5331004.8  1015871.3  2058973.5  8405849.6              0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange             38774102.0  16376088.3  6927467.1  62077657.4          100.0 62077657.4
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/14/1992 14:57
P)P rt
3 r D
V' lq rt
M    0
cz1   5
rt
SI xD



Turkey
In Situ Conservatfon of Genetic Diversity
Susmary Account by Project Component
TLOOO
Physical                Price
Designatlo   Nat. Plan  Institutio                                            Contingencies            Contingencies
Inventory   Germplasm        n of         for in         nal          Data                       .........................................
and Survey  Management          Gmz       Situ Con   Strenghth.  Management            Total            X        Amount          X      Amount
333  3s=======2st============s====s========ss=====3===33===3*5==-==-=3=33==23332             ===23===  ======
l. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Work                                  0.0   1691910.4   1512822.1              0.0          0.0           0.0   3204732.4           10.0    320473.2        194.5   6233571.9
B. Equlpment & Materials                5869952.7   3126681.3             0.0    142974.9    615089.0   5740536.3  15495234.1                10.0   1549523.4         84.1  13037091.3
C. Vehicles                             6678039.2           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0   6678039.2           10.0    667803.9         74.1   4947691.4
D. Training & Tech. Assist.                    0.0          0.0           0.0   4150792.8   7849455.7    714504.5  12714753.0                10.0   1271475.3        141.7  18021868.8
E. Transport & Accommodation             937625.4           0.0           0.0          0.0    612092.9             0.0   1549718.4           10.0    154971.8        188.7   2924676.1
F. Labor                                 800905.8           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0    800905.8           10.0      80090.6       161.1   1290465.3
,....................................................................................... ................................................... ................................................................ .......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 14286523.0   4818591.7   1512822.1   4293767.6   9076637.7   6455040.8  40443382.9                    10.0   4044338.3        114.9  46455364.7
II. RECQERENT COSTS
A. Vehicles Maintenance                 1158866.7           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0   1158866.7           10.0    115886.7        181.0   2098091.5
B. Labratories Maintenance               894517.2           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0    894517.2           10.0      89451.7       169.0   1511906.7
C. Supplies                                   0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0    107157.2    107157.2             10.0      10715.7       146.2    156694.7
D. Report Expenses                             0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0    195777.0    195777.0             10.0      19577.7       184.8    361871.7    oD
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   2053384.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0    302934.2   2356318.1             10.0    235631.8        175.2   4128564.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                   16339907.0   4818591.7   1512822.1   4293767.6   9076637.7   6757974.9  42799701.0                    10.0   4279970.1        118.2  50583929.3
Physical Contingencies                1633990.7    481859.2       151282.2    429376.8    907663.8    675797.5   4279970.1
Price Contingencies                 15909965.2   5163823.4   3746763.1   8220203.7  11353487.7   6189686.2  50583929.3                      9.1   4598539.0
, ............  -----------------------------     --------------------------------------------       -------------------------------------------
Total PROJECT COSTS                   33883862.9  10464274.3   5410867.4  12943348.1  21337789.1  13623458.7  97663600.4                      9.1   8878509.1         51.8  50583929.3
----------  ---                                   ......===2=3 5-3===323===23-3==            3323=3
Taxes                                4702347.1    1308034.3    676358.4          57887.7    168725.3   1492496.8   8405849.6                9.1     764168.1
Foreign Exchange                    24378575.8   4712321.4              0.0   6683365.7  17072422.7   9230971.7  62077657.4                 9.1   5643423.4
,................ ................................. ..................................... ............................................................................... .............................................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
>
W  rt
H  p
tI 
O (D



85
Attachment 9
Page 8 of 24
Table 6
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (US$ MILLIONS)
IN-SITU GENE CONSERVATION PROJECT
IBRD        Cumulative   % of Loan
IBRD FY &  Quarter  Disbursements  Disbursements Disbursed
FY93            -4             0.2             0.2        4%
FY94            -1             0.8             1.0       19%
-2            0.8             1.8       35%
-3             0.8            2.5       50%
-4            0.8             3.3       65%
FY95            -1             0.3             3.6       70%
-2             0.3            3.8       75%
-3             0.3            4.1       80%
-4             0.3            4.3       85%
FY96            -1             0.2             4.5       88%
-2             0.2            4.6       91%
-3             0.2            4.8       94%
-4            0.1             4.9       96%
FY97            -1             0.1             5.0       98%
-2            0.1             5.1      100%



86
Attachment 9
Page 9 of 24
Table 7
TURIEX
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
Price Contindencv AssumDtiong
1993      J994      ,1995      1996
Local inflation                66%       41%        24%       18%
International inflation        3.8%      1.9%       2.7%      3.4%



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 101. Eco System, Community and Species Inventory/Survey
Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Affairs (MARA)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity             Unit Cost                       Base Costs                           Base Costs In USS00
Uszz*UUUUuu-UU*U*UUUuuuuUz  UUUSUUUUUU UaWUmU=sCfUfsSfl*UuuuuuuflU*flflflfs    UfltUfZ== SZ==SSflSSSUZUCSu
1993  1994  1995 Total       1993-95           1993        1994       1995       Total        1993    1994    1995   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
....... .......... _
A. Fletd EQuipment
GPS Receiver                    4     0     0      4        30216       120863.8         0.0        0.0   120863.8         13.7     0.0      0.0    13.7
PN Meters                       3     0     0      3        40288       120863.8         0.0         0.0   120863.8        13.7     0.0      0.0    13.7
Altimeters                      6     0     0      6        40288       241727.6         0.0         0.0   241727.6        27.5     0.0      0.0    27.5
Soil L Sieve sets               3     0     0      3        10072        30216.0         0.0        0.0    30216.0          3.4     0.0      0.0     3.4
ClInometers                     3     0     0      3        10072        30216.0         0.0        0.0    30216.0          3.4     0.0      0.0     3.4
Compass                        10     0     0    10           1007       10072.0         0.0        0.0    10072.0          1.1     0.0      0.0     1.1
Altimeters/PH meters Hisc         -     -         -             -        50404.7    10072.0    10072.0    70548.7           5.7     1.1      1.1     8.0
Sib-Total                                                                604363.8    10072.0    10072.0   624507.8          68.7     1.1      1.1    71.0
B. Laboratory Equipment
Electrophoresis                 1     0     0      1      2042419      2042419.4         0.0        0.0  2042419.4        232.2     0.0      0.0   232.2
Thermmeters                     5     0     0      5         2014        10072.0         0.0         0.0    10072.0         1.1     0.0      0.0     1.1
Supplies for Electrophor.    -         -          -                      50404.7    20144.0    20144.0    90692.6           5.7     2.3      2.3    10.3
Growth Chamber                  4     0     0      4       201440       805758.8         0.0         0.0   805758.8        91.6     0.0      0.0    91.6
Drying Oven                     1     0      0     1        60432        60431.9         0.0         0.0    60431.9         6.9     0.0      0.0     6.9
Incubator                       1     0     0      1        80576        80575.9         0.0        0.0    80575.9          9.2     0.0      0.0     9.2
Ultra Centrafuge                1     0      0     1        100720      100719.8         0.0         0.0   100719.8        11.4     0.0      0.0    11.4
Stereo Microscopes/Camera       6     0     0      6        80576       483455.3         0.0         0.0   483455.3        55.0     0.0      0.0    55.0              00
Coffpound Hicroscop/Camera      1     0     0      1       120864       120863.8         0.0         0.0   120863.8        13.7     0.0      0.0    13.7
Balances                        3     0     0      3         10072       30216.0         0.0         0.0    30216.0         3.4     0.0      0.0     3.4
Hiscellaneous                   1     0     0      1        100720      100719.8         0.0         0.0   100719.8        11.4     0.0      0.0    11.4
-- - - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - - - - .........   ..    .......    .......     .. . .
Sub-Total                                                               3885637.4    20144.0    20144.0  3925925.3         441.7     2.3      2.3   446.3
C. Vehicles
4WD Jeeps                       4     0     0      4       251844      1007377.5         0.0         0.0  1007377.5       114.5     0.0      0.0   114.5
Land Cruiser Pick-ups           2     0     0      2       302160       604319.1         0.0         0.0   604319.1        68.7     0.0      0.0    68.7
Pickup Trucks                   1     0     0      1       201440       201439.7         0.0         0.0   201439.7        22.9     0.0      0.0    22.9
Minibus                         1     0      0     1       402879       402879.4         0.0         0.0   402879.4        45.8     0.0      0.0    45.8
Mobil Lab                       1     0      0     1       503599       503599.2         0.0         0.0   503599.2        57.2     0.0      0.0    57.2
Motorbikes                      4     0      0     4         20144       80575.9         0.0         0.0    80575.9         9.2     0.0      0.0     9.2
Sub-Total                                                               2800190.8         0.0         0.0  2800190.8       318.3     0.0      0.0   318.3
D. Transport. Housing, Fuel         -        -         -                      178595.3   178595.3   178595.3   535786.0         20.3    20.3    20.3    60.9
E. Field Labor                      -      -     -     -             -        177979.1   177979.1   1779.1   533937.2           20.2    20.2    20.2    60.7           14 >>
--- --   -- -- -    - -- --   -- ---IO rt
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                          7646766.4   386790.3   386790.3  8420347.1        869.2    44.0    44.0   957.2           OQ  -t
03
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                            -'
A. Labratory Supplies               -      -     -     *             -         89451.7   134177.6   134177.6   357806.9         10.2    15.3    15.3    40.7           a  i
B. vehicles & Maintenance           -      -     -     -             -        89143.6   222859.0   222859.0   534861.6          10.1    25.3    25.3    60.8           " n
..... ....... .. . .. . .. .-------- --------- -------  -------               "--- -1---%0v
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                            178595.3   357036.6   357036.6   892668.5         20.3    40.6    40.6   101.5          4t;
Total                                                                       7825361.7   743826.9   743826.9  9313015.5         889.5    84.6    84.6  1058.6
auxUU     ESw ... US*UU....inUUf=SflUflsflUUUUflU23*Sn fl =====a=unuu=----------uu- -a----u
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:56



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 102. Eco System, Community and Species Inventory/Survey
Ministry of Forestry (MOF)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity            Unit Cost                      Base Costs                         Base Costs in US$000
1993  1994  1995 Total     1993-95           1993       1994       1995       Totat      1993   1994   1995  Total
-- - - - - -- - - - - - ...........   -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - -  - -- - - - -    --------- -------- --------
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Field Equipment
GPS Receiver                   3     0     0     3       30216        90647.9        0.0        0.0    90647.9       10.3    0.0    0.0   10.3
Altimeters/PH meters Misc           -     -     -            -        40287.9    10072.0    10072.0    60431.9        4.6    1.1    1.1   6.9
Sub-Total                                                             130935.8    10072.0    10072.0   151079.8       14.9    1.1    1.1   17.2
B. Labratory Equipment
Electrophoresis                2     0     0     2      251844       503688.8        0.0        0.0   503688.8       57.3    0.0    0.0   57.3
Supplies for Electrophor.        -     -     -               -       100719.8   40287.9    40287.9   181295.7        11.4    4.6    4.6   20.6
PH Meter & Balances            3     0     0     3       40288       120863.8        0.0        0.0   120863.8       13.7   0.0    0.0   13.7
Incubators                    3      0     0     3       80576       241727.6        0.0        0.0   241727.6       27.5    0.0    0.0   27.5
Gel Reader                     1     0     0     1       40288        40287.9        0.0        0.0    40287.9        4.6    0.0    0.0    4.6
Microscopes                    1     0     0     1        80576       80575.9        0.0        0.0    80575.9        9.2    0.0    0.0    9.2
Sub-Totat                                                            1087863.9    40287.9    40287.9  1168439.7      123.7   4.6    4.6  132.8
C. Vehicles
4WD Jeeps                      3     0     0     3      251844       755533.1        0.0        0.0   755533.1       85.9    0.0    0.0   85.9                    oo
Land Cruiser Pick-ups          4     0     0     4      302160      1208638.2        0.0        0.0  1208638.2      137.4    0.0    0.0  137.4
Minibus                        2     0     0     2      402879       805758.8        0.0         0.0   805758.8      91.6    0.0    0.0   91.6
Pickup Trucks                  3     0     0     3      201440       604319.1        0.0        0.0   604319.1       68.7    0.0    0.0   68.7
Mobile Lab                     1    0      0     1      503599       503599.2        0.0         0.0   503599.2      57.2    0.0    0.0   57.2
Sub-Total                                                            3877848.4        0.0        0.0  3877848.4      440.8    0.0    0.0  440.8
D. Transport. Housing, Fuel        -     -     -      -           -       133946.5   133946.5   133946.5   401839.5       15.2   15.2   15.2   45.7
E. Field Labor                     -     -     -     -            -        88989.5    88989.5    88989.5   266968.6       10.1   10.1   10.1   30.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      5319584.1   273295.9   273295.9  5866176.0      604.7  31.1   31.1  666.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Labratory Supplies              -     -     -     -            -       134177.6   223629.3   178903.4   536710.3       15.3   25.4   20.3   61.0
B. Vehicles & Maintenance                -     -      -           -       133715.4  222859.0   267430.8   624005.2        15.2   25.3   30.4   70.9
.____._.     ------       -------------         ......    ......,__, ..... ._ ......, ,,  ,,__   , >r
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                        267893.0   446488.3   446334.2  1160715.5       30.5   50.8   50.7  131.9             ov e
Total                                                                    5587477.1   719784.2   719630.2  7026891.5      635.1   81.8   81.8  798.8                 n
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:56                                                                                           O  P
-h rt



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
TabLe 103. Germplasm Management (MARA)
Detaited Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity            Unit Cost                     Base Costs                         Base Costs in USS000
1993  1994  1995 Total     1993-95          1993       1994       1995      Total       1993   1994   1995  TotaL
.--- ---- ---- ---- ----   ---- ----   ---- ----  ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----    --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Seed Blower                    2     0     0      2      100720      201439.7        0.0        0.0   201439.7       22.9    0.0    0.0   22.9
B. Moisture Meter                 2     0     0      2       50360      100719.8        0.0        0.0   100719.8       11.4    0.0    0.0   11.4
C. Multispec Grain Analyser       1    0      0      1      302160      302159.5        0.0        0.0   302159.5      34.3    0.0    0.0   34.3
D. Storage Rack System            3     0      0     3      100720      302159.5        0.0        0.0   302159.5       34.3    0.0    0.0   34.3
E. Storage Supplies              -     -      -     -           -        26789.3    35719.1    26789.3    89297.7       3.0    4.1    3.0   10.2
F. Compresor                      2     0     0     2        53394      106787.4        0.0        0.0   106787.4       12.1    0.0    0.0   12.1
G. Refregerator                   1    0      0      1      100720      100719.8        0.0        0.0   100719.8       11.4    0.0    0.0   11.4
H. Herbarium Cabinets            10     0     0    10        30261      302607.2        0.0        0.0   302607.2      34.4    0.0    0.0   34.4
I. Vegetative Pt. Propagat.      -     -     -      -           -        62400.5    62400.5    62400.5   187201.6       7.1    7.1    7.1   21.3
J. Greenhouse Expansion           1    0      0      1      267338      267338.3        0.0        0.0   267338.3      30.4    0.0    0.0  30.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    17m7121.3    98119.6    89189.8  1960430.6      201.6   11.2   10.1  222.8
Total                                                                  17m7121.3    98119.6    89189.8  1960430.6      201.6   11.2   10.1  222.8
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:56                                                                                                00
A) rt
!r,t
n
H. rr
s\ '.0



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 104. Germplasm Management (MOF)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity             Unit Cost                       Base Costs                           Base Costs in USS000
1993  1994  1995 Total       1993-95           1993        1994       1995       TotaL       1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Fencing                             -     -      -               -             0.0   355958.1   533937.2   889895.3          0.0   40.5   60.7  101.2
B. Greenhouse Expansion             2      0     0      2      267338       534676.7         0.0         0.0   534676.7       60.8    0.0    0.0   60.8
C. Low Temrp. Refrigerator          2      0     0      2      100720       201439.7         0.0         0.0   201439.7       22.9    0.0    0.0   22.9
D. Storage Supplies                -      -     -      -            -        53578.6    35719.1    17859.5   107157.2          6.1    4.1    2.0   12.2
E. Material for Greenhouse         -      -     -      -            -       124757.9    35645.1    17822.6   178225.6          14.2    4.1    2.0   20.3
F. Seed Blower                      1      0     0      1      100720       100719.8         0.0         0.0   100719.8       11.4    0.0    0.0   11.4
G. Moisture Meter                    1     0     0      1       50360        50359.9         0.0         0.0    50359.9         5.7    0.0    0.0    5.7
H. MuLtispec Grain Analyser          1     0     0      1      302160       302159.5         0.0         0.0   302159.5       34.3    0.0    0.0   34.3
I. Compressor                       1      0     0      1       60432        60431.9         0.0         0.0    60431.9        6.9    0.0    0.0    6.9
J. Storage Rack System              1      0     0      1      100720       100719.8         0.0         0.0   100719.8        11.4    0.0    0.0   11.4
K. Herbariun Cabinets               4      0     0      4       30216       120863.8         0.0         0.0   120863.8        13.7    0.0    0.0   13.7
L. Seed Propagat. Apparatus         1      0     0      1      211512       211511.7         0.0         0.0   211511.7       24.0    0.0    0.0   24.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                         1861219.4   427322.3   569619.3  2858161.0        211.6   48.6   64.8  324.9
TotaL                                                                      1861219.4   427322.3   569619.3  2858161.0        211.6   48.6   64.8  324.9
CO
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - VaLues scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:56
X rt
IQ rt
m 5
r D
:J



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 201. Designation of Gene Management Zones (MARA)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Ouantity      Unit Cost                    Base Costs                     Base Costs in USSOOO
==2=z==zz==-   ====x=255=========                                 =-        ===     ===========M
93-95 Total     1993-95          1993      1994      1995     Total      1993  1994  1995 Total
l. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Survey & Bounderies          -     -           -            0.0       0.0 311463.4  311463.4        0.0   0.0  35.4  35.4
B. Fencing                                                     0.0       0.0  444947.7 444947.7        0.0   0.0  50.6  50.6
,........... .. .......   .......... ....... ..  ...............  ...... ..... ..
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            0.0       0.0  756411.0  756411.0       0.0   0.0  86.0  86.0
.. aua =  ------,--  ---------  --------5   55333   3233. 3233s    5s5=-
Total                                                          0.0       0.0  756411.0  756411.0       0.0   0.0  86.0  86.0
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  1456
'.0
P rt
JQ rt
X P3
m
H0 



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 202. Designation of Gene Management Zones (MOF)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity      Unit Cost                     Base Costs                     Base Costs in US$000
93-95 Total     1993-95          1993       1994      1995     Total      1993  1994  1995 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Survey & Bounderies          -      -           -            0.0       0.0  311463.4  311463.4       0.0   0.0  35.4  35.4
B. Fencing                      -      -           -            0.0       0.0  444947.7  444947.7       0.0   0.0  50.6  50.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                             0.0       0.0  756411.0  756411.0       0.0   0.0 86.0  86.0
=====  ========= ======.== =========   Z====U ===== ===== =m====
Total                                                          0.0        0.0  756411.0  756411.0       0.0   0.0  86.0  86.0
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:56
Yq rt
X ,
Iq rr
XZ-



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 301. National Plan for In Situ Conservation of Wild Crop ReLative
Ministry of Envirornent
Detailed Cost Table
TL000
Quantity                 Unit Cost                           Base Costs                          Base Costs in USSOOO
Unit   1993  1994  1995 Total       1993-94      1995           1993        1994        1995      Total       1993   1994   1995  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Tech. Assistance Foreign
Conservation Biologist   manmonth        0     4     2      6       134131   134131            0.0   536525.5   268262.7   804788.2           0.0   61.0   30.5   91.5
Cons. Management Special.manmonth        0     3     2      5       134131   134131            0.0   402394.1   268262.7   670656.8           0.0   45.7   30.5   76.2
Landrace Specialist       marnonth       0     3     2      5       134131   134131            0.0   402394.1   268262.7   670656.8           0.0   45.7   30.5   76.2
Sub-Total                                                                                       0.0  1341313.6   804788.2  2146101.8           0.0  152.5   91.5  244.0
B. Tech. Assistance (Local)
Soclo-economist           manmonth       0     3     2      5        44549    44549            0.0   133646.1    89097.4   222743.4           0.0   15.2   10.1   25.3
Botanist                  marvonth       0     4      1     5        44549    44549            0.0   178194.8    44548.7   222743.4           0.0   20.3    5.1   25.3
Forester                  marnonth       0     4     1      5       44549    44549             0.0   178194.8    44548.7   222743.4           0.0   20.3    5.1   25.3
Agriculturist             marnonth       0     4      1     5        44549    44549            0.0   178194.8    44548.7   222743.4           0.0   20.3    5.1   25.3
Anthropologist/Sociolog. manmonth        0     4      1     5        44549    44549             0.0   178194.8    44548.7   222743.4          0.0   20.3    5.1   25.3
Resource Economist        marnonth       0     4      1     5        44549    44549            0.0   178194.8    44548.7   222743.4           0.0   20.3    5.1   25.3
Legal/Institution Spec.  marnonth        0     3     2      5        44549    44549            0.0   133646.1    89097.4   222743.4           0.0   15.2   10.1   25.3
Exten./Puplic Awarness Spmanmonth        0     3     2      5        44549    44549            0.0   133646.1    89097.4   222743.4           0.0   15.2   10.1   25.3 u
Protected Area Mang. Exp.manmonth        0     3     2      5        44549    44549            0.0   133646.1    89097.4   222743.4           0.0   15.2   10.1   25.3 w
Sub-Total                                                                                        0.0  1425558.0   579132.9  2004691.0          0.0  162.0   65.8  227.9
C. Report Production Costs
Production                              -     -      -     -            -                       0.0    17871.9    53615.6    71487.4          0.0    2.0    6.1    8.1
Translation                             -     .      -     -            -                       0.0    35743.7    35743.7    71487.4          0.0    4.1    4.1    8.1
Sub-Total                                                                                        0.0    53615.6    89359.3   142974.9          0.0    6.1   10.2   16.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                  0.0  2820487.2  1473280.4  4293767.6          0.0  320.6  167.5  488.1
2=2=22=2= 22=          2=MZM--=U2 ----=2=f  m=2=2=  2=====
Total                                                                                                0.0  2820487.2  1473280.4  4293767.6          0.0  320.6  167.5  488.1
===r 2====    ======23=s2========  =22=  2       ==============2=========2=========2=S===2====22=======.                                           ===222====== -===
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
Q) rt
OQ rt
n
m 0)
(D
0 0
Hh rt



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 401. Institutional Strenghtening (MARA)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity             Unit Cost                    Base Costs                      Base Costs in US$000
Unit   1993  1994  1995 Total       1993-95          1993      1994       1995     Total      1993  1994  1995 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Scientif. Advisory Commit
Local Staff               manday    20    30    30    80           267        5346.8    8020.2    8020.2   21387.1        0.6   0.9   0.9   2.4
Foreign Advisors          manday    24    24    24    72          2683       64383.1   64383.1   64383.1  193149.2        7.3   7.3   7.3  22.0
Local Advisors            manday    24    24    24    72           267        6407.2    6407.2    6407.2   19221.7        0.7   0.7   0.7   2.2
Sub-Total                                                                     76137.1   78810.5   78810.5  233758.0        8.7   9.0   9.0  26.6
B. Project Implem. Committee  manday    30    50    50   130             267       8020.2   13366.9   13366.9   34754.0        0.9   1.5   1.5   4.0
C. Extension
Cameras                               2     0     0      2       13429       26858.6       0.0        0.0   26858.6       3.1   0.0   0.0   3.1
Videos                                3     0     0      3       26859       80575.9       0.0        0.0   80575.9       9.2   0.0   0.0   9.2
Slide Projector                       3     0     0      3        8953       26858.6       0.0        0.0   26858.6       3.1   0.0   0.0   3.1
Sub-Total                                                                    134293.1       0.0        0.0  134293.1      15.3   0.0   0.0  15.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              218450.3   92177.4   92177.4  402805.1       24.8  10.5  10.5  45.8
Total                                                                            218450.3   92177.4   92177.4  402805.1       24.8  10.5  10.5  45.8
=========================================================================
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
Dirt
b rt
m m
X P)
n
'-a
m
_ 3
F-h 
) .o



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 402. Institutional Strershtening (HOF)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity            Unit Cost                   Base Costs                   Base Costs in USS000
333         2=====3======3                                 *n====    =========== =r=-====== -  mu ====s=uu==snrs
Unit  1993  1994  1995 Total      1993-95         1993      1994     1995     Total     1993  1994  1995 Total
------------------------  ~~~...........  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Coordination
Project lIplem. Comuitteemenday   30   50    50   130           267       8009.1   13348.4  13348.4  34705.9        0.9   1.5   1.5   3.9
B. Extension
Camera                              2     0     0     2       15112      30224.9       0.0       0.0  30224.9       3.4   0.0  0.0   3.4
Video Equfpment                     3     0     0    3        30216      90647.9       0.0       0.0  90647.9    10.3  0.0   0.0  10.3
Slide Projector/Screen              3     0     0    3        10072      30216.0       0.0       0.0  30216.0       3.4   0.0   0.0   3.4
---------~~ -- - - -   -- - --.- - - -   . .    . .   . .   . .
Sib-Total                                                                151088.7       0.0       0.0  151088.7    17.2  0.0   0.0  17.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                          159097.8  13348.4  13348.4  185794.6    18.1   1.5   1.5  21.1
Total                                                                        159097.8  13348.4  13348.4  185794.6    18.1  1.5   1.5  21.1
*ssassssst-sa=w=ass-=Xgg--==Us--===g---sss--sss---Rssssssssssssss=sstss---  -----------ssssrs-ssss--
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0   Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
U,
>>
rtq rt
n
m 
o 
r-hr
4 fi



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 403. InstitutionaL Strenghtening (MOE)
Detailed Cost Table
TL000
Quantity            Unit Cost                    Base Costs                    Base Costs in USS000
Unit   1993  1994  1995 Total      1993-95         1993      1994      1995     TotaL      1993  1994  1995 TotaL
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Coordination
Committee Meetings     manday    20    30    30    80          267       5346.8   8020.2    8020.2  21387.1         0.6   0.9   0.9   2.4
B. Extension Equipment
Camera                             2     0     0     2       15112      30224.9        0.0       0.0  30224.9       3.4   0.0   0.0   3.4
Videos                            3      0     0     3       30216      90647.9        0.0       0.0  90647.9      10.3   0.0   0.0  10.3
Slide Projector                   3      0     0     3       10072      30216.0        0.0       0.0  30216.0       3.4   0.0   0.0   3.4
Production of Brochures           0      1     1     1       89259           0.0  44629.6   44629.6  89259.1        0.0   5.1   5.1  10.1
Sub-TotaL                                                               151088.7  44629.6  44629.6  240347.9        17.2   5.1  5.1 27.3
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                          156435.5   52649.7   52649.7  261734.9      17.8   6.0   6.0  29.8
Total                                                                        156435.5   52649.7  52649.7  261734.9       17.8   6.0   6.0  29.8
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - VaLues scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
:>
Q)rt
00
0
Mm rt
0 0



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 404. Institutioanl Strengthening
Training: MARA. MOF, MOE
Detafted Cost Tabte
TLOOO
Quantity            Unit Cost                       Base Costs                         Base Costs in USS000
Unit   1993  1994  1995 TotaL      1993-95           1993        1994       1995      Total       1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. HOF Short/T Overseas Tr.
GIS/GPS                   marvnonth    4      0     0     4        53717      214869.0         0.0        0.0   214869.0       24.4    0.0    0.0   24.4
Population Genetics       marvnonth    3      0     0     3        53717      161151.8         0.0        0.0   161151.8       18.3    0.0    0.0   18.3
Inventory Techniques     marmonth      2      0     0     2       53717       107434.5        0.0         0.0   107434.5       12.2    0.0    0.0   12.2
Conservation Biology      marnonth     9      0     0     9        53717      483455.3         0.0        0.0   483455.3       55.0    0.0    0.0   55.0
Seed/Pollen Management   marnonth      4      0     0     4        53717      214869.0         0.0        0.0   214869.0       24.4    0.0    0.0   24.4
Sub-Total                                                                     ;;81779.5         0.0        0.0  1181779.5      134.3    0.0    0.0  134.3
B. In-Country Training
Iso-Enzyme Training       manweek     60      0     0    60        2673       160375.3        0.0         0.0   160375.3       18.2    0.0    0.0   18.2
GIS                       manweek     80      0     0    80         2673      213833.7         0.0        0.0   213833.7       24.3    0.0    0.0   24.3
Conservation Biology      manweek    250      0     0   250         2673      668230.3         0.0        0.0   668230.3       76.0    0.0    0.0   76.0
Survey/inventory          manweek    150      0     0   150         2673      400938.2         0.0        0.0   400938.2       45.6    0.0    0.0   45.6
Sub-Total                                                                     1443377.5         0.0        0.0  1443377.5      164.1    0.0    0.0  164.1
C. Technical Trainers
Iso-enzyme Expert        manweek       8      0     0     8       26826       214610.2        0.0         0.0   214610.2       24.4    0.0    0.0   24.4
GIS Expert                manweek      10     0     0    10        26826      268262.7         0.0        0.0   268262.7       30.5    0.0    0.0   30.5
Conservation Biologists  manweek       18     0     0    18        26826      482872.9         0.0        0.0   482872.9       54.9    0.0    0.0   54.9
Survey/Inventory Experts manweek       16     0     0    16        26826      429220.4         0.0        0.0   429220.4       48.8    0.0    0.0   48.8
Sub-Total                                                                     1394966.2         0.0        0.0  1394966.2      158.6    0.0    0.0  158.6
D. Study Tours
Population Genetics       marnmonth    0      6     0     6       161152           0.0   966910.5         0.0   966910.5        0.0  109.9    0.0  109.9
Conservation Biology      manrmionth   0      6     0     6       161152           0.0   966910.5         0.0   966910.5        0.0  109.9    0.0  109.9
Ex-Situ/In-Situ CompLeme.manmonth      0      6     0     6       161152           0.0   966910.5         0.0   966910.5        0.0  109.9    0.0  109.9
Sub-Totat                                                                           0.0  2900731.6         0.0  2900731.6        0.0  329.7    0.0  329.7
E. Long-term Training
MSc Conservation Biology manyear       0      4     0     4       179058           0.0   716230.0         0.0   716230.0        0.0   81.4    0.0   81.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                               4020123.2  3616961.6         0.0  7637084.8      457.0  411.1    0.0  868.1        0
----     ----------                                      aq~~~~~~~~~~~0   rt
Total                                                                             4020123.2  3616961.6         0.0  7637084.8      457.0  411.1    0.0  868.1       (  b
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57                                                                                                C)
o P
rt
I 1'   0



Turkey
In Situ Conservatfon of Genetic Diversity
Table 405. International Symposium (MARA)
Detaited Cost Table
TLOOO
Ouantity             Unit Cost                    Base Costs                      Base Costs in US$000
s333333333333333333333   333333333   3333333ss33 3333333333333333333333333   3a33_Szr3s3-3333333333
Unit   1993  1994  1995 Total       1993-95          1993      1994       1995     Totat      1993  199   1995 Totat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Participants
Local Paricipants ntMG              0     0    70    70         2670           0.0        0.0  186878.0  186878.0       0.0   0.0  21.2  21.2
Foreign Part1cipants  =nsue*k       0     0    10    10        26842           0.0        0.0  268424.5  268424.5       0.0   0.0  30.5  30.5
Sub-Total                                                                       0.0        0.0  455302.5  455302.5       0.0   0.0  51.8  51.8
B. Production Materials                 -      -           -                         0.0       0.0   89359.3   89359.3        0.0   0.0  10.2  10.2
C. Coainimcation Costs                     -      -     -                           0.0        0.0   4556.4   44556.4         0.0   0.0   5.1   5.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                  0.0       0.0  589218.2  589218.2        0.0   0.0  67.0  67.0
-------s -- ------ - w- nuxams  *----t"-s    02sss*n- sm s- as=  *-s-R
Total                                                                               0.0        0.0  589218.2  589218.2        0.0   0.0  67.0  67.0
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
OD
lb rt
irt
( 0
0
m(
t 3
t1 F
o 3'.



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 501. Data Management (MARA)
Detailed Cost TabLe
TLOOO
Quantity            Unit Cost                       Base Costs                         Base Costs in USS000
WI=                        U========
1993  1994  1995 Total      1993-95           1993       1994       1995       Total      1993   1994   1995  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Data Acquisation                -     -     -     -            -       534676.7    89112.8    89112.8   712902.3        60.8   10.1   10.1   81.0
B. Literature, Books                     -     -            -              44648.8    17859.5      8929.8    71438.1        5.1    2.0    1.0    8.1
C. GIS                            -      -     -     -            -      2014396.9         0.0        0.0  2014396.9      229.0    0.0    0.0  229.0
D. Printers                         2     0     0     2        20144       40287.9         0.0        0.0    40287.9        4.6    0.0    0.0    4.6
E. Software                        -     -     -     -            -        30216.0         0.0        0.0    30216.0        3.4    0.0    0.0    3.4
F. Pen Plotter                     1      0     0     1        15130       15130.4         0.0        0.0    15130.4        1.7    0.0    0.0    1.7
G. Data Management Training              -     -     -            -       214351.4    71450.5    71450.5   357252.3        24.4    8.1    8.1   40.6
H. Desktop Computers               4      0     0     4        40288      161151.8         0.0        0.0   161151.8       18.3    0.0    0.0   18.3
1. Notebook Computers              2     2      0     4       30216        60431.9    60431.9         0.0   120863.8        6.9    6.9    0.0   13.7
J. Mini Computer                   1      0     0     1      302160       302159.5         0.0        0.0   302159.5       34.3    0.0    0.0   34.3
K. Lazer Printer                    1     0     0     1        20144       20144.0         0.0        0.0    20144.0        2.3    0.0    0.0    2.3
L. Photocopier                     3      0     0     3       30216        90647.9         0.0        0.0    90647.9       10.3    0.0    0.0   10.3
M. Fax Machine                     3      0     0     3        15112       45337.4         0.0        0.0    45337.4        5.2    0.0    0.0    5.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      3573580.5   238854.7   169493.0  3981928.1       406.2   27.2   19.3  452.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                         to
A. Supplies, Materials            -      -     -                           17859.5    17859.5      8929.8    44648.8        2.0    2.0    1.0    5.1
B. Report Expenses                -      -     -     -            -        17797.9    26696.9    53393.7    97888.5         2.0    3.0    6.1   11.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                         35657.4    44556.4    62323.5   142537.3         4.1    5.1    7.1   16.2
Total                                                                    3609237.9   283411.1   231816.5  4124465.5       410.3   32.2   26.4  468.8
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0   Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
r)
0- rt
M 0
X'



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 502. Data Management (HOF)
DetaiLed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity            Unit Cost                       Base Costs                         Base Costs In USSOOO
1993  1994  1995 Total      1993-95          1993        1994       1995       Total      1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Data Acquisation               -      -     -     -            -       133669.2   133669.2         0.0   267338.3       15.2   15.2    0.0   30.4
B. GIS                            -      -     -     -            -       201439.7         0.0        0.0   201439.7       22.9    0.0    0.0   22.9
C. Literature, Books              -      -     -     -            -        35719.1    26789.3    26789.3    89297.7         4.1    3.0    3.0   10.2
0. Printers                        4      0     0     4        20144       80575.9         0.0        0.0    80575.9        9.2    0.0    0.0    9.2
E. Software                       -                  -            -        35274.3         0.0        0.0    35274.3        4.0    0.0    0.0    4.0
F. Pen Plotter                     1     0      0     1       15112        15112.5        0.0         0.0    15112.5        1.7    0.0    0.0    1.7
G. Data Management Training       -      -     -                  -       107175.7   35725.2    35725.2   178626.1         12.2    4.1    4.1   20.3
H. Desktop Computers               5      0     0     5       40288       201439.7        0.0         0.0   201439.7       22.9    0.0    0.0   22.9
1. Notebook Computers              4     0      0     4       30216       120863.8        0.0         0.0   120863.8       13.7    0.0    0.0   13.7
J. Photocopier                     3      0     0     3       30216        90647.9         0.0        0.0    90647.9       10.3    0.0    0.0   10.3
K. Fax Machine                     3      0     0     3        15112       45337.4         0.0        0.0    45337.4        5.2    0.0    0.0    5.2
L. Minicomputer                    1      0     0     1      302160       302159.5         0.0        0.0   302159.5       34.3    0.0    0.0   34.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      1369414.5   196183.7    62514.5  1628112.8       155.7   22.3    7.1  185.1
11. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                         o
0
A. Supplies, Materials                   -     -     -            -        26789.3    17859.5    17859.5    62508.4         3.0    2.0    2.0    7.1
B. Report Expenses                -      -     -     -            -        26696.9    26696.9    44494.8    97888.5         3.0    3.0    5.1   11.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                         53486.2    44556.4    62354.3   160396.8         6.1    5.1    7.1   18.2
Total                                                                    1422900.7   240740.1   124868.8  1788509.6       161.7   27.4   14.2  203.3
nfl                                                    = =================================================s=============----   --=--------
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
*1                     W~~~~~~~)rt
C)
(D
Fh rt
M -



Turkey
In Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity
Table 503. Data Management (MOE)
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity             Unit Cost                    Base Costs                      Base Costs in USS000
1993  1994  1995 Total      1993-95          1993       1994      1995      Total     1993  1994  1995 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. GIS                             -     -      -     -            -      201439.7        0.0       0.0  201439.7       22.9   0.0   0.0  22.9
B. Literature, Books               -                  -            -        8929.8    8929.8    8929.8   26789.3         1.0   1.0   1.0   3.0
C. Printers                         2     0      0     2       20144       40287.9        0.0       0.0   40287.9       4.6   0.0   0.0   4.6
D. Software                        -     -      -     -            -       15112.5        0.0       0.0   15112.5        1.7   0.0   0.0   1.7
E. Pen Plotter                      1     0      0     1        15112      15112.5        0.0       0.0   15112.5        1.7   0.0   0.0   1.7
F. Data Management Training        -            . -                -      107175.7   35725.2   35725.2  178626.1       12.2   4.1   4.1  20.3
G. Desktop Computers                6     0      0     6       40288      241727.6        0.0       0.0  241727.6      27.5   0.0   0.0  27.5
H. Notebook Computers               2     0      0     2       30216       60431.9        0.0       0.0   60431.9       6.9   0.0   0.0   6.9
1. Photocopier                      1     0     0      1       30216       30216.0        0.0       0.0   30216.0       3.4   0.0   0.0   3.4
J. Fax Machine                      1     0      0     1        15112      15112.5        0.0       0.0   15112.5        1.7   0.0   0.0   1.7
K. Lazer Printer                    1     0      0     1       20144       20144.0        0.0       0.0   20144.0        2.3   0.0   0.0   2.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                       755689.9   44655.0   44655.0  844999.9        85.9   5.1   5.1  96.1
Total                                                                     755689.9   44655.0   44655.0  844999.9       85.9   5.1   5.1  96.1
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  12/14/1992  14:57
-I>
) rt
3q rt
(DOl
M :3
CD
rt
rt
Poh






25                                                3                                                39                                                40                                                45
BU LGA RI                                                             Z A C                               S  F A                                                                      GEORGIA
GREECE    T                             _;                                                  -, -
Izmit
-V7 K                                                                                  ~a1'donLz                                                                      ~ARMENi*
*KAZDAG  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~i   REIRESEARCH~INyTITjTF
KAZDAGINArIONAL FOREST                -FI ELD OPS RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
6KirikkaIe
PLANT GENf?CRESOURCQERE EAR CINS       (PGR4'
t'l*  AEGfANAGRICULTURAIRES EARCH II                                                       M:'
T3                A S"             I ''           
ORSV RTURKEY Ig
GLBLEVIOMNFCLT SU-PRJET                                                                                                                                                                              K.DWETZN
Ko.w4                             \_z                                            -- IACNTINA DUNAR
MEDITERRANACE ANPINASTATEFARM
Is~end~n    -,   SY'RIAN  ARAB REP.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY SUB-PROECT.                                                                                                                          WD W   Z
_______ CONSERVATION  GENETIC                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH INSTITUTES
IN-SITU COSRAINOF GNTCDIVERSITY
PROPOSED GENE MANAGEMENT ZONES
EASTERN  ANATOLIA  WATERSHED                                                                                                                         (APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS)
REHABILITATION  PROJECT                            CYRUt                                                                                      ELEVATIONS, DOD0 METERS AND ABOVE
MEDITERRANEAN   SEA                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r)                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETESS 0  100  200         300         (E3NON/
rIie n.p h.. b.. pr.po.d by TA. Worl4d 8an staff ...tu-i.-tI ja
to  b. cv.him ac f.. r d    ins 6, lb. inbrnal us. of Th. Wrl                                                ,3                                                                                                       0
11.n oonrp. Th. donmin-tions ..d ond b. b.un.rmdi. A.I rn   ,                                                      ,hi.  . _                                                                                          /J
nap J. ot Mpln, on h. part ho. ?4IWrR/ Bank Group, ony jud g..nt
-0 ph. flgl .nSn. of any hinrdtry   no ny d.n nn  or azcc.pI-nc af                                        /O                                                                                                 4
s unk bond-nr.ia.                            30'                                                                                                                                                                      0









THE GEF ADMINISTRATOR
c/o WORLD BANK
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 USA
a
WORLD BANK
THE GEF COORDINATOR
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 USA
IC2)
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
GEF/TECHNICAL ADVISORY DIVISION
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
ONE UNITED NATIONS PLAZA
NEW YORK, NY 10017 USA
UNITED NATIONS
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME
GEF/UNEP
c/o CLEARING HOUSE
P.O. BOX 30552
NAIROBI, KENYA



