Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19248
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY PROJECT
GEF GRANT NO. 28632-TU
April 30, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1999)
Currency Unit   =   Turkish Lira
US$1    =   TL 357,859
TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$)
Jan 1993 Jan 1994 Jan 1995 Jan 1996 Jan 1997 Jan 1998 Jan 1999 Mar 1999
8,694    15,164  40,157  60,291  111,652  211,141  320,299  357,859
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDAR -       General Directorate of Agricultural Research
GDF -        General Directorate of Forestry
GDNPGW    General Directorate of National Parks, Game and Wildlife
GEF  -       Global Environment Facility
GMZ  -       Gene Management Zone
IBRD  -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ICR   -      Implementation Completion Report
lMSC -       Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
MARA-        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MOE  -       Ministry of Environment
MOF  -       Ministry of Forestry
PIC   -      Project Implementation Committee
RDF  -       Regional Directorates of Forestry
SAR  -       Staff Appraisal Report
SPO   -      State Planning Organization
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber (ECC06)
Sector Director Kevin M. Cleaver (ECSSD)
Sector Leader: John Hayward, (ECCSD)
Team Leader: Nedret Durutan, Agriculturalist, (ECCTR)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY PROJECT
GEF Grant No. 28632-TU
Contents
Preface ..............................................................            i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................  ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..................................................... 1 
A.  Project Origin and Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Obectives.                                      2
C.    Iniplementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.      6
D. Project Sustainability.                                                 8
E. Bank Peformance.                                                        9
F. Borrower's Performance .10
G.  Assessment of Performance and Outcome .                                10
H.    Future Operations.1  
I. Key Lessons Learned .II
Part II. Statistical Tables ...............   .                                  14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS                         .1 6
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .17
TABLE 4:   LOAN DISBURSEMENTS:CUMUI.ATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL    17
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .17
TABLE 6:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...............................  17
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT.                                     18
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .....................................................................   19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING                            .1 9
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS.                                           19
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTs .20
TABLE I1:  COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS..                      21
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .                                        21
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .22
Appendices:
A.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .
Map IBRD
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank autiorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY PROJECT
GEF Grant No. 28632-TU
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the In-Situ Conservation
of Genetic Diversity Project for which GEF Grant No. 28632 in the amount of 3,710,000
SDR equivalent (US$5,194,000) was approved on 03/11/1993 and made effective on
03/25/1993. The Grant was closed on September 30, 1998, instead of September 30,
1997, the original Closing Date. A total of US$5,125,520 was disbursed. The remaining
undisbursed amount of $148,103.87 will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Nedret Durutan, Task Team Leader in the Turkey Field
Office, and reviewed by, Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Manager, John F. Stewart,
Biodiversity Specialist (ECSSD), Mahesh Sharma, GEF Coordinator (ENV), and Bee
Ban Gooi, Senior Operations Analyst (ECC06). Ministries of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Forestry and Environment jointly provided written comments on the draft ICR
that are included as Appendix A to the ICR.
The preparation of this ICR is based on the material in the project file and the
Final Progress Report prepared by the three line agencies.
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY PROJECT
GEF Grant No. 28632-TU
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Diverse geological and climatic conditions of Turkey have given rise to unique
plant species represented nowhere else in the world. Over 30% of the 8,800 species
found in the country are endemic to Turkey. The country is the center of origin and a
source of genetic diversity for globally important plants which were first domesticated
from wild species and still exist in Turkey. There are also unique adaptations of woody
species which occur at the extreme geographical limits of their distribution and are found
nowhere else. Primitive landraces and wild crop relatives from Turkey continue to
provide new sources of important traits needed to maintain and improve agricultural
production worldwide. To continue this, these plants need to be maintained in their
natural settings (in-situ) where they continue to interact with their natural pests, predators
and the environment.
2.   In 1991, the World Bank/UNDP mission provided information on the GEF
program, and assisted the Government in selecting several projects of priority to Turkey
to be further developed for GEF funding. It was agreed to prepare a project for "in-situ
coonservation of plant genetic diversity". A project preparation mission was conducted in
the spring of 1992. The Project, which was appraised in June 1992 and became effective
in March 1993, was the first of its kind to protect both woody and non-woody wild crop
relatives from a multi-species approach. It provided a model applicable in other parts of
the world.
Project Objectives and Components
3.    The objectives of the Project were; (i) to identify and establish in-situ
conservation areas for the protection of genetic resources and wild relatives of non-
woody and woody species and associated forest germplasm (ii) to develop institutional
capacity for preparing and implementing a national strategy for in-situ conservation. The
Project had 5 components: i) site surveys and inventories, ii) gene management zones,
iii) data management, iv) national plan for in-situ conservation, and v) institutional
strengthening. The aim was to test and develop a new approach for the conservation of
genetic diversity never tried before on a large scale anywhere else in the world.
4.    The Project objectives were realistic in terms of the Borrower's capabilities.
Turkey, through the Plant Genetic Resources Research Institute of the Ministry of
ii



Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), had considerable experience with ex-situ
conservation to maintain landraces and wild relatives of crops which are available to
national and international crop improvement programs.  For woody species, the
experience was limited to areas managed by the Ministry of Forestry (MOF); to
conserving. rare and unique species and few specially protected areas by Ministry of
Environment (MOE) and to protecting rare species which fall outside the traditional
interests of MOF and MARA. However, for these areas, no detailed studies were
conducted. The Project therefore initiated and developed a mechanism to foster the on-
going national programs for identifying, designating and managing areas for in-situ
conservation of nationally and globally significant species.
5.    The Project objectives were met. Under (i) above, detailed survey and inventory
work was carried out in 3 priority areas located in Aegean, Mediterranean and
',outheastern Anatolia Regions, and the amount and distribution of genetic diversity were
assessed. As a result, 22 Gene Management Zones (GMZs) were established as in-situ
conservation areas to protect genetic resources and wild relatives of non-woody and
woody species for permanent protection and management as natural areas. The project
can play a major role in developing new, more productive strains of economically and
ecologically important crops and trees.
6.    Under (ii), the institutional capacity in Turkey was developed for preparing and
implementing a national strategy for in-situ conservation. The technical assistance,
training and preparation of the National Plan enabled MARA, MOF and MOE to;
i) understand the importance of the existing genetic diversity and in-situ conservation,
ii) prepare a strategic plan that would ensure the protection of wild crop relatives and
forest genetic resources in their native habitat beyond this Project, iii) conduct
survey/inventory work for in-situ purposes, iv) conduct genetic analyses to assess the
amnount and distribution of genetic diversity, and v) manage data through a range of
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Remote Sensing applications. The Project set
up a coordination mechanism which enabled the line agencies to work together.
I[mplementation Experience and Results
r7.   In the first two years of the Project, actual disbursements were lower than those
predicted in the SAR. The delays were mainly due to insufficient/lack of experience in
Bank procedures and the government's austerity measures. In spite of these initial
delays, the overall implementation record was good. Excellent project management,
particularly in MARA and MOF, and later in MOE helped in overcoming these
(lifficulties.
8.    The original Grant allocation included an amount of US$350,000 for civil works.
At Project closing US$180,000 of this was disbursed to finance the renovation and
rehabilitation of laboratories, greenhouses and the GIS Center. The Project provided
lJS$2.6 million for goods, and with reallocations, a total of US$3,025,322, had been
disbursed to finance; i) vehicles, ii) isoenzyme laboratories, iii) GIS Center, iv) office
equipment and supplies, v) audio-visual equipment for extension and research work, and
iii



vi) books and periodicals. In 1994, as a result of the Government's stabilization and
reform program, restrictions were applied to vehicle procurement. The field work was
therefore carried out by rented vehicles, or a limited number of institute pick-ups until
1997, when the planned vehicles were procured.
9.    The original Grant allocation was US$1.7 million for technical assistance and
training, US$1,455,216 was disbursed. The allocation for transport and accommodation
was US$180,000. However, with reallocations, US$309,255 was used under this
Category mainly to finance field trips and attendance to meetings. The Project allocated
US$270,000 from which US$212,703 was used to finance the cost of operation and
maintenance of goods purchased by the Project and the cost of labor for field and
laboratory activities.
10.   Project conditionality and legal covenants were satisfactorily adhered to.
Progress reports and audits were submitted on time and in good order, and project
administration was excellent. The Bank's performance in project preparation, appraisal
and supervision was also highly satisfactory. During implementation, there was an
overlap among team leaders, considerable team work, high quality and continuity of the
Bank's input. This has contributed substantially to the mutual trust between the
implementing agencies and the Bank. The transfer of task management responsibility to
the field provided ; i) proximity to the client which enhanced client responsiveness and
efficiency as well as cost savings, ii) continuous rather than episodic supervision.
Monthly coordination meetings and procurement and disbursement workshops organized
and hosted by the Bank's Resident Mission strengthened team spirit and helped the
agencies to develop their skills in managing Bank supported projects.
11.   The Project achieved its objectives because of the devoted, competent project
staff in MARA and MOF. MOE's performance was less satisfactory than the others,
despite committed staff at the working level. Frequent changes at the ministerial level in
MOE resulted in i) varying levels of ownership and commitment to the Project, and ii)
shifting of implementation responsibilities among various departments. However, most
of the delays were compensated later with the designation of a competent coordinator.
12.   The Project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. It achieved all of its major
objectives; in-situ conservation areas (22 GMZs) for target species were established,
institutional capacity in Turkey for preparing and implementing a national strategy for in-
situ conservation was developed. Due to biological and scientific reasons, the Grant
Closing Date was extended for a year which unfortunately caused delays in the final
selection of the GMZs. However, the extended period was fully utilized to complete the
work and achieve the Project objectives.
13.   In view of the growing public awareness about the conservation of natural
resources, the Government will continue to be committed to the Project objectives and
conserve the genetic diversity in the designated GMZs. Until the National Plan becomes
effective, these areas will be managed following the GMZ Management Plans and the
collaboration established during the Project. For designation of new GMZs, the National
iv



Plan will provide the basis. The crucial issue will be the provision of recurrent budgets.
However, governments within the fundamental reform program of the public sector, will
continue to reduce state interventions. In addition to the Governments' provision of
recurrent budgets, further key issues for the future include the continuing commitment of
tho Turkish government, the commitment of users of the plant genetic resources and
natural ecosystems, keeping staff skills current and the update of equipment. The
National Plan foresees the establishment of a "National Fund" for the sustainability of the
conservation of genetic diversity. Furthermore, since the ultimate goal was to provide on
an. on-going basis for now and into the future, the broad genetic base needed globally for
sustainable agriculture and forestry, ownership by the international community reflected
by provision of grant fLnds will also secure sustainability.
14.   Throughout history, Turkey has been at the crossroads of cultures from Europe,
Asia and Africa where diverse ancient cultivated varieties or landraces have evolved
under the influence of natural and human selection pressure. Landraces which provide
useful genes in crop improvement programs were not included in the Project. However,
there is a strong need to develop i) methods to promote conservation of landraces in the
comniunities where they are cultivated, and ii) programs which require linking economic
incentives with cultivation of traditional varieties. A follow-up project could be designed
to address these needs and provide support for the participatory management of the
GMZs established by the Project.
15.   There are a number of lessons to be learned from this Project:
•  In-situ conservation efforts can only be successful if forestry, agriculture and
environmental agencies have an active role .in coordinating these efforts, if the
communities living around the GMZs are thoroughly familiarized with the
proposed activities and participate in management. In designing such projects,
sufficient funding should be provided to secure participation.
e  For the projects which are technical in nature, training in the latest techniques and
technology should be provided at the beginning of the implementation to avoid
delays. SAC is an effective tool in providing scientific guidance, establishing
links with related international institutions and facilitating international
cooperation.
If project agencies have limited past experience in working together, PIC and
IMSC are effective mechanisms for cooperation. The Bank could act as a catalyst
to build this collaboration.
*  Continuity of task teams both on the Borrower and the Bank side is extremely
important in developing and maintaining mutual trust, understanding, and
strengthening team spirit.
*  To avoid delays and administrative risks originating from limited/lack of
experience in Bank procedures, an implementing agency should maintain a core
v



team equipped with the necessaiy skills, and experience and institutional memory
in order to provide services to the implementing units rather than having the
procurement responsibilities carried out by a different implementing unit each
time. Informal training workshops, question/answer sessions organized by the
Bank could also help to improve implementation performance.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY PROJECT
GEF Grant No. 28632-TU
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    Diverse geological and climatic conditions of Turkey have given rise to unique
species represented nowhere else in the world. Over 30% of the 8,800 plant species
found in the country are exclusive to Turkey. The country is the center of origin and a
source of important genetic diversity for numerous globally important plants which were
first domesticated from wild species which still exist in Turkey. The primary wild
progenitor non-woody and woody species include; wheat, barley, lentil, chickpea, pear,
apple, cherry, walnut, pistachio and chestnut. There are also globally and regionally
significant, unique adaptations of woody species, including pine, fir and cedar which are
at the extreme geographical limits of their distribution in Turkey and found nowhere else.
2.    Primitive landraces and wild crop relatives from Turkey continue to provide new
sources of important traits needed to maintain and improve agricultural production
worldwide.  To date, many nations including Turkey have undertaken ex-situ
conservation programs to preserve samples of crop genetic diversity in gene banks.
However, these programs can not preserve the diverse interactions of plants with their
natural pests, predators and the environment because evolutionary processes cease when
the genetic resources are placed in ex-situ conditions of the gene-banks. In-situ aims to
maintain the evolutionary system of useful plants by preserving variable populations in
natural habitats.  This requires the maintenance of a sufficiently large habitat to
accommodate the greatest variability of wild crop species, trees, other plants, animals and
microorganism species that interact in a common evolutionary system.
3.    The objectives of the Project were; i) to identify and establish in-situ conservation
areas in Turkey, for the protection of genetic resources and wild relatives of non-woody
and woody species, and associated forest germplasm, and ii) to develop institutional
capacity for preparing and implementing a national strategy for in-situ conservation.
4.    The Project objectives were realistic in terms of the Borrower's capabilities.
Turkey through the Plant Genetic Resources Research Institute of MARA had
considerable experience with ex-situ conservation to maintain improved varieties,
landraces and wild relatives of crops which have been made available to national and
international crop improvement programs. For woody species the experience was limited
to some areas managed by the MOF to conserve rare and unique species and few
specially protected areas by MOE to protect rare species which fall outside the traditional



interests of MOF and MARA. However, no detailed studies were conducted for these
areas. The Project therefore initiated and developed a mechanism to foster the on-going
national programs for identifying, designating and managing areas specifically for in-situ
conservation of nationally and globally significant species.
5.    The Project had 5 components: 1) Site Surveys and Inventories: conducting
ecosystem based surveys in selected pilot areas to determine suitable habitats and a
species-specific inventory at each site, 2) Gene Management Zones (GMZs): selecting a
se:ries of preserves to represent the ecogeographic ranges needed for targeted wild
relatives and formalizing selected sites into protected areas with specific management
requirements, 3) Data Management: building a database for the information already
existing and also generated by the Project and assembling of the data at a common site
and incorporating this into a central data management plan, 4) National Plan for in-situ
Conservation: providing a mechanism for the governrment to set priorities and presenting
a plan of actions that will ensure the protection of wild crop relatives and forest genetic
resources in their native habitat beyond the three year GEF pilot program, 5) Institutional
Strengthening: strengthening both the individual agencies of MOF, MARA and MOE as
well as support their complementary strengths and capabilities through; scientific and
administrative committees. The Project, the first of its kind in the in-situ world and never
before tried on a large scale anywhere in the world, envisaged sponsoring an international
symposium to share the experiences.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    The Project very successfully carried out the project components identified in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and met the project objectives. All the data were compiled
and presented in the Final Progress Report which provides a description of how the
Turkish GEF Project can form the basis of a regional and global approach to in-situ
conservation of genetic diversity. The objectives are discussed below.
To Identify and Establish in-situ Conservation Areas for Non-Woody and Woody
Tswrget Species
7.    The Project selected the following target species; i) wild relatives of wheat;
ii) wild relatives of food and feed legumes; iii) woody crops; chestnut, and iv) forest
species; fir, cedar and pine. For these species, several priority areas were identified; i)
Kazdagi National Park; located in northern Aegean Region is rich in wild fruit progenitor
species, nut species, wild ornamental species and priority forest trees, ii) Ceylanpinar
State Farm; located in Southeastern Turkey, is rich in wild wheat, barley, lentil and
chickpea germplasm. The original site was Karacadag but due to security reasons, this
was replaced with the Ceylanpinar State Farm and iii) Anatolian Diagonal-Bolkar
Mountains; located in south and central Turkey which contains sites at the extreme
geographical limit of distribution for several significant wild relatives of wheat, barley,
chickpea, lentil and forest trees. The original site was the Amanos Mountains but due to
security reasons, this was replaced with Bolkar Mountains.
2



8.     Based on available information and the survey/inventory work, the following
species were included in each of the priority areas; i) Kazdagi National Park: chestnut
(Castanea sativa Mill.), wild plum (Prunus divericata Ledeb.), Kazdagi Fir (Ahies
nordmanniana ssp. equitrojani), Anatolian Black Pine (Pinus nigra subsp. pallasiana)
and Turkish Red Pine (Pinus brutia Ten ii) Ceylanpinar State Farm: wild relatives of
wheat (Triticum turgidum ssp.diccoccoides, Triticum monococcum, Aegilops speltoides
var speltoides, Aegilops speltoides var. ligustica, Aegilops tauchii),  iii)Anatolian
Diagonal-Bolkar Mountains: Anatolian Black Pine (Pinus nigra subsp. pallasiana),
Taurus Fir (Abies cilicica), Turkish Red Pine (Pinus brutia Ten.), Taurus Cedar (Cedrus
libani), wild relatives of food and feed legumes (Lens ervoides, Lens orientalis, Pisum
sativum sensu lato., Vicia sativa sensu lato., Viciajoannes, Vicia ervilia) wild relatives of
wheat (Aegilops speltoides var ligustica, Aegilops speltoides var. speltoides).
9.    In July 1996, an initial survey was carried out in Sakarya Valley in Northwest
Anatolia. However, no further work was conducted due to significant threats from
agricultural, forestry and urbanization activities. In Southeastern Anatolia, the initial
surveys carried out for Pistacia species indicated that 16 sites could be considered as
candidate GMZs for natural populations of wild pistachio.
10.   Ecosystem-based surveys conducted in several phases, were started in spring
1994 in Kazdagi, and Ceylanpinar State Farm and in spring 1995 in Bolkar Mountains:
i) the initial survey described the distribution sites within the study area of the target
species, ii) the advanced survey selected the suitable sites for in-situ conservation of the
target species, and iii) the inventory work focused on the vegetation cover. The main
purpose of the initial surveys was to sample populations representing the range of target
species. Later, the pilot areas were surveyed to determine changes in population density
of the vegetation cover, variation at sites between years, and the habitat factors that could
explain the variation in population density within and between the sites of target species.
11.   Available information was used and the plant species were recorded in the
surveys. Additional information was collected on abundance, frequency, density, site,
environment and the sample. Once the majority of the surveys were completed, detailed
inventory studies were started in 1995. Plant counts were taken in permanent transects
and quadrates, and, soil samples, spatial and topographic information were collected. For
isoenzyme and pomological studies, and ex-situ conservation, seed samples were taken.
Herbarium samples were also collected for the target species and also for the associated
plant community. The data will provide a baseline for monitoring vegetation changes
which might affect the population of the target species. For population sampling,
guidelines were jointly developed with the Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC).
12.   Based on survey and inventory studies, a number of candidate GMZs were
selected in the priority areas. A series of analyses were conducted in the laboratories set
up by the Project, to determine within and among population variations the target species
in these areas by using electrophoretic methods. The candidates were then sc;eened
mainly based on the genetic diversity. 22 GMZs were selected: i) Kazdagi National Park:
3 for wild plum, 3 for chestnut, 2 for Turkey Red Pine, 3 for Anatolian Black Pine, 2 for
3



Kazdagi Fir, ii) Ceylanpinar State Farm: 6 for wild relatives of wheat, iii) Anatolian
Diagonal-Bolkar Mountains: 3 for Anatolian Black Pine, 3 for Turkey Red Pine, 2 for
Taurus Fir and 3 for Taurus Cedar. Since seed formation was a problem for Taurus
Cedar, isoenzyme analysis has not been finalized yet. Therefore, the GMZs selected for
cedar are still considered as candidates.
13.   The initial step towards ensuring stakeholder participation in the management of
GMZs were made through "Stakeholder Workshops" held during 1996-97 in each of the
priority areas where the stakeholders were informed about the project objectives and
principles, and potential problems were discussed. In September 1998, the management
of GMZs was discussed in a workshop and 22 "GMZ Management Plans" were prepared
which will be improved and updated in the future, as new data is collected and new
experience is gained. Over the same period, a social study was conducted in 22 villages
located around the GMZs. However, the data has not yet been fully incorporated into the
GMZ Management Plans.
To Develop the Institutional Capacity in Turkey for Preparing and Implementing a
National Strategy for in-situ Conservation
14.   The National Plan for in-situ Conservation was prepared by a team of university
and NGO staff. After being revised in a series of stakeholder workshops organized by
NMOE, the final draft was presented and views of the international experts were solicited
in a special session in the International Symposium on in-situ Conservation of Plan
Genetic Diversity, held in Antalya, in 1996. The Symposium was organized to introduce
the Project and to provide scientists an opportunity to discuss recent advances in in-situ
conservation of genetic diversity. It also served as a platform for the exchange of ideas
and current experience on integrating in-situ conservation into a comprehensive
biodiversity strategy for Turkey. In total, the symposium inctuded 17 invited volunteer
speakers, 44 volunteer speakers, 42 posters, and 202 participants from 48 countries. The
Proceedings (ISBN 975-407-026-1) were published in 1998.
15.   The Main Report of the National Plan and the Executive Summary were printed
(in Turkish and English) and distributed to a wide range of agencies and individuals in
1998. For the adoption of the Plan by the Government, MOE prepared a draft statute in
September 1998 and submitted it to the other ministries for review. It will become
effective after being endorsed by the Cabinet of Minister and published in the Official
CGazette.
16.   The Project required close cooperation of the two implementing ministries
(MARA and MOF) and a supporting ministry (MOE) which historically have not had
such linkages.  The administrative and scientific committees provided effective
coordination and collaboration. The Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (IMSC)
composed of the deputy undersecretary, related general directors and department heads of
MOE, MOF and MARA conducted 3 meetings (5 were planned in SAR), where topics
and issues requiring attention and intervention by the decision-making levels were
discussed. The Project Implementation Committee (PIC), established at the start of the
4



Project, was composed of representatives of the line ministries and concerned research
institutes. It coordinated the Project through an individual(s) who served specifically as
the project manager/advisor within each line ministry. PIC, which was effective in
overcoming the implementation bottlenecks, held 13 meetings for which the
chairmanship was rotated between line agencies. In the implementation phase, scientific
guidance was needed for the scientists as; i) in-situ conservation is complex and novel,
and ii) the aim of the Project was to test and develop a new approach for the conservation
of genetic diversity never before tried on a large scale anywhere else in the world. SAC
helped the Project staff to establish links with related international institutions, facilitate
international cooperation for exchange of data and research results. It had a core team of
14 national and international experts of which the majority provided excellent guidance.
17.   MOE was the agency responsible for public education and awareness building
through the development of the public awareness material. By organizing "Stakeholder
Workshops" at the priority areas, the local communities around the GMZs were informed
about the Project and ideas concerning the sustainability of the conservation activities
were developed. The book titled" Conserving Wild Relatives of Crops" was translated
into Turkish and distributed to universities, NGOs, government agencies, local
administrators and media. The "National Plan for in-situ Conservation" also served as a
public awareness material. MOE through a private company, produced posters and
booklets about the Project. MARA and MOF also produced some videos about the
project activities.
18.   The Project agencies hired national and international consultants from universities
and NGOs to; i) prepare the National Plan, ii) act as a member of the Scientific Advisory
Committee, iii) provide training on population genetics, survey/inventory, conservation
biology, and isoenzyme analysis, iv) conduct social studies and public awareness
activities, and v) provide GIS training and conduct the pilot project.
19.   The Project provided; i) language courses, ii) short-term overseas courses,
iii) short-term in-country courses, and iv) overseas study tours for the line agencies.
Around 60 staff, mostly from MOE benefited from the English courses. MOF preferred
to have short-term overseas training courses from which 11 scientists benefited. Around
150 staff from all agencies attended the in-country training courses and 71 staff had the
opportunity to participate in the overseas study tours to USA, UK, and Israel. A total of
54 staff attended international conferences and expert meetings.
20.   The technical assistance, specific training courses and preparation of the National
Plan, all enabled MARA, MOF and MOE; i) to understand the importance of the existing
genetic diversity, and in-situ conservation, ii) to prepare a strategic plan that will ensure
the protection of wild crop relatives and forest genetic resources in their native habitat
beyond this Project, iii) to conduct survey/inventory work for in-situ purposes, iii) to
conduct genetic analyses in the laboratory to assess the amount and distribution of
genetic diversity, and iv) to manage data through a range of GIS and Remote Sensing
applications.



21.   The Project used existing data and generated substantial quantities of new spatial
and quantitative data. To manage this data efficiently, a "GIS and Remote Sensing Unit"
was established at MARA with the Project funds. Later, the unit became a center with
the support of the on-going Agricultural Research Project (Loan 3472-TU). It is a
substantial facility and has the potential to become a center of national and intemnational
importance, providing a full range of GIS and image processing capabilities. A protocol
was signed by project agencies which provided a basis for long-term cooperation in
utilizing the Center. The Center reached an operational stage in early 1998 through a six-
month technical assistance financed by Loan 3472-TU. The program exposed project
staff to a range of GIS and Remote Sensing applications. Mapping and analysis were
performed with regard to selected target species which produced some extremely useful
results published in an Atlas which includes 31 colored maps.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
22.  In the first two years of the Project, actual disbursements were lower than those
predicted in the SAR and there were some difficulties and delays due to: i) lack of a
separate line item for the Project in the 1993 budget, ii) difficulties in channeling project
funds to the research institutes, iii) insufficient/lack of experience of Project agencies in
Bank procedures, iv) uncertainty in spending counterpart funds due to the austerity
measures, v) lengthy procedures in obtaining approval of procurement action by
Government. In spite of initial delays, there was considerable progress over time.
excellent project management helped overcome these difficulties, particularly in MARA
and MOF, and later in MOE. In addition, the overall implermentation record was good,
disbursement remained on schedule and reports and audit were submitted in a timely
manner.
23.  In the SAR, the agencies' limited experience in working together was identified
as the principal risk. During implementation, through mechanisms such as IMSC, PIC
and the meetings organized and hosted by the Bank's Resident Mission, effective
collaboration and cooperation was achieved.
24.  In 1996, SAC recommended that the project be given a one year extension. This
extension was approved by the Bank since i) the initial activities had been delayed by the
government's austerity program at the outset of the project, ii) there were some biological
delays (such as key plants systems' failure to be reproductive) which resulted in delays in
ge:rmplasm analyses and the final selection of the GMZs, and iii) the social study in the
priority areas for community participation had not been initiated by MOE. Excellent
progress was made during the one year extension: the selection of GMZs was finalized,
management plans and the Final Progress Report were prepared, the social study was
completed, and the GIS center became operational.
Civil Works
25.   The original Grant allocation included an amount of US$350,000 for civil works
which mainly involved the construction of fencing around GMZs. This amount was
6



intended to finance 88% of the expenditures for works. However, during implementation
it became clear renovating the existing laboratories and greenhouses was vital for
conducting isoenzyme analysis and studies on seedling characteristics.  Therefore,
US$180,000 of this allocation was used to finance the renovation and rehabilitation work
in 4 research institutes and the GIS Center.
Goods
26.   The original project design provided US$2.6 million for goods to finance 100% of
the foreign and local expenditures (ex-factory) and 90% expenditures for other items
procured locally. At project closing, with reallocation, US$3,025,322 had been disbursed
from this Category to finance; i) vehicles, ii) isoenzyme laboratories, iii) GIS Center, iv)
office equipment and supply, v) audio-visual equipment for extenision and research work,
and vi) books and periodicals.
27.  In 1994, as a result of the Government's stabilization and reform program,
restrictions were applied particularly to vehicle procurement. Until 1997, the field work
had been carried out by rented vehicles, or a limited number of institute pick-ups.
Austerity measures on state purchases, coupled with insufficient experience in preparing
tender documents resulted in delays in the provision of equipment. Despite the initial
delays, the bulk of the equipment and books/periodicals were procured in early 1996.
Consulting Services and Training
28.   The original Grant allocation was US$1.7 million for these services financing
100% of the expenditures. About 11% of this was used for techilical assistance and 89%
for staff training. Initially there were some administrative problems in organizing the in-
country training programs.  However, the project coordinators made considerable
progress and overcame these difficulties. At Project Closing, a total of US$1,455,216
had been disbursed from this Category.
Transport and Accommodation
29.   The  original project design  provided  US$180,000  for transport and
accommodation for local staff to attend project related field activities and meetings. This
amount was intended to finance 88% of the expenditures for these activities. By the end
of the Project, with reallocation, US$309,225 was used mainly to finance the field trips
and attendance to meetings.
Recurrent Costs and Labor
30.   The original Grant allocation also included US$270,000 for recurrent costs and
labor. This amount was intended to finance 67% of the expenditures under this Category.
At Project Closing, US$212,703 had been disbursed to finance the cost of operation and
maintenance of goods purchased by the Project and for the cost of labor employed in the
canrying out of project related field and laboratoiy activities. Despite the austerity
7



measures, scientific work was not affected because of lack of labor. The Grant funds
under this Category provided excellent support to the research institutes.
Project Conditionality
31.   Although there were some delays in the beginning of implementation, due mainly
to delays in procurement from insufficient experience of Project agencies in Bank
procedures and austerity measures project conditionality was filly met. Excellent records
and accounts were maintained to reflect operations. Audit reports were conducted and
submitted on time. A number of interim reports were produced as foreseen by the
Project, including a 7-volume Final Progress Report which was of technical/scientific
nature. It included a detailed description of all the activities accomplished during the
Project.
D. Project Sustainability
32.   In view of growing public awareness in the research community on the
conservation of natural resources, the Government will continue to be committed to the
Project objectives and conserve the genetic diversity in the 22 GMZs designated by the
Project. The Project does not have significant post-project recurrent costs which will be a
financial burden on the Government under the fiscal realities of the near future.
33.   For designation of new GMZs in the future, the framework is set by the National
Plan which requires a sustainable environment for implementation. The ownership on
the MOE side in processing the related statutes will likely yield the adoption of the Plan
by the Government. Once the related statutes are endorsed by the Cabinet of Ministers
and published in the Official Gazette, the National Plan will become operational. Since
existing laws and regulations allow the establishment and maintenance of GMZs in forest
land, there will be no need for new legislation. As long as GMZs are registered in the
forestry management plans, the sustainability of these areas are assured. Sustainable
management of the designated GMZs will be made by GDF, GDNPGW, and local
communities based on the principles set in the GMZ management plans. In case of
designating new GMZs outside of the forest land, if MARA sites (state farm, research
institutes, production stations, nurseries etc.) or Ministry of Culture sites (archaeological
ruins, protected areas etc) are preferred, it is likely that these could be sustained. In order
to sustain the efforts, one of the major conditions to be fulfilled is maintaining a
continuous dialogue with the stakeholders, and public consciousness and concern. This
needs to be a joint effort by MOE, MOF and MARA. The collaboration among agencies
established by the Project will be sustained once the Regional Board and Higher Board
for in-situ Conservation which are foreseen by the National Plan are operational.
34.   Another key condition in sustaining the in-situ conservation efforts will be the
provision of a recurrent budget. However, under the high inflation and fiscal deficit
circumstances in Turkey, governments, within the fundamental reform program of the
public sector, will continue to reduce state interventions. Therefore, in addition to the
government's provision of a recurrent budget, further key conditions for future
8



sustainability include the continuing commitment of the Turkish government, the
commitment by the users of plant genetic resources and natural ecosystems, keeping staff
up to date and upkeep of the equipment. The National Plan foresees the establishment of
a "National Fund" for the sustainability of the conservation of genetic diversity and
suggests a list of potential contributors. Furthermore, since the ultimate goal was to
provide on an on-going basis for now and into the future, the broad genetic base needed
globally for sustainable agriculture and forestry, ownership by the international
community reflected by provision of grant funds will also secure sustainability.
35.   The economic and financial sustainability of the GIS Center is questionable.
Training of staff in GIS and related technologies will likely lead to rapid turnover, even
given relatively high public sector salaries. Retention of skilled staff will only be
possible as long as the Center is involved in donor projects (offering training and
monetary incentives). Long-term sustainability will depend on the ability of MARA to
examine the feasibility of implementing the necessary institutional and procedural
changes to facilitate cost recovery and retentionlre-investment of revenue generated.
Recently, MARA has initiated some efforts towards this direction.
E. Bank Performance
36.   The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. In 1991, there was a very
successful World Bank/UNDP reconnaissance mission which i) provided information on
the GEF program, ii) shared with the Government specific project concepts that could be
funded by the GEF, and iii) assisted the Government in selecting several projects of
priority to the Government to be further developed for GEF funding. The missioln's
decision to support the Government's priority to include the "in-situ conservation of
plants genetic diversity" in the proposals was a right one. Later, the Bank very positively
and quickly responded to the client's request to prepare a project. A project preparation
mission visited Turkey in the spring of 1992 to gather information and seek input from
the Government for the GEF proposal. The information was included in the GEF project
proposal document and the Project was appraised in June, 1992.  The Bank's
performance in preparation and appraisal was excellent.
37.   During implementation, despite management and task team leadership changes
within the Bank, there has been continuity among team leaders, considerable team work
and high quality of the Bank's input which contributed substantially to the mutual trust
between the implementing agencies and the Bank. The transfer of task team leadership to
the field provided; i) proximity to the client which enhanced client responsiveness and
efficiency as well as cost savings, and ii) continuous rather than episodic supervision.
The "project team" spirit was very good and the Bank Task Team was a naturally
integrated part of that team. The supervision field tours were made together with the
agencies to review the progress. This paved the way for a better understanding and
harmonious planning of activities. Monthly coordination meetings organized by the
Bank where technical and administrative problems were discussed and solutions
solicited, also strengthened team spirit.  Procurement and disbursement workshops
organized and hosted by the Bank's Resident Mission helped the agencies to develop
9



their skills in managing Bank supported projects. The Bank also positively responded to
the Borrower's request for extension of Closing Date.
F. Borrower's Performance
38.   The project was implemented under a difficult political and macroeconomic
environment. After several years of large and growing fiscal deficits, the Government
launched a broad stabilization and reform program in 1994. The program focused on
fiscal adjustment based on large cuts in investment and personnel expenditures. A
moratorium on staff hiring, restrictions on procurement coupled with frequent changes of
ministers, management and senior staff in the implementing agencies contributed to a
difficult implementation environment.  Although externally financed projects were
treated comparatively better, there were still delays.
391.   Despite the initial delays due to reasons explained in para: 20, the Project
Coordinators in MARA, MOF and MOE (more recently) and the research institute
directors, staff made considerable progress and have overcome the difficulties. The
Project motivated the research scientists significantly. In the SAR, the agencies' limited
experience in working together was identified as the principal risk. However, the
mechanisms for cooperation (committee meetings) established by the Project worked
effectively with the support of the additional coordination meetings organized and hosted
by the Bank's Resident Mission. Good coordination and communication among the line
agencies were the major reasons for the improved implementation and accomplished
technical and scientific progress. There has also beern a high degree of continuity among
government agency staff at central and field institute level. This contributed to the
success of the Project.
40.   The Project achieved its objectives because of the devoted, competent project
coordinators and research scientist, particularly in MARA  and MOF.  MOE's
performance was less satisfactory than the others. Despite committed staff at the working
level, frequent changes at the ministerial level in MOE resulted in varying levels of
ownership and commitment to the Project. In addition to this, the implementation
responsibility frequently shifted among various departments as a result of on-going re-
organizations in the agency.  All of these factors prevented timely and effective
implementation by MOE. However, most of the delays were compensated toward the
end of the Project with the designation of a new coordinator.
G. Assessment of Outcome
41.   The Project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. It achieved its objectives; in-
situ conservation areas (22 GMZs) for non-woody and woody target species were
established, and institutional capacity in Turkey for preparing and implementing a
national strategy for in-situ conservation was developed. However, the implementation
took longer than planned. Despite the compensation of the initial delays, which mainly
occurred due to some administrative bottlenecks, the Grant Closing Date was extended
for a year due to some biological (such as key plants systems' failure to be reproduce)
10



and scientific (e.g. finding the appropriate laboratory methodology for wild plums and
chestnut) reasons which resulted in delays in the selection of the GMZs. The extended
period was fully utilized to complete the work and achieve the Project objectives.
H. Future Operation
42.   A plan for future operations has been agreed with MARA, MOF and MOE. It
contains the following arrangements: i) the ICR will be presented to SPO, Treasury,
MARA, MOF and MOE management by June 1999, ii) MOE will process the statutes
regarding the adoption of the National Plan and make these effective by the end of
CY99, iii) in view of the social study, MOE will organize stakeholder workshops in
Kazdagi and Bolkar Mountains by June, 1999, iv) respective research institutes, the
Regional Forestry Directorates and the Ceylanpinar State Farm Directorate will revise
the GMZ management plans by September 1999, v) within the established collaboration
framework, the relevant agencies will implement the management plans until the statutes
concerning the National Plan are effective, vi) for the 2000 investment program, a budget
will be submitted to the SPO by July 1999, vii) once the statutes become effective, the
Regional and the Higher Boards which were foreseen by the National Plan will be
established and will take over implementation and monitoring responsibility of the 22
GMZ management plans at the beginning of 2000, viii) the funding mechanisms which
were foreseen by the National Plan will be set by the Higher Board, ix) the priority
research topics identified by the National Plan will be included in research programs at
MOF and MARA, x) MARA will accelerate the process in implementing the necessary
institutional and procedural changes to facilitate cost recovery and retention/re-
investment of revenue generated.
43.   Throughout history, Turkey has been at the crossroads of cultures from Europe,
Asia and Africa where migrations have contributed to the diversity of the cultivated
plants. Landraces which have evolved under the influence of natural and human
selection pressure, can easily form hybrids with the cultivated crop and provide useful
genes in crop improvement programs were not included in the Project. Therefore, there
is a strong need to develop i) methods to promote conservation of landraces in the
communities where they are cultivated, and ii) programs which require linking economic
incentives with cultivation of traditional varieties. A follow-up project could be designed
to accommodate these needs and also provide support for the participatory management
of the GMZs established by the Project.
I. Key Lessons Learned
44.   There are a number of lessons to be learned from this Project:
* In-situ conservation efforts can only be successful if forestry, agriculture and
environmental agencies have an active role in coordinating these efforts and if the
communities living around the GMZs are thoroughly familiarized with the
proposed activities and participate in project management. In designing such
projects, sufficient funding should be provided to secure participation.
11



*  For projects which are technical in nature, training in the latest techniques and
technology should be provided at the start of implementation to avoid delays.
SAC is an effective tool in providing scientific guidance, establishing links with
related international institutions, facilitate international cooperation.
*  If project agencies have limited past experience in working together, PIC and
IMSC are effective mechanisms for cooperation. The Bank could act as a catalyst
to build such a collaboration.
*  Continuity of task teams both in the Borrower and the Bank side is extremely
important in developing and maintaining mutual trust and understanding, and
strengthening the team spirit.
*  To avoid delays and administrative risks from limited/lack of experience in Bank
procedures, an implementing agency should maintain a core team equipped with
necessary skills, experience and institutional memory to provide services to the
implementing units rather than leaving the procurement responsibility to a
different implementing  unit each  time.   Informal training  workshops,
question/answer sessions organized by the Bank could also help to improve
implementation performanice.
12



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1  Summary Of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Finanicing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
13



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
A. Achievement of objectives             (X)           (X)         (X)      applicable
(X)
Macro policies                        E             D           D2          E
Sector policies                       a             o           o           D
Financial objectives                  D             D           D           E
Institutional development             D3                       0D0          D
Physical objectives                                LZ           Fli           II
Poverty reduction                      O            nl          o 
Gender issues                         E            EIl          El          lS
Other social objectives               El                        E           El 
Environmental objectives                            E           El          El
Public sector management               nEl                      El
Private sector development              l           E           ElI
Other (specify)                        al           E           El
14



B. Project sustainability            Likelv                Unlikely          Uncertain
(X)                   (X)                (X)
Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory    Deficient
C. Bank performance                           (X)               (X)            (X)
Identification                             X
Preparation assistance                                       El Ci
Appraisal                                  X                                  I
Supervision                                Xi OO
Highly
Satisfactor       Satisfactor     Deficient
D. Borrower performance                       (X)                (X)            (X)
Preparation                                33
Implementation                            1X                                Cl
Covenant compliance                                          Ln
Operation (if applicable)                  3i aI
Highly                                    Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactor   Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome             (X)           (X)           (X)           (X)
E] Oi Oi
15



Table 2. Related Loans /Credits
Loan                        Purpose              Year of         Status
Approval
Establish priorities, formulate             Completed,
Biodiversity Strategy    policies and prepare an action plan  FY 95   ready for
publishing
Establish a hierarchy of                    Completed,
National Environment     environmental priorities, formulate  FY 95   donor
Action Plan (NEAP)       policies and concrete actions to deal        conference will
with the problems                           be organized
Eastern Anatolia
'W.atershed Rehabilitation    Rehabilitate degraded natural
Project                  resources, and increase productivity    FY94    On-going
(Loan 3567-TU)           and rural incomes
Strengthen the Government's
Agricultural Research    agricultural and forestry research
Project (Loan 3472-TU)    services to provide appropriate    FY93    On-going
technologies for solving farmers
problems and raise their incomes
to develop strategies to both improve
the living standards of forest village
communities and foster sustainable
Forestry Sector Review    management and rehabilitation of  FY97    On-going
forest resources which confer major
economic and environmental benefits
and include biodiversity of global
significance
To achieve decentralized,
participatory preparation and
GkEF II         implementation of cross sectoral             Under
management plans for priority               preparation
conservation sites in four of Turkey's
major biogeographic zones
16



Table 3: Project Timetable
Step  . projectcycl Date   Date actual/
Steps in project cycle   planned   latest estimate
Identification      10/18/1991     10/18/1991
Preparation         04/27/1992     04/27/1992
Appraisal           06/22/1992     06/22/1992
Negotiations         01/./1993      011./1993
Board Presentation  03/11/1993     03/11/1993
Signing             03/25/1993     03/25/1993
Effectiveness       07/26/1993     07/26/1993
Project Completion   3/31/1997      3/31/1998
Loan Closing        09/30/1997     09/30/1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97         FY98
Appraisal estimate     0.20     3.30     4.30     4.90     5.10
Actual                 0.19     0.35     2.26     3.49     4.33      5.18
Actual as % of estimate    95   10.6    52.6    71.2    84.9         102*
Date of final                                                     03/18/1999
disbursement
*/ due to change in the conversion rate
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in            Estimated    Actual
SAR/President's Report
Key implementation indicators were not used for this project
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key implementation indicators in SAR      I Estimated  I Actual
Key implementation indicators were not used for this project
17



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as
Study       defined at          Status             Impact of study
appraisal
/redefined
Technical                        Provided a basis for the
Survey/inventory   assistance to   Implemented      advanced survey and
Studies in Kazdagi MOF                             inventory activities
Provided guidelines for
Population                                          sampling of; i) centrally
Samaipling        Technical                         located populations, ii)
Guidelines for    assistance to    Implemented      populations representing
Bolkar Mountain   MOF                               extreme habitats, and
and Kazdagi                                        sampling of trees in a given
population
GMZ selection for  Technical                        It helped to estimate genetic
Bolkar Mountain    asstancet       Implemented      variation and based on the
and Kazdagi based  MOF                              data GMZs were selected
on genetic markers  M
It   will  facilitate  the
continuation of the in-situ
conservation activities in the
National Plan for   Techniical    Procedures initiated  country after the Project. It
in-situ          I assistance to  for the adoption by   sets the priority actions for
Conservation     MOE          the Government      the  future  and  designate
responsibilities to  various
institutions.
18



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Category      Local   Foreign                         Foreign
costs    costs     Total   Local costs   costs     Total
Civil Works      415,5    21,8      437,3      205,0 X              205,0
Goods            522,4   2,380,8   2,903,2    1,168,3    1 ,967,8   3,136,1
Consultants'
services and     508,2   1,187,7   1,695,9    648,8       806,4    1,455,2
training
Transport and
accommodationd   110,6    99,7     210,3      351,4        -       351,4
accommodation
Recurrent costs    288,8    137,0    425,8     317,5        -       317,5
Grand Total     1,845,5  3,827,0   5,672,5    2,691,0    2,774,2   5,465,2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Source              Local costs  Foreign costs  Total   Local costs Foreign costs Total
IBRD/IDA                1.3           3.8        5.1       2,41         2,77      5,18
Domestic contribution   0.6            -         0.6       0,28          -        0,28
TOTAL                1.9           3.8        5.7      2,69         2,77       5,46
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
These are inapplicable to this Project.
19



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
Covenant   Present    Original       Revised
Agreement Section       Type         Status    Fulfillment   Fulfil]      Description of Covenant                 Comments
Date        Date
TF 28632  4 01(a)    01          C                                Maintenance of financial tecords
and accounts
4 01(b)    01         C                               Audit submitted within 6 months
of end of FY
2 00      05          C                               Execution of pioject in accor dance  Yes, with some delay Continuc
witl project description             to monitor and assist through
supervision
4 1        05         C                               Pi ocurement of goods an services     Yes, with some delay Continue to
in accordance with aurangements      monitor and assist
described in Section I and II
4 1        05         C                               Establish and maintain a National
Steeling Committee
4 1       05          C                              Assign responsibility for implementing
Various parts of the project of MOF,
MARA and maintain a project
Implementation committee
4 1       05          C                              Employmeiit of consultanits, maintenance
of Scientific Advisory Committee Ensure a
adequate training under the project
Present Status:
C      -Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON  - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP     - Complied with Partially
NYD   - Not Yet Due
Covenant types:
I    Accounts/audit
2    Financial perfotmance/generate i evenue from beneficiaries
3    Flow and utilization of Project funds
4    Counterpart funding
5    Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6    Enmvironmental covenants
/    Involuntary resettlement
8    Indigenous people
Sp   Monitoring, review arid reporting
10   Implementation
I i   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12   Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13   Other
20



Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
No lack of compliance was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned                Revised                Actual
Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$   [ Weeks          US$
Preparation to appraisal*                                                   l
Appraisal                                                                   l
Negotiations through Board                                                  l
Supervision                       32.0       109.5       52.6       186.8       56.6       150.8
Completion                        4.1         9.6         4.1        11.8       4.0         9.0
TOTAL                            36.1        119.1       56.7       198.6       60.6       159.8
* This Project was prepared and appraised jointly with the Eastem Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3567-TU) and
processing costs have not been recorded separately
21



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Month/Year   No. of    Days in   Specialization'             Performance Ratings'          Types of
Stage of                       Persons   Field                       Implementation         Development  Problems3
project cycle                                                        Status                 objectives
Through
appraisal
Appraisal
through Boarcd
approval
Supervision         07/93         2         14          BS, A                                                A
05/94         2          -          IE, A                S                  S            A, P,CP
11194         3         16         E, IE, A             2                   1              A, P
03/95         2         19           A, F               S                   S              A,P
09/95         2         15           A, F               S                   S
05/96         2         10           A, F               S                   S
11/96         2         10           A, F               S                   S
06/97         3         11         A, F, GS              S                  S
08/97         1          7           GS                                                     PC
03/98         3         12         A, F, GS              S                  S
07/98         1          4           GS
09/98         2         14           A, F                S                 HS
Completion
Total          _
1- Key to Specialized staff skills:    2- Key to Performance Ratings:      3-Key to Types of
Problems:
A - Agronomist                    1. Highly Satisfactory                  A-Administrative
E - Economist                     2. Satisfactory                         P-Procurement
F1-  Forester                     HS-Highly Satisfactory                  PC-Project component
(GS- GIS Specialist
IE - Irrigation Engineer          S-Satisfactory
U-Unsatisfactory
* This Project was prepared and appi aised jointly with the Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3567-TU) and
processing costs have not been iecorded separately
22



APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY PROJECT
GEF Grant No. 28632-TU
GRANT RECIPIENT'S CONTRIBUTION
April 15, 1999
23



Achievements and Contributions of the Project
1.    The Project which was implemented during March 25, 1993-September 30, 1998
was successful, fully achieving its objectives. By complementing on-going ex-situ
activities, it developed the institutional and technical mechanisms for a comprehensive
strategy for genetic resource conservation in Turkey. It provided a model applicable in
other parts of the world also being innovative through the use of participatory approaches
between ministries for the siting, design and maintenance of GMZs. Some of the lessons
learned were disseminated to the international community through an International
Symposium held in 1996 in Antalya. Later a Final Progress Report was prepared jointly
by the three ministries which contained detailed description of all the activities
accomplished during the Project, including survey inventory data, maps, ecological
descriptions, copies of publications, and GMZ management plans etc. Throughout the
Project, both the implementing agencies and the Bank performed well, although there
were some delays on the MOE side which were compensated later.
2.    The Project achieved the selection of GMZs for the selected target species in
Cceylanpinar State Farm, Kazdagi and Bolkar Mountains, based on survey/inventory and
laboratory studies. MOF and MARA prepared GMZ management plans for the
appropriate management of these areas in the future to secure in-situ conservation of the
genetic diversity. These plans were prepared through a series of workshops where the
pr:inciples and guidelines were set. In order to continue the in-situ conservation activities
in the country after the Project, a "National Plan for in-situ Conservation" was prepared
which sets the priority actions for the future and designates responsibilities to various
institutions.
3.    Another important contribution of the Project was the staff training. It provided
significant support to the hands-on training (in the field and laboratory) of the research
scientists. For example, before the Project, MARA and MOF were not familiar with
conservation biology which is necessary in designing and implementing in-situ
management. The courses allowed MARA and MOF scientists to develop their skills in
this emerging discipline which employed the use of diverse sources of information
assimilated into the GMZ management plans. The level of knowledge gained enabled
participants to understand theory and practice of conservation biology as it relates to
populations, species, communities and ecosystems. Another area which impacted on the
success of this Project was the isoenzyme training and its application to biosystematics
problems. Biosystematics is a rapidly changing field as new biochemical techniques e.g.
isoenzyme analysis, are developed to identify the genetic composition of different
organisms. Before the Project, isoenzyme analysis which had been available for many
years were not widely used in either agriculture or forestry in Turkey. Through
theoretical and hand-on training and adding of more advanced biosystematic laboratory
capacity and data management skills, complemented existing strengths in conventional
botany at both MOF and MARA. The Project also provided training on GIS and Remote
24



Sensing. The level of knowledge gained enabled participants to manage data generated
by tlhe GEF and fiture projects.
4.    Through a number of meetings and workshops organized by the Project, the staff
had the opportunity to share their experiences and knowledge that they gained through in-
country and overseas training, survey/inventory studies in the priority areas and genetic
analyses in the laboratories. Since the Project aimed to test and develop a new approach
for the conservation of genetic diversity which has not been tried on a large scale
anywhere in the world, this sharing of knowledge and experience was extremely
important in achieving Project objectives.  The Project improved the research
infrastructure (laboratories, field, office and laboratory equipment, and vehicles). The
Project also financed a GIS Unit which was expanded later with the funds from the on-
going Agricultural Research Project. With its substantial capacity, the Center will be
used both by MOF and MOE based on a protocol signed by the Project agencies
5.    The Project assisted Turkey in becoming one of the most experienced countries in
in-situ conservation. Particularly, the "International Symposium on in-situ Conservation
of Genetic Diversity" held in 1996 played a significant role in promoting the country's
experience and the Project.
6.    The collaboration and the coordination among the three line agencies, MARA,
MOF and MOE during the life of the Project resulted in a smooth implementation. It
should be noted that these three agencies did not have a tradition of working together and
even today it is not very easy to say that working relationships are at the desired level.
However, this was achieved in this Project because the Project staff were devoted and
competent and committed to the Project objectives.
7.    One of the most important factors ensuring the success of the Project was the
administrative and technical support of the Bank's Task Team Leader. Proximity to the
line agencies resulted in significant efficiency and responsiveness. In addition to the PIC
meetings, the monthly coordination meetings organized by the Bank played a very
important role in ensuring coordination and collaboration among the line agencies. In
these meetings, action plans were prepared for the coming month, responsible agencies
were defined for each action and in the next meeting, all these were systematically
reviewed and evaluated, and new plans were prepared.  The disbursement and
procurement courses organized by the Bank for the central project staff contributed
significantly to the development of necessary skills in managing Bank financed projects.
Problems and Bottlenecks in Implementation
8.   In the first two years of implementation, delays occurred mainly due to the limited
experience in the World Bank procurement procedures including preparation of the
tender documents and tendering.
9.    The austerity measures of set by the Govermnent within the framework of the
broad stabilization and reform program also caused delays in procurement. Since the
25



Ministry of Finance had the control over the state expenditures, permission was required
for purchases which resulted in delays in provision of equipment and particularly
vehicles. However, the Project financed renting of vehicles and no field work was
hampered by these delays.
10.   There were also some scientific bottlenecks. For wild plum and chestnut, the
scientists spent considerable time and energy to determine the most appropriate
techniques for isoenzyme analyses despite technical assistance provided by the Project.
Tlherefore, for these species the GMZs were selected based on the morphological and
pomological characteristics due to the on-going laboratory work at the Project closing.
11.   Due to delays on the MOE side, the social study which would determine the
socio-economic structure of the villages and the relationship of the rural community with
the GMZ areas has just completed shortly after the Project Closing Date. Therefore, the
information has not been incorporated into the GMZ management plans yet.
12.   The Project agencies were not always successful in selecting the SAC members.
Some who were very competent, committed to the Project objectives, efficient and
demand-driven provided excellent technical guidance and support to the Project staff.
Sustainability and Future Operations
13.   The Government will provide necessary administrative and financial support for
the management of the GMZs established by the Project. Designation of the new GMZs
in the future will be realized based on the principles and mechanisms set by the National
Plan. Expecting the government to provide all the recurrent budget necessary to sustain
the conservation activities is not realistic under the existing and possible future
circumstances. Therefore, the "National Fund" which is foreseen by the National Plan
requires commitment by users of plant genetic resources and natural ecosystems. On the
other hand, international agencies should also provide grants for the sustainability of the
conservation of genetic diversity which is being and will be used regionally and globally.
14.   The management in MARA intends to secure the sustainability of the GIS Center
through some procedural changes to facilitate cost recovery and retention/re-investment
of revenue generated.
15-.   A follow-up project could be designed to address the in-situ conservation of
landraces and also provide support for the participatory management of the GMZs
established by the Project together with the rural communities. Landraces which are
genetically heterogenous crop populations are maintained in Turkey in traditional
farming systems characterized by small scale farms. Their yield is usually lower than
modem crop varieties but they are stable and can easily form hybrids with the cultivated
crop and provide useful genes in crop improvement programs. Since conservation of
these involves complex biological, social and policy issues which were beyond the scope
of the Project, as it was stated in the SAR, in-situ conservation of landraces could be
considered as a key element in a follow-up project.
26



APPENDIX B
SUPERVISION AND COMPLETION MISSION
SEPTEMBER 2-16, 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
TURKEY
IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF GENETIC DIVERSITY
(GEF GRANT NO: 28632)
A mission consisting of Ms. N. Durutan (Team Leader, ECCTR) and Messrs. S.
Krugman (Consultant, forester) and D. Gray (ENV, GIS Specialist) supervised the above
project during September 2-16, 1998. The mission visited the research institutes in
Ankara, Izmir and Tarsus/Mersin and selected GMZs in Bolkar Mountains. The mission
held discussions with the officials of Undersecretariat of Treasury, MOF MARA and
MOE. During July 20-24, 1998, the GIS component ofthe project was supervised by Mr.
D. Gray. The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the assistance, support and
courtesies extended during the supervision. The views of the mission and the agreemen-ts
reached with the project authorities contained in the Aide-memoire were discussed in the
wrap-up meeting on September 16, 1998 and subject to confirmation by the World Bank
management.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The overall progress is excellent. The project components almost fully completed
and the objectives were achieved. The mission would like congratulate all the project
agencies and their staff Only the social assessment activities which have not been
envisaged during the project preparation but arose as a needfor the sustainability of the
project activities and the preparation of the GMZ management plans ares still
continuing. Efforts are being made to complete the majority of the work before the
Closing Date.
With the completion of the Information Technology Management Plan
(ITMP) and associated training, the GIS Center can now be considered operational.
The mission wishes to congratulate the project agencies for the significant progress made
27



with regard to the GIS component The fbrthcoming Atlas and the various awards
received by the participants reflect the hard work of all concerned, notably the staff and
management of the GIS Center and the valuable input of the Consultants. It also
demonstrates the benefits which arise from cooperation between agencies. It is hoped
that this cooperation will continue to flourish beyond the project and that Turkey will
avoid the mistakes made by some other nations - where agencies fail to share data and
knowledge.
A web page is being preparedfor the project - to disseminate knowledge arising
from the project to the international community. The web page, which will be launched
on September 21st, will be hosted on the World Bank's server until such time that a
suitable server exists in one or more of the project agencies Once available, the HTML
code will be sent to the relevant agency. The project agencies have already made a
considerable amount of material available (e.g. the National Plan for In-Situ
Conservation) and have agreed to compile other documents, photos, papers, maps, etc
for inclusion on the web page.
A Final Progress Report will be ready before the Closing Date. This will be the
summary of all that was achieved during this project. It will serve as an evaluation of the
GFF Project for the Ministries involved and the World Ban. It can also serve as a model
for similar activities in Turkey and other countries, and as a document describing how
the Turkish GEF Project can form the basis of a regional or global approach to in-situ
conservation of wild crop relatives, it can be a basis for grant proposals to fund
ad'ditional projects in Turkey.
The Project Implementation Completion Report will be prepared by the Bank and
the implementing agencies by March 31, 1999. GDAR, as the Project Coordinator in
collaboration with GDAR/MARA, APK/MOF and GDEP/MOE, will make available to
th?e Bank not later than February 1, 1999 itsfinal evaluation report on the project. The
GDAR, MOF and MOE will also assist the Bank in gathering the necessary information
to complete the Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR), and will comment on
the Bank's draft ICR within one month of receiving it.
Project Administration
1.    The Interministerial Steering Committee (ISC) meeting which was organized by
MOE was held on April 24, 1998. The major decisions were: i) preparation of a statute
based on the National Plan for In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity in order to make
the Plan effective, ii) signing of the protocol by the project agencies to enable the joint
use of the GIS center.
2.    The Project Implementation Committee (PIC) meeting was organized by MARA
on, July 3, 1998 and decided to accelerate the on-going work related to: i) final progress
report, ii) GMZ management plans, and iii) public awareness and extension.
28



Participation and Public Awareness
3.    MOE hired a private consulting company in June, 1998 to carry out the baseline
survey and training program for the local communities in the Kaz and Bolkar Mountains.
However, due to a recently changed accounting rule that the public agencies and the
Central Bank of Turkey have to abide by, payment to the company was subject to a new
procedure which created some bottlenecks in starting the field work. The mission was
informed that the field work will be completed shortly after the Closing Date and the data
will be integrated into the GMZ management plans.
Survey/Inventory and Isoenzyme Studies
4.    The survey/inventory and isoenzyme analysis have been completed for the
majority of the target species except for Cedrus, Castanea and Prunus due to scientific
reasons (Appendix 1). For Cedrus, the seeds will be collected this year and the genetic
analysis will be started after the Closing Date. For Castanea sativa and Prunus
divericata, the attempts to determine the genetic diversity failed due to the problems in
methodology. Therefore, for the Aegean Agricultural Research Institute, an expert has
been provided from the Israel Institute of Technology/Telaviv and with her valuable
assistance, the initial difficulties regarding the methodology has been overcome and the
isoenzyme laboratory has become fully operational. The analysis are continuing and will
not be finalized before the Closing Date.
Selection of GMZs
5.    The mission would like to compliment the MARA and MOF project staff for their
excellent arrangements for finalizing the GMZ selection in Kaz and Bolkar Mountains in
May, 1998. For each pilot area workshops and field trips were organized and the
candidate GMZ were screened based on the established criteria by a joint group (research
scientists from MARA and MOF, representatives of MOE, local Forestry Directorates,
universities and the Bank). 5 GMZs were selected in Bolkars, 10 in Kaz Mountain and 6
in Ceylanpinar (Appendix 2).
Preparation of GMZ Management Plans
6.    A workshop has been organized by MOF for the preparation of the GMZ
Management Plans in Izmir during September 14-15, 1998. All the project staff, the
representatives of the Regional Directorates of Forestry, General Directorate of Forestry,
and the General Directorate of National Parks, Game and Wildlife attended the meeting
and the management for each GMZ was discussed in detail. The mission who had a
facilitation role in the workshop would like to compliment the participants for their
excellent contribution for the preparation of the management plans. It has been agreed
that these draft plans will be finalized by September 30, 1998 and will be
revised/updated/improved in future, as the new data is collected and new experience is
gained.
29



Data Management and GIS
7.    While the project agencies, using the facilities of the GIS Center, have completed
digitizing and map production for most of the twenty GMZ areas, those in the Bolkar
Mlountains have yet to be completed. The MOF have agreed to have their staff digitize
the base (forest) maps and GMZ-specific data. This work, which will commence by the
end of September, 1998 will be coordinated by Photogrammetry and Mapping
Center/MOF and carried out using their facilities and those of the GIS Center. The
resulting digital data will be made available to project agencies which request it.
8.    With the completion of the Information Technology Management Plan
(ITMP ) and associated training, the GIS Center can now be considered operational. The
rnission wishes to congratulate the project agencies for the significant progress made with
regard to the GIS component. The forthcoming Atlas and the various awards received by
the participants reflect the hard work of all concerned, notably the staff and management
of the GIS Center and the valuable input of the Consultants. It also demonstrates the
benefits which arise from cooperation between agencies. It is hoped that this cooperation
w:ill continue to flourish beyond the project and that Turkey will avoid the mistakes made
by some other nations - where agencies fail to share data and knowledge.
9.    The Protocol (Appendix 4), which has now been signed by all project agencies,
provides an excellent basis for such long-term cooperation. In the first instance, it is
hoped that the agencies can combine their efforts to contribute to the development of
management plans for the GMZ's. These will benefit greatly from the inclusion of GIS
products.
10.   A web page is being prepared for the project - to disseminate knowledge arising
from the project to the international community. The web page, which will be launched
on September 21 st, will be hosted on the World Bank's server until such time that a
su:itable server exists in one or more of the project agencies. Once available, the HTML
code will be sent to the relevant agency. The project agencies have already made a
considerable amount of material available (e.g. the National Plan for In-Situ
Conservation) and have agreed to compile other documents, photos, papers, maps, etc
for inclusion on the web page. These should be sent to the Bank's Country Office - and
wi l be returned, where necessary.
National Plan for In-situ Conservation
12.   MOE has initiated the work regarding the adoption of the Plan by the
government; a draft statute has been prepared and submitted to the Legal Department of
MOE. After being reviewed by MOF and MARA the statute will be finalized and
submitted to the Ministerial Cabinet. Once it is endorsed by the Cabinet and published in
the Official Gazette it will become effective. MOE is making effort to complete the
procedures before the end of the project.
30



Final Progress Report
13.   The draft final report which is the summary of all that was accomplished during
the life of the project has been prepared. The mission is very impressed with the
comprehensive nature of the information collected by the project agencies which will
undoubtedly attract significant interest by the international community via the web page.
It has been agreed that the final version will be ready by the Loan Closing Date,
September 30, 1998.
Procurement and Disbursement
14.   By September 9, 1998 the undisbursed amount is US$418,273.22. It is estimated
that about US$$330,000 more could be used by the three agencies for the on-going
procurement of additional goods and services and, for the existing commitments
(Appendix 5).
15.   The mission reviewed the requests submitted by MOE and MARA concerning
some GIS equipment and issued no objection. The mission would like to remind to the
agencies that payments can only be made by the Bank for the coming 4 months for the
goods, and services that have been provided on or before the Closing Date. In other
words, disbursements after Septenmber 30, 1998 will be limited to services performed,
goods shipped or delivered, would not cover services or goods which are only contracted.
Guidelines for the Implementation Completion Report to be prepared
16.   GDAR, as the Project Coordinator in collaboration with GDAR/MARA,
APK/MOF and GDEP/MOE, will make available to the Bank not later than February 1,
1999 its final evaluation report on the project. The GDAR, MOF and MOE will also
assist the Bank in gathering the necessary information to complete the Bank's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), and will comment on the Bank's draft ICR
within one month of receiving it.
17.   The GDAR's report is expected to be ten pages or less and to be incorporated in
full and unedited to the ICR. If the report is longer than ten pages, GDAR will prepare a
summary of it less than ten pages to be incorporated into the ICR. The mission provided
GDAR with guidelines for the evaluation report, and with examples of ICRs.
18.  It has been agreed that GDAR Deputy General Director (also the project
coordinator) and the Deputy Project Coordinator will be in charge of preparing the
evaluation ( in collaboration with the project management units in MOF and MOE) of
providing to the Bank the information required to complete its own report, and of
preparing the comments to the draft ICR to be submitted by the Bank.
31



19.   The following topics should be addressed in the ICR section to be prepared by
GDAR:
* the assessment of project objectives, design and implementation;
* the evaluation of MARA's, MOE's and MOF's performance during the
preparation, appraisal and implementation stages of the project with specials
emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;
* the evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the preparation,
appraisal and implementation of the project with special emphasis on lessons
learned;
* the plan and timetable for the completion of the project defining the indicators
to be used to monitor project implementation.
32



MAP SECTION



! 251                                                3'0                                                  35'                                                   4b                                                     4 45-
BU LG AR IA A,_-
BULGARIA7S'~\~.-..- \GEORGIA
-    olstanbul 
-'                0Izm~~                                 ~~"'--v                                                                               - /
.  -  .   -             -, :2 =; = 9Izm t   .  .    KarJderno                                     ,' -   1 ARMENIA
, KAZDAGI NATIONAL F                                                   F          SARCH INSTITUTE
g @ KAZDAGI NADONAL FOREST                     '    Fi.-J CROPS RLSEARLCH INSTITUTE
xX -                                         Eskisehir                                   Kirikkrle
1~~~~~  L\ ~~~~~~~~'ANKARA  ~
/  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~SivasI                                                                                                           )      i'
(5   '3 j.  i .PLA4NT &ZMBIE7C RE5OURcE Zo-SERC(1 INSEat P tPiPRi)hcA  ij'B.  \                                                                              
AG EAM AGRLLAULTURAL RESEARCH IWERTUEM AARI)   -'                                                                                                                   va
-z
/ ~    /  Mene9OeO-  ~IAfyo.                                                                                                                                                     J 
_RzmirE                                                                                          ay
I I T  STRY            OFL GENCEI IDIVESIT                                                    0
Aydin       /~L F  
<~~~~~~~>~ '9                                                                                                                             INENAINL-ONDRE
'*'  '~~~~~~  Den~~~~~zh0                     C           0~~~~~KonyciACDA
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CEYLANPINAR STATE FARM                                                                           .---.P.
0 A                                 e
_  G oup, arly udamell! on tEe legol stafQsof plry teir;tl-y, ar Pl                                            o 
so ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- 30aoL -5                                                                                                                                                   / 04 
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  ,
Iskenerun~    ~*  SYRIAN  ARAB  REP.
TURKEY
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY SUB-PROJECT:,WL  HETZN
3   IN-SITUI CONSERVATION  OFG N TI                               IERIYRESEARCH INSTITUTES35
_______  OF   GENETIC  DIVERSITY                                                                                          0      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED GENE MANAGEMENT ZONES
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED                                                                                                                                       (APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS)
REHABILITATION  PROJECT                                C Y P R U S                                                                            ,iAC)  ELEVATIONS, 1,000 METERS AND ABOVE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS 0         100          200          300          LEBANON/
< h       hi  p ,, -l                  ,,f Th.W  l81,f 
'0                                     310~~~~~~f ,""-                                              31



IMAGING
Report No.:        19248
-. ~,                          Type:    ICR



