Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE. ONLY
Report   7174a-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
May 20, 1988
Agriculture Operations Division
Asia Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their olUcicl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed   t   World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            -           NRs 21.9 a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                        -  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mcu m)        =  810 acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
1 cubic meter per second (cu m/sec)  =  35.31 cubic food per second (cfs)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)          = 0.028 cubic meters per second (cu m/sec)
1 kilogram (kg)                       =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (t)                       = 2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
a/ The (official and free market) exchange rate at the time of appraisal.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN     -       Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -       Agricultural Inputs Corporation
DAO      -       District Agriculture Office
DIO      -       District Irrigation Office
DG       -       Director General (DOI and DOA)
DOI      -       Department of Irrigation
DOA      -       Department of Agriculture
ERR      -       Economic Rate of Return
HMGN     -       His Majesty's Government of N1ep-l
HYV      -       High-Yielding Variety
ICB      -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -       International Development Association
LCB      -       Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      -       Limited International Bidding
LRD      -       Land Pevenue Department
HIDB     -       Mahakali Irrigation Development Board
M&E      -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MWR      -       Ministry of Water Resources
NFC      -       Nepal Food Corporation
NPC      -       National Planning Commission
O&M      -       Operation and Maintenance
T&V      -       Training and Visit System
WUA      -       Water User Association
WUG      -       Water User Group
WUO      -       Water User Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . ......................... ....... .    iv
I.   BACKGROUND ...................................................       1
Agriculture in Nepal .......    ..................................   1
Background and Organization of the Irrigation Subsector   ......     2
Irrigation Development Prospects and Constraints ..2........... 
Past Bank Support for Irrigation Development ..       ...............  4
Performance of Mahakali Stage I. .....l..............                5
Rationale for IDA Involvement ...............................        5
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ..............................................       6
Mahakali Stage II Project Area ...............................       6
Irrig-tion Line of Credit Project Area ................              6
Flcod !.ehabilitation Project Area ....................              7
III.  THE PROJECT             ........      ..........................................    8
Project Scope and Objectives ............... ..8................ 
Mahakali Irrigation Project Stage II ................                8
Irrigation and Drainage Facilities ...................  ...     8
Agricultural Intensification Support ................  ....   10
Farmer Organization Support .............................   10
Training        ................................................    11
Administration, Establishment and O&M Support .......... .    11
Engineering and Consultant Services ..        ...................   12
Design, Construction and Commissioning ......... .........   12
Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Project ..        ....................   12
Scope and Objectives .................. ..................    12
Irrigation Subprojects     ................. .................   13
Irrigation and Agricultural Support Services ............   13
Subproject Credit Support ............. ..    ................   14
Flood Rehabilitation .................... .....................   15
DOI Institutional Development Support .....     ...................   15
Strengthening of DOI Regional and District Offices ......   16
DOI Headquarters Renovation and Strengthening .... .......   16
DOI Human Resource Development .........      .................   16
Sector Program Development Support ....       ..................   16
Monitoring, Evaluation and Management Information .......   17
Specialized Consultant Services, Training, and Studies ..   17
This report is based on the findings of a February 1988 appraisal mission com-
prising Messrs. R. Reidinger, Y.K. Choi, R. Siy and Ms. N. Mattson (IDA),
Messrs. D. Campbell, W. Barber and L. Rijk (C).



-ii-
IV.   PROJECT  COSTS,  FINANCING AND  DISBURSEMENTS  ....................                                 19
Project Cost  Estimates  ........................................                                  19
Financing ........  19
Procurement  ...... .......                  .....................................                 20
Disbursements                 ....................................              ............       22
Accounts  and Audits                      ...........................................              23
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...............                     ..       .................        25
Mahakali  Irrigation  Project  Stage  I  .............................  25
Mahakali  Irrigation  Development  Board  ...................                              25
Project Manager  .........................................                                 26
Project Authority  Organization  ...    ......................                             26
Staffing                  ................................................                 26
System Water Management  ... I                    .............................            26
Water  User Organizations  ................................                                26
Project Coordination  Committee  ............................   27
Monitoring,  Evaluation  and Reporting  ....................                               27
Irrigation  Line  of  Credit  Pilot  Project  ......................                              28
Ministry  of Water  Resources  .............................                               28
Department  of Agriculture  ...............................                                28
Agricultural  Development  Bank  of Nepal  ...............                       ...       29
Water User  Organizations  ................................                                29
Flood Rehabilitation and Institutional Development Support ...    30
VI.   AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION AND  BENEFITS  .........................                                   31
Mahakali  Stage  II  ............................................                                  31
Cropping  Patterns  .......................................                                31
Crop  Yields  .............................................                                31
Crop  Production  .........................................                                31
Market  Prospects  ........................................                                32
Prices                ..................................................                   32
Farm  Incomes  and  Impact  on Poverty  ......................                             32
Cost  Recovery  in  the Mahakali  Irrigation  Scheme  ...........                       ...       32
Irrigation Line of  Credit  Project  ............................                                 34
Cropping  Patterns  and Yields  ............................                               34
Marketing  and Prices  ....................................                                34
Farm  Incomes  and  Impact  on  Poverty  ......................                            34
Recovery  of  Investment  Costs  from  Farmers  ............                     ...       35
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND  JUSTIFICATION  ...........                       ..       .............      36
Economic Analysis                             ................  36
Environmental  Effects  ........................................                                  38
Project  Risks                   ................................................                 39
VIII.   AGREEMENTS  AND  RECOMMENDATION  ................................                                    41



-111-
ANNEXES:
Annex 1. Tables
Table 1:   Climatic Data                                             44
Table 2:   ILC Identified Surface Irrigation P6rential in the
Western Development Region (Narayant Basin Only)        45
Table 3:   ILC Potential Subprojects                                 46
Table 4:   Summary Accounts by Project Components                    47
Table 5:   Project Components by Year                                48
Table 6:   Summary Accounts by Year                                  49
Table 7:   Financing Plan by Summary Accounts                        50
Table 8:   Estimated Disbursement Schedule                           51
Table 9:   Credit Allocation                                         52
Table lOas Mahakali Stage II Without Cropping Patterns               53
Table lOb: Mahakali Stage II With Cropping Patterns                  54
Table 11:  Mahakali Stage II Crop Yields and Inputs                  55
Table 12:  Summary of Financial and Economic Prices                  56
Table 13:  Estimated Incremental Rent and Cost Recovery              57
Table 14:  Financial Analysis for Model ILC Subprojects              58
Table 15:  Procurement Methods                                       59
Annex 2.   Project Component Areas                                        60
Annex 3.   Mahakali Stage II Component: Summary Description of
Irrigation Facilities                                   66
Annex 4.   Mahakali Stage II Component: Agricultural Support Services  68
Annex 5.   Mahakali Stage II Component: Farmer Organization Activities 70
Annex 6.   Mahakali Stage II Component:  Guidelines and Concepts for
System Operation                                        76
Annex 7.   Irrigation Line of Credit:  Implementation Guidelines and
Procedures                                              79
Annex 8.   Flood Rehabilitation Component:  Design and Construction
of Works                                                88
Annex 9.   Mahakali Stage II Component:  Project Organization             90
Annex 10.  Assumptions for Mahakali Stage II Financial and
Economic Analysis                                       92
Annex 11.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   95
CHARTS:
1.  Organizati'n Chart for DOI                                            97
2. Organization Chart for Mahakali Irrigation Scheme
Project Authority                                                 98
3.  Mahakeli Stage II Cropping Calendar                                   99
4.  Irrigation Line of Credit Subproject Implementation Proredures    100
MAPS:
1.  Mahakali Irrigation I1 Project Component Areas (Map 19997)
2.  Mahakali Irrigation Scheme Stages I and II (Maps 19998 and 20715)



-iv-
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:         Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:    Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
Amount:            SDR 23.9 million (US$ 41.3 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Description:       The project would comprise:  (a) the Mahakali Stage II
Irrigation Project comprising construction of irrigation and
drainage facilities to serve an additional 6,800 ha under the
Mahakali Irrigation Project; (b) an Irrigation Line of Credit
pilot project to finance subprojects for construction of new
small and medium surface and groundwater irrigation schemes
and rehabilitation of existing surface schemes to cover a
total of about 9,000 ha and be operated and maintained by
farmer groups; (c) emergency Flood Rehabilitation works to
repair flood-damaged irrigation and river control facilities;
and (d) Institutional Development Support to help the
Department of Irrigation strengthen its capability for sector
program development and implementation.
Benefits:         Agricultural production is expected to increase by some NRs
170 1 annually. Some 100,000 people would directly benefit.
Emergency Flood Rehabilitation benefits were not estimated.
Risks:            With regard to the major component, Mahakali Stage II, there
is a risk that full projected benefits will depend on
disciplined operation based on irrigation scheduling to
maximize production with the dry season water available.
This risk has been mitigated 'by including a small amount of
supplemental water from augmentetion tujewells. Risks for
the Line of Credit component are somewhat higher, as the
Department of Irrigation's farmer organization capability
will have to be strengthened and expanded. However, the
project includes substantial support for institutional
strengthening. Risks for the Emergency Flood Rehabilitation
component are low, as the Department of Irrigation has had
substantial experience with such works under its ongoing
programs.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign       Total
(USS million)
Mahakali Stage II
Irrigation and Drainage           8.0      12.3          20.3
Farmer Organization               0.2       --            0.2
Agricultural Support              0.4       0.1           0 5
O&M                               0.1       0.3           0.4
Irrigation Line of Credit              5.5        2.5          8.0
Flood Rehabilitation                   2.2        3.7          6.0
Institutional Development Support      1.2        1.7          2.9
Total Base Cost                       17.6      20.6          38.1
Physical Contingencies               1.5       2.4           3.9
Price Contingencies                  2.2       2.4           4.6
Total Project Cost                    21.3      25.4          46.7
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign       Total
(USS million)
IDA                                   16.4      24.9          41.3
HMGN/Farmers                           4.9        0.4          5.4
TOTAL                                 21.3      25.4          46.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Year    FY89     FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96    FY97
-----------------------------(US$ million)------------------------
Actual       3.8       8.0     8.8     6.7      5.2    4.8     3.0    1.0      0.1
Cumulative   3.8     11.8    20.6    27.2    32.4   37.2    40.2   41.2    41.3
Economic Rate of Return: 16? (For Mahakali Stage II component)
35? (Fo, Irrigation Line of Credit component)



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Agriculture in Nepal
1.01     Nepal is a landlocked country with a total area of 147,000 sq km
situated between China and India. Its population in 1988 totals about 18
million, of whom 942 lived in rural aireas. Population growth between 1970
and 1986 has averaged 2.6Z a year. The country can be divided into three
broad ecological zones -- the Mountains, the Hills and the Terai. The
Nepal Terai plain, part of the Gangetic basin, accounts for only 16Z of the
total area but 90? of the country's cultivable land and is the center of
agricultural production in the country.
1.02     Agriculture, largely rainfed, dominates the country's economy.  In
1986/87, it accounted for 59Z of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), contributed
about 702 of total export earnings, and provided employment to 912 of the
working population. Increasing pressure on land due to rapid population
growth has led to a situation where self sufficiency in food production is
dependent on better than average rainfall. During the past decade, the
production of foodgrains has grown at only 1.5? per year compared to growth
in production of cash crops of 5? per year. However, due to the large
proportion of grain production in the total (94? of the area sown), the
overall annual rate of production growth was only 1.6?. The National
Planning Commission targets for the agricultural production call for an
annual growth rate of about 52. This goal appears to be difficult to
achieve, especially compared to historical growth rates. For growth in
agricultural production to keep pace with population, irrigated area needs
to expand by an eatimated additional 35,000 ha each year.
1.03     Agriculture in Nepal is characterized by small-scale subsistence
farming, Most of the cultivation is performed by human and bullock labor.
In general, the agricultural sector has been slow to adopt improved
practices. Crop yields are generally low, but could be increased
considerably with effective irrigation, the use of improved seeds, proper
fertilizer and pesticide application, and improved farming methods. In
1984/85, fertilizer consumption averaged about 15.0 kg/ha and only 38? of
the foodgrains area was under high-yielding varieties (HYVs).



-2-
Background and Organization of the Irrigation Subsector
1.04     Nepal has abundant surface and groundwater irrigation resources.
About 802 of Nepal's potential irrigated atea is on the Terai. It is
estimated that river discharges average about 150 billon cu m/yr.
However, only about 1.3 M ha of land are suitably located for command by
gravity, of which about 0.4 M ha are already irrigated. Exploitable
groundwater 'esources could irrigate about 0.6 M ha, of which 0.1 M ha have
so far been developed.
1.05     The development of surface water irrigation was initiated
centuries ago by farmers who built temporary weirs to direct river flows
into ungated intakes. Most of the schemes were in the Hills until the
1920s, when development started to expand into the Terai. Many such
schemes are in operation and some have been improved through government
assistance. In total, farmer-managed irrigation schemes account for about
70Z of the total irrigated area in Nepal. The Agricultural Development
Bank of Nepal (ADBN) has supported private sector irrigation with loans to
individuals for minor irrigation and for shallow tubewell development.
ADBN has also provided a few loans to farmer groups for the rehabilitation
or improvement of small schemes.
1.06     The Department of Irrigation (DOI) under the Ministry of Water
Resources (MWR), established in 1951 and headquartered in Kathmandu, is
responsible for the planning, design, construction and management of all
public sector irrigation systems in Nepal. Regional Directorates are
located in each of the five regions of the country. DOI is headed by a
Director-General and is currently structured with central divisions for
Planning and Design, Construction and Administration, each headed by a
Deputy Director-General. Major irrigation projects are executed by DO! and
are managed by centrally-controlled project boards or by DOI. In late
1987, the irrigation development units of the Ministry of Panchayat and
Local Development and the Farm Irrigation and Water Utilization Division of
the Ministry of Agriculture were both integrated into DOI. A new DO!
organizational structure has recently been proposed, which includes the
establishment of DOI district-level offices and a new division responsible
for small-scale irrigation (Chart 1).
Irrigation Development Prospects and Constraints
1.07     Subsector Strategy.  Overall HMGN and IDA irrigation strategy
emphasizes: expansion or rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems;
improvement in the efficiency of existing irrigation facilities,
particularly through more effective operation and maintenance (O&M);
provision of adequate agricultural support services; and institutional
development to strengthen the capacities of key implementing agencies,
especially skills in system management and in organizing water user groups
to take responsibility for O&M. Recent HMGN policy initiatives have
focused specifically on establishing a framework for a long-term irrigation
sector lending program. The proposed project would support this policy
through the Irrigation Line of Credit pilot project component. Specific
sectoral objectives of the pilot project would be to:



-3-
(a) establish a "subsector program" approach which would
support national objectives, in place of the "project-by-
project" approach of the past, and enable donors to provide
large scale, long term support to small schemies which are
individually too small to justify involvement;
(b) make the program as "demand driven" as possible, based on
local felt needs and demands, in contrast to traditional
"supply driven" projects;
(c) help develop, test and establish effective subproject
selection criteria and implementation procedures which would be
the basis for operating the subsector program; and
(d) reduce the burden of irrigation costs on HMGN's budget,
particularly for O&M of completed projects, through increased
farmer participation to cover full O&M and a share of capital
costs.
1.08     To meet these sectoral o)jectives, HMGN conisiders farmer
participation in irrigation planning, construction and management as
especially important in view of limited HMGN budget resources available for
government O&M of completed projects. This has led HMGN to give priority
to the development and improvement of farmer-managed irrigation, and to
adopt the sector program approach to promote private sector irrigation.
For this program to succeed, DOI will need to gradually develop the
appropriate project cycle procedures and institutional capability to
implement the program on a nation-wide basis. The proposed project aims to
build these necessary capacities in DOI through a "learning process"
approach, drawing lessons from the pilot project in order to refine and
improve management systems and field operating procedures.
1.09     Constraints.  Less than a third of the surface water irrigation
potential of Nepal has been developed, and most of the remaining potential
is located on the Terai where about 940,000 ha could be developed using
surface water sources. However, the constraints to developing this
potential include:
(a) Cost of Headworks. The main sources of reliable perennial
water supply are provided by eight major or medium-sized
rivers, but they require large investments in headworks
relative to the small areas that can be commanded;
(b) Siltation. Most rivers in Nepal carry heavy sediment loads
which cause operational problems and high maintenance costs
for irrigation systems;
(c) Financial Constraints. A large proportion of the Terai
surface irrigation potential must bf developed by the public
sector because of size, technology ;nvolved, sy'tem
management requirements, and high capital investment costs.
The rate of development is therefore limited by Government
budget constraints which are severe; and



-4-
(d)  Riiarian ConiAderations.  Riparian concerns may limit
development of new surface irrigation projects. This is
perhaps the most difficult constraint facing HMGN's long-run
irrigation strategy.
1.10     In recent years, groundwater development, mainly through shallow
tubewells owned by individuals, has become an important source of
irrigation. It is currently the least-cost option for expanding irrigated
area, yields quick returns, and moreover is not a financial burden on
HMGN's budget. However, prospects for future growth in individual demand
for such tubewell development are limited due in part to small and
fragmented land holdings. Expanding private groundwater development
through group owned and managed facilities, however, has good
possibilities and is included on a pilot basis under tha proposed project.
Past Bank Support for Irrigation Development
1.11     IDA became involved in irrigation development in Nepal in 1973.
To date, IDA hac supported seven major irrigation projects, of which four
have been completed. Together, they provide improved surface water
irrigation facilities in about 36,000 ha and groundwater irrigation for
about 6,000 ha. IDA has also financed three rural developrent projects
with irrtgation components. In addition to financing the ajove projects,
IDA serves as Executing Agency for two UNDP finatnced projects: (a)
Preparation of Medium Irrigation Projects in the Hill zone of Central
Nepal (UNDP-NEP/80/033) which is now complete; and (b) the Irrigation
Planning and Design Strengthening Project (UNDP-NEP/85/013).
1.12     Four IDA-assisted irrigation projects are ongoing:  Mahakali
Irrigation Proiect (Stage I) (Cr. 1055-NEP, US$16.9 M, 1978) which will
close in December 1988; Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater II Project (Cr.
1316-NEP, US$16.0 M, 1983) which finances the completion of Stage I works,
O&H of the completed wells during the five-year implementation period, and
introduction of improved designs for construction of new tubewell systems;
Naravani Irrigation III Project (Cr. 1715-NE&, US$24.5 M and Swiss
Government Grant US$7.5 M, 1986) which is designed to complete the
development of the irrigation and drainage system of the 37,000 ha Nepal
Eastern Canal Command; and Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Proiect (Cr.
1814-NEP, US$40 M, 1987) which will extend irrigation to an additional
16,700 ha and provide desilting facilities for Stages I and II.
1.13     Several other IDA-financed projects include small-scale
irrigation components. The Second Rural Development Project (Cr. 939-NEP,
US$11.0 M, 1979) finances improvement of small scale irrigation schemes in
the hills of the MahaKali Zone. The Third Rural Development Project
(Cr. 1727-NEP, US$19.1 M, 1986) includes construction of 28 small-scale
irrigation schemes and rehabilitation of 18 existing schemes in the hill
districts of Rasuwa and Nuwakot in the Bagmati Zone, construction of four
medium scale irrigation schemes, and rehabilitation of two existing medium
schemes. The Hill Food Production Project (Cr. 1101-NEP, 'JS$12.8 M, 1981)
finances improvement of small farmer-managed schemes totalling about 3,000
ha.



-5-
Performance of Mahakali Stage I
1.14    After a slow start, implementation of the Mahakali Stage I Project
proceeded rapidly, and the project is now physically complete. With the
successful on-site establishment of a Pilot Farm and training center,
agricultural intensifica*ion has had exceptional results. In terms of
cost recovery, the project's water charge collection efficiency is the
highest among the public surface irrigation systems in Nepal. The main
lessons learned during iiplementation include the need to:  establish
viable tertiary level water distribution regimes; strengthen the O&M
establishment; establish water users groups at an early stage and involve
them in tertiary level design and construction; improve water charge
collection mechanisms; and provide adequate extension services. These
lessons have been reflected in the preparation and design of the proposed
Stage II project.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.15     IDA assistance enables HMGN, which faces severe budget
constraints, to develop irrigation infrastrLcture and exploit irrigation
potential more rapidly. In addition, IDA participation facilitates
coordination among the various donors who support irrigation development
in Nepal, and assists HMGN with introduction of new concepts of design,
planning and operation of irrigation schemes. In line with HMGN's current
strategy, a new key concept is increased farmer participation and
responsibility in irrigation development and management. This is
essential to reduce HMGN budgetary requirements for O&M and enable
concentration of limited budget resources on activities that farmers
cannot assume. However, the concept is largely new to Nepal's irrigation
establishment, and it is essential to develop the necessary skills and
capabilities to implement the concept. For the Mahakali Stage II
component of the project, IDA involvement would help ensure that, in the
transition from construction to full system operation, such innovations
are institutionalized by the project authority and made permanent at the
project level. The Irrigation Line of Credit pilot project would help
develop HMGN's new strategy into an operating sector investment program
based on mobilizing local resources for irrigation development and
management. The Flood Rehabilitation component provides IDA support of
emergency repairs to recently damaged river protection and irrigation
works which are needed to maintain food production. Finally, the
Instituitional Development Support component is designed to help DOI
develop the necessary capabilities to implement a large scale subsector
program, and in particular establish farmer organization and participation
as an integral part of DOI operations.



-6-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Mahakali Stage II Project Area
2.01     Location.  The Mahakali Irrigation scheme is in Kanchanpur
District of Nepal's Far Western Region. The Mahakali Stage I project
serves 4,800 ha lying between the Mahakali and Chaudar rivers and extending
southwards from the Mahakali main canal. The Mahakali Stage II project
area totals about 6,800 ha, bordered by the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife
Reserve Forest to the west, a national forest reserve in the north, the
Kapti Nala in the east, and the Mahakali river and the Indian border to the
south. A description of natural, social and agricultural conditions in the
project area is provided in Annex 2.
2.02     Water Supply. The surface water supply for the project area is
the Mahakali river which runs adjacent to the project area along Nepal's
western border with India. Mean monthly discharges range from 130 cu m/sec
in May to more than 11,000 cu m/sec in the wet season. Sediment
concentrations are high during the monsoon period. However, silt in the
Mahakali has not been a serious problem compared to projects on rivers of
the central and eastern Terai, and, in addition, silt control facilities
would be installed under the proposed Stage II project. Water for the
Stage I and proposed Stage II area is diverted from the Mahakali at the
Sarda Barrage. Located entirely within Indian territory about 1.0 km from
the border, the Sarda Barrage is owned and operated by India, supplying
Nepal's Mahakali project according to a fixed seasonal allocation under a
1920 agreement between HMGN and the Government of India. Under the
agreement, Nepal receives 13 cu m/sec during the wet season (15 May to 15
October) which can be increased to 28 cu m/sec if a surplus is available.
During the dry season (15 October to 15 May), Nepal receives 4.25 cu m/sec
(the agreement actually stipulates a dry season delivery of 8.5 cu m/sec
during alternate 10 day periods, but to date, India has always supplied the
water on a continuous basis of 4.25 cu m/sjc).
2.03     Riparian Considerations.  With regard to water supply for the
Mahakali scheme, the project is designed to allow Nepal full use of the
water allocated under the 1920 agreement with India. Notification of India
regarding water supply is therefore not required. With regard to Mahakali
Stage II flood protection works, it is IDA's assessment that the proposed
works will not cause appreciable harm to the downstream riparian and, in
fact, would result in flood protection benefits in Indian territory. In
accordance with IDA's policy, the Government of India was notified on
January 15, 1988 about these works, and has raised no objection.
Irrigation Line of Credit Project Area
2.04     Location and Access.  Subprojects under the irrigation line of
credit pilot project would be implemented in two distinct subproject areas,
one covering the Nawalparasi district in the Terai and the other covering
four Hill districts in the Gandaki zone (Narayani River basin). Both



-7-
subproject areas are located in the Western Development Region and are part
of the Narayani river basin for which use of water is covered under an
existing agreement with India (dated 1959 as amended in 1964). The
administrative centers of the selected districts are accessible by road,
but the majority of irrigation schemes in the hill districts can only be
reached by foot. Because all new surface subprojects will use water only
from the Narayani basin from rivers originating entirely in Nepal, under
IDA's policy, riparian notification is not required.
2.05     Subproiect Districts:  Line of credit subprojects would initially
be implemented in the following districts:
District       Western Region      District HQ      Identified
Name          Location            Access a/        Area b/cl
Nawalparasi        Terai              Yes            3,600 ha
Tanahu            Hills               Yes            3,500 ha
Gorkha            Hills               Yes            4,500 ha
Lamjung           Hills               Yes            2,500 ha
Syangja           Hills               Yes         not available
a/ All weather road except Lamjung which is a dry season road.
b/ Identified by DOI's Feasibility Section, except Nawalparasi which
includes 1,600 ha of improvement of farmer-managed schemes
identified under UNDP project NEP/80/033 and about 2,000 ha
planned under the line of credit for small-group tubewells.
5l Does not include six proposed "turnover" subprojects
damaged by 1987 floods.
Flood Rehabilitation Proiect Area
2.06     Location and General Description.  Rehabilitation works proposed
under the project are mainly in the Terai portion of the Eastern and
Central Regions, and to a lesser extent in the Hill areas of the Western
Region. The districts involved are: Jhapa, Morang, Sunsari, Udaypur,
Saptari, Siraha (all Terai areas) in the Eastern Region; Dhanusha,
Mahottari, Sarlahi, Rautahat, Bara, Parsa and Chitwan (Terai and Hill
areas) in the Central Region; and Gorkha, Kaski, Lamjung and Syangja (all
Hill areas) in the Western Region. Rehabilitation of flood damaged canal
systems are also proposed for six Hill projects in Gorkha District of the
Western Region, namely Bhimsen Kulo, Arutar, Bhorletar, Sangepateni,
Mallatar, and Chorkate Tar. Since all flood rehabilitation works are to
restore flood damaged facilities and no new works are proposed, there would
be no change in downstream river regimes. Under IDA's policy, riparian
notification is therefore not required.



-8-
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Scope and Obiectives
3.01     The proposed project comprises four separate components: the
Mahakali Irrigation Project Stage II, an Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot
Project, emergency Flood Rehabilitation, and Institutional Development
Support for DOI. The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) raise
agricultural production and tarm incomes through expansion and management
improvement of a public irrigation system, through construction and
rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation schemes, and through
restoration of irrigation schemes and river protection works damaged by
August 1987 flooding; (b) improve O&M and cost recovery in irrigation
systems in the project areas through, inter alia, increased farmer
participation; and (c) strengthen Nepal's irrigation subsector,
particularly as needed to implement HMGN's new sector program approach to
irrigation investment.
Mahakali Irrigation Project Stage II
3.02     The Mahakali Stage II component of the project would include:  (a)
irrigation and drainage facilities for the 6,800 ha (net) Stage II area
located about 20 kms from Stage I, including canals, ;tructures, buildings,
and augmentation tubewells to supplement dry senson water; (b) agricultural
intensification support; (c) farmer organization zur,port; (d) training for
project staff and farmers; (e) administration, establishment and O&M
financing on a declining basis; (f) engineering and consultant services;
and (g) provisions for protection of wildlife in the Royal Suklaphanta
Wildlife Reserve along the right-of-way of the main canal extension.
Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
3.03     Main Canal Modifications. Extension and Road.   The Mahakali main
canal receives an assured water supply from the Sarda Barrage in Indian
territory under a 1920 agreement with India. The project includes
modification of the 14 km Mahakali main canal to carry the additional
discharge required for Stage II, mainly desilting facilities, enlarging
selected cross sections, and modification of one structure. The main canal
extension would run about 15 km through the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife
Reserve to the main Stage II service area, crossing three major rivers
(Annex 3). The main canal extension crosses permeable soils for part of
its length and would be lined with compacted selected fill where necessary.
The canal road for the main canal extension would be the main access to
Stage II and would be constructed to all-weather standards with gravel
surfaced top width of 4.5 m. With regard to the Suklaphanta Reserve,
environmental implications of the canal have been analyzed. To minimize
negative impacts on the Reserve, precautions would be taken during
construction to avoid harm to wildlife, ramped animal crossings into and
out of the canal would be provided at about half km intervals, and bridge
crossings would be incorporated into drop structures which would be



-9-
constructed at appropriate locations. Under the project, the impact of the
canal on the Reserve would be monitored and evaluated regularly (see paras.
3.14, 5.09 and 7.07) and specialized technical support would be provided
for wildlife population monitoring, development and management. HMGN has
given official approval for construction and operation of the main canal
extension in the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve. An agreement was
reached at negotiations that HMGN would provide the Department of National
Parks and Wildlife Conservation with guard posts at the Royal Suklaphanta
Wildlife Reserve in accordance with detailed plans and timetables
satisfactory to IDA. An understanding was reached at negotiations that
such plans and timetables would be provided to IDA by December 31, 1988.
3.04     Secondary and Tertiary Canals and Canal Roads.  The branch and
secondary network under the project would total some 125 km of unlined
canals (see Annex 3). They would be sized to operate on an 'on/off" basis
to provide a simultaneous flow equivalent to 1.0 1/sec/ha of command at the
heads of all offtaking tertiary canals. Canal inspection roads would be
gravel-surfaced and constructed to all-weather standards, as they would
provide primary public access for most of the interior service area, and
bridges would be provided where needed. The length of tertiary canals in
the Stage II area would total over 300 km, all unlined. Each tertiary
would serve a command of about 30 ha, with turnouts to blocks of about 4
ha. Within 4 ha blocks, farmer-built field channels would convey water to
farm plots. An understanding was reached at negotiations that a special
study to evaluate the comparative benefits, costs and cost recovery
arrangements for the 4 ha tertiary block design would also be financed
under the credit.
3.05     Auamentation Tubewells.  The Stage II project includes provision
for about 12 augmentation tubewells to provide dry season supplementary
water supplies of about 1.0 cu m/sec (see Annex 3). An understanding was
reached at negotiations that the actual number of tubewells to be installed
would be decided during the latter part of the project implementation
period.
3.06     Flood Protection and Drainage Works.  Some 40Z of the Stage II
area suffers substantial annual flood damage from the Chaudar, Mahakali and
Donda Rivers. To protect the area, the project would include realignment
of the Chaudar to its pre-1979 course, protection of the southwestern
corner 3f the command from Mahakali flood spillage, and exclusion of the
Donda flood flows from the aortheastern edge of the project area (see Annex
3). The "captured" course of the Chaudar River, formerly a drainage way,
would provide an excellent primary drain for the command area. Discharge
characterist.'cs of other natural drains would be improved by enlarging
their sections and by the provision of embankments on specific reaches to
enable them to carry the runoff from a 1 in 5 years probable storm of three
days duration.
3.07     Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment.  Under the project, living
quarters (for 28 staff), an office, a workshop and a store would be
constructed at Belauri for use by the construction supervision personnel
for the Stage II area. The colony would convert for use by O&M,
agricultural and farmer organization staff when construction is completed.
Three additional living quarters would be provided for staff at the Pilot



-10-
Farm. Additional four-wheel drive passenger vehicles would be required for
construction supervision and eventually for O&M activities, and motor
cycles and bicycles would be required for overseers and other junior
technical staff. Some O&M equipment in addition to items being procured
under Stage I would be required for the Stage II ar3a, such as a long reach
excavator, tractors and trailers. Workshop equipment would be provided at
the Stage II colony to service plant and vehicles, and radio communications
equipment would he. provided to support coordinated operation in both Stage
I and II areas and construction in Stage II and to enable reliable radio
communication with headquarters in Kathmandu. Guard posts, vehicles and
equipment for use by staff of the Department of National Parks and Wildlife
Conservation directly responsible for protection of the Royal Suklaphanta
Wildlife Reserve would also be provided under the project.
Agricultural Intensification Support
3.08     The Project includes continued operation and strengthening 3f the
Pilot Farm established under Stage I to serve both the Stage I and II
areas. An important function of the pilot farm would be to provide
training for extension workers and farmers in on-farm water management and
improved irrigated farming practices. To assist the Farm's operation and
further development, consultancy services provided under Stage I would
continue under Stage II.  The project would also include agricultural staff
and costs required to promote agricultural intensification in Stage I and
Stage II and guide farmers in irrigated agriculture and efficient water
management practices (see Annex 4). HMGN has employed a suitable
agricultural consultant for the component.
Farmer Organization Support
3.09     Compared to the Stage I Project, the proposed Stage II project
would place increased emphasis on development of effective farmer water
user organizations, which -ould play an essential role. Their involvement
would start at an early stage beginning with tertiary layout and design,
and continue through to operation, initially in tertiary-level maintenance
and water allocation under rotational water supply, and eventually in
system management at various levels (see Annex 5). Stage II farmer
organizations would build on the simple water user's groups (WUGs)
established on tertiary outlets under the Stage I Project, expanding their
role to management of the tertiaries. Stage II would also establish farmer
Water User Associations (WUAs) to assist in management of secondary and
higher-level canals. Approximately 20 association organizers and one or
two supervisor organizers would be provided under the project. They would
be the key agents for establishing WUGs and WUAs, developing their decision
making and resource mobilization capabilities, and motivating efficient
group action to accomplish specific water allocation and O&M t -ks. DOI's
USAID-supported Irrigation Management Project would assist in
identification, training, and deployment of AOs and SAOs for the project
and provide technical supervision and support as needed for farmer
organization work under the project. An understandinR was reached at
neRotiations that, for farmer organization work in the Mahakali Stage II
component, HMGN would take suitable action satisfactory to IDA to ensure
provision of qualified and trained organizers and their supervisors,



-11-
technical supervision and support, and training as needed for project staff
and farmers.
Training
3.10     Under the Stage II project, the ongoing in-service training
activities would be expanded, and training procedures would be formalized.
The design staff training would concentrate on design and layout of
tertiary canal and field channel systems, including farmer involvement.
Engineering and construction staff would receive training on construction
supervision and quality control of irrigation and drainage works. Training
for the operations staff would emphasize integrated operation of the Stage
I and II canal system for rotational water supply, and the need for high
efficiency with scarce dry season water supplies. Appropriate training
would be given to canal operators at all levels. Training would also be
provided to association organizers and to project technical staff (design,
construction and O&M personnel) in order to orient them to the farmer
organizing process; agricultural technicians would receive similar training
in irrigation techniques, farmer organization, on-farm water management,
and other itrigation-related agricultural activities. Farmers and their
organizations would be trained in operating their tertiary and field
channel systems, and lead farmers would receive training in on-farm water
management and other irrigation and agricultural practices. Staff of the
Department of Wildlife and Nature Conservation would also be trained under
;         the project.  The project authority w-uld plan its training program to
begin operating on July 1, 1989.
Administration, Establishment and O&M Support
3.11     Administration, staffing and O&M of the Mahakali Stage I and II
areas would be handled as a unit. HKGN budget allocations for O&M are
generally insufficient to cover full establishment and O&M as required for
efficient implementation and O&H at design standards. This is because
budget allocations are based on set norms unrelated to actual manpower
requirements. Based on manpower and O&M work required, the estimated O&M
budget requirement in 1988/89 is NRs 1.5 M, rising to about NRs 3.3 M upon
completion of Stage II, or about NRs 3001ha annually (in constant 1988
prices). To assist HMGN in providing adequate establishment and O&M
budgets, the IDA credit would provide supplementary budget support for
those costs at a rate which would be progressively reduced during the
project period, with the difference covered by increased HMGN budget
allocations and/or farmer contributions. O&M operations and procedures
would be based in part on an overall O&M plan which would integrate the
Stage I and II areas and cover, inter alia, water supply and demand,
operational concepts, organizational arrangements and staffing, operational
procedures, roles and responsibilities of farmers' groups, training of
staff and farmers, annual budget requirements and cost recovery regulations
and procedures (see Annex 6). Agreement was reached at negotiations that
HMGN would for Mahakali Stage I and II: (a) prepare and by December 31,
1988 provide to IDA for comment an overall O&M plan; (b) by March 31 of
each year beginning in 1989 and thereafter provide to IDA for its review
and comments data showing estimated O&M budget requirements for the next
year and actual budget allocations made for the current year; and (c)
thereafter taking into account IDA's comments, if any, ensure adequate O&M
budgets are provided in HMGN's forthcoming fiscal year.



-12-
Engineering and Consultant Services
3.12      To assist project engineering, supervision and implementation,
the IDA credit would cover full costs of consultant services, including the
Project Consultant, who would assist the Project Manager full time in a
staff function. To avoid interruption of critical ongoing project
activities and assure efficient t;ansition to Stage II, the Project
Consultant for Mahakali Stage II has already been selected in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
Design, Construction and Commissioning
3.13     Status of Designs and Contract Documents.  Completion of bid
documents for IDA review is expected by end-June. The pre-qualification
notice has been drafted and issued. It is anticipated that invitations to
bid will be issued in October 1988, with award by April 1989. Detailed
layout and design of tertiary channels, with alignment revised to follow
property boundaries, will continue through the first two years of project
execution.
3.14     Construction Methods.  A substantial pool of semi-skilled and
skilled local Nepalese labor is available for work in Stage II. In
addition, a considerable proportion of the labor requirement for
construction could be provided by farmers in the area. Project work would
be tendered on the basis of a comprehensive package for construction and
procurement of principal items, and the prime contractor will be free to
sub-contract to local contractors, with approval of the Project Manager.
Per HMGN policy, the prime contractor would employ manual construction
methods where quality control and construction schedules permit. In
addition, the contractor would take steps to minimize adverse impacts of
mein canal construction on wildlife in the Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve.
3.15     Commissioning.  Construction would be scheduled to complete the
Stage II area block by block. Following completion, each operational block
of the command area would he "commissioned' and formally put in service.
Commissioning procedures wo-.id ensure that all facilities are in proper
operating order, the system can deliver water as designed, and farmers are
fully informed of the status of their system. Commissioning would be
supervised jointly by the Project Manager, the Project Consultant and the
prime contractor, and the results would be reported to farmer water user
organizations (WUOs); the prime contractor would make changes necessary to
bring the facilities up to operational and design standards. The Project
Consultant and the contractor would correct any deficiencies which develop
during the first two years of operation.
Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Project
Scope and Objectives
3.16     The Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Component consists of
irrigation subprojects comprising new small and medium surface schemes,
rehabilitation of existing surface schemes, and new groundwater schemes



-13-
covering an estimated 9,000 ha in total. All subprojects would be operated
and managed by farmer groups who would also contribute to capital costs.
In addition, all subprojects would be selected according to agreed
technical, economic, and institutional criteria, and be prepared and
approved according to agreed procedures (Annex 7). Indicative subproject
implementation procedures are presented in Chart 4. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that HMGN would ensure that pilot component subprojects are
selected and implemented according to agreed criteria and procedures.
Irrigation Subproiects
3.17     The pilot component would finance three general types of
subprojects: construction of new surface schemes, rehabilitation of
existing surface schemes, and construction of new groundwater schemes.
Subprojects would be located in four Hill districts (Tanahu, Gorkha,
Syangja and Lamjung) and one Terai district (Nawalparasi) in the Western
Region. However, additional districts may be added by mutual agreement of
HMGN and IDA. Implementation would be the responsibility of the Western
Region Irrigation Directorate, which would assist, direct, supervise and
guide District Irrigation Offices in execution of individual subprojects.
In the selected districts, such subprojects would account for all of HMGN's
irrigation development for the type of works included under the pilot
component. Regarding subproject cost sharing arrangements between HMGN and
water users for Line of Credit subprojects, an understanding was reached at
negotiations that suitable cost sharing formulae would be provided to IDA
by December 31, 1988. A condition of disbursement for construction of
subprojects would be agreement by IDA and HMGN on such cost sharing
arrangements (para. 4.10).
Irrigation and Agricultural Support Services
3.18     Mobile Irrigation Team.  Under the project a Regional Mobile
Irrigation Team would be set up in WRID. The team would comprise a
divisional engineer responsible for the supervision of pilot component
implementation, the supervisor organizer from the regional directorate, and
representatives from the regional ADBN and DOA offices. The team would
provide technical support, guidance and training to the District Irrigation
Offices, and be the focal point at the regional level for technical
assistance directly related to implementation of the pilot component. To
support the team, the project would finance incremental costs for
equipment, travel, operation, and staff. The DOI Director for the Western
Region would appoint the Team Leader, who would also function as the
registrar for participating subproject WUOs assisted under the pilot
component. The team would be financed as part of strengthening DOI
Regional and District Offices (see para. 3.24).
3.19     Association Organizers.  In each pilot district, an organizer
would be attached to the DIO. Organizers would be responsible for
orienting farmer groups at candidate subprojects on conditions and
procedures for participation in the pilot component, assisting farmer
groups in preparing and updating subproject requests, transforming ad hoc
farmer groups and WUOs into formal Farmer Irrigation Associations (see
para. 5.14), discussing subproject details and negotiating participation
and cost sharing agreements with farmer WUOs, and training and preparing
WUOs for O&M of completed subprojects. The Irrigation Management Project,



-14-
also under DOI, would recruit, train, and deploy organizers and their
supervisors, and would provide guidance to the Regional Directorate for
supervision of the organizers and execution of the above activities. To
support the organizing work, the project wculd finance incremental costs
for equipment, travel, and training. An understanding was reached at
negotiations that HMGN would for farmer organization work under the
Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Component: (a) take suitable actions to
provide and support technically at all times the organizers and their
supervisors in the Western Region for developing and promoting farmer
participation; (b) establish wlthin DOI a central unit headed by a
qualified officer for overall planning, technical support, coordination,
supervision and monitoring of farmer organization activities by December
31, 1989; and (c) regularlize positions of organizers and their supervisors
within DOI's organizational structure by December 31, 1989.
3.20     District Irrigation Office Technical Staff.  In addition to the
association organizer, staffing of each District Irrigation Office would
comprise an assistant engineer to head the office, two overseers, and
administrative personnel. District-level technical staff would be mainly
responsible for identification of subprojects including collection of basic
data for rapid appraisal, preparation and implementation of minor
rehabilitation subprojects, and providing administrative and organizational
support to the field establishments set up to implement larger subprojects
and subproject clusters. District office establishment costs would be
financed under the Institutional Development component of the project, and
the Irrigation Line of Credit would finance incremental costs related to
implementation of the project. The USAID-financed Irrigation Management
Project would provide staff orientation and training on farmer
participation.
3.21     Agricultural Extension Support.  The Western Regional Agricultural
Directorate of DOA is responsible for agricultural extension services
through its zonal ofEice and District Agricultural Development Offices. To
serve the special extension requirements for irrigated agriculture in the
completed subprojects, close cooperation would be required between DOI and
DOA at regional and district levels. At the regional level, a
representative of the agricultural directorate would be an ad hoc member of
the mobile team and would give specific attention to coordination of
agricultural extension staff with the District Irrigation Office in Line of
Credit activities. To support this collaboration, the project would
finance incremental costs to DOA for office space at regional and district
levels, equipment, transport and travel, and specialized technical
assistance and training on irrigation for extension staff. DOA would
provide adequate agricultural extension and services to Line of Credit
subproject areas under the framework of its ongoing programs, and
participate in the Mobile Team and other Line of Credit activities as
needed.
Subproiect Credit Support
3.22     Under the project, ADBN would provide group credit to farmer WUOs
to help finance farmer contributions to subproject capital costs. The
estimated group credit requirement totals about USS.L.2 M, which is overall
about 152 of total estimated capital costs for subprojects and 60Z of the



-15-
farmers' contribution. However, the actual percentage of ADBN financing
for any specific subproject would depend on the type of subproject and the
farmers' preference. ADBN staff would assist DOI district staff and WUOs
in making loan applications, and terms and conditions for the ADBN loan
would be standard for small groups and would be specified in the Farmer
Irrigation Association agreement for the subproject. Standard ADBN on-
lending terms for credit for irrigation projects are 152 interest and
repayment periods of 10 and 5 years for surface and groundwater projects,
respectively. HMGN would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ADBN
with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for the provision of credit
to participating farmer WUOs as needed following procedures agreed for the
Line of Credit (see para. 4.10 and Annex 7, para. 17).
Flood Rehabilitation
3.23     In the 1987 monsoon, unusually heavy rainfalL occurred in the
Eastern, Central and 'Western Regions, particularly during the August 8-12
period. Widespread damage to canal systems and river protection works
resulted, with extensive breaching of canals and flooding. Repairs
required on canal systems would cost an estimated NRs 23 M (US$1.0 M) and
include replacement of canal embankments, replacement of damaged-destroyed
structures, clearing and repair of cross drainages, clearing of slides (in
Hill areas), reconstruction of distribution canals, and associated
protective works. Remedial river works would include replacement of
original protective works (mainly gabion construction), replacement of
damaged structures, repair of river embankments, and works necessary to
protect replacement works. Works on the above rivers would total an
estimated NRs 146 M (US$6.3 M). A description of proposed repair works is
given in Annex 8. For the six flood damaged Hill projects, emergency works
could be completed as above, but system rehabilitation would be done also
under the Line of Credit in the dry season following emergency repairs (see
Annex 8).
DOI Institutional Development Support
3.24     Major recent changes in irrigation sector strategy require
substantial modification of DOI structure, operations, procedurps.
capabilities and staff orientation. To assist this process, the project
includes a strong Institutional Development Support component. This
component would aim to assist DOI in developing the institutional basis and
capability to support a long-term irrigation sector program. In addition,
such activities would be closely coordinated with related activities by
other donors, particularly the Asian Development Ea,nk for sector lending
support, USAID for farmer participation and UNDP for specialized consultant
services, training and studies, and with the Master Plan and Design
Criteria studies ongoing for DOI under UNDP project NtPj85/013. While the
Institutional Development Support activities are not directly related to or
dependent on activities financed by other donors, they would be closely
coordinated with them to avoid conflict or duplication and to ensure that
all efforts are mutuaLly consistent and supportive. An understanding was
reached at negotiations that the component would be implemented in a manner
consistent with HMGN programs as supported by othe' donors including the
proposed UNDP Irrigation Sector Support Project for technical assitance for
the irrigation sector.



-16-
Strengthening of DOI Regional and District Offices
3.25     The project will include facilities, buildings, equipment and
vehicles as needed to strengthen three Regional Irrigation Directorates,
including the Western Region, and establish District Irrigation Offices in
eight districts, including at least four districts in the Western Region.
The project would also include staffing, equipment, training and operation
of a Mobile Team (see para. 5.11). Agreement was reached at negotiations
that HMGN would (a) by not later than June 30, 1989 prepare and furnish to
IDA for its review and comment a draft action plan and timetable for
staffing and strengthening DOI to enable it to carry out the Line of Credit
component; and (b) thereafter satisfactorily implement the plan. An
understanding was also reached at negotiations that HMGN would establish
the Mobile Team in the Western Regional Irrigation Directorate by December
31, 1988.
DOI Headquarters Renovation and Strengthening
3.26     To help DOI improve management efficiency, the project would
finance renovation and reconstruction of a headquarters building which
would be provided to DOI, and also headquarters facilities and equipment
(including computers) required for DOI to operate efficiently. An
agreement was reached at negotiations that F!MGN would in accordance with
detailed plans, schedules and timetable satisfactory to IDA provide
preliminary plans and timetable to IDA for providing DOI with an adequate
headquarters building and facilities in the Kathmandu valley. An
understanding was reached at negotiations that such plans and timetable
would be provided to IDA by December 31, 1988.
DOI Human Resource Development
3.27     To plan and implement successfully a long-term sector program
based heavily on farmer participation will require development of new
skills and capabilities in DOI. To facilitate this process, the project
would finance a detailed assessment of DOI manpower, capabilities,
structure, resources and training requirements compared to DOI's new
objectives and targets; development of a comprehensive DOI human resources
and corporate plan based on that assessment; and follow-up assistance. An
understanding was reached at negotiations that the proposed study would be
completed by December 31, 1988.
Sector Program Development Support
3.28     Project Cycle Support.  Development of efficient project cycle
procedures will be essential for the Line of Credit Component and
especially for DOI's long-run irrigation program supported by sector
lending. The project would include equipment (including computers and
radio communications equipment) and consultant services for establishment
of project cycle procedures for Line of Credit subproject identification,
preparation, and appraisal; preparation of subprojects and the planned
full-scale Line of Credit sector loan; funding and arrangements for regular
supervision and monitoring of implementation using inter alia helicopter
transport; development of a computerized subproject datebase; and



-17-
specialized assistance to develop and computerize streamlined techniques
for project analysis. The latter two would be assisted through contracts
with the National Computing Center.
3.29     Farmer Organization Support.  The project would include
development of a cadre of effectiva, well-trained organizers, mainly
through, specialized training at DOI's training center in Pokhara. First
priority would be given to developing organizers needed to implement
Mahakali Stage II and the Line of Credit componenLa. In addition to DOI
staff, farmers would also be given organizational training as needed.
Monitoring. Evaluation and Management Information
3.30     M&E integrated with development of an efficient management
information system (MIS) is essential to the success of DOI's sector
program. M&E and MIS are particularly important because, while
implementation will be decentralized to the regional and district level,
DOI central 1leadquarters will be held responsible and accountable for
overall management and results of the program. In addition, the Ministry
of Finance is currently installing a comprehensive Government-wide MIS in
which DOI is one of the priority departments; it will be essential for DOI
to be able provide timely, accurate data compatible with MOF's MIS. DOI
has recently established a small M&E unit reporting to the DG. Under the
project, that unit would be strengthened with specialized assistance and
incremental staff, facilities and equipment as needed to serve this project
and eventually cover all DOI activities. Computing assistance could in
particular be provided through the National Computing Center, which is
assisting with development of MOF's MIS. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that HMGN would prepare an action plan and timtetable for
development of M&E/MIS in DOI and provide it to IDA for reviaw and comment
by June 30, 1989, and thereafter, taking into account IDA's comments, if
any, satisfactorily implement the plan. The M&E/MIS action plan would
include, inter alia, specific arrangements for M&E of Line of Credit
subprojects and related activities of the Western Regional Irrigation
Directorate. This region-based M&E system would be developed on a pilot
basis under the project in parallel with the Line of Credit component.
Specialized Conse"tant Services, Training, and Studies
3.31     The project would also fund other consultant services, training,
studies and applied research as needed to support DOI institutional
development. This would aim in particular to assist development of DOI's
subsector program, implement the Line of Credit and prepare for a full-
scale sector project. It would also provide assistance to directly support
needed DOI institutional development through follow-up of the manpower
assessment study, organization of special DOI management workshops and
seminars to institutionalize DOI's new role and objectives, and development
of long-term corporate planning in DOI. A wildlife
c3nservationist/specialist would also be provided to assist in the
implementation of the Mahakali Stage II component. Assistance would be
provided mainly through specialized consultant services by selected
individuals or firms as needed. Training would include workshops, in-
service and local training, and foreign training (including fellowships) to
assist in reorientation and motivation of DOI staff, improve technical



-18-
skills, develop skills in farmer organization, and establish an efficient
cadre of organizers. Training would utilize DOI's training center at
Pokhara, as well as training facilities to be included in DOI's new
headquarters building. Studies and applied research would cover
preparation/feasibility studies for Line of Credit subprojects, detailed
inventory of farmer-managed schemes by basin, hydrology studies to estimate
the impact of such subprojects on downstream river flows, cost recovery and
cost sharing, aud improved management and technologies for irrigation
facilities. Consultant services, training and studies would coordinate
closely with the Master Plan and Design Criteria studies ongoing under UNDP
NEP/85/013.



-19-
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
Proiect Cost Estimates
4.01    Estimated project costs with contingencies total US$46.7 M,
including taxes and duties of about US$1.6 M. The estimated foreign
exchange cost is about US$25.4 M or 542 of total project costs. Project
cost estimates are detailed in Annex 1, Tables 3 - 5, and summarized below.
M   ML      %Tote I      (USS M)
Local Foreiwn  LtaL Cosets Local Forelgn  Total
A. Mahakll Stage. II Component
Stg. I Mn. Canal Improvements  8.6   5.0   9.4   1   0.2    0.3      0.4
Stage II Main Canal        28.8  4.1    73.l  6   8   I.    2.1      8.4
Stage II Distribution Canal   89.5 125.6    215.I  28   4.1   6.7    9.8
Flood Protection A Drainage   28.9 83,4  W7.4   7  i .    1.6        2.8
Project Administration     28.9  0ii.     88.8  11   1.8   2.7       4.0
Farmer Organization         a.9   3.0      8.9   0   0.2    0.0      0.2
Agricultural bevelopment    7.0   2.e    10.4   1   0.4    0.1       0.6
Operation and Maintenance   2.4   8.0      8.S   1   0.1    0.8      0.4
Subtotal ibhakall Stage 1I   188.7  77,8    468. S3    8.6   12 .7    21.S
S. Irrigat;on Line of Credit 120.6  54.2   174.2  21   6.6   2.5      8.0
C. Flood Rehabilitation     49.X  82.1   131.2  16   2.2   8.7        8.0
D. Institutional Development  26.7  3S6. 8 83.    8   1.2    1.7      2.9
Total BASELINE COSTS       8844.  40.7    535.-2 140  178.  20.8    38.1
Physical Contingencies     38.7  52.3    86.B  10   1.6    2.4       8.9
Price Contingencies        87.9  97.0    185.5  22   2.2    2.4      4.8
Total PROJECT COSTS        508.1 800.    1108.? 138  21.3   25.4    46.7
4.02    Cost estimates are based on November 1987 prices escalated to
April, 1988. Physical contingencies have been included at rates of 10-152
of civil works and represent about 10X of base costs or 82 of total project
costs. Price contingencies account for about 13Z of total project costs
and are based on annual rates of: 32 in FY89, 32 in FY90, 3.52 in FY91,
and 42 in FY92 through FY96 for fcreign exchange costs; and 7? in FY89, and
6Z in FY90 through FY96 for local costs.
Financing
4.03    The proposed IDA credit of US$41.3 M would finance about 892 of
total project costs, including 1002 of foreign exchange costs of US$25.4 M
and about 75Z of local costs. The credit would finance a declining
proportion of Mahakali Irrigation Stage II staffing and O&M costs during
the project period (Annex 1, Table 9). The balance of the recurrent costs
and capital expenditures would be met by farmers and by HMGN from its



-20-
annual budget. Under the Line of Credit, it is estimated that farmers
could contribute about 10? of overall subproject construction costs in
voluntary labor. The credit would be made to HMGN on standard IDA Terms
and would be channelled through the Ministry of Finance to relevant
implementing agencies, mainly DOI, ADBN and DOA. About US$1.2 H would be
on-lent to ADBN for subloans to farmer groups for Line of Credit
subprojects (para. 3.21). About US$0.1 M would be channeled to DOA for
intensive agricultural-development support to Line of Credit subproject
farmers. The rest of the credit, about US$40.1 M, would be channeled to
DOI and to the Hahakali. Irrigation Development Board (MIDB), as
appropriate. Agreement was reached at negotiations that HKGN would provide
resources and funds t6 execute the project in accordance with the agreed
implementation program and expenditure schedules over the implementation
period. The summary project financing plan is presented below.
Local     Foreign       Total
Financierst                                  (US$ million)
IDA                                    16.4      24.9          41.3
HMGNIFarmers                            4.9       0.4          e5.4
TOTAL                                 21.3       25.4          46.7
4.04    To initiate the work program in the first year and to continue
ongoing minor civil works, retroactive financing, not exceeding US$3.0
million, would be provided for expenditures made after February 10, 1988,
except for expenditures on construction of Line of Credit subprojects.
Procurement
4.05     Works. Procurement arrangements and the cost of project
components are summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 1. Table
15. Works to be financed would cost approximately US$38.2 M (about 822 of
total project cost), including physical and price contingencies, but
excluding land acquisition, engineering and administrative cost. Works for
Mahakali 'tage II estimated to cost US$20.1 M (abeoit 531 of total works)
would be combined into one procurement package and let under ICB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Economy would be promoted by combining the majority
of the work in a single package as it would attract good competition from
large international contractors that, in turn, would produce good prices
and quality. A prequalification procedure would be used to select
international firms to bid on the Mahakali Stage II main works contract.
For works under other components, small contracts totalling about US$lO.4 M
(about 27? of total works), would be let under LCB procedures acceptable to
IDA. These small contracts are for about US$3.2 M worth of civil works for
irrigation schemes under the Line of Credit, US$4.4 M of flood
rehabilitation works, and US$2.0 M for buildings under the Institutional
Development Support component. Small contracts worth about US$0.8 M (about
22 of total works) would also be let under LCB procedures for Mahakali
Stage II buildings, guard posts for the Royal Suklaphantq Wildlife Reserve
and minor rehabilitation works. The works under these contracts are
numerous, are at widely scattered locations, are expected to cost ea
average only about NRs 0.4 M (US$18,000), and, because of timing and
location constraints, are not suitable for packaging with the ICB contract.



-21-
PROCUREMENT METHOD
ICB     LCB    LIB   OTHER a/  NA   TOTAL b/
----------------(US$ million)---------------
Works                               20.1    10.4    0.0   6.9         0.8   38.2
(18.1)   (9.9)        (6.6)            (34.7)
Goods                                1.4      0.0    0.3   0.0       0.0    1.7
(1.4)          (0.3)                  ( 1.7)
Land Acquisition                     0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0        1.0    1.0
O&M During Implementation            0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0        0.5    0.5
(0.2) (0.2)
Consulting Services and Training    0.0      0.0    0.0   3.9        0.0    3.9
(3.8)            (3.8)
Staffing and Other Costs             0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0        1.4    1.4
(0.9)  (0.9)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                21.5    10.4    0.3  10.7        3.7   46.7
(19.5)   (9.0)  (0.3)(10.5)      (1.1) (41.3)
a/ Includes piece-work contracts and departmental force account as necessary
for certain works under the Line of Credit and Flood Rehabilitation
components. Overseas training would be through direct placement.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with IDA guidelines.
b/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
In cases where the small size or remoteness of works discourage even local
bidders, works would be accomplished through piece-work contracts or, where
necessary, departmental forces. Contracts for such works would have a
maximum value of NRs 0.3 H (US$14,000). Piece-work contracts and, where
necessary, departmental force account are expected to be the methods of
procurement for US$3.9 M of works under the Line of Credit component %nd
for US$2.9 M of works under the Flood Rehabilitation component.
4.06     Goods.  Vehicles, generators, pumps, and engineerinLg and office
equipment totalling about US$1.7 M would be financed under the project.
The vehicles would be needed for Mahakali Stage II project supervision, for
use of staff of the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation
within the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve, and for strengthening the
DOI regional and district offices. Vehicles, equipment and generators
required under Mahakali Stage II would be grouped and consolidated into
three procurement packages worth in aggregate about US$0.9 M and let under
ICB procedures. Vehicles and construction equipment under the Line of
Credit and Flood Rehabilitation components worth about US$0.5 M would be
grouped and consolidated into two procurement packages and let under ICB
procedures. These packages, as appropriate, could be combined into larger
ICB procurement packages. Office equipment (about US$48,000), survey
equipment (about US$16,000), design equipment (about US$13,000) and spare
parts (about US$133,000) for the Mahakali Stage II component would be
procured through limited international bidding (LIB) procedures. Office,
design and survey equipment required for the Line of Credit and
Institutional Development Support components worth about US$0.1 M would
also be procured under LIB procedures. LIB procedures are permitted
because the packages are so small that they are not appropriate for ICB, or
the items being procured are unique and available from only a small number



-22-
of suppliers. Minor materials, equipment and spare parts estimated to cost
about US$40,000 in total would be procured through local shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.07     Consulting Services and Training.  Consulting services and
training worth about US$3.9 M would be financed under the project. All
consultants would be selected and employed according to IDA guidelines.
Consulting services for Mahakali Stage II (costing about US$2.4 M) would be
mainly for supervision of Stage II construction, technical support for O&M
of Stages I and II, agricultural intensification, and farmer organization.
Under the Line of Credit component, consultancy services worth about US$0.5
M would be required in the preparation, engineering design and supervision
of subprojects. Under the Institutional Development Support component,
consultancy services worth about US$0.5 M would be required for the
engineering and construction supervision for the alternate DOI headquarters
building; DOI human resources development study; Line of Credit project
cycle and farmer organization support; and M&E and management information
systems. In addition, the project would provide about US$0.5 M for
specialized consultancy services, training and studies that would be
required to build DOI capacity to implement the sector program. A wildlife
conservationist/specialist would also provided under the project to assist
in the implementation of protection measures for wildlife in the Royal
Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve.
4.08     Contract Review.  All civil works bidding packages for works and
goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more, and all contracts
for consultancy services would be subject to standard IDA pre-action
review. Such packages would account for about 65Z of the total estimated
value of the goods, works and consultancy services being procured. Any
remaining contracts would be subject to post-action review by IDA. HMGN
has developed draft standard ICB and LCB bidding documents for both works
and goods. These documents, once approved by IDA, would be used for
procurement under the project. Standard IDA procurement preferences would
be given to domestic contractors and manufacturers.
Disbursements
4.09     Disbursements under the credit would be made against:  (a) 90? of
expenditures on Mahakali Stage II component civil works, including
buildings; (b) 100? of expenditures for all other civil works; (c) 1002 of
foreign expenditures for imported goods; (d) 100Z of expenditures for local
goods, ex-factory cost; (e) 70Z of local expenditures for all other goods
procured locally; (f) 100Z of subloans disbursed by ADBN to farmer groups
for Line of Credit subprojects; and (g) 100Z of expenditures for
consultants, studies and training. For the Mahakali Stage II component,
disbursements in respect of project staff salaries, allowances, fuel, and
total Stage I and II O&M costs would be made as follows:
70Z of expenditures up to the first US$500,000 in disbursements;
60? of expenditures up to the next US$250,000 in disbursements;
40? of expenditures up to the next US$150,000 in disbursements; and
20? of expenditures up to the next US$100,000 in disbursements.
Such disbursements in respect of total Stage I and II Mahakali scheme



-23-
establishment and O&M costs would represent in the aggregate about 702 of
incremental establishment and O&M costs for Stage II. For all other
components, disbursements in respect of incremental project staff salaries,
allowances and fuel shall be made against 1002 of expenditures. Such
disbursements against expenditures would not be made on a declining basis
in view of the small amount involved (about US$0.2 M).
4.10     Itemized statements of expenditure would be used for civil works
to be carried out by force account and contracts each costing less than
US$100,000, equipment and vehicles less than US$100,000, and for staff
training, studies, surveys, project establishment, and maintenance carried
out by force account.  Documentation supporting these statements would be
retained by the Mahakali Stage II nroject authority, by the Western
Regional Irrigation Directorate (for Line of Credit subprojects) and by
Central DOI (for expenditures under the Institutional Development and Flood
Rehabilitation components), and made available for inspection by IDA during
review missions and by the auditor during the annual review. Also,
itemized statements of expenditures would be used for subloans to farmer
groups disbursed by ADBN. The documentation for these itemized statements
would be retained at one location by ADBN and made available for review by
IDA. All itemized statements of expenditures for subloans would be
accompanied by a certificate from the Approval and Coordination Committee
certifying that the approved subproject meets agreed principles and
selection criteria. Conditions of disbursement against expenditures
incurred by ADBN and DOI in respect of implementation of their respective
activities under the Line of Credit component would be: (a) execution by
HMGN and ADBN of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA; (b) establishment of the Approval and Coordination
Committee; (c) establishment of the Regional Appraisal Committee; (d)
agreement of IDA and HMGN on subproject construction cost sharing
arrangements; (e) approval and documentation of approval (including the
subproject appraisal report) by the Approval and Coordination Committee for
each subproject or subproject cluster including written Approval and
Coordination Committee certification that the subproject meets the agreed
selection criteria; and (f) IDA approval for the first two subprojects of
each type (new surface schemes, rehabilitation schemes, and groundwater
schemes).
4.11     To speed disbursements and reduce the burden on HMGN's Treasury, a
Special Account of US$2.0 M representing the estimated average of 4 months
expenditures would be established in Nepal Rastra Bank. The account would
cover expenditures under all categories; it is anticipated that most
payments would be financed out of the proceeds of this account. All
expenditures from the Special Account would be promptly reported. The
estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA credit is given in Annex 1,
Table 8. The expected disbursement period is eight years, which is typical
of the Nepalese irrigation sector. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by March 31, 1997.
Accounts and Audits
4.12     The Auditor General is responsible for auditing all accounts. HMGN
seeks to ensure that all accounts are maintained according to sound
accounting principles and that the scope of the audit is sufficient to



-24-
evaluate the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure.
However, the performance of HMGN in fulfilling IDA accounting and audit
requirements has been weak, and in most projects audits of accounts have
been late. This is partly because expenditures related to IDA-financed
projects are audited by the Auditor General as part of the overall
financial records of the implementing department, and the Auditor General
does not release the full audit report until it is cleared through several
steps. To ensure timely compliance with covenants related to auditing
requirements in IDA-supported projects, IDA has been helping project
accounting staff to prepare separate project accounts in the detail and
format required. IDA has also proposed the draft format and content of the
auditor's report on accounts that can be prepared by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, without waiting for the full audit report of the Auditor
General on the concerned department's overall annual financial accounts.
Similar procedures are being instituted for specific audit certification of
all withdrawal applications based on statements of expenditure. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that HMGN would cause DOA, ADBN, DOI and MIDB
to: (a) maintain separate records and accounts for all project
expenditures, by individual project component and subcomponent, and in
accordance with appropriate accounting principles; (b) furnish to IDA the
report on the Special Account, audited by an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA in accordance with sound auditing principles; (c) forward to IDA
such accounts, together with the auditor's reports, within 12 months after
the end of each fiscal year; (d) include in the annual audit reports
submitted to IDA a separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the
disbursements made on the basis of statements of expenditure were for goods
and services received and incurred for the purposes of the project; and
(e) furnish to IDA such other information concerning audits and accounts as
IDA shall from time to time reasonably request, including unaudited Project
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, certified as to
their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.



-25-
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01     DOI would have overall responsibility for project implementation
and be the lead agency for the project. For the Mahakali Stage II
component, the Mahakali Irrigation Development Board (MIDB), which
implemented the Mahakali Stage I Irrigation Project, would also be
responsible for Stage II. Farmer WUOs would play an important role in
implementation and operation of Stage II. For the Irrigation Line of
Credit Pilot component, DOI's Western Regional Irrigation Directorate would
be responsible to implement subprojects, supervise all aspects of the
subproject cycle up to appraisal, provide technical guidance to district
irrigation offices to be established under the project in selected
districts, and continuously monitor Line of Credit operations. The
Regional Directorate would also operate a Mobi.e Team comprising regional
staff of DOI, DOA and ADBN which would provide orientation and technical
guidance on project implementation to district-level staff, WUOs and
farmers, and it would form a Subproject Appraisal Committee to appraise
individual subprojects or subproject clusters. Central DOI would provide
overall coordination, supervision and M&E of Mahakali Stage II and the Line
of Credit. For Flood Rehabilitation and Institutional Development Support
components, DOI through its River Training and Environment and Planning and
Management Divisions, respectively, would be responsible. Improved DOI
training facilities, being developed with USAID-assistance, would
strengthen DOI staff capability to work with farmer groups and irrigation
management, which would be essential for implementation of both Mahakali
Stage II and the Line of Credit component. As the project comprises four
separate components, HMGN has appointed a qualified and experienced officer
as Project Director to oversee, monitor and coordinate as necessary
implementation of all project components.
Mahakali Irriaation Proiect StaRe II
5.02     Mahakali Irrigation Development Board.  MIDB would have direct
responsibility for implementation of the Mahakali Stage II Project. Formed
in 1981 to implement the Mahakali Irrigation Project Stage I, MIDB has
effectively completed implementation of Stage I facilities. MIDB is
chaired by the Secretary, MWR, and has seven members which are the DGs of
DOI and DOA, the Regional Directors of DOI and Agriculture for the Far
Western Region, representatives from the National Planning Commission and
the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Project Manager of the Mahakali
Irrigation Stage II Project component who is the Member/Secretary. MIDB's
main functions are to: approve annual budget proposals for implementation,
operations and appoint senior staff; approve and award all major contracts
and consultants' agreements; prepare semiannual reviews of implementation
programs and progress; provide policy level guidance on programming,
budgeting and finance; promote interagency coordination; and determine the
level of water charges. As presently constituted, the Board must approve
all civil works contracts valued at more than NRs 2.5 M (US$115,000),
equipment purchase contracts valued at more than NRs 500,000 (US$22,900),
and contracts for employment of consultants.



-26-
5.03     Proiect ManaRer.  The chief executive officer of the Mahakali
scheme is the Project Manager who is responsible to MIDB for administration
and management of the project. The Project Manager is appointed by HMGN
after consultation with MWR. His primary responsibilities are to: prepare
the annual engineering work program, budget, and staff requirements for
presentation to the Board; administer project staff, including consultants;
authorize construction by force account and civil works and equipment
contracts up to the limits of his financial authority; and coordinate all
Mahakali component activities. A Project Manager for the Mahakali scheme
has been appointed by HMGN.
5.04     Proiect Authority Organization.  The project organization for
Mahakali Stage I has worked well. With selective strengthening,
modification and expansion to cope with increased workload, it would be
used for Stage II implementation (see Chart 2). The functions of the
various divisions and units of the Mahakali Project Authority are
summarized in Annex 9.
5.05     Staffing.  Most of the senior officers of the Mahakali scheme
project organization are already in place, together with many of their
subordinate staff. Incremental staff required, indicated in Annex 9, would
be funded under the project on a declining basis. An understanding was
also reached at negotiations that HMGN would in a timely manner anpoint and
post all staff required to implement Stage II during FY89 and thereafter.
5.06     System Water Management.  The operational plan for the Mahakali
scheme would aim to deliver water in a timely and equitable manner to all
farmers in the command area, provide a delivery flow rate as needed for
efficient on-farm irrigation, and match water delivery schedules to crop
water requirements as far as possible. Meeting these objectives is
essential for the high system efficiency needed with limited dry season
water and will require that the Stage I and II areas be operated as an
integrated unit. Guidelines and concepts for system operation are provided
in Annex 6.
5.07     Water User Organizations.  Farmer WUOs would have a key role in
achieving high operational efficiencies in the Mahakali Irrigation Project.
The Farmer Organization Division and organizers would have primary
responsibility for planning and implementing WUO work, assisted by
specialist consultant support. Guidelines and concepts for organizing WUOs
in the Mahakali scheme are provided in Annex 5. WUOs would be structured
in an hierarchy, starting with WUGs at the 4 ha block and tertiary canal
levels, followed by Water User Associations (WUAs) at the secondary and
branch canal levels, with the Project Coordination Committee at the apex
project level. To function effectively, WUOs at all these levels need
formal legal recognition. Agreement was reached at negotiations that HMGN
would, with regard to establishment of WUGs/WUAs in public systems as legal
bodies with specific rights and duties including distribution of water,
canal system maintenance, resource mobilization, water charge collection
and payment, borrowing, and contracting: (a) prepare and provide to IDA
for comment proposed regulations and plans by December 31, 1988; and (b)
thereafter take suitable steps to implement such plans and regulations to



-27-
establish such associations. Agreement was also reached at negotiations
that Mahakali WUGs would be established: (a) in tertiary commands already
receiving irrigation, by June 30, 1989; and (b) in tertiary commands to be
brought under irrigation, not later than six months before the tertiary
canal is scheduled to begin water deliveries.
5.08     Proiect Coordination Committee.  A committee would be formed to
assist project implementation and operation. It would comprise the Project
Manager as chairman and appropriate senior project officers including the
organizer supervisor, a representative each of the District Panchayat, ADBN
and AIC, and farmer WUA Chairmen from secondary canals. The committee
would meet regularly to review proposed works, the construction program as
it affects local farmers, and O&M of completed works. A major function of
the committee is communication (via WUAs and WUGs) between farmers and
project staff. The organizers and District officers would specifically
assist in informing farmers of works and responsibilities, and in providing
feedback from the farmers to the committee. Farmers through the committee
would participate in project decisions, which should help them identify
with the project, develop a sense of ownership and commit to O&M tasks
which will be essential.  Following completion of construction, the
committee would continue as an integral part of the project, as through the
WWUAs and WUGs it would be linked with every farmer served.  An
understanding was reached at negotiations that a Project Coordination
Committee would be established by December 31, 1988 and thereafter
-aintained.
5.09     M&E and Reporting.  The M&E Unit would collect and analyze data on
project planning, implementation, and performance, particularly with
respect to: (a) construction targets and progress; (b) actual
disbursements on construction compared to targets; (c) water management,
particularly timing and quantity of deliveries; (d) operation and
effectiveness of WUGs and WUAs in securing cooperation of members; (e)
estimated annual O&H requirements and actual O&M expenditures;
(f) agricultural progress in changing land use, cropping patterns, and
yields; (g) support from ADBN, cooperatives, Agricultural Inputs
Corporation, agricultural extension, and research; (h) water charge
assessment, billing and collection; and (i) environmental impact,
particularly with regard to construction and operation of the extension
canal in the Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve (see para. 3.03). M&E reports
would be prepared periodically for the Board, which would compare actual
achievements with defined targets so that realistic targets could be set
for the coming year or season and appropriate action could be taken. In
addition to preparing reports for the Board, the M&E Division would prepare
all project progress reports for project management and IDA. Moreover, a
two-year water management study would be conducted under the project to
evaluate results of rotational water supply and possible further design,
operation and organization improvements based on practical experience with
Stage I. The study would be managed by the M&E Unit, with data collection,
monitoring, and evaluation by local consultants and specialized assistance
by an international consultant experienced in water management. Within six
months after the completion of the project, DOI would submit a project
completion report to IDA in a format agreed with IDA. An agreement was
reached at negotiations that HMGN would furnish to IDA, until the



-28-
completion of the project, semiannual project progress reports acceptable
to IDA, including progress on water charge collection, within two months of
each reporting period starting January 1, 1989.
Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Proiect
Ministry of Water Resources
5.10     Approval and Coordination Committee.  Under MWR, an Approval and
Coordination Committee (ACC) would be formed, chaired by an Additional
Secretary of MWR. Members would be the Directors General of DOI and DOA,
and a representative each from the National Planning Commission (NPC), MOF
and ADBN. The Committee would review and approve proposed subprojects
prepared by the Regional Directorate and appraised by a Regional Appraisal
Committee. In addition, the Committee would facilitate coordination among
participating HMGN agencies. The Committee would have responsibility for
approval of all subprojects, subject to IDA review and confirmation
approval of the first two subprojects of each type. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that HMGN would establish and thereafter maintain the
Approval and Coordination Committee which would, inter alia, be responsible
to ensure that all subprojects meet the agreed selection criteria.
5.11     Department of Irrigation.  DOI would have overall responsibility
for implementation and coordination of the Line of Credit pilot project.
Day-to-day responsibility for direction and implementation would lie with
the Western Regional Irrigation Directorate, and District Irrigation
Offices would identify and prepare subprojects in the selected districts.
Within the Regional Directorate, divisional engineers from the Small
Irrigation, Groundwater and Feasibility sections, together with the
association organizer supervisor, wo:ld form a Mobile Team which would
finalize subproject preparation reports and support District Offices with
subproject implementation, including monitorlig and supervision. The
Regional Director would chair the Regional Appraisal Committee, of which
the Regional Directors of DOA, ADBN, and NPC or their representatives would
be members. The Regional Directorate would submit subproject preparation
reports to the Regional Appraisal Committee for appraisal. In addition,
the Groundwater and Planning and Management Divisions would provide the
required technical inputs for the various project components. A Project
Manager for the Irrigation Line of Credit component has been appointed by
HMGN. Agreement was reached at negotiations that HMGN would establish and
thereafter maintain the Regional Appraisal Committee.
Department of Agriculture
5.12     DOA has overall responsibility for agricultural extension
throughout the country, and District Agriculture Offices have day-to-day
responsibility for providing extension services to Line of Credit
subproject areas. Under the project, District Agriculture Offices would
closely cooperate with the District Irrigation Offices. Based on District
Irrigation Office requests, District Agriculture Offices would intensify
extension services in Line of Credit subproject areas under their ongoing
extension programs, organize areas of responsibility for extension workers



-29-
to correspond to subproject hydraulic units, coordinate as much as possible
the work program of extension agents with District Irrigation Office
activities, and provide special training and guidance to extension staff
and farmers on improved water management. At the subproject level, Junior
Technicians would be directly responsible for the implementation of the
required extension services. At regional and central levels, the DOA would
participate in the Regional Appraisal Committee and the Approval and
Coordination Committee.
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
5.13     ADBN provides credit to individual farmers, farmer groups, and
small scale industries for agricultural development. In the Line of Credit
subproject areas, ADBN is represented by two zonal Offices and branch,
subbranch and depot offices at district and village levels. Under the
project, ADBN would provide construction credit through it branch banking
system to farmer groups (WUOs) to help finance the farmers' agreed
contribution to subproject capital costs. Participating farmer WUOs would
apply for loans to ADBN branch or subbranch offices. Applications would be
supported by a recommendation from the District or Regional Irrigation
Offices. ADBN staff would also assist WUOs to set up suitable financial
accounts for subproject implementation. At regional and central levels,
ADBN would be represented in the Regional Appraisal Committee and the
Approval and Coordination Committee.
Water User Or_nizations
5.14     WUOs would be the primary building blocks for Line of Credit
subproject implementation and for O&M of completed facilities.  Each  0UO
would comprise all beneficiaries in the WUO's subproject area.
Organization of WUOs and their committees for construction/rehabilitation
and O&M would to a large extent follow existing arrangements and
traditional practices among the beneficiaries. In general, it is envisaged
that: (a) in small subprojects less than 100 ha, the WUO would directly
elect a Construction/Rehabilitation Committee, and after subproject
completion an O&M Committee; and (b) in larger subprojects, the total
command area would be divided in blocks, usually an area served by a major
branch canal, and WUO members in this area would elect a block committee.
The block committees would then appoint Construction/Rehabilitation and/or
O&M Committees.  Participating subproject WUOs would be constituted and/or
recognized as formal Farmer Irrigation Associations for private irrigation
systems, with the necessary legal powers to undertake agreements and
commitments required under the Line of Credit component. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that HMGN would, with regard to establishment
and/or recognition of Farmer Irrigation Associations in private irrigation
systems as legal bodies with specific powers, rights and duties including
distribution of water, canal system maintenance, resource mobilization,
water charge collection and payment, borrowing, and contracting: (a)
prepare and provide to IDA for comment proposed regulations and plans by
December 31, 1988; and (b) thereafter take suitable steps to implement
plans and regulations to establish the associations.



-30-
5.15     Responsibilities of the WUO would be defined in a formal written
agreement with the local District Irrigation Office, and would always
include shared responsibility for subproject construction and full
responsibil:ty for O&M. After completion of construction, each subproject
would have a development and commissioning period, during which time, for
new subprojects, O&M responsibilities would be gradually handed over to the
WUO. WUOs and their O&M committees would receive guidance and training
through the local District Irrigation Office and the regional Mobile Team.
5.16     To assist district-level staff, central DOI as well as the
Regional Directorate would form special farmer organization sections, along
with the Mobile Team, to deal exclusively with the promotion of farmer
participation and follow-up. These sections at regional and district level
would be directly responsible to assist district staff in orientation of
farmer groups on conditions and procedures of the Line of Credit component,
and in formation and training of WUOs.
Flood Rehabilitation and Institutional Development Support
5.17     Flood Rehabilitation works would be implemented by the River
Training and Environm..nt Division of DOI, which has substantial experience
with such works in its ongoing programs. Institutional Development
component implementation would be coordinated by DOI's Planning and
Management Division, and would be carried out in collaboration with the
UNDP-financed irrigation strengthening project NEP 85/013. HMGN has
appointed Project Managers for the Flood Rehabilitation and Institutional
Development Support components.



-31-
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. BENEFITS AND COST RECOVERY
Mahakali Stage II Component
6.01     Cropping Patterns.  With the project, cropping patterns are
expected to change becauses (a) irrigation water will be available; (b)
chronic flooding will be diminished; (c) water management at the field
level will improve; and td) farmers will be trained on improved irrigated
farming practices. The average cropping intensity in the project area is
expected to increase to 186Z at full development, compared to 1202 at
present. The expected cropping pattern changes includet (a) increase in
area of wet season paddy cultivation; (b) use of HYVs; (c) introduction of
some spring paddy; (d) increased area in wheat, oilseeds and pulses in the
dry season; (e) introduction of new crops including groundnut and cotton in
the wet season, potato in the dry season, and pulses in the hot season
(April-May); and (f) a reduction in maize area in the wet season. No
significant changes of cropping patterns are expected to occur without the
project. Cropping patterns for the "present", "future without project' and
"future with project' situations are detailed in Annex 1, Table 10.
Cropping patterns have been estimated for three representative farm models,
which include small farms (1.2 ha), medium farms (3.3 ha) and large farms
(7.1 ha). each with a mix of upland and lowland conditions. At full
development under irrigation, the small farms are expected to reach
cropping intensities of 194Z, while intensities of 1851 and 177? are
expected for medium and large farms respectively.
6.02     Crop Yields.  With reliable water and protection from flooding to
be '.ntroduced under the project, substantial increases in crop yields are
anticipated. Estimated yields are detailed in Annex 1, Table 11. The
yield estimates assume increases in the use of agricultural inputs in
response to irrigation wTater supply in the project area. However, to
achieve 'future with project" yields, farmers would need training in on-
farm water management and improved cultural practices, which would be
provided under the project. Only minor increases in the yields of the
crops presently grown in the Stage II area are likely to occur in the
"future without project' sitvation. Without reliable water and flood
protection, farmers would have to continue risk-minimizing practices which
would limit their capability to adopt improved cultural practices.
6.03     Croy Production. The annual incremental production at full
development calculated from the projected cropping patterns and yields is
summarized below:
FUTURE          FUTURE         INCREMENTAL
WITHOUT PROJECT  WITH PROJECT      PRODUCTION
-------------------- tons ------------------
Foodgrains             7,286          20,921          13,635
Pulses                   261           2,060           1,799
Oilseeds                 489            2,856          2,367
Cotton                     0              824            824
Vegetables               513            9,163          8,650



-32-
6.04     Market Prospects.  The project area is well situated with regard
to markets, and no difficulties are expected in marketing incremental
production. A substantial proportion of food produce and animal feed
(either as primary or secondary product) would be consumed locally by farm
househclds. The remaining marketable surplus of food would be easily
absorbed by the growing urban population in the vicinity of the project.
The Cotton Development Board intends to set up a cotton gin at Belauri in
the near future, and there is high local demand for cotton, The completion
of the East-West Highway to Mahendranagar would alleviate the isolation of
the aria relative to the rest of Nepal and would expand access to nearby
markets on the Terai in India and Nepal for food grains, oilseeds and high
value vegetables.
6.05     Prices.  Foodgrain prices are largely determined by prices in the
adjoining Indian markets because of their proximity and the ease of
communication into Indian territory. This situation is expected to
continue, but some changes in crop prices can be expected over time as a
result of price changes in international and Indian markets. Although
financial prices are subject to wide seasonal fluctuations, they are in the
long term expected to follow a trend similar to the economic price
forecasts which are expected to rise for all products. Financial and
economic prices for all crops, fertilizers, and other inputs are given in
Annex 1, Table 12.
6.06     Farm Incomes and Impact on Poverty.  The financial impact of the
preject on beneficiaries was analyzed using three farm models charLcterized
by differences in farm size and cropping patterns. The analyses show
significant incremental benefits to all farm models examined. The poverty
line is estimated at NRs 1,900 per/capita/yr (in 1987 prices). It is
estimated that incomes from farming for households of average family size
(8.9 persons in the project area) cultivating more than 0.7 ha would rise
above the poverty line at full development. Families on farm sizes below
0.7 ha (about 12Z of the farms) would remain below the poverty line despite
substantial increases in income, unless they can supplement their income
from non-farm sources.
Net Farm Income a/
Future Without  Future With   Increment
---------------------NRs----------------
Small farms (1.2 ha)          5,988          30,758        24,770
Medium farms (3.3 ha)        14,745          78,843         64,098
Large farms (7.1 ha)         28,838         149,994       121,156
a/   Net return to faniiy labor and farm capital investment before tax and
water charge payments, assuming that farm implements are fully owned
by the farm family. Depreciation is excluded from the input cOat.
Cost Recovery in the Mahakali Irriaation Scheme
6.07     General.  The main sources of cost recovery are land taxes and
water charges. Land taxes for irrigated rice land in the Terai are
assessed annually at NRs 83.6/ha.  In 1986, HMGN set the water charge for
public surface water systems at a flat annual rate of MRs 200/ha,
irrespective of the crops grown. The new charges were introduced in the



-33-
Stage I project area in November 1986 (the 1986/87 dry season). A new
collection procedure was initiated in April 1987 under which water charge
assessments are made by the project authority, with the Land Revenue
Department responsible for collpction. The following table presents water
charge collection information for Stage I, as of February 1988.
Nepal      AssessmenL  Amount in   Collection  Collection Efficiency
Fiscal Year  in Year (a) Arrears (b) in Year (C)  (c)/(a+b)    (c)l(a)
--------------(NRs)---------------    ---(in percent)---
1984185      113,158      284,522       111,344       28            98
1985/86      113,150      286,336       110,171       28            97
1986/87      256,728      289,314       112,606       21            44
6.08     The FY87 collection information is only partial, as collection for
that year is still continuing and would be complete only in June 1988.
However, the collection efficiency for FY87 is expected to be lower than
previously experienced. The main reason is that assessments now cover many
newly settled areas which have not yet been reached by the government's
ongoing land titling program. Consequently, such farms would not be
covered by the existing Land Revenue Department collection procedures based
on lists of currently registered lanu owners in the project area.  Recent
supervision missions have been assured that the Land Settlement Department
would issue land titles in the rest of the command area within this year,
and that water charges for these farms would be assessed and collected
accordingly soon thereafter.
6.09     When compared to current assessments, collection performance in
Mahakali is relatively good. The project has consistently reported the
highest collection efficiencies among HMGN-managed surface irrigation
projects. To further improve recovery, MIDB should focus on recovery of
arrears and improving collection efficiencies. In order to clear arrears
within a reasonable time period, MIDB Board should evaluate past due
accounts, write off arrears where justified, and prepare annual repayment
plans for the remaining arrears. Under such plans, farmers would agree to
make a fixed yearly payment toward liquidating past accounts, and this
amount would be included with current water charges in the bills issued.
Based on the assumptions that the land tax would remain at present levels
in real terms and irrigation charges would cover real O&M costs, cost and
rent recovery indices would be 42 and 22, respectively (Annex 1, Table 13).
This excludes the impact of market taxes and fees on farmgate prices.
Aareement was reached at negotiations that HMGN would with regard to
Mahakali scheme water charge collections: (a) by June 30, 1989, evaluate
water charge arrears, take suitable action for collection or write-off of
arrears, and agree with concerned farmers on a schedule for repayment of
arrears in addition to regular water charges; (b) achieve collection
efficiencies for current water charges plus rescheduled arrears to cover
full OE& costs by FY92 and thereafter; and (c) by July 15, 1992 and
thereafter review and if necessary revise annually the level of water
charges and collection procedures to permit recovery of full O&H costs.
6.10      Sector-wide Reform of Cost Recovery Policies.  IDA intends to
address cost recovery issues on a sectoral basis in the forthcoming Second
Structural Ad,ustment Credit (SAL II). In preparation for SAL II, HEGN
would establish a task force which would recommend (country-wide): (a)



-34-
measures to strengthen water charge assessment and collection procedures,
including collection of arrears; (b) target water charge levels for
irrigation schemes of various types to cover at least full O&M budget
costs; (c) a policy for phasing increases in water charges for specific
irrigation systems as related to the system commissioning process and to
improvements in the quality and reliability of water Rupply; (d)
arrangements to promote irrigation water wholesaling to farmer WUOs; (e)
procedures for assessing farmers' repayment capacity rel3tive to irrigation
investment costs; and (f) procedures for regular review and revision of
water charges to ensure at least full coverage of O&H costs. Dealing with
these issues will require a systematic plan. To develop such a plan, a
special Task Force on water charges would be formed, chaired by the
Secretary for Water Resources and including representatives of MOF and NPC.
Expert specialists to assist the Task Force could be provided on a short-
term consultancy basis under the project. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that HMGN would before effectiveness establish a Task Force on
Water Charges, which would by December 31, 1988 prepare and provide an
action plan and preliminary recommendations to IDA.
Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Proiect
6.11     Cropping Patterns and Yields.  The present agricultural situation
in potential subprojects areas may vary significantly, depending on
existing irrigation facilities, but, on average, a representative cropping
pattern for partly irrigated areas on which the pilot project activities
would focus would be as follows: (a) 502 paddy and 2CZ millet during the
monsoon; (b) 20 Z wheat and 102 oilseeds during winter; and (c) 401 maize
during the pre-monsoon season. The overall cropping intensity would be
around 140%. Without irrigation development, agricultural production is
expected to increase by only 4% over the period, mainly as a result of
improved crop husbandry and marginal increases in the use of HYVs and
chemical fertilizer. If irrigation facilities are provided or improved,
the cropping patterns are expected to change significantly as a result of
an increased and reliable water supply. At full development of subproject
areas, the average cropping pattern is assumed to be: 85Z monsoon paddy,
40% winter wheat and 20% spring paddy, complemented by 35Z maize. The
average cropping intensity would increase to about 1902. Crop yields for
paddy, wheat and maize are expected to increase by approximately 60 - 70%,
while yields for millet and oilseeds would generally remain unchanged.
Because of the expected increases in cropping intensity and yields, the
average increase in food production is estimated to be around 2.0 tons/ha.
6.12     Marketing and Prices.  For Terai subprojects, marketing potential
for increased production and pricing would be similar to the situation
described above for the Mahakali I} project. Subprojects in the Hills
would be mainly located in food deficient areas and are relatively
accessable, and surplus production would be easily marketed through the
traditional system. Prices for foodgrains are generally higher in food
deficient areas because of added transport costs.
6.13     Farm Income and Impact on Poverty.  Providing reliable irrigation
facilities together with the necessary agricultural services and inputs
would increase average net farm income from NRs 2,500 at present to NRs
7,000 at full development of the individual subprojects. The minimum farm



-35-
size required under the pilot project to achieve a per capita income level
above the NRs 1,900 poverty line--assuming an average family size of 6.8
persons--is 0.5 ha. Without the project, the required farmsize would be
around 1.6 ha. The average landholding is 1.1 ha in the Hills and 1.9 ha
in the Terai. Although the proposed irrigation facilities would not
eradicate poverty in subproject areas, they would reduce the number of
households living below the poverty level.
6.14     Recovery of Investment Costs from Farmers.  Farmer groups
receiving assistance from the DOI for Line of Credit subprojects would be
required to make a contribution to the capital cost (ranging from 10-502)
in terms of cash, rights of way, and labor. The level of contribution
would be high enough to enhance farmers' sense of ownership of the
completed facilities, but not so high as to discourage farmer participation
in irrigation development. Farmers' cash contribution would be provided,
in part, through the agricultural credit system and would not exceed their
repayment capacity. Annual amortization of farmers' loans for surface
subprojects would range from 2-122 of net farm income and 5-24? of
incremental benefits, depending on the type of subproject; amortization of
loans for groundwater subprojects would range from 27-45Z of net farm
income and 33-56Z of incremental benefits. The results of financial
analysis for each of the hypothetical subproject models is given in Annex
1, Table 14. Recovery of costs to cover O&M for Line of Credit subprojects
through water charges is not an issue since one of the conditions of
eligibility for financing would be the exclusive responsibility of farmers
for O&M.



-36-
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Analysis
Mahakali Stage II Component
7.01      General.  Under the Mahakali Stage II compor.nnt, agricultural
production would expand, employment would rise, underemployment would
decrease, farm family benefits would improve, and the value added to the
national economy would increase, summarized as follows:
Total
Annual incremental foodgrain production (NRs/yr)            58 M
Annual incremental oilseed production (NRs/yr)              24 M
Directly benefiting farm families (no.)                     3,000
Annual incremental farm employment (man-years)              2,800
Annual generated construction employment (jobs)             2,000
Value added to the economy (NRs M/yr) a/                   109 M
a/ In terms of net return, defined as gross farm return less cash
expenses on inputs less value of families' own resources used
(labor and draft animals).
7.02     Employment Impact.  The Mahakali Stage II component is expected to
generate employment through: (a) construction; (b) expansion and
intensification of agricultural production, which would also reduce
underemployment; and (c) agrobusiness activities such as marketing,
transport, and processing. It is estimated that the labor to be employed,
assuming a six-year construction period, would average about 600 skilled
and 1,400 semi-skilled or unskilled construction workers per day. Annual
labor requirements for crop production are expected to increase from about
112 man-days/ha at present to about 215 man-days/ha at full development.
Thus the project is expected to create about 2,800 additional full-time
farm jobs.
7.03     Assumptions.  The assumptions in the economic analysis for the
Mahakali Stage II component are summarized below and detailed in Annex 10.
(a) Prices and Conversion Factors. Agricultural output was
valued on the basis of January 1988 IBRD projected vworld
market prices expressed in FY88 currency values with
appropriate adjustments in freight, handling and processing.
Nontraded foodgrains and other nontraded goods and services
were adjusted through the use of a standard conversion factor
of 0.9. The shadow wage rate (NRs 15/man-day) has been
derived as a weighted average of the observed rates and
adjusted by the standard conversion factor. The opportunity
cost of capital in Nepal was assumed at 12 percent. A
summary of economic prices is given in Annex 1, Table 12.



-37-
(b)  "Without" and "With" Proiect Situation.  The "future without"
and "future with project" situations were based on cropping
patterns and yields developed from field surveys, results of
monitoring and evaluation studies, and district agricultural
statistics.
(c) Benefit Build-up Rates. The increase in agricultural
production benefits was based on: (a) a five-year build-up
period for yields; (b) a three-year build-up period for
cropping intensities; and (c) the rate of completion of new
irrigated areas based on a six-year project implementation
schedule.
(d)  Proiect Cost.  The economic cost streams include the cost of
civil works (including establishment, consultant services,
and physical contingencies) required for the Stage II
irrigation system, the market value of land lost due to the
construction of the canals, the cost of O&H, and the costs of
engineering and project administration. The economic costs
are derived from the corresponding financial costs, excluding
taxes and adjusted by the appropriate conversion factors.
7.04     Economic and Sensitivity Analyses.  The component's economic rate
of return (ERR) was calculated using project costs and benefits over a
30-year period. The estimated ERR and net present value (at a 12Z discount
rate) for the Mahakali Stage II component are 162 and NRs 138 M,
respectively. Sensitivity to various uncertainties was analyzed using
switching values. Based on this analysis, the project could tolerate a
benefit reduction of 24Z or an increase in costs of 322. With a two year
delay in project benefits, Mahakali Stage II would still have an ERR of 13Z
and an NPV of NRs 45 M. Therefore, the net benefit of expeditious project
implementation (a six instead of eight-year implementation period) would be
about NRs 93 M in current terms. The results of detailed sensitivity
analyses are shown in Annex 10.
Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Component
7.05     Production, Employment and Institutional Impact.  Investments in
Line of Credit subprojects would, at full development, increase the value
of crop production by an estimated NRs 63 M (US$ 2.8 M) annually and
directly benefit some 10,000 farm families. Subproject construction would
generate about 2 M man-months of employment over the implementation period.
In addition, as a result of increased cropping intensity and agricultural
production, farm employment would expand by about 1.4 H man-months
annually. The project would also result in the institutionalization of a
participatory approach to irrigation development within DOI, together with
improvements in procedures and criteria for subproject identification,
selection, implementation and post-construction development.
7.06     Economic Analysis.  Under the Line of Credit pilot component, 10
basic types of model irrigation subprojects would be financed. Since the
component is essentially a pilot project to develop new institutional
capacities and implementation procedures, the estimated cost and benefits
are therefore only indicative. Evaluating these cost and benefits over a
20-year period gives the following ERRs for the various subproject typess



-38-
Economic
Cost/ha     Incremental           ERR
Crop     Econ.Net
Intensity   Benefits
Subproject Types                NRs.'000      Z        NRs.'000      1
New Projects                        43.3      80        11.9        16
Major Rehabilitation (Hills)        23.7       70        9.9        25
Major Rehabilitation (Terai)        17.9       80        5.7        19
Major Rehab. Small Schemes (Hills) 12.0        60        7.6        37
Minor Rehabilitation (Hills)         3.9       44        2.9         73
Minor Rehabilitation (Terai)         2.9       43        2.6        66
Rehabilitation-Turn Over (Hills)    7.6       53         5.3        47
Essential Structural Works (Terai) 11.7       58         5.2        38
Shallow Tubewells on 4 ha           14.4      20         6.2        18
Shallow Tubewells on 8 ha            9.6      20         6.3        23'
Medium Depth Tubewells on 20 Ha.   11.7        20        6.7        22
The weighted average ERR for the Line of Credit component is 351.
Environmental Effects
Mahakali Stage II Component
7.07      Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve.  The main canal extension to the
Stage II area is expected to have a net positive impact on wildlife in the
Reserve by providing a year-round source of water which would reduce the
out-migration of certain species during the dry season. Such out-migration
to India and surrounding Terai areas has left many species vulnerable to
poaching. To minimize the possible negative impact of the canal on
wildlife, special canal crossings would be constructed for animals at half
km intervals, and additional crossings would be provided at particular
locations if indicated by animal trails. The crossings would also serve as
sources of drinking water, and as wallows. Crossings of the canal for
primates and other animals not adapted to water crossingb would be provided
by bridges at cross-regulator structures, some six of which wou'd be
located along the canal in the Reserve. During construction, the
contractor would be required to control dust by watering to prevent damage
to adjacent flora and wildlife grazing areas. Use of borrow-areas for
selected fill for canal embankment construction would be strictly
controlled. For vehicular traffic on the canal access road, speed limits
would be strictly enforced and access would be restricted to the roadway.
Guard posts would be constructed and the Forestry Department would maintain
control points at both ends of the road.  In general, construction of
project works would be organized to minimize carried out with minimum
disturbance to wildlife in the Reserve. In addition, an expert
conservationist consultant would be employed to assist super- vision of
construction as needed to ensure adequate protection of wildlife and
provide advice on wildlife management.
7.08      Health-related Concerns.  The main water-related diseases on the
Terai are malaria and typhoid. The latter is transmitted primarily through
the drinking water supply. The project, however, would have very little
impact on drinking water supply. With regard to malaria, the reduction of



-39-
flooding and the improvements in the drainage system would result in less
ponding of wastewater, but given the preponderance of rice paddies in the
wet season with the project, these measures would probably not appreciably
reduce mosquito breeding sites.
7.09      Chemicals.  Plant protection chemicals are expected to be used
only on a very limited basis by farmers in the area, and would be limited
to safe and cost-effective chemicals. Moreover, the methods proposed for
canal maintenance do not include chemical control of weed growth. The
levels of chemical fertilizer application would be carefully recommended by
the extension service and would not adversely affect the quality of water
or soils.
Irrigation Line of Credit Component
7.10     Most of the major surface subprojects would have a beneficial
effect on the environment by replacing brushwood weirs with permanent
structures, thereby reducing deforestation in adjoining forest areas.
Adverse environmental effects of surface subprojects would not be
significant because most of the potential subproject areas are already
under cultivation and partly under irrigation. Since improvement of
drainage would be emphasized, doubl'; cropping is not expected to increase
exposure to waterborne diseases or malaria. Canals would not be used for
drinking water since villages rely on wells, springs and rural water supply
systeme for domestic use.
7.11     Agreement was reached at negotiations that HMCN would take
measures as necessary to minimize adverse environmental impacts and health
risks from the project.
Project Risks
7.12      Mahakali Stage II Component.  Apart from deviations from the main
assumptions analyzed above, the net benefits and/or the equity of their
distribution could be affected by the following specific conditions:
(a) Availability of Surface Water Supply. The Indian authorities
could fail to supply the project with water from the Sarda Barrage
in the quantities agreed under the 1920 Agreement. This risk is
small as India has consistently honored the agreement, and
excellent coordination exists between the project authorities and
Indian officials responsible for management of the Sarda Barrage.
1-reover, project augmentation tubewells could at least partially
replace an interruption in water supply (up to 1.0 cum/sec).
(b) Inadequate Water Management. The benefits in the Stage II area
are largely predicated on the assumption that the system would be
managed in such a way as to provide a secure, equitable and timely
water supply to all farmers in the command. The system is
designed to make the operatior. of secondary and tertiary canals a
relatively simple procedure involving only a limited nuriber of
major control points. Moreover, the project would include
substantial technical assistance and training to build the



-40-
capacity of project authorities to attain the levels of irrigation
service assumed. The efficiency of system operation also requires
discipline and coordination between farmers. This need would be
addressed through a program of WUO formation which would be
initiated during the design and construction stages and which
would be assisted by trained group organizers. In addition, if
dry season flows are inadequate to meet peak demand, the project
water supply could be supplemented by augmentation tubewells
pumping groundwater into the main canal during such periods.
(c)  Insufficient Funding of O&M.  Inadequate funding of O&M could lead
to deterioration of facilities and low levels of service, which in
turn, could reduce benefits and farmers' willingness to pay
required water charges. To reduce this risk, HMGN would agree to
provide adequate funding for O&M, review the proposed O&H budget
with IDA annually and, if necessary, adjust water charges and
collection procedures to permit full recovery of O&M costs.
(d) Implementation Delays. To reduce the risk of implementation
delays, tender documents and contract packages would be ready
prior to credit effectiveness. The main works would be let under
a single ICB contract, and only experienced contractors with
proven ability to meet schedules would be considered.
7.13     Irrigation Line of Credit Component.  Risks are moderate.  DOI has
extensive experience with construction of schemes similar to the
subprojects proposed. However, the component requires effective farmer
organization capability which will have to be strengthened within DOI.
7.14     Flood Rehabilitation Component.  Risks are low because DOI has had
substantial experience with such works on its ongoing programs.



-41-
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached that before credit
effectiveness HMGN would establish a Task Force on Water Charges (para.
6.10).
8.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached that HMGN would:
(a) for Mahakali Stages I and II: (i) prepare and by December 31, 1988
provide to IDA for comment an overall O&M plan; (ii) by March 31 of
each year beginning in 1989 and thereafter provide to IDA for its
review and comments data showing estimated O&M budget requirements
for the next year and actual budget allocations made for the current
year ; and (iii) thereafter, taking into account IDA's comments if
any, ensure that adequate O&M budgets are provided in HMGN's
forthcoming fiscal year (para. 3.11);
(b) ensure that subprojects are selected and implemented according to the
agreed criteria and procedures (para. 3.16);
(c) by not later than June 30, 1989 prepare and furnish to IDA for its
review and comments a draft action plan and timetable for staffing
and strengthening DOI to enable it to carry out the Line of Credit
component, and thereafter implement the plan (para. 3.24);
(d) provide DOI with an adequate headquarters building and facilities in
the Kathmandu valley (para. 3.25) and provide the Department of
National Parks and Wildlife Conservation with guard posts at the
Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve in accordance with plans and
timetables satisfactory to IDA (para 3.03);
(e) prepare an action plan and timetable Z;r development of monitoring
and evaluation, and management information systems in DOI, provide it
to IDA for review and comment by June 30, 1989, and thereafter
implement the plan (para. 3.29);
(f) provide resources and funds to execute the project in accordance with
the agreed implementation program and expenditure schedules over the
project implementation period (para. 4.03);
(g) with regard to accounts and audits, cause DOA, ADBN, DOI and MIDB to:
(i) maintain separate records and accounts for all project
expenditures, by individual project component and subcomponent, and
in accordance with appropriate accounting principles; (ii) furnish to
IDA the report on the Special Account, audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with sound auditing
principles; (iii) forward to IDA such accounts, together with the
auditor's reports, within 12 months after the end of each fiscal
year; and (iv) include in the annual audit reports submitted to IDA a
separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements
made on the basis of statements of expenditures were for goods and
sarvIr- rpra4Vvard AnAl 4nytitr A fwr th                 nrnf  -t



-42-
(v) fl-vnish to IDA such other information concerning audits and
accounts as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request, including
unaudited Project accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.12);
(h) with regard to provision for establishment and/or recognition in
public and private irrigation systems of WUAs/WUGs and Farmer
Irrigation Associations, respectively, as legal bodies with specific
powers, rights and duties including distribution of water, canal
system maintenance, resource mobilization, water charge collection
and payment, borrowing and contracting: (i) prepare and provide to
IDA for comment proposed regulations and plans by December 31, 1988;
and (ii) thereafter take suitable steps to implement such plans and
regulations to establish such associations (paras. 5.07 and 5.14);
(i) for the Hahakali Irrigation Project, establish WUGs: (i) in tertiary
commands already receiving irrigation by June 30, 1989; and (ii) in
tertiary commands to be brought under irrigation, not later than six
months before the tertiary canal is scheduled to deliver water (para.
5.07);
(j) with regard to monitoring, evaluation and reporting, furnish to IDA
until completion of the project semiannual progress reports
acceptable to IDA, including progress on Hahakali Irrigation Project
water charge collections, within two months of each reporting period
starting January 1, 1989 (para. 5.09);
(k) establish and thereafter maintain the ACC which would, inter alia, be
responsible to ensure that all subprojects meet the agreed selection
criteria (para. 5.10);
(1) establish and thereafter maintain the Regional Appraisal Committee
(para. 5.11);
(m) with regard to Mahakali Irrigation Project water charge collections:
(i) by June 30, 1989, evaluate water charge arrears and take suitable
action for their collection or write-off; (ii) achieve collection
efficiencies for current water charges plus rescheduled arrears to
cover full O&M costs by FY92 and thereafter; and (iii) by July 15,
1992 and annually thereafter, review and if necessary revise the
level of water charges and collection procedures to ensure at least
full coverage of O&M costs (para. 6.09);
(n) ensure that the Task Force on Water Charges prepares and provides to
IDA its action plan and its preliminary recommendations by December
31, 1988 (para. 6.10); and
(o) take measures as necessary to minimize adverse environmental impacts
and health risks from the project (para. 7.11).



-43-
8.03     During negotiations, agreement was also reached that, for the
Irrigation Line of Credit component, conditions of disbursement against
expenditures incurred by ADBN and DOI in respect of implementation of their
rcspective activities would be: (a) execution by EHGN and ADBN of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
(b) establishment of the ACCI (c) establishment of the Regional Appraisal
Committee; (d) agreement of IDA and HKGN on subproject construction cost
sharing arrangements; (e) approval and documentation of approval (including
the subproject appraisal report) by the ACC for each subproject or
subproject cluster including written ACC certification that the subproject
meets the agreed selection criteria; and (f) IDA approval for the first two
subprojects of each type (new surface schemes, rehabilitation schemes, and
groundwater schemes) (para. 4.10).
8.04     With the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of USS 41.3 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Nepal on
standard terms with 40 years maturity.



NEPAL
KADALI IIRRIGATIOV II PROJECT
CLIMATIC DATA 11
IIECI                             Jon.   feb.   Mr.   ApR.   Iy         Juno   July   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Mm.   Oce.   Iotle
Sbn dailv temoraturo (C)
_ max                             22.0   25.0   31.2   37.2   38.2   36.6   33.0   32.2   31.5   30.9   27.6   23.9
- In                               7.3    7.9   12.1   18.0   23.0   24.7   24.9   24.8   24.2   20.6   12.5    6.8
- Hen                             14.7   16.5   21.6   27.6   30.6   30.3   29.0   28.5   27.9   25.3   20.1   16.4
Relative huiditv at noon (X)
- Range of mnthly amass           45406  43-74  30-56  24-76  24-54  42-77  68-95   73-90  60-97  60-76  57-69  6447
- "aNM                              67       9     41      40      37     60      79      79      74     70      63      70
Duration of bright *unehino        065    0.75   0.73   0.76   0.66   0.60   0.39   0.44   0.46    0.69   0.1    0.63
Mind speed at 2 a above ground     0.34   0.38   0.53   0.66    0.56   0.64   0.90   0.46   0.38   0.35   0.32   0.27
Rainfall (l )                    I
- SOU probability                   27      22     21      14      42    272    554    404    294        67       5      9.  1.751
- SOl probability                    9      16     24      17      29    133    470    356    299        So       3      8   1U422
Clowa A pen evaporation (mm/month)t  69     92    181    264    291    272    180    171    125    112           91      67   1,915
Water uas by reference crop #    |  63      62    129    171    192    184    152    140    119    111           77      S    1448
(E 10); (n/month)                |
/  Climatic data for  .Ipalganj (since 1968); rainfall date for Ohangerhi Station (since 1956)
E( Cxpressed as a fraction of tho mximou possible duration of brigt sunshine                                                         53
E Estimted by empirical formula using pan evaporation an climtic data



-45-                                     ANN     1
Table 2
NEPAL
MAHAKALI tRRIGATION It PROJECT
Irriaation Line of Credit
Identified Surface irrtgation Potential in the Western Development Region
kNaraY*nL  5asin onIY
District               Subproject type               Number         Total CCA (ha)
Gandaki Zone
Tanahu               New construction                 5                  327
Major rehabilttattvn           11                 1,609
Minor rehabilitation            35                1,050
Turnover schemes                 3                  460
Lamjung              New construction                 1                   50
Major rehabilitation            8                   927
Minor rehabilitation            30                  900
Turnover schemes                 3                  720
Kaski                New construction                 2                  550
Major rehabilttation            12                1,981
Minor rehabilitation            25                  750
Turnover schemes                0                     0
Gorkha               New construction                 2                2,390
Major rehabilitation            18                2,987
Minor rehabilitation            40                1,200
Turnover schemes                4                   430
Syanja               New construction                 2                  138
Major rehabilitation            9                 1,729
Minor rehabilitation            30                  900
Turnover schemes                0                     0
Subtotal                                         240               19.098
Dhaulagiri Zone
Parbat              New construction                 3                  575
Major rehabilitation            13                2,116
Minor rehabilitation           40                 1,200
Turnover schemes                 3                  500
Baglung              New construction                 1                   60
Major rehabilitation            6                   555
Minor rehabilitation            35                1,050
Turnover schemes                 0                    0
Myagdi               Now construction                 4                1 070
Major rehabilitation             7                1,423
Minor rehabilitation            30                  900
Turnover schemes                0                     0
Subtotal                                         142                9.449
Lumbini Zone
Nawalparasi          New construction                 3                1 690
Major rehabilitation            6                 4,200
Minor rehabilitation            30                  900
Turnover schemes                 2                  520
Palpa                Sew construction                 1                  280
Major rehabilitation             4                  400
Minor rehabilitation            25                  750
Turnover schemes                 0                    0
Gulmi                New construction                 4                  940
Major rehabilitation             3                  460
Minor rehabilitation            20                  600
Turnover schemes                 1                   60
Subtotal                                          99               10.800
Total for Western Re8ion
(Naray ni Basin only)                         481                39.347
Sources: Plan for Medium Irrigation; Third Rill Irrigation Project; and DOI
Feasibility Section.



NEPAL
MAfAKALI IRRICATION If PCOJFCT
Irrimatt> nLtne of Credit
Potential Suberoiceta
Dfistrict   S*projirt          Aess             lTYRe         CCa  Irriqted  Coat  Coot/hr  CopiouitV StOtu3 Dlp                                                  Femrs' R       _espone
Ca6dji /one
lIn,       _amtipur I.r.  2 thWs  alt                Constr.    90       10    320    3.56 [o3y          F.3. Level (0), Detailed tnginering Reilwird             Strm, Sw tIrt  fir e ita t t cost twitq
tsriphat l.F      Itutorable TroCkt  RO*/EmporS. 170         40    9l740    1.41 hder,te   Pre-F.. Level (ID), Detailed En3giteing bmuird             Strum  S_rt 1 Fire commt       t b cost daing
Pipal lar IP.      I Day's htl      On. CoNStr.    h1         0     5170   61.M3 Difficult  F.9. Level (me),  a-oDign Repaird                          Stroa   finy t&
Sauiqe Patvcas  I.P. I N'our  alt   lur Omve       300      100    2160      9.50 ItdBrate  FIed Dm,  epir I lNinr Itbt                                pilic Sdum. hi farr  orgasatl
S9jba  rir l.P.    I Oay's Valk      turn Ovae      40       30      310    9.50 E[y         Detailed DaSIp  MA. Harts reaired                         Pthlic Sdtlu,  i    ar fse  w_gints
Atrauli Puttar l.P.I Pay,n Valk      Comletion    270         40   21000    7.$] Difficult  et. beigps Wlplateod by MD. Castr. Ooing                   Stronr Famer It rt tlbt lb        gisatii
hail FlIlS        bn.? Day ,   lt linor Rehb    400          WA    2690       6.70 Ey         To Be dindtifid jnd Denignd                               Nil To b ltk" W O  Farm"' _r
wiftotal                                                       I1N              440
tlam ju     Rasnfatar 1.'      2 t       st walk    HOm C tr.   610       74   47010    6.1.5 Difficult Detailed Dsgns Completed (RIP), Castr.  oping               M  Orgaind b 10i Stru, Famr isott
Said 9njangl.P.l Day's Valt          Comletion       so       20    ?m       S5.1 Easy        Pre-F.S. Level (O), Detailed Enginwering Remired          Camtr. stdo  by Farws with FP           t Int
Rash  lar I.P.    I oa's Hilt       fTrn over       M74      100    2128      9.50 Easy       Detailed De ign kdhi.  arVts repaired                     public Sdm, lb & oind forme, laleit
0horletar I.P.    I We VHalk          urn over     720       170    1430      6.S0 Itberate   Flood Daap  epatir I Nintr Rd,                            M3 lMlsa by Mi. Rieriae towr  lmItw glv
Small 11S        If.?2 Day's hit llinor Jeh       2e0       W/A    130      6.70 Easy       to is Identified and Oespied                              Oly to b  Iam  qP h Farn' i_e
sUtotal                                                        130              41677
or(tha      Palungtar iP.      Ibtorable tract  Nwt Coastr.   s0          10   67000    79.92 Difficult F.s. Lewel (ND),  etailed EOniur Rinewimired                Str"" Supprt I Firm cbed to cast dving
Bhinon lule I.P. I Day's  ialt       lurn oer        75       40    130D    17.1 NdIrate   Flood hp  Repair I liner RA. Det. Dleigp R ired  Pilic Scd_. Ma Orgmniad fig inI_veI_
bIrutar I.P.       I Day's bait      lurn ever      100       10    1500        15 bderoat   Flood Oep R ir 1111  tsi, Dgt. OnDign Rpired  H  lrepld by Al.                          farmer luIltnet
ChIrtate Tar l.P. I Dy's Malt        turn over      110       60    io0    9.09 Iblrate   Fioo   awe bpair S liner lt, De.  bip Retirad  Pwit Scm. tittie ormniad farer Intvivan
Naila Jar          I  ay's Vlkt      turn over     O1         10 Io             15 IS rdaerte  Flood DOup Repair I Niner Rti, Oet. Ieign Reoitred  public Sd_.  a Orgizd frw  Itttel_ma
Cepe Ta  I.P.      12 ODay' Valt   TUrn ever         60       25      S70     9.se Eas        Detailed hlp RW&. Owb rpirad                              P.blic Suma. Little irgaisd farur [&Alenma
Oh_auit I.r.       I Day's hi       turn .4r        50      40       250        5 Eas        Detaliled bOlip Rdib. Marts repirad                       Pulblic Scitme. Little Dpited  farmr  nvlnemn
snil FllS          14,.2 Day's  alt lMiner lol*    30        U/A    2010    6.10 Eas          To 6c Identified A. Onlped                                bly To b  Ie  up Ob farmers'  _M
Sudutotal                                                      1641             75170
.            . ..    .    ..    ... ..    ..    .....    ... .   .    .    .. ...    ... . . . . . . . . . . - - - - -   -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -- - - - -  .... - -- - - - - -    -  -------------   -- - -- -
Ilsh;"l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14                                       ?Sil
Mavaipieram Girvari I.P.       [11 Iitoway       Ibjer Rld4   1720 ie    N      31500   27.5 06 derate   .s Levol (1IP). Miner Re-de3ign Repaired                   lusting M, hwun     farmr  i       _ tlet/laters
le&,eqhwf Il.    [/H HiUhwo          laior Reb.  700          60     SW00       29 Difficult r.s Level (NIP), Kajar R  design Rewaired         [         wisting but n    N\, moderate i.tmt
Med  RI s          I/ H       lldna  tsxntial Str.1500       NU/    14U0    9.50 Ibderate  lo 0e Idetified anI Deigned                                  Oaly lo be Ib . 110 b Farms' #kn
S.ditofal                                                                       siss02  5  5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                             - - -   ...     ... . . .   .. .    ..    ...   ...   .     .. ...    ...   ................,    , ,      , ,      ,,,,,,. ..  -- --  ---   -- -- - - - - - - - - - - -
ITi.                                                           'S9             1763t7                                                                                                            .
.  , ,     .    .    ..... ....    .                                                                .  . . ..    ..    . . ......   .. . .....  .... ..                                ....    ....  . ..    ...    . .    . ...... ..----
Note:  Table 3 does not include potential subprojects in Syangja District which was included under the
Line of Credit pilot project component at negotiations.



NEPAL
mHmALI IbhI"laIIO it PROJECT
S&inryv AccowlI tby P,Ojacf CoMoniot
NRnS 'ODD)
IIAALI STAGE It
sutoCvEUNmTs To              STAGS II      FLOOD                        960960    ARICULTLURAL OPERATION AM0  IRRIGATIOI6                                                 c1,t.
STAQS I UAIN   STAGE It OISIRIOIJTION  PROTECTION      PRO.JCI      ORGANIZATION DEOELOPWNT   MAINTENANCE    LINE 0F           FLOWD       INSTITUTIIUSL                -- -----
CANAL.     MAIN CANAL    CANAL     AND DRAINAGE AOUINISTRATION   SUPPORT       SUPPOOT        SIDoOTR       CREDIT    RSNAOILIIATION   06 RIAOPSNI      Total        1   asaut
INtvsESISNI COSTS
A  LAND ACWtItSITION                          -    1,611, 2     14.4tG 0      3.922 0                                                 - -                                                -     1.049 3   5 0      070
S CIVIL NOOKCS
CONTRACTS                            9.413 0   72.011 2   200.609 1    53.468 8                 -                                        - 17.200 a           131.234 2-   625.083  1 I 3  ?O.001S.4
131,LOINO"S    .14.901 a                                                                                                   -                                                   7.767 0      812.64 18  It 0   8.30" 0
StelolalI CIVIL 06                      9.413 0   72.011 2    200.609 I    S3.488 8         14.901 a             -                          - 17.200 S           131.234 2       37.787 0    676.613 8  it I 78.217.4
c  ENGIINEERING 0 SUPERVISION                             -                                                                                        .440 I                          2.22' 4     11.7688   30a    3402
O~ EQWIPNT 0 VRIIICLIS-- -                                                                  21.619 0             -7  .101 2                                              -          .701 0     34.512 I  4 0   6.374 2
* CONSUJLTANTS A IBAINIIS-                                                                  39.512 0        0am a         007 0       2.046 09                                     8680        0.0       0       .7     
F STAFFING COSTS                                                                            12.   2213f  4   ~3.434 4         -             .       213?                                              A f~4 1.3  B  10    1.-:1731  '
G  OTHER COSTS                                -                        --                                        -     6.076 4              -         113                --                     6.967 7   60      5O40
Total INVIS7IiT COSTS                      9.4 13 0   73.622 4    218.028 1    87.377 8        69288 I       3.943 2       7.073 4       2.046 0   174.168 I        01.2134 2       62.306 4    026.264 2  10 4  80.ft9061
I. OlClRON#T COSTS
A  OP6AIION  a 'A4INTEMNACE                  .           -                                        -2.535 2                           6.400-0-                                                  0.936 I  0 0        0 0
totalIRECURRENT COSTS                            -          -             -            -.-                                2.8252         6I00.06    00                                                                 00
blaT  ASELINE COSTS                        9.463 0   72.632 4    215.025 I    57.377 5         00,285 I       2.942 2     10.4066        0.447 7 1 74.1   1          131.224 7        3.3066a   63.200 3  13  as.06  0
PhSIcal Co.t Ingdl'cl                    1.462 0   1o0.62 2    30.812 2        0.214 4        7.744 6        30  2         443 8         204 7        35 I         19.608 I        6.161 a      65.90900   0 0       0 0
PrIG. COntIPOBICISS         1.7896   ~~~~~~12.770 7    72.408 3  13.670 7       16.047 7      1.137 0       2.me67        3.~217 5    32.GI? 7        40.294 3        6.:396~ I    6 1.485.I  _B_  '7I?36
Total P&AOECT COSTS                         2.46 90.243   316326                 79266         11.4            .478         360S         1.70 27070                  1023            7767   I   .166.3 9 13, 7
10.06                            I~~~~03 4A803       12.016         2.98           1.87                -        1255          372 2     8.624 3          6. 700         2.305 7      37.160 6  100S  3.407.1
90e-Ir E.chIsl.7 4  S 6  134 7                                  a 1.2  8     4.6700          7.6                         3.317 0       6.2885 6    63.060 0       106.6206G       44.61584   4600.50114 9  lOS5 62.0155 4
7.646 a 1667 7 42 670 T. 462~~~                                                       ~ ~~'2



NEPAL
MWANACLI IRUICAIIG am  I PROIJECT
Project Componettt by Year
totals lIncudIng Conitllt.#Cle                                                          totals IncludIng Conttigerices
I(5  10003                                                                             (1355 10003
A  MA34A3AI MTACE II
IMPVEMRNTS 10 STACE I MAIN CANAL               69        .2         299 2.999 2           249 I      424 9    396 8       47 0    32.964 6      280 9 3620   383 2329    to9 0              ?        7I   I 39     53a
STAC  II MAIN CANAL                          7.129 3  34.0707   0469  4   407S 5   1.470 3  0.302 3 6.052 3  3.99                 08.264 2    316 9 3.5205 3.493 252               87 2 3      3    3       6     .93 
51609~~ ~~" tJDMIIIC   AA                 .50 7  36.686 0  231.469 6  66.246 8a72.500 9  78.820 09 40.942                2 7.9      1,2      4      25 5 3.495  27 I   298392.2636128232054
FLOOD PROJECTION AM D8AINAGE                 5.972 8  11,697 2  3826  7   0.977 2   0.340   31.2  0  5932 6  3.064 3    79.273 6    263 0   765 I   786 8   215 8   420 3   452 5   234 5  41 6  2.326 4
PRO,JECT AOUlINSISRATN33.250 0  17.513 3  1452  6   2888330643. 4                                         49  7.1      3,567 8   332.947 3  3.492 3   76314   620 B   536 4   492 4         267 2   203   3 18 6  4.90004
FARMF6OROANJZAIIONSUPPORT         ~~~~690     763        606       69         620         r3 96993    7388 9           9.4795s    30 3    333        289      2595    257    27    276 .288            222 5
AGRICUt1U9AL.DIVfIOP3IINT SUPPORT            1.467 3   1.999 8   3.641 8       .749 2    .74 7   3,7281   3.934         'IO93  5   3.820 I       5      670    70 2  2    2.      7?         39     7 7    4 3    5722
OPERA1IOfh AND MAINItNANCE SAJPORI             969 4      9684       673  I    620 I      963 4   2.022    3.I49 IT 230r 7    33.8700           29  I   24 7    2996   29 9    306          el 6   124 5 32* 7    47490
S..b-Tot8l MOOA3Rl3 YESTA  It                  52.967 S  93,381 4 306.401 7 10OO0t a 300.0686 3 335.928 0986.424 2139.1095   661J.576 7 2.354 t 4060 31 4.5  6430     416B.93    .66    743 4 27,239.9
8   BIAION LIN  OF CGOWl!                 23.705 9  38,002 9  48.499 0  44.9 7  22.300  39,07  2  3.90  9    907 4 3,07 0IT                   5636222352386   3232 678 38                                97835
CI"COD REHABILITATION                        27.93I7.7       5689 9380                   3454 22983 7                      5  B 399.232   t.2j5 9I.37T   2.378 6              I90   60 3      4      430   tO 'I  7230.9
O  INSITIJION   DIVIOPNI23.64 2  2.809S  384609    .36 302    2000 330799    232 0    77.867 3   970 9  .326 3   7"89   236 3   340                                         66       42 7 9-0  3. 3654S
total P80,JECJ L COYlY                       129. 303 IA 22.75  230.238 35. 2990 13460233489  20762.0  3.0064753   .605 904  998I8369835.24 2 5 1.3 0.477934699
.. .. ..   . . . . . .   .. . ..   . .. ..   . .. .. .   . .. ..   . .. ..   . .. ..   . . .. .. .   .. ..   . .. .
TOISS PMJECI COSIS                                                                                                           S.62   2 5.381 0 2.    7 792 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'e-



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION It PROJlECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Cant Ingencles                                                                   Totals Inclding Contingencies
(NRS '0001                                                                                        IUS$ 1000)
69/lIZ~     89/SO       90/91       9 1/92      92/93       93/94      94/OS     05/96        Total        89/89    89/90   90/01   91/02   92/93   93/94    94/95  95/96  Total
K. INVRSTUCNT COSTS
A  LAVa ACQUJISITION                   S.413 9   8.330 7   7.646 7    1.337 3             310 2       336 6      ISO a       37 3      23.469 3    240.6    362.3    326 a    56 0           a o      13 a      s 2    I 9   1.015 4
9 CIVIL WOOKS
CONTRACTS                          56.116  1 170.53309 183,12996 134.231 3 IIS,924 5 113.992 0 56.702 7 10.150 6   a4l.7S1 3 2.494 071.414 5 1.829 0 9,616 4 4.011 7 4.1902 4 2.241 2 39590 35,7244.2
BUILDINGS                          20.29000   21.727 7  14.S04 1   3.347.1   1,465 4    1.92? 9   1.142 6               222 0      64.616 6    901 2   044 7   619 8    140 0           60 3    77 7    45.2   9 6  2.797.7
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                 76.396 I 192.261 1 197.703 7 137,570 0 118.389 0 115.9109  6 7,845 3 10.373 5   S0M.367 0 3,395 4 93501.2 9.440959.756 4 4.972 0 4.670 2 2.296 4 403 6 39.102 0
C  ENGINEERING 9 SuPrRVISION            2.274 9   3.141 6   3.391 4    2.571 4    1.012 3             064 2      704.6      140 0      14.289  3    101 I   136.6    144 5    107 6    41 7           39 9      31 4   5 9    607 5
0. EQUIPMENT A VEHICLES               26.240 3   7.772 I   3.208 9            600.9        100 7       175 9      SI 5       10.4      38.316 0  1.166 6   337 0    127 I    20 3            4 5       7 I       3 2   0 9   1,686.5
E. CONSULtANTS 9 TRAINING              12.364 4   13.430 0  13.070 9   12.324 0   10.923 0   9.669 9  4.543 0               826 3      77.061 3    940 0   994 3   597 0   915 6   449 5   349 6    170 6  32 2  3.257 4
F  STAFFING COSTS                       2,126 2   2.454 10  2,999 7   3.215 4   3.477 7   3.708 I  3,142.9  3.49596                    25S 199 3     94 5    106. 7    123 4    134 5    143     IS13 2    147 0 36 0   1.039 4
o  OTHIER COSTS                           046 9    1.006 *I   1.071 7    1.143 3    1.2108S   1.296 9   1.351 9   1.414 7               0.431 9       42.1     42 9      45 9      41.8     49 9      Si 9      53 4  55.0       3899 6
Total ENVESTUIENT COSTS                  125.7711 5228.401 5 229.1371 0 159.960 9 135,333 2 131.051 I 68.5-4 4 16.314 9 1.094.134 2 5.5R9  9 9.930 a90.923 6 6.647 3 5.569 3 5.284 3 2.708 1 634 a 46. 107 9
II RECURRENT COStS
A. OPERATIONS 9 MATNTTNAWCE             320 6        349 4       367.2       389 I   1.336 0   2,207.9  3,593 I  3.7890 9             12,541 2       14 6     t Is      IS1  7   16 3    55 0       96 7    141 6 147 5        502 5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        320 6       348 4       367.2       399 1   1.336 0   2.397.9  3.593 I  3,799 9              12.541 2       14 6      1s I    is 7       16 3    50 0       96 7    14i 46 147 6       502 5
ToaTotaCl          OTS16  01I2P75RO3,200J9EC0T666       3,4867.0762.147110,7      0645004.   .393.66O.2ST53102.4S                                                                                                          922660
..............................................    ......        .   ..  .............   ....  ............F....
- -- - -- - - - - - - --- - - - - - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - -- -- -- - - - - - -- -- - -- -- -  - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - --- - - - - -- -- - - - - - - -- - --- - - - -- -- - - -- -- - -- - - - -- - - -- - -- -- - - -



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
(USS '000)
INTERNATIONAL                 HIS MAJESTYS
DEVELOPMENT                  GOVERNtMENT OF
ASSOCIATION      FARMERS         NEPAL           Total
--------------  ------------  -------------  --------------               Local (Excl.  Duties 8
Amount    X    Amount   %    Amount    %     Amount    %    For.  Exch.     Taxes)      Taxes
=tS         .  =              ==---, * -.-         = .-- .......      =  ...- =
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND ACQUISITION                   -      -        -       1,015.4 100.0   1,015.4   2.2            -       1.015.4
B. CIVIL WORKS
CONTRACTS                   32.079.2  90.6    770.1  2.2  2.545.0   7.2  35.394.3  75.8    19,462.4        14,566.2   1.365.7     t
BUILDINGS                    2.618.0  93.6         -    -    179.8  6.4   2,797.7   6.0       1,748.4         909.5     139.9     0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS          34,697.1  90 a    770.1  2.0  2,724.8   7.1  38,192.0  81.8    21,210.7        15,475.7   1.505.6
C. ENGINEERING S SUPERVISION      607.5 100.0         -    -        -     -    607.5   1 3             -         607.5
.D. EQUIPMENT 8 VEHICLES         1,686.5 100.0        -    -        -     -   1,686.5   3.6      1,686.5             -          -
E. CONSULTANTS a TRAINING       3.218.4  98.8         -    -     38.9   1.2  3,257.4   7.0      2,148.8        1,069.6      38.9
F. STAFFING COSTS                 614.5  59.1         -    -    424.9  40.9   1,039.4   2.2            -       1,039.4         -
G. OTHER COSTS                    313.0  80.3         -    -    76.7  19.7      389.6   0.8            -         389.6
Total INVESTMENT.CDSTS            41,137.1  89.1    770.1  1.7  4,280.7   9.3  46,187.9  98.9    25,046 1        19,597.3   1,544.5
11. RECURRENT COS7S
A. OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE      174.2  34.7    302.6 60.2      25.7   5.1     502.5   1.1       312.8          169.6      20.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 174.2  34.7    302.6 60.2     25.7   5.1     502.5   1.1       312.8          169.6      20.1
Total Disbursement                 41,311.3  88.5  1,072.7  2.3  4,306.5   9.2  46,690.5 100.0    25,358.9        19,766.9   1.5e4.6
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



-51-                       ANNEX 1
Table 8
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal year                              Disbursements
and semester                     Semester                  Cumulative
1989
First                          1.3                         1.3
Second                         2.5                         3.8
1990
First                          3.5                        7.3
Second                         4.5                       11.8
1991
First                          4.4                        16.2
Second                         4.4                       20.6
1992
First                          3.7                       24.2
Second                         3.0                       27.2
1993
First                          2.7                       29.9
Second                         2.5                       32.4
1994
First                          2.4                       34 9
Second                         2.4                       37.2
1995
First                          1.8                       39.0
Second                         1.2                       40.2
1996
First                          0.7                       40.9
Second                         0.3                       41.2
1997
First                          0.1                       41.3
Completion date: September 30, 1996
Closing date:  March 31, 1997
Note: Based on the Nepalese irrigation sector disbursement pro-
file.



-52-
NEPAL                              Annex 1
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT                   Table 9
Credit Allocation
Amount of the       Percent of expen-
credit allocated      ditures to be
Category                   (expressed in SDR         financed
equivalent)
1.  Civil Works
(a) Mahakali Stage II             13,010,000       90?
(b) Flood Rehabilitation           4,770,000       1OOZ
(c) Institutional Development        940,000       100?
2.  Materials. Equipment and Vehicles                  1002 of foreign
(a) Mahakali Stage II                650,000       expenditures, 1002 of
(b) Flood Renabilitation             180,000       local expenditures (ex-
(c) Institutional Development        180,000       factory cost) and 70? of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3. Construction of Line of Credit
Subproiects
(a) New Surface Subprojects
(i)  ADBN Subloans              400,000       1OOZ
(ii) DOI Contribution         1,900,000       1OOZ
(b) Other Subprojects
(i)  ADBN Subloans              480,000       100?
(ii) DOI Contribution         2,000,000       1OOZ
4.  Salaries and Allowances for Proiect 730,000        70? of expenditures
Staff, and Operation and Maintenance               up to the first
Costs for Mahakali Stage II                        SDR 370,000 in
disbursements; 60? of
expenditures up to the
next SDR 110,000 in
disbursements; 40? of
expenditures up to the
next SDR 70,000 in
disbursements; and 20?
of expenditures up to
the next SDR 180,000 in
disbursements
5.  Salaries and Allowances for           150,000      1OOZ
Incremental Staff and Operating
Costs for Line of Credit and
Institutional Development Components
6.  Consultants. Training and Studies
(a) Mahakali Stage II              1,560,000       0OOZ
(b) Line of Credit                   180,000       1OOZ
(c) Institutional Development        650,000       1OOZ
7.  Unallocated                         2,120,000
TOTAL                  29,900,000



-53-                               ANNEX 1
Table 1iO
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Present and Future Without Project Cropping Pattern
Small farms   Medium farms    Large farms
(1.2 ha)        (3.3 ha)        (7.1 ha)         Overall
Hectares   %   Hectares   %   Hectares   %   Hectares   X
Monsoon (Kharif)
Paddy
HYV/improved       0.29      24    0.77      23    1.59       22    0.52      23
Local variety      0.28      23    0.85      26    1.87       26    0.56      25
Upland             0.06       5    0.13       4    0.17        2    0.08       4
Maize                0.25      21    0.63      19    1.27       18    0.43      19
Pulses               0.04       4    0.04        1    0.04       1    0.04       2
Cotton               0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00       0
Groundnut            0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00       0
Subtotal          0.92      77    2.42      73    4.93      70    1.64       73
Winter (Rabi)
Wheat                0.30      25    0.79       24    1.52      21    0.52      23
Oilseeds             0.21      18    0.54       16    1.10      15    0.37      17
Gram                 0.08       7    0.20       6    0.34        5    0.13       6
Potatoes             0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00       0
Vegetables           0.02       1    0.03        1    0.04       1    0.02       1
Subtotal          0.61      51    1.55      47    3.00      42    1.05       47
Spring (Hot)
Paddy                0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00       0
Pulses               0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00       0    0.00       0
Subtotal          0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0
Total             1.53    127    3.97    120    7.93    112    2.68    120



.54..                                ANNEX 1
Table lOb
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Future With Project Cropping Pattern
Small farms   Medium farms    Large farms
(1.2 ha)        (3.3 ha)        (7.1 ha)          Overall
Hectares   %   Hectares   %   Hectares   %   Hectares   %
Monsoon (Kharif)
Paddy
HYV/improved       0.72      60    1.79      54    3.68       52    1.24      56
Local variety      0.12      10    0.45      14    1.14       16    0.29      13
Upland             0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00       0
Maize                0.05       4    0.05        1    0.10       1    0.05       2
Pulses               0.11      10    0.24        7    0.28       4    0.16       7
Cotton               0.06       5    0.29        9    0.65       9    0.16       7
Groundnut            0.07       6    0.30        9    0.71      10    0.18       8
Subtotal          1.13      94    3.11      94    6.55       92    2.09      94
Winter (Rabi)
Wheat                0.42      35    0.95       29    2.01      28    0.69      31
Oilseeds             0.30      25    0.86       26    1.52      21    0.54      24
Gram                 0.24      20    0.76       23    1.76      25    0.50      22
Potatoes             0.05       4    0.17        5    0.33       5    0.10       5
Vegetables           0.04        3    0.07       2    0.07       2    0.05        2
Subtotal          1.05      87    2.79      85    5.69      80    1.88       84
Spring (Hot)
Paddy                0.09       7    0.14        4    0.27       4    0.12       5
Pulses               0.07       6    0.06        2    0.07       1    0.06       3
Subtotal          0.15      12    0.20       6    0.33        5    0.18       8
Total             2.32    194    6.10    185   12.56    177    4.14    186



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Crop Yields and Inputs
Pertilizers           Farm
Crops                     Season /a   Yield   By-product    Seeds         N      P      R       manure      Manual labor        Bullock       Chemicals
-   (tons/ha) -       (kg/ha)   (in nutrient: kg/ha)   (tons/ha)   (man-days/ha)   (pair-day/ha)   (NRs/ha)
At Present
raddy, transplant         kh-rf       1.3        2.2           35       10      5      -        0.5            112              30              60
Paddy, broadcast          kh-rf       0.8        1.0           60        -         -            0.5            104              20               -
Upland paddy              kh-rf       0.8       O.            60        -      -      -         -              65              18               -
Maize                     kh-rf       0.8        I11           25        -      -      _         3.6            49              13              20
Pulses                    kh-rf       0.5        1.0           27        -     -       -         -              32              14               -
Wheat                     ra-rm       0.8        1.2          100       20    10       -         -              59              20               -
Oilseeds                  ra-rm       0.4         -             7        10     5      5          -             38              20               _
Cras                      ra-ru       0.5        0.0           50        -      -      -         -              32              13               -
Vegetables                ra-ru       7.0         -             2       30    15       -         1.5           105              18               _
Pulses                    ho-rw       0.6        0.0           27        -     -       -         -              35              12               -
Future Without Project
Paddy, transplant         kh-ri       1.6        2.5           35        20    10      -         0.5            114             32              60
Paddy, broadcast          kh-rf       1.2        1.3           60        -     -       -        0.5            108              20               -
Upland paddy              kh-rf       0.8        0.8           60        -      -      -          -             65              18               -
Maize                     kh-rf       0.9        1.3           25        -      -      -         3.6            49              13              20        1
Pulses                    kh-rf       0.5       00            27        -      -      -         -              32              14               -       U'
Wheat                     ra-rm       1.0        1,0          100       25    10       -         -               59             20               -       n
Oilseeds                  ra-ru       0.4         -             7       10      5      5         -              38              20               -
Gram                      ra-ru       0.5        0.0           50        -      -      -          -             32              13               -
Vegetables                ra-rm       7.0         -             2       30    15       -         1.5            105             18               -
Pulses                    ho-rm      0.6         0.0          27         -     -       -         -              35              12               -
Future With Project
Pad3y,.transplant         kh-ir       3.5        5.0           35        55    30     15          -             140             38             130
Paddy, transplant         ho-ir       3.5        3.7           45       55    30      15         -             140              32             100
Paddy, b.oadcast          kh-ir       1.5        1.6           60        -      -      -         0.5           108              20               -
Maize                     kh-ir       2,0        2.8           25       60    40      20         4.0            56              18              60
Pulses                    kh-ir       0.8           .0         27       30     -       -         -              35              15               -
Groundnut                 kh-ir       1.8        0.0           80       20    30       5         4.0            73              20              40
Cotton                    kh-itr      1.7                      30       40    40      15         -             165              30             750
Wheat                     ra-ir       2.6        2.6          100       50    25      10          -             65              22              45
Oilseeds                  ra-it       1.2         -             7       20      5      5          -             40              20              20
Cram                      ra-itr      1.0        0.0           50       10      -      -          -              34             13               -
Potatoes                  ra-ir      20.0         -         2,000       55    35      10         4.5           152              33             140
Vegetables                ra-ir      22.0         -             2       85    35      15         4.0            145            .24             250
Pulses                    ho-ir       1.0        0.0           27        15     -      -          -             38              12               -
/a  kh-rf:  kharif-rainfed; ra-rm:  rabi-residual moisture; ho-rm:  hot season-residual moist%;ve; ir:  irrigated.
'U2



NEPAL
MANAKALI IRRlGATION It PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Financial                                             Economic prices (NRU)
prices                                                                                                      2000 to
Unit         (NRa)         1988,  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    2017
)uitputs
Rice                           kg            3.5           2.7    2.9    3.1    3.3    3.5    3.6    3.8    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.1    4.1              4.1
Wheat                          kg            3.0           2.6    2.9    3.2    3.5    3.8    4.1    4.4    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6              4.6
Maize                          kg            2.5           1.3    1.6    1.9    2.2    2.5    2.8    3.1    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4              3.4
Rapeseed                       kg           10.0           2.7    3.0    3.3    3.7    4.0    4.1    4.2    4.3    4.4    4.5    4.5    4.5              4.5
Pulses                         kg            8.0           4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1              4.1
Groundnuts                     kg           10.0          11.4   12.8   14.2   15.6   17.0   17.5   17.9   18.3   18.7   19.1   19.1   19.1    19.1
Cotton                         kg            8.0          12.8   13.4   14.0   14.7   15.3   15.6   15.9   16.3   16.6   17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Potatoes                       kg            3.5           3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3              3.3
Vegetables                     kg            7.0           3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1              3.1
Rice by-product                kg            0.2          0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2               0.2
Wheat by-product               kg            0.3           i.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3              0.3
Maize by-product               kg            0.1           0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1              0.1   n
Pulse by-product              kg N           8.7          10.1   10.9   11.8   12.6   13.5   14.3   15.1   16.0   16.2   16.4   16.6   16.8    17.0 I
Proundnut  by-product         kg N           8.7          10.1   10.9   11.8   12.6   13.5   14.3   15.1   16.0   16.2   16.4   16.6   16.8    17.0
Inputs
Rice seed                      kg            3.8           3.5    3.8    4.0    4.3    4.5    4.7    5.0    5.2    5.2    5.3    5.3    5.3              5.3
Wheat seed                     kg             3.5          3.4    3.8    4.2   34.6    4.9    5.3    5.7    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0               6.0
Maize seed                     kg             3.0          1.7    2.1    2.5    2.8    3.2    3.6    4.0    4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4               4.4
Rapeseed seed                  kg           10.0           3.5    3.9    4.3    4.8    5.2    5.4    5.5    5.6    5.7    5.9    5.9    5.9               5.9
Pulse seed                     kg           14.0           5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3              5.3
Groundnut seed                 kg           12.0          14.8   16.7   18.5   20.3   22.2   22.7   23.2   23.8   24.3   24.9   24.9   24.9    24.9
Cotton seed                    kg            3.0          16.7   17.5   18.3   19.0   19.8   20.3   20.7   21.7   21.6   22.1   22.1   22.1    22.1
Potato seed                    kg             3.5          4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3              4.3
Vegetable seed                 kg          150.0         156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  156.3  .156.3
Nitrogen                       kg            8.7          10.1   10.9   11.8   12.6   13.5   14.3   15.1   16.0   16.2   16.4   16.6   16.8    17.0
Phosphate                      kg            6.7          10.9   11.4   12.0   12.6   13.1   13.7   14.2   14.8   14.9   15.0   15.1   15.1    15.2
Potassium                      kg             3.3          6.5    6.8    7.1    7.4    7.6    7.9    8.2    8.5    8.6    8.7    8.9    9.0              9.1
Manure                         kg            0.3           0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.8              0.8
.abor
Family labor                Man-day         22.5          15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2   15.2    15.2
Bullock labor                 Pair          25.0         20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3    20.3
.   .  .  . _ .~~~~~~~I



-57-                                    ANNEX I
Table 13
NFPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Rent and Cost Recovery
(NRs/farm unit)
1.2 ha farm     3.3 ha farm      7.1 ha farm
Estimated Project Rent
Gross value of prcduction                   31,917           87,597           178,807
Less production cost                         4,402           12,005            24,711
Gross Msrgin /a                          27,515           75,592           154,096
Less depreciation /b                             0                0                 0
Less Imputed value of own resources /c       4,432           11,679            24,212
Less allowance for risk                        240              660             1,420
Less management fee                            600            1,650             3,550
Project Rent                             22,243           61,603           124,914
Rent as a % of gross margin                     81               81                81
Present Cost Recovery
Water charges /d                               240              660             1,420
Land tax /e                                    100              276               594
Total                                       340              936             2,014
Annual Project Costs
Annualized capital cost /f                   9,889           27,195            58,511
Annual O&M costs                               360              990             2,130
Recovery Indices
O&M cost recovery index /8                      95  (128)        95  (128)         95  (128)
Full cost recovery index7h                       3    (4)         3    (4)          3    (4)
Rent recovery index /i                           2    (2)         2    (2)          2    (2)
/a  Gross margin is defined as gross value of production less cash expenses on production
costs.
/b  Since the farmer has few physical assets other than land, no depreciation is assumed.
77  Fai-ly labor and draft animal power.
7-d Assuming water charges as presently fixed by HMGN at NRs 200/ha/yr; recovery in
parentheses assume water charges of NRs 300/ha/yr.
/e  Presently, land tax for irrigated land in the Terai, with paddy as the main crop is
NRs 83.6/ha.
/f  Calculated at 12% interest over 50 years..
7j Cost recovery as percentage of annual O0M costs.
7%h Cost recovery as percentage of annual project costs.
711 Cost recovery as percentage of estimated project rent.



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Irrigation Line of Credit: Financial Analysis for Model Subprojects
Estimated yearly
Invest-                                   ADBN loan        loan amortization /d
ment    Net farm  Incremental              as x              As % of      As % of
cost/ha  income/a  benefit /b   FRR/c  of total               net farm  incremental
----  (NRs'OOO)         - -t inv. cost  NRs/ha   income                  benefit
New projects                       57        10.7         5.9         17        6         681       6          .12
Major rehabilitation (H)           30        10.7         5.3         35       11        658        6          13
Major rehabilitation (T)           24         6.6         3.4         27       17        813       12          24
Major rehabilitation -
small schemes (H)                15        10.1         4.6         67      30         897        9          20
Minor rehabilitation (H)             5        9.2         1.9        183       21        209        2          11
Minor rehabilitation (T)            4         6.6         2.4        165       16         128       2           5
Rehabilitation/turnover (H)         9        10.7         3.4        119       17        305        3           9
Essential structure works (T)       9         6.6         3.1         73       18        323        5          10
STWs on 4 ha                       16         3.9         3.1         23      37       1,766       45          56
STWs on 8 ha                       10         4.0         3.2         40      36       1,074       27          33
MTWs on 20 ha                       12        4.4         3.6         36       41      1,468       33          40
(H) = Hills; (T) = Terai
/a Net farm income is defined as gross value of production less costs of inputs and labor.
b Net farm income "with project" less net farm income "without project."
70c Financial rate of return.
7T Standard ADBN terms are 15% interest, 10-year repayment period for surface schemes, and 5-year repayment
period for groundwater schemes.



-59-
NEPAL                             Annex 1
MARAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT                 Table 15
Procurement Methods
COMPONENTS                            ICB      LCB    LIB   OTHER a/  NA   TOTAL bI
 ------------   (US$ million)------------__
MAHAKALI STAGE II
Works                                20.1      0.8                           20.9
Goods                                 0.9              0.2                    1.1
Land Acquisition                                                        1.0   1.0
O&M During Implementation                                               0.5   0.5
Consulting Services and Training                             2.4              2.4
Staffing and Other Costs                                                1.3   1.3
IRRIGATION LINE OF CREDIT
Works                                          3.2           3.9        0.8   7.9
Goods                                 0.3                                     0.3
Consulting Services and Training                             0.5              0.5
Staffing and Other Costs                                                0.0   0.0
FLOOD REHABILITATION
Works                                          4.4           2.9              7.3
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
Works                                          2.0                            2.0
Goods                                 0.2              0.1                    0.3
Consulting Services and Training                             1.0              1.0
Staffing and Other Costs                                                0.1   0.1
OVERALL PROJECT
Works                                20.1    10.4    0.0   6.9          0.8   38.2
(18.1)   (9.9)         (6.6)            (34.7)
Goods                                 1.4      0.0    0.3   0.0         0.0    1.7
(1.4)           (0.3)                  ( 1.7)
Land Acquisition                      0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0         1.0    1.0
O&M During Implementation             0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0         0.5    0.5
(0.2)  (0.2)
Consulting Services and Training    0.0        0.0    0.0   3.9         0.0    3.9
(3.8)             (3.8)
Staffing and Other Costs              0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0         1.4    1.4
(0.9)  (0.9)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 21.5    10.4    0.3  10.7          3.7   46.7
(19.5)   (9.0)  (0.3)(10.5)       (1.1) (41.3)
a/  Includes piece-work contracts and departmental force account, as
necessary, for certain works under Line of Credit and Flood
Rehabilitation components. Overseas training would be through direct
placement. Consultants would be employed in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
_/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
IDA.



-60-
Annex 2
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Prolect Component Areas
Mahakali Stage II Component
1.       Access and Communications.  The district headquarters,
Mahendranagar, is located near the Stage I area, and the new town of
Belauri is located within the Stage II area. Access to the Stage 1I
area is limited at present to some 15 km of forest track which is
impassable after heavy rain. However, road communication into and
within the adjacent Indian territory is good, and the Nepal East-West
highway is being extended to Mahendranagar, passing near the Stage II
area. Extension to the Stage II area of the main canal with its service
road would greatly improve access to the area, and the major
distribution canal service roads would improve communications within the
area. Limited air service is available from Kathmandu to Mahendranagar,
with more frequent service to Dhangadhi located about 100 km east of the
project area.
2.       Climate.  The climate of the project is sub-tropical, with mean
annual rainfall of about 1,750 mm and mean monthly temperatures ranging
from 150 C in January to 300 C in May. Basic climatic data &re
summarized in Annex 1, Table 1. The monsoon rainfall from June to
October accounts for 902 of the total annual rainfall. The wettest
month is July with an average of 554 mm of rain; the driest is November
which averages only 5 mm. Periods of severe drought in the June-October
period occur in about one year out of five. Such a drought in the 1987
monsoon caused an almost total loss of the rainfed paddy crop in the
Stage II project area.  In the dry season, it is possible to grow crops
on residual soil moisture aided by an occasional shower, but yields are
very low and can be increased greatly by the use of controlled
JLrrigation.
3.       Topography. Drainage and Flooding.  The Stage II area lies on a
complex flood plain crossed by a number of large and small watercourses.
During floods, the area is subject to deposition of sediment from these
channels and from the Mahakali river. Also included in the area is a
terrace of the Mahakali river which is currently above present flood
levels. The natural drainage in the area runs generally north to south,
and a fairly dense network of creeks and small rivers flow into the
Chaudar and Mahakali rivers.
4.       Parts of the Stage II area lie on the flood plains of the
Mahakali and Chaudar rivers. Flooding has become much worse over the
past decade as the Chaudar river, which formerly flowed along the
western boundary of the Royal Suklaphanta Reserve Forest, migrated
eastwards to flow through the proposed project area starting in about
1979/80. As the capacity of its channel reduces downstream, serious
flooding occurs in the central portion of the project area, spreading



Annex 2
-61-                           Page 2
south across the Indian border. In addition to the Chaudar, the
Mahakali river also floods part of the area regularly. It is estimated
that 1,930 hectares (302 of the project area) suffer severe, repeated
inundation from the two rivers for up to five days during each flood. A
further 1,000 hectares are subject to serious short duration flooding.
Thus, over 402 of the proposed project area is subject to substantial
flood damage and would benefit directly from flood protection works
under the proposed project.
5.       Soils and Land Use.  The soils in the project area are alluvial
and vary in texture from sandy loam to silty clay loam. About 422 of
soils are well drained; the remaining soils are imperfectly drained to
poorly drained. The area is largely divided into two types depending on
the physiography of the land: upland and lowland. Upland areas occupy
about 312 of the command area; the rest is classified as lowland. Both
soil types are low to medium in organic matter content and fertility,
moderately acid to moderately alkaline, and free of salinity. These
soils respond well to the application of nitrogenous and phosphorous
fertilizers. With proper water management, paddy and upland crops can
be grown productively on most of the Stage II area.
5.       Of the 6,800 ha Stage II area, about 5,980 ha are cultivated at
present. An additional 650 ha are currently under forest, yielding
mainly fuelwood and fodder. This land is scheduled for clearing and
settelement under an ongoing Forestry Department program over the next
three years. An additional 170 ha are currently waterlogged and would
be reclaimed as a result of project drainage facilities.
6.       Groundwater Resources.  The project area is underlain by a
thick, high-yielding alluvial aquifer system that can be exploited by
shallow or deep tubewells. The groundwater potent1.al is large but is
used only to a very limited extent at present. There are a few shallow
tubewells used for irrigation in Stage I area, but the deeper aquifers
are as yet not utilized. In the upper part of the project area, the
aquifers produce free artisian flows.
7.       Population.  It is estimated that the Stage II area contains
about 3,000 farm families. totalling some 27,000 people. Population
growth has been rapid within the area due to resettlement, particularly
in the northern area of upland soils where forests are being cleared.
The majority of the population are Tharu people who generally settle in
villages, in contrast to farmers of the Stage I who live on their farm
holding. Tharu households generally comprise extended family groups,
and the present estimate for average household size within the project
area is about 8.9.
8.       Farm Size and Tenancy.  The average farm size in the Stage II
area is 2.25 ha. The distribution of land holdings by size is skewed.
Large farmers (average 7.1 ha) account for 102 of the number of farms
and own 322 of the land; medium farmers (average 3.3 ha) account for 21Z
of the number of farms and own 312 of the land; small farmers (average
1.2 ha) account for 692 of the number of farms but only 372 of the land.
The average number of parcels per household is about three, with an
average parcel size of 0.8 ha.



-62-                          Annex 2
Page 3
9.       On the basis of a sample survey conducted in January 1988, an
estimated 892 of the land was farmed by the owners and the,remaining 112
was under some form of tenancy or sharecropping arrangement. All sample
tenant farmers were also owner operators on at least one of their
parcels; the survey did not identify any pure tenants. There were two
typical arrangements for sharecropping: the adhiva (half) system, under
which all input costs and output are shared equally between the landlord
and tenant; and the chauthai (quarter) system, under which the landlord
pays all costs and receives 75Z of the output. The prevailing tenancy
structure with its high proportion of owner operators is not expected to
hinder the adoption of improved technology and farming practices.
10.      Cropping Patterns.  Paddy and maize are the principal wet
season crops, and wheat, oilseeds and gram are the main dry season
crops. All crops are currently grown under mainly rainfed conditions.
The most common cropping sequences are: paddy-wheat, paddy-gram and
maize-oilseeds. The present cropping intensity is about 1202, made up
of 522 paddy, 192 maize, 22 pulses, 232 wheat, 172 oilseeds, 62 gram and
12 of vegetables over the total cropped area. This intensity is a
weighted average of crops sown on both lowland and upland areas,
adjusted to account for the large portion of the project area subject to
serious flooding (para 4), the 170 ha which is chronically waterlogged,
and the 650 ha forest area which would be cleared. There is potential
for growing groundnuts and cotton on upland areas where soils are
moderately lighter and also summer paddy in lowlying areas where soils
are poorly drained. There is no existing surface water irrigation in
the Stage 'I area, although some large farmers have access to irrigation
from shallow tubewell systems.
11.      Crop Yields.  Paddy in the project area is presently grown
under rainfed conditions and planted with improved or local varieties
producing low yields, ranging from about 1.0 to 1.5 t/ha for improved
transplanted paddy and 0.8 t/ha for broadcast local upland varieties.
The low yields are mainly due to flooding and poor cultural practices.
When assured irrigation water is available, much of the local paddy
varieties would be replaced with high-yielding paddy varieties (HYV)
such as Pant 4, Janaki and Ratna. The average yield of these HYVs is
about 3.5 t/ha, with adequate application of agricultural inputs. Maize
is sown on upland areas primarily during the wet season using improved
varieties (Rampur and Arun), but the low average yield (0.8 t/ha) is due
to inadequate use of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals. RR21
and UP262 are the two major wheat varieties grown in the project area,
producing a yield of about 0.8 tlha. This low yield is attributed to
untimely planting, low soil moisture, and inadequate cultural practices.
It can be improved if wheat is planted around mid-November. The main
oilseed crop is rapeseed (Type 9). Because of poor crop management, the
average rapeseed yield is about 0.4 t/ha. Pulses and seasonal
vegetables are grown for home consumption, and their low yields (about
0.6 t/ha and 7.0 t/ha, respectively) offer much scope for improvement.
In general, to increase productivity, there is a need for irrigation and
drainage facilities, introduction of improved irrigated farming
practices, and increased use of production inputs.
12.      Inputs Used.  At present, a limited number of farmers use
chemical fertilizers mainly on paddy, wheat, and oilseeds, but the



Annex 2
-63-                         Page 4
amount used is negligible (average 5 kg/ha of nutrients). Virtually no
insect and disease control measures are practiced for crops except for
small amounts in areas growing paddy. The majority of farmers (over
90Z) meet their seed requirements from their previous harvests and the
balance from local saihas (cooperatives) and neighbors. A sample survey
in January 1988 indicated that there are on average 2.5 pairs of draft
animals for each household owning less than 2.4 ha and 4.0 pairs for
those above 2.4 ha. The draft animals provide adequate farm power for
land preparation and other cropping operations.
13.      Agricultural Research.  The Nepalganj Agricultural Station in
Khajura, about 300 km east of the project area, is responsible for
agricultural research for the Far Western Region. The Station has an 80
ha research farm and is adequately staffed with units responsible for
agronomy, horticulture, soil testing and training. The Station has been
upgraded under the IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr.1l00-NEP, US$17.5 M, 1981). However, as climate and soils
in the project area differ from those of the Nepalganj area, only
limited research findings from Nepalganj can be applied in the project
area. However, the project area also benefits from the research
findings of the G.B. Pant Agricultural University located nearby in the
Terai plains of Uttar Pradesh, India. The University, established in
1960, conducts field crop, horticulture, and animal research, and its
research findings are directly applicable to the project area. Through
the efforts of an agricultural extension consultant for th, Stage I
project who was recruited from the university, the project agricultural
staff has had excellent access to the technological packages and
recommendations from the university.
14.      Aaricultural Extension.  Under the Stage I Project, the
Agricultural Division (AD) of the project authority is reponsible for
administering extension and training activities, and for the operation
of the Pilot Farm. Agricultural extension in the project area is
organized according to the Training and Visit (T&V) system, as provided
under the IDA-assisted Second Agricultural Extension Project (SAEP) (Cr.
1570-NEP, US$7.2 M, 1985).  The district staff is headed by the
Agricultural Development Officer (ADO). The ADO is supported by 3
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), 10 Junior Technicians (JTs), 11
Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs) and 20 Agricultural Assistants (AAs).
One AA together with one JTA currently serves about 1,000 farm families.
Extension support to the project area has been weak because the
extension staff does not have sufficient training in irrigated
agriculture, and because the extension service and project management
have not been properly coordinated. There are three extension
subcenters currently operating in the district. To effectively carry
out extension activities in the Stage II area, there is a need to
augment extension staff and to establish a subcenter in the project area
to train extension workers and farmers on improved irrigated farming
practices.
15.      Agricultural Credit.  The  Agricultural Development Bank of
Nepal (ADBN) is the major source of institutional credit for farmers and
agro-based industries. Commercial banks also provide agricultural
credit but the volume is small. The standard terms of ADBN for
agricultural (input) credit are 18 months for short-term loans, 7 years



-64-                                     ANNEX 2
Page 5
for medium-term loans, and 20 years for long-term loans. ADBN annual
interest rates range from 13Z to 202 depending on the purpose of the
loan. ADBN has zonal and branch offices at Mahendranagar and a
subbranch in Belauri serving the Stage II area. Local statistics show
that the total disbursements of agricultural credit in the recent five
years (1980/81-1985/86) in the district was NRs 23.2 M, and according to
ADBN sources, the recovery rate averages about 52Z, which is slightly
lower than the average national recovery rate of 582. Borrowing from
private sources is also widespread, although interest rates are much
higher than for institutional credit and may reach 25Z-30Z per annum.
16.      Agricultural Inputs.  The Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC)
is the main source of supply for high quality seeds. AIC maintains a
regional office in Nepalganj, a Zonal Office in Kailali, and a branch
office in Mahendranagar. AIC supplies agricultural inputs to farmer
cooperatives (saihas). In 1986187, AIC supplied a total of about 13
tons of improved paddy and wheat seeds in Kanchanpur district.
Recently, the National Seed Potato Development Project, supported by the
Swiss Association for Technical Assistance (SATA), initiated a seed
multiplication program in Mahendranagar to promote potato growing in the
region. AIC also supplies fertilizers and plant protection chemicals
through its branch office in the project area. Although the supply of
fertilizers is generally adequate, average usage is low. In 1986/87,
AIC supplied about 270 nutrient tons of fertilizers or an average of
about 5.1 kg/ha. The use of plant protection chemicals is nominal. As
the quality and relevance of extension services in the area improves,
the demand for the use of inputs is likely to increase. The input
storage facilities in and around the project area consist of 1,800 tons
of capacity in various AIC warehouses.
17.      Marketing. Processing and Storage.  In general, existing
marketing, processing and storage facilities are adequate to meet the
increase in agricultural production expected to be generated by the
project. There are no formal markets at central locations in the
Mahakali Zone, but individual marketing channels are well developed.
Surpluses of grains and oilseeds are sold at village markets in Belauri
to traders and middlemen who, in turn, sell directly to millers nearby
or in India. There are five relatively large rice mills in
Mahendranagar with milling capacities ranging from 0.5 to 2.0 tons per
hour, mostly serving the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) and the export
market. There are also 23 small grain processing mills serving the
local population. There are three large oil presses, one in Sisaiya and
two in Mahendranagar, each with an extracting capacity of about 30
liters of oil per hour. The Nepal Cotton Development Board, established
in 1983, is actively involved in promoting cotton cultivation in the Far
Western Region. The Board plans to construct a small cotton ginnery in
the project area by 1990. Witb regard to storage facilties, NFC
maintains a storage capacity of about 1,000 tons. The IDA-assisted
Grain Storage Proiect (Cr. 1062-NEP, US$ 6.2 M, 1980) provided an
additional 2,000 tons of storage capacity in Hahendranagar.
Irrigation Line of Credit Subproject Areas
18.      The Terai Subproiec* Area.  Climatic conditions in the
Navalparasi district are similar to those in the Mahakali project area,



-65-                                   ANNEX 2
Page 6
described in para 2.03. Soils are mainly alluvial material from the
mountains in the form of outwash fans of coarser gravels and sands in
the north, silts and finer sands in the middle, and somewhat heavier
clay soils along the border with India. Major water resources are the
Kaligandaki and Narayani rivers together with eight perennial and 12
seasonal tributaries. The total district population in 1981 was 350,000
with about 40,000 agricultural households. The total cultivated area is
estimated to be 75,000 ha of which 31,000 ha receive some form of
irrigation mainly through farmer-managed schemes. The average farm size
is around 1.9 ha, with paddy, the most important crop, accounting for
50Z of the cultivated area, followed by wheat with 19Z. The balance of
the area is under maize, oilseeds, sugarcane and millet.
19.      The Hill Subproiect Area.  The subproject area covers part of
the Gandaki Zone in the Western Development Region. Four major
tributaries of the Narayani river (Budhigandaki, Marsyangdi, Seti, and
Kaligandaki) flow from the mountains into the more gently sloped, south
and eastward draining valleys of the Tanahu and Syangja districts.
Throughout the area, the topography creates micro-climates, resulting in
variations in temperature and recorded rainfall. However, average
minimum temperature of 80 C and maximum of 240 C together with annual
rainfall of 2,000 mm is representative for most of the cropping areas.
Soils at higher altitudes tend to be clay loams, with silty loams more
common in the lower to medium altitudes. A general feature of most
soils is their unimpeded drainage, resulting in high pe._:olation losses
on irrigated river terraces. The total population in three selected
hill districts is estimated at about 600,000 people with approximately
95,000 agricultural family households having an average farm holding of
1.1 ha. The total cultivated area is about 100,000 ha of which about
13,000 ha receives some form of irrigation, mainly through farmer-
managed schemes located on river terraces and floodplains in the valley
bottoms. Maize is the principal crop (around 38Z of the cropped area),
followed by paddy (28Z), wheat and millet (both 15Z). Crops such as
barley, potatoes, oilseed and vegetables are of marginal importance.



-66-
Annex 3
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Mahakali StaRe II Component
Summary Description of Irrigation Facilities
1.       Main Canal.  The original design capacity of the main canal was
some 28 cu m/sec, to enable diversion of surplus water available during
the wet season as permitted under the agreement with India. The
discharge required for the Stage I area is much less than that, and even
the addition of Stage II would raise the total required discharge to
only 13 cu m/sec, the maximum guaranteed rate under the agreement with
India. Under the project, the main canal would require extension by
about 20 km. crossing the Chaudar River at the tail of the present main
canal and running through the Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve to the Stage
II area. The crossing would be by a 190 m concrete flume of about 8 cu
m/sec capacity adjacent to the East-West Highway Chaudar River bridge to
be constructed shortly. Immediately after the crossing, the main canal
would serve the 500 ha Dijhi Extension area, which would be developed
first as a pilot for Stage II, particularly for farmer organization.
2.       Branch and Secondary Canals.  Construction of branch and
secondary canals would be by mechanical compaction of a pad of selected
earth-fill, and subsequent excavation of the channel within the pad.
Branch and secondary canals would have gated regulators with flow
measuring devices at the head, and flows would be passively regulated
with simple long-crested fixed weirs to maintain water at target or full
supply level (FSL) and proportional flow dividers. Surplus flows would
be spilled at escape structures, and direct irrigation offtakes from
secondaries would be avoided.
3.       Tertiary Canals.  Outlets to tertiaries from secondaries would
be sized to provide to each tertiary a fixed flow rate equivalent to 1.0
1/sec/ha of tertiary command with FSL in the secondary, and would have
simple on-off gates to permit rejection of supply. The tertiary would
have gated checks, and each 4 ha block turnout would be sized to take
the entire tertiary flow in rotation. Tertiary layout and design would
involve farmer groups, which would participate from inception through
construction and O&M, and tertiary alignment would follow property
boundaries where feasible. Construction would be similar to
secondaries, except that compaction would utilize small manually guided
mechanical equipment and manual excavation of the channel, where
feasible, to facilitate farmer involvement. Tertiary canal structures
would include a permanently adjusted tertiary outlet, turnouts, checks
and drops, all of which have been developed as simple pre-cast units and
proven effective during the Stage I project and are designed to simplify
and minimize gate adjustment.
4.       Au mentation Tubewells.  The wells would be located on the
eastern side of the Shivanagar Branch Canal parallel to the Chaudar
River, spaced at about 250 m intervals and located about 50 m from the



Annex 3
-67-                           Page 2
canal.  The wells would be powered by a dedicated diesel-electric
generating station designed to accommodate future service from the
national power grid, or by individual diesel sets. Although ATWs would
be included in detailed planning and design work for Stage II, their
construction would be optional and would be delayed until late in the
project period to determine the extent of their need.
5.       Flood Protection and Drainage Works.  The Chaudar would be
restored to approximately its original course by constructing a 3 km
channel to the Mahakali River. The channel would be excavated to
accommodate the peak average yearly flood flow of 150 cu mlsec. For
floods exceeding this capacity, the canal embankment of the Shivanagar
Branch Canal running along the south and western border of the project
area just east of the channel would function as a flood embankment.
Running along the Mahakali River levy for about 5 km, the Shivanagar
Canal embankment would also be designed to prevent Hahakali flood
spillage into the area. To the northeast, of the project area, a 700 m
long bund would be constructed across the old flood plain of the Siyali
River at its junction with the Donda River. This would halt the Donda's
capture of the Siyali, and prevent flooding of the command area within
the Siyali flood plain. Works involved would be mainly gabions,
excavation, embankment and embankment prntection. Internal drainage
requirements of the project area would be reduced considerably by
realignment of the Chaudar River and other flood protection works on the
Mahakali and Siyali Rivers.  These would form the main drainage network
and, where required, drop structures of concrete and brick masonry would
be provided. Tertiary drains, including permanent structures, would be
constructed selectively where necessary.



-68-
Annex 4
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Mahakali Stage II Component
Agricultural Support Services
1.       Agricultural Consultant.  The consultant would assist project
staff in: (a) management and operation of the Pilot Farm; (b)
preparation and operation of rotational irrigation schedules consistent
with the high efficiencies required for the combined Stage I and II
areas; (c) development of detailed training programs for field extension
workers and farmers on irrigated farming practices; (d) preparation of
crop manuals for extension workers and farmers on major crops grown in
the project area; and (e) establishment on farmer's fields of
demonstration plots for recommended cropping patterns.
2.       Support for Agricultural Extension.  To ensure sufficient
extension support, one Subject Matter Specialist (SMS), one Junior
Technician (JT), three Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs) and five
Agricultural Assistants (AAs) currently working in the Stage II area
would be reassigned to the Agricultural Development Officer (ADO)
stationed at the Pilot Farm in Sunderpur. In addition, under the
project, three additional AAs would be recruited by the project so that
one JT would supervise two or three AAs. The ADO and his staff would be
solely responsible for supporting agricultural extension and and
training activities in the project area and would be the main contact
between Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the project authority. The
general organization and pattern of extension work under the project,
although intensified and adapted to the special needs of Mahakali, would
be matched as closely as possible to the standard DOA extension program,
since after project completion DOA would have full responsibility for
extension. To support Stage II extension activities, the project would
provide a suitable building and facilities at Belauri to serve as a
subcenter for the Stage II area, and a SMS and JT would be assigned to
the subcenter. Intensified and expanded extension and training for the
Stage I and II areas would be financed under the project through the MIP
project authority. The ADO and his staff would work closely with the
project agricultural consultant. The project would also finance
continued operation and strengthening of the Agriculture and Water
Hanagement Unit, which under the Stage II project would become the
Agriculture Division of the project authority. This would include
extension work (including water management), farmer training, field
demonstrations, and staff training, as well as Pilot Farm operation.
Activities of the Unit would be closely coordinated with farmer
organization work.
3.       Agricultural Inputs.  The Agriculture Inputs Corporation (AIC)
has an office in Hahendranagar and most of the input requirements of the
project are available. One input problem for the Stage I area has been
the availability of high quality, improved seeds. To meet this need,
and in response to the farmer requests, Pilot Farm staff have retained
seed from the demonstration plots planted with selected seed, much of it



Annex 4
-69-                            Page 2
brought from the Agricultural University at Pantnagar. To assist
improvement and availability of good seed and respond to farmer
requests, these specialized multiplication activities would be continued
on a small scale under Stage II.
Coordination Committees
4.       Region.  The Far Western Region Agricultural Coordination
Committee promotes interagency coordination and cooperation at the
regional level. It is chaired by the Director of the Far Western Region
Agricultural Office, and includes the Zonal Managers of the ADBN and AIC
and the Director of the Far Western Region Irrigation Office. The
committee meets twice a year (which is appropriate if meetings are held
after the wet and dry season harvests) to discuss production problems
experienced during the previous season and to recommend solutions.
Under the project, the committee would include the Mahakali Scheme
Project Manager to facilitate coordination of support for the project at
the regional level.
5.       District.  The Kanchanpur District Agricultural Coordination
Committee meets approximately every month and is chaired by the ADO.
Its members include the District Managers of ADBN and AIC, the Mahakali
Scheme Project Manager, and representatives of the Sajhas and the
district Panchayat. Under the project, the membership would be expanded
to include MIP's ADO to facilitate coordination of agricultural support
for the project at the district level.



-70-
Annex 5
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAXALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Mahakali Stage II Component
Farmer Organization Activities
1.       General.  In the Stage I area, Association Organizers (AOs)
would have to work with existing farmer groupings which are already
determined by the completed canal and tertiary network. However, in the
Stage II command, water users groups (WUGs) be formed before
construction. Farmer organization work, especially during design and
layout of tertiary networks, would start early and be designed to build
local cooperation, responsibility, and "ownership" of the facilities, as
well as make use of the farmers' detailed knowledge of local technical,
cadastral, and social conditions. This would help develop group
management and leadership skills needed at later stages in the project.
In addition, a sociological study recently completed during project
preparation indicates clear social groups in the Stage II command; the
design of WUO groups, as well as system and tertiary design and layout,
would aim to keep such social groups intact and build on their existing
organizational capabilities.
2.       Water Users Groups.  Turnout WUGs at the 4 ha turnout and
tertiary WUGS would be the basic building block of Mahakali scheme WUOs.
They would be organized by association organizers (AOs) and trained to
manage rotational water supply (RWS) water deliveries received from
secondary canals by tertiaries and within 4 ha blocks. Training would
be provided through coordinated action by the Farmer Organization and
Agriculture Divisions and the O&M unit. The process of organizing WUGs
in the Stage II area would be coordinated with design and construction
tasks. For design and construction, early establishment of WUGs in the
Stage II area would enable project staff to deal with a responsible body
of farmers in layout of tertiary channels and provision of rights of way
(including land for farmers' field channels). In the Stage II area, the
proposed layout of tertiaries would be flagged and explained to the
members of the concerned WUG, and modified as necessary to meet the
general requirements of the WUG. Water users would be informed of
procedures for assessment and collection of water charges, their legal
rights, and procedures to resolve disputes or problems relating to water
supplies. For system O&M, WUGs would be the primary link between
farmers and project staff,
3.       All farmers within a 4 ha block or tertiary command would
comprise the members of their respective WUG. Members of each turnout
WUG would elect a leader, and the leaders of all the turnout WUGs would
together form a Tertiary Committee which would have responsibility to
oversee O&M of the tertiary and elect a Chairman from among the elected
members. The main functions of the Tertiary Committee would be to agree
on water delivery schedules to the 4 ha units for each season, monitor
that such deliveries were maintained, coordinate and monitor water
trading and sharing among turnout WUGs, and arrange for regular



Annex 5
-71-                            Page 2
maintenance of the tertiary canal system. Farmers within 4 ha blocks
would arrange scheduling of water supplies within the block under the
leadership of their WUG leader, and would agree on procedures for
maintenance of the field channel systems within the block.
4.       Water User Associations.  Members of all WUGs in a secondary
canal command would comprise a secondary canal Water User Association
(WUA). The WUG Chairmen on the secondary would form a Secondary
Committee and elect one member as Chairman. The functions of each WUA
would relate mainly to 0&M, specifically to coordinate with project 0&M
staff, inform them of any problems concerning secondary canal water
supplies and operation, monitor water deliveries to their secondary
canal and its operation, and resolve disputes on allocation of available
secondary canal supplies between the tertiary offtakes. The WUA may
also monitor and coordinate water sharing and trading among tertiary
WUGs. Secondary WUAs would be trained and expected to eventually assume
responsibility for operation of their secondary. A farmer
representative on PMC would be selected from each WUA.
Program for Farmer Organization
5.       Association Organizers and WUO Support.  Approximately 20 AOs and
one or two SAOs would be provided for WUEO work under the project. This
would be done in collaboration with USAID-finanaced Irrigation Management
Project (IMP), which would recruit, train and deploy AOs and their
supervisors on behalf of the project. Although Mahakali project management
would directly supervise and monitor day-to-day AO activities, IMP would
assist with AO supervision, exect!tion of the WUO program, specialized
training for project staff on orientation and procedures for WUO
development, and WUO training for farmers. In addition, an IMP technical
support team would provide continuing assistance to the Mahakali project
management, including periodic consultations, regular planning and review
workshops, design and execution of refresher training for AOs, and design
and initiation of monthly review meetings to provide guidance and feedback
for Aos and their supervisors.
6.       Implementation of WUO Development.  For purposes of programming AO
and WUO activities, the total project service area would be divided into
four areas, each with its specific conditions and needs. Although the
combined service area of Stages I and II totals about 11,600 ha, the
proposed Stage II project would be scheduled for completion in phases, and
A0s would be rotated to different areas as design and construction proceed.
This would enable coverage of the entire area with only about 20 AOs. The
areas are:
(a) Area I   - Stage I, Blocks 1 and 2, about 2400 ha;
(b) Area II - Stage I, Blocks 3 and 4, about 2400 ha;
(c) Area III - Stage 11, Dijhi Extension, about 500 ha;
(d) Area IV - Stage II, Main Command Area, about 6200 ha.
The Dijhi Extension area would be developed first as a pilot-training area
to develop the Stage II process for farmer organization work. It is



-72-                           Annex 5
Page 3
relatively small and accessible, and its construction would precede
construction of the main canal extension, beginning aliost immediately.
7.       In Areas I and II, existing water users groups would be
strengthened and trained in canal maintenance, water management and
improved agricultural practices.  In Area I, WUO organizing activities
would be based on farmer involvement in planning and implementing
structural improvements required for rotational water supply procedures.
Cooperation between farmers and engineers would be required to determine
necessary structural changes.. The organizing process in these areas would
also prepare farmers for reduced water supplies when the Stage II area
becomes operational. In Area III, the objective would be to 'pilot test"
a process for organizing farmers through their active participation in
tertiary and field channel design and construction.  The process would then
be replicated in Area IV (the remaining Stage II area). Throughout the
Mahakali Project command, an eventual objective of farmer organization
activities would be the formation and strengthening of higher-level WUAs
above the tertiary WUGs, to facilitate eventual farmer management and O&M
of secondary canals.
8.       Orientation and Training for Proiect Staff and Farmers.  IMP would
develop and implement training for project technical and management staff.
The objectives of such training would be to: (a) teach the basic
philosophy and rationale for beneficiary participation in irrigation
development and management; (b) orient staff to MIP farmer organization
work plans and procedures; and (c) develop the capacity and willingness of
project staff to actively promote farmer involvement and organization. IMP
would also provide training for Mahakali farmer leaders (from tertiary and
secondary canal committees, for example) in MIP. The purpose of such
training would be to enhance farmer leadership skills, develop their
capacities to successfully interact with project staff, and improve their
system management capabilities. These training sessions would also be
designed as a forum for farmer-to-farmer communication to share system
management techniques and strategies for mobilizing local resources for
O&M, and to facilitate cross-fertilization from farmer groups with prior
irrigation experience.
9.       Placement and Supervision of AOs.  Within the Mahakali scheme
project organization, the AOs would belong to the Farmer Organization
Division headed by the AO Supervisor. The AO Supervisor would report
directly to the Project Manager and would be responsible for the
supervision of day-to-day AO activities. The Supervisor would also
maintain close contact with the Agricultural Development Officer and the
Senior Executive Engineer to coordinate the activities of their respective
staffs under the direction of the Project Manager.
Illustrative Process of Farmer Organization in Stage II Area
10.      Fielding of Organizers.  At the same time that a tentative
layout of tertiaries is being produced (based on contour maps, aerial
photos and cadastral maps), a team of around five association organizers
(AO) would be fielded in an irrigation block (1,200--1,400 has.). Their
initial task would be to integrate within the local community, identify
potential local leaders, collect information on local social structure,



_73-                           Annex 5
Pag e 4
agricultural practices, land tenure, etc. This activity, which would
require, say, one to two months, would permit the AOs to establish
rapport with local farmers and to sufficiently understand the local
context before initiating the organizing work. During this period, the
AOs would hold regular discussions with the technical staff (TS) to plan
out a strategy or implementation program for the block, establish the
mechanisms for coordination between the AOs and the technical staff, and
identify potential problems or constraints.
11.      Introduction to Tertiary-level Farmers.  Once the tentative
"office" layout of tertiaries is completed, it would be possible to
identify the rough boundaries of each tertiary and therefore the members
of each tertiary group. The team of AOs in the block would then be
assigned to work on particular tertiaries; each AO would be responsible
for around 8 - 10 tertiaries covering an area of 240 - 300 hectares.
Each AO would be paired with a TS (engineer or overseer) who would also
be assigned to handle a set of tertiaries. The AO/TS team in each
tertiary would hold introductory meetings in each tertiary to explain
the overall project in detail to the farmers, to describe the
implementation process, and to address farmers' questions or concerns.
The respective roles and obligations of both farmers and project staff,
during and after project implementation, would likewise be discussed
with the farmers. This stage would require from two weeks to one month,
as several meetings would be required for each tertiary. Sometime after
the preliminary meetings, farmers would be expected to hold the election
of officers for the tertiary group, under the guidance and support of
the AO.
12.      Initial GrouP Activities.  The tertiary group would be asked to
prepare a list of its members and to prepare or update, with the
assitance of the AO, a rough cadastral map for the tertiary indicating
the location of each member's parcels.  Other information on this rough
parcel map might be the types of crops grown in each parcel, the type of
land (whether upland or lowland), etc. At this time, the AO would
examine the principal social divisions (or conflicts) within the
tertiary, paying close attention to how the local social structure might
later on affect water distribution. Such information would be used in
preparing the initial alignment of the tertiary canals. Special
committees, such as a survey and a rights-of-way committee, could also
be formed in this stage. The role of the AO would be to encourage and
guide the group and its officers in the accomplishment of these tasks.
13.      Presentation and Walk-through of Initial Tertiary Layout.  At a
meeting with the tertiary farmers, the engineer and AO would present the
initial tertiary canal layout. An initial flagging and walk-through
would be held. The elevation of the tertiary would be pegged and its
command would be checked in the field. Suggested revisions on the
layout might be made during the walk- through or during subsequent
meetings between farmers and engineers. The survey committee would
assist the engineers during the walk-through, ensuring that relevant
farmers are informed and entry permits (to pass through their farms) are
obtained in advance. If organized properly, this activity would require
only one or two days per tertiary.



-74-                          Annex 5
Page 5
14.      Final Tertiary Layout.  Based on farmers' suggestions and
engineer's observations during the initial walk-through, a revised
tertiary layout would be prepared and presented to the farmers, and a
final flagging and walk-through would be scheduled. A final tertiary
layout would then be prepared based on the agreed layout.
15.      Field Channel Layout.  The same procedure would be followed for
the layout of field channels and the location of outlets. An initial
layout would be suggested by the TS, followed by a walk- through and
initial flagging of field channels. The elevations of the field
channels would be pegged and the command of each field channels would be
checked. Based on farmers' suggestions and observations on site, a
final layout would be prepared, followed by a final flagging and walk-
through. At this stage, farmers and engineers would 'sign' their
agreement to the final tertiary and field channel layout.
16.      Discussion of Land Levelling.  Once the potential command of
the tertiary is determined, it would be appropriate to focus farmers'
attention on the topic of land levelling, which is essential in order to
achieve efficient water use and maximize irrigated area, but requires a
great deal of cooperation between farmers in a tertiary. The steps and
options for land levelling should be discussed with the farmers, and
they should be encouraged to prepare a plan for accomplishing this.
17.      Rights-of-Way.  The rights-of-way coammittee would be
responsible for acquiring rights-of-way for the canals and field
channels and for securing entry permits for the construction period.
18.      Water Distribution Arrangements.  At this stage, the operation
of the main irrigation system would be explained to the farmers. The
change in operating procedures during different times of the year, and
its impact on the supply of water to the tertiary would be discussed
with the farmers. The pattern of irrigation scheduling within the
tertiary would also be discussed and farmers within each 4 hectare unit
would be expected to agree on procedures for water distribution. Field
visits to the Stage I area would help farmers to better understand the
need for effective coordination and management of irrigation water
within the tertiary. Farmers in the tertiary would be encouraged to
prepare a written agreement on water distribution procedures within the
tertiary, and to include group sanctions for erring members as well as
mechanisms for resolving conflicts and adjusting the schedule of
rotation. The drafting of this document might be the task of an
operations committee.
19.      Preparation for Construction.  At this stage, several other
committees could be formed to accomplish specific tasks. There would be
a need for the tertiary group to now firm up its membership list based
on the final te-tiary boundaries. A manpower committee might prepare a
program for mobilizing voluntazy labor from each member for field
channel construction, which wou&ld as much as possible be based on the
member's landholdings within the 4 hectare unit. A construction
committee might be responsible for monitoring the construction of
tertiaries and field channels to ensure that the agreed layout is
followed. Throughout this stage, AOs would be expected to monitor the
group activites and provide encouragement and guidance where necessary.



-75-                            Annex 5
Page 6
20.      Construction of Field Channels.  With the assistance of the '.S
(who would provide survey levels) and the encouragement of the AO,
farmers in each tertiary would construct field channels. idea;ly, this
would be schnduled in the season immediately before water is available.
21.      Planning of Cropping Fattern and Tertiary O&M.  With the
guidance of the Agricultural Extensionist and the AO, farmers would
discuss and plan their cropping patterns and schedules for the first
year of operation. This discussion may lead to further improvement or
refinement of water distribution plans or procedures within the tertiary
command. The tertiary group would also be encouraged to prepare a
maintqnance plan for the tertiary, which would include a schedule of
maintenance activities and the assignment of responsibilities for
maintaining various facilities in the tertiary command. This stage
would also be a valuable opportunity to discuss improved agricultural
techniques and assist farmers in obtaining necessary inputs.
22.      Operation and Maintenance.  After system constr-iction, farmers
would be expected to operate and maintain All facilities below the
tertiary outlet. AOs would be expected to monitor the performance and
cooperation of the tertiary groups and to provide support when
necessary. Agricultural extensio.iists will be expected to guide farmers
during this initial experience with irrigated agriculture. Engineers
would also need to visit the tertiaries in order to identify any design
or construction defects that have become visible 4uring cystem
operation. Corrective measures would be arranged with the contractor or
with the farmers, as appropriate.
23.      Secondary Canal and System-Level Farmers Organization.  After
the organization of farmers at the tertiary level (called Water Users
Groups), the farmers in the command of a secondary canal wuuld be
encouraged to form a larger group (to be called a Water Users
Association).  The leaders of the various secondary canal groups would
then be organized in a Water Users Association Coordination Committee
which would be the system-level farmers association. This committee
would facilitate communication between project staff and the farmers
which is essential for effective system operation.



-76-
Annex 6
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Mahakall. Stage II Component
Guidelines and Concepts for System Operation
1.       Water Supply and Demand.  Water available for the Mahakali
Irrigation Project (MIP) is fixed by the 1920 agreement with India at 13
cu m/sec in the wet (high flow) season from May 16 to October 15, and at
4.25 cu m/sec in the dry (low flow) season from October 16 to May 15.
The agreed flows are assured under almost all circumstances, and under
the agreement MIP can take up to 2t cu m/sec in the wet season if water
!           is available.  However, under normal circumstances, rainfall is surplus
during the most of the monsoon, and the assured wet season discharge is
more than adequate.  For irrigation supply, the critical months are the
low flow period of mid-October through mid-May. To relieve this water
supply constraint, the project includes Augmentation Tubewells (ATWs)
totalling 1.0 cu m/sec pumping into the main canal extension, to be used
during periods of peak demand in the dry season.  Thus, the total water
supply available to the system measured at the Mahakali Main Canal (HMC)
head would be equivalent to 1.2 1/sec/ha of net command during the wet
season, and 0.3' l/sec/ha during the dry season which with ATWs could be
increased to 0.43 1/sec/ha during peak period demand. Assuming a
delivery efficiency to the field boundary of 50Z, maximum water
deliveries to fields would be 0.56 1/sec/ha (4.5 mm/day) in the wet
season and 0.225 1/sec/ha (1.9 mm/day) in the dry season.
2.       Based on the above assumptions, available supply (including
ATWs) can meet peak water demand in both wet and dry seasons. Design
cropping patterns are based on practices developed at Pantnagar research
station on the nearby Indian Terai. The Pantnagar recommendations
relate the number and approximate timing of irrigations of about 75 mm
depth measured at the field boundary, associated fertilizer inputs, and
crop yields produced. For the wet season, irrigation requirements are
based on 802 probable rainfall and estimated evapotranspiration (ETO)
using the modified Penman formula, assuming a 200 mm application for
pre-monsoon land preparation for paddy.
3.       Operational Concepts.  The limited dry season water supply
available requires a high operational efficiency and uniform water
distribution throughout the command. This is essential to cover the
entire Stage I and II area, and to avoid excessive pumping costs for
ATWs. Effective concepts and procedures for efficient system operation
based on rotational water supply (RWS) have been developed during Stage
I and would be followed in Stage II. These are:
(a) Continuous running of the main canal at the agreed rates in
the high and low flow seasons (13 cu m/sec and 4.25 cu m/sec
respectively);



-77.                           Annex 6
Page 2
(b) Rotational operation of secondary canals which would operate
"fully ot" or *fully off' during specified periods in
rotation, each for example receiving water three weeks out of
four during high flow and three days out of twelve days during
low flow;
(c) Secondary canals sized to deliver water simultaneously to all
tertiaries within their commands, at the rate of 1.0 1/sec/ha;
(d) Operation of each tertiary (serving about 30 ha each) by
farmers to take the full water flow during all or part of the
period of supply, with rejected supplies spilled at escape
structures on the secondary;
(e) Rotation of the full stream (about 30 1/sec) in the tertiary
to individual turnouts serving approximately 4 ha, with the
rotation following a fixed order and timing schedule related
to the area of the block;
(f) Rejected supply of water by individual 4 ha turnouts made
available to other turnouts on the tertiary, with surpluses
spilled at tertiary tail escapes;
(g) Scheduling of the periods of flow to 4 turnouts on a tertiary
determined by the tertiary Water User Group (WUG) at the
beginning of each season;
(h) Rotation of water within 4 ha turnout blocks arranged between
the farmers, with each farmer receiving the full stream
according to an agreed schedule; and
(i) Provision for flexibility in scheduling water deliveries to
match as far as possible individual farmers' requirements
within the water supply available.
4.       The operational procedures outlined above would provide a simple
and easily managed system for the main canal and secondary canals, which
are the levels at which the project authority's operational staff would
have direct charge of actively regulating flows. The procedures would also
provide a degree of flexibility at the tertiary level and below, which
would be managed by the farmer WUGs, so that irrigation supply could be
arranged to meet the needs of individual crops as closely as possible.
However, operation within the tertiary commands would require appropriate
WUGs for the tertiaries and within the 4 ha blocks, for pre-season
scheduling of water deliveries and to ensure that such schedules were
followed. Establishment of WUGs would be facilitated by the absolute
assurance that water supply from each secondary canal would be available
according to the specified schedule.
5.       Water Management StudY.  The objective of the design concepts
and operation procedures intended for both the Stage I and Stage II
areas is to improve operational efficiency through RWS. RWS is new to
Nepal, and has only recently been initiated in the Mahakali Stage I
area, although it has been successful over wide areas elsewhere in the
world. RWS is also being implemented in the Narayani Irrigation and



Annex 6
-78-                              Page 3
Sunsari Morang Irrigation Projects. Because of the importance of
adapting the practical application of RWS des&gn concepts and operation
procedures to Nepal conditions, a two-year water management study would
be conducted under the project to evaluate results of RWS and possible
further design, operation and organization improvements based on
practical experience with Stage I. The study would be managed by the
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit, with data collection, monitoring,
and evaluation by local consultants and specialized assistance by an
international consultant experienced in water management; it would be an
integral part of M&E under the project and included in scheduled MHE and
project reporting.



-79-
Annex 7
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAXALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
IrriRation Line of Credit
Implementation Guidelines and Procedures
1.       General.  The Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) is intended as
the first stage in establishing the framework for irrigation sector
lending program. It would eventually cover all proven irrigation
investment options. The program could then be financed by various
donors under a coordinated, unified program of irrigation investment.
Specific subsector objectives of the ILC pilot project would be to:
(a) establish a "subsector program" approach which would
support national objectives, in place of the "project-by-
project' approach of the past, and enable donors to provide
large scale, long term support to small schemes which are
individually too small to justify involvement;
(b) make the program as "demand driven" as possible, based on
local felt needs and demands, in contrast to traditional
"supply driven" projects;
(c) help develop, test and establish effective subproject
selection criteria and implementation procedures which would be
the basis for operating the subsector program; and
(d) reduce the burden of irrigation costs on HMGN's .-dget,
particularly for O&M of completed projects, through increased
farmer participation to cover full O&M and a share of capital
costs.
2.       ILC would finance irrigation subprojects for construction and
rehabilitation of irrigation facilities, and specialized irrigation and
agricultural support services. The latter will require close
coordination between DOI and other agencies such as ADBN and especially
the agricultural extension service of DOA. The DOA is particularly
important, as its extension staff will be the primary agency source of
day-to-day continuing contact and support for farmer water user groups
after completion of each subproject.
Subproiect Types
3.       New Surface Schemes.  New subprojects would be schemes requiring
both earthworks and permanent structures. New schemes would be mainly
constructed in the hills to provide irrigation to river terraces and tar
areas (alluvial plateaus on the confluence of medium and large rivers), and
in some cases could incorporate or replace several smaller existing
facilities.   Civil works would include a combination of the following
elements: (a) diversion and intake structures; (b) contour feeder canals
with canal and cross drainage structures; and (c) distribution systems on



-80-                           Annex 7
Page 2
the river terraces and tars comprising br3nch canals down to 50 ha blocks
and field canals within thorc blocks. For selection of new surface
schemes, priority would be given to subprojects already prepared under
feasibility studies for the Medium Irrigation Program and the Third Hill
Irrigation program, provided they meet the agreed selection criteria,
particularly with regard to the farmers' commitment and contribution.
Costs for civil works would not exceed NRs 60,000 per ha.
4.       Surface Rehabilitation Schemes.  Rehabilitation of surface schemes
would range from selective minor improvements of small schemes to complete
reconstruction and expansion of large systems. Three basic types of
rehabilitation have been identified:
(a) Major rehabilitation of medium and small schemes -- The main
problem in many schemes is frequent interruption of main
canal operation during the monsoon because of the temporary
nature of intake and other main structures, high water
losses, and (on the Terai) water logging.  Rehabilitation
would comprise construction of (semi)permanent intake
structures, permanent side drainage and landslide crossings,
reexcavation-reshaping-lining of main canals, and improvement
and extension of the distribution and drainage systems. These
subprojects would be located in both the Terai and Hills, and
costs of civil works would not exceed NRs about 30,000 per ha
for medium schemes and Nrs 15,000 per ha for small schemes
(less than 50 ha).
(b) Minor rehabilitation of medium and small schemes -- In these
schemes, works would concentrate on elimination of
bottlenecks through reconstruction of headworks and essential
main canal structures. Located in both the Terai and Hills,
such subprojects would cost no more than about NRs 10,000 per
ha for civil works.
(c)   "Turn over' rehabilitation schemes -- These subprojects would
rehabilitate medium DOT schemes for 'turn over" to private
management by the farmers. This would involve public sector
schemes with permanent structures in place but currently
performing poorly often with reduced irrigated area because
of deferred O&M and consequent deterioration of intakes and
main canals, lack of facilities and channels for water
distribution, and absence of effective water management
arrangements. Six DOI hill irrigation schemes which, in
addition to the above problems, have been damaged by the 1987
monsoon floods have been identified for selective
rehabilitation and 'turn over" following emergency flood
rehabilitation. The average cost of civil works for these
subprojects would range from about NRs 10,000 to 20,000,
depending (in the above six hill schemes) on the extent of
the flood damage rehabilitation required.
5.       Groundwater Schemes.  All groundwater facilities would be designed
for group management and O&M. Each would comprise: hand or machine drilled
tubewell with mild steel casing and screen, diesel engine powered
centrifugal pump unit, simple brick pumphouse and sump, a reinforced brick



-81-                            Annex 7
Page 3
header tank, buried PVC pipe distribution system and/or an open field
channel system. The individual facility would be small, about 4-20 ha, to
facilitate farmer group formation and organization. The use of simple
diesel pumps would eliminate the immediate need for rural electrification,
as local skills for maintaining such pumps are readily available in the
Terai. The piped distribution system would ensure efficient water
conveyance and equitable distribution. Estimated costs of civil works
range from about NRs 9,500 to 15,500 per ha.
(a) Hand drilled shallow tubewells (STWs) with 5 HP diesel engine
centrifugal pumps discharging about 14 lisec and serving
command areas of 4-8 ha through a buried PVC pipe
distribution system with turnouts at 1 to 2 ha and earthen
field channels to plot boundaries; and
(b) Machine drilled tubewells (MTW) of medium depth (up to about
60 m) with 10 HP diesel engine centrifugal pumps discharging
about 28 1/sec and serving command areas of about 20 ha
through a buried PVC pipe distribution system with turnouts
at 2 ha and earthen field channels to plot boundaries.
6.       Addition&l Types of Subprojects.  By mutual agreement of HMGN and
IDA, and provided agreed subproject criteria are met, the Line of Credit
may also support other types of irrigation subprojects including deep
tubewells, and it could be expanded to other areas. These new subprojects
would be subject to standard cycle procedures for the Line of Credit.
Subproiect Selection Criteria
7.       Subprojects would be selected, designed, appraised and approved
on the basis of the following principles and criteria:
(a) to be located in administrative districts selected by HMGN and
IDA;
(b) to be responsive to a specific request by a Farmer Irrigation
Association;
(c) to be economically viable with an economic rate of return of at
least 102 of subproject costs;
(d) to include a timetable for their construction period;
(e) to include a written agreement of the Farmer Irrigation
Association benefitting from the subproject providing, inter
alia, that the Farmer Irrigation Association shall be
responsible for: (1) the construction, and operation and
maintenance of the irrigation scheme under the subproject; and
(2) the required contributions to the capital costs of the
subproject; and
(g) regarding new surface irrigation subprojects, to exclusively
use waters from rivers and streams which originate entirely
within Nepal and form part of the Narayani river basin.
ILC Implementation
8.       Selection and Implementation Procedures.  Procedures for
subproject selection and approval would follow a "project cycle"
comprising reconnaissance and identification, preparation and



-82-                            Annex 7
Page 4
feasibility study, farmer agreement, appraisal and approval,
implementation, and development and commissioning. Direct participation
of farmers, with appropriate institutional support, would be built into
all phases of the project cycle except appraisal and approval. DOI
would be responsible for overall operation of the project cycle (except
approval), and it would have to establish ar. effective management
information system combined with monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and
continuous feedback in parallel with the project cycle. Subproject
cycle activities would make full use of available results from previous
studies and from the Master Planning and Design Criteria studies now
ongoing under the UNDP-financed irrigation Planning and Design
Strengthening Project (NEP/85/013).
9.       Orientation.  Compared to past practices, ILC implementation
and project cycle procedures would be much different and require more
coordination between DOI and other concerned agencies, especially DOA
and ADBN.  Orientation workshops would be organized for:  (i) DOI
engineers, overseers and AOs who would be directly involved in the
implementation of the pilot project; (ii) DOA, ADBN and District
Treasury staff who would be providing services and support to the
project; and (iii) district and village panchayat authorities who would
promote the project among farmer groups. Combined orientation workshops
for DOI, ADBN and DOA staff would also be held to help develop
interagency teamwork. Workshops would focus on elaboration of the
agreed guidelines and procedures, taking into account the specific role
and interest of the different participants.
10.      Design Standards.  Subproject facilities would be designed for
a useful life of at least 20 years with uniform annual maintenance
requirements. The facilities would also be designed to be suitable for
O&M by local farmers. The level of design requirements would be
determined by the nature and complexity of the individual subprojects
and would range from basic measurements and sketch designs for minor
rehabilitation, to detailed survey and design for construction of new
subprojects or major hydraulic structures. Subprojects would be
designed to facilitate farmer participation in both construction and
O&M. Construction would be based on optimal use of labor intensive
methods to be carried out by small petty contractors or the farmers
themselves, depending on complexity and division of responsibility for
work specified in the subproject agreement with the farmers. Design
standards and construction procedures would be further developed during
the project and in collaboration with the Design Criteria Study under
UNDP-financed NEP/85/013.
11.      Farmer Involvement.  For all subprojects, the degree of farmer
involvement would be spelled out in the subproject farmers' agreement.
All detailed features of individual subprojects would require agreement
of the farmers who would therefore be Cirectly involved during project
preparation and detailed design. For construction, there could be three
alternative levels of direct farmer involvement: (a) construction under
the direct responsibility of the farmers' WUO assisted by DOI staff,
with financing from an ADBN account containing the contributions of both
farmers and Government which would be operated jointly by the WUO and
the appropriate DOI project officer; (b) Government implementation under
direct responsibility of DOI, with farmers' direct responsibility



-83-                           Annex 7
Page 5
limited to construction of works specified for their contribution under
the WUO subproject agreement; or (c) farmers' contribution as a direct
input into Government financed works. The first alternative would be
suitable for rehabilitation of small projects, while the second
alternative would be preferred for implementation of larger subprojects.
The third alternative would apply to those projects where individual
works are complex and cannot be divided between farmers and DOI (e.g.,
essential and major structural works and tubewells).
12.      Subproiect Construction and Cost Sharing.  The level of
farmers' contribution to subproject construction should be sufficient to
ensure their commitment to: (a) construction and ownership
responsibility for their subproject; and (b) O&M of the subproject.
Farmer contribution for small and medium irrigation developments could
consist of an "up front" cash contribution and an annual contribution of
free labor or its equivalent value in cash during the construction
period and should, to the extent possible, be equitable for all surface
irrigation development alternatives. The farmer WUO should be made
directly responsible for the implementation of simple construction works
in order to enhance their sense of ownership of the irrigation system.
DOI would focus its technical resources on essential works that the
farmers cannot undertake themselves. The cost sharing arrangements
should be flexible and based on project type, size and farmer labor
requirement compared to availability.
13.      Key Design and Engineering Problems.  The two most difficult
and widespread problems in construction of small and medium irrigation
schemes are: (a) variable headworks conditions, due to wistable river
conditions and large di.ferences between winter and monsoon flows; and
(b) unstable main canal alignments, mainly in Hill projects. For
construction of headworks, side intakes with gabion or rock-fill
diversion weirs would be preferred. Low cost standard designs for such
structures would need to be further developed in close collaboration
with the Design Criteria Study under NEP/86/013. For main canals,
construction would be phased to reduce slope stability problems in new
construction or major rehabilitation. For example, during the first
construction season, only the canal bench would be cut into the hill
side and left to weather and stabilize during the monsoon. In addition,
supervision would give special attention to avoid excessive hill cutting
and hard rock blasting, which worsens stability problems.
14.      Improved Technology.  Design and construction is presently
based on a narrow range of well-known construction materials and
techniques with high levels of material inputs (reinforced concrete,
masonry and gabions). In selected subprojects, performance and cost
effectiveness of alternative improved construction technologies would be
tested, combining modern and traditional materials and construction
techniques. Possible examples of such technologies are geotextile
filter construction in combination with dry stone masonry or gabions, UV
stabilized geomembrane canal lining, open colloidal concrete penetration
for rock-fill weir constrttction, prefabricated wooden or steel trusses
for aqueducts, mold:d fijerglass water measuring flumes, and ferro
cement for small hydraulic structures. These types of improved
technologies appear appropriate to local conditions, and offer
considerable savings on construction and transport costs, which is



-84-                           Annex 7
Page 6
particularly important for Hill projects. Development and application
of these technologies for ILC subprojects would be financed, monitored,
and evaluated under the IDS component, and would be coordinated with the
Design Criteria Study under NEP/85/013.
15.      Implementation of Individual Subprojects.  The total ILC pilot
project would be completed within the project period of Mahakali Stage
II. However, the time required for each subproject would vary.
Preparation would range from six months to one year, depending on the
complexity of the subproject and time required for farmer organization
and agreement negotiation. The maximum construction period permitted
under the project would be three years for new subprojects.
Rehabilitation works would be completed in two work seasons and
ccnstruction activities would be scheduled in such a way that monsoon
irrigation is not interrupted. The period required for project
development and commissioning would depend on the complexity of the
individual subprojects and the organizational strength of the WUOs but
would not exceed three years. In addition, individual subprojects in
the same hydraulic unit (e.g., tributary mini basin) would be combined
into subproject 'clusters" as much as possible and implemented as a unit
to facilitate construction, cooperation among farmers on the same
tributary and provision of irrigation and agricultural support.
16.      Status of Preparation and Transition to Sector Program.   The
ILC pilot project is designed for implementation as a program rather
than a project, and for eventual conversion to a larger ILC covering
about half the country. DOI has prepared feasibility studies for number
of potential subprojects, although the quality of those studies is not
uniform. In addition, potential subprojects have also been prepared
under the UNDP-financed Medium Irrigation Program project, and for the
proposed Third Hill Irrigation Project. The six flood-damaged Hill
schemes included for emergency flood rehabilitation would also be
considered on a priority basis for system rehabilitation. Provided they
met ILC criteria, especially regarding farmer participation and
agreements, detailed 4esign and construction of these candidate
subprojects could begin early, while identification and preparation of
other subprojects gets underway. Thus, there are already sufficient
subprojects prepared for implementation during the first few years of
the project, while DOI develops its pipeline of subprojects under ILC
procedures.
ADBN Lending Terms
17.      Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Under the project, about US$1.2 M
would be on-lent by HMGN to ADBN on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA to finance credit to Farmer Irrigation Associations for part of
their contribution to Line of Credit subprojects. Such terms and
conditions shall, except as otherwise agreed to by IDA, include the
following:



-85-                           Annex 7
-85-                  ~~~~~Page 7
(a) Repayment Period:                   repayment period not to
exceed fifteen years
including a grace period of
up to 2 years; provided,
however, that the repayment
period may be extended by
agreement between HMGN and
ADBN with the prior consent
of IDA.
(b) Interest Rate:                      an interest rate equivalent
to the prevailing rediscount
facility rate of the Nepal
Rastra Bank for the priority
agricultural sectcr, but not
to exceed 10? per annum.
(c) Security:                           ADBN's standard security
policy with respect to
Farmer Irrigation
Associations.
(d) Foreign Exchange Risk:              to be borne by HMGN.
18.      Subloans to Famars Groups.  Eligible borrowers would be Farmer
Irrigation Associations. The terms for subloans would be as follows:
(a) for surface irrigation subprojects, interest at a rate of 152 per
annum and a repayment period of up to 10 years, including a grace period
of up to two years; and (b) for groundwater subprojects, interest at a
rate of 15? per annum and a repayment period of up to 7 years, including
a grace period of up to 1 year.
Subproiect Cycle Procedures
19.      Reconnaissat.ce and Identification.  Since irrigation
subprojects would only be carried out on direct request of farmer
groups, subproject reconnaissance and identification would focus on
providing guidance and assistance to these groups in formulation and/or
updating such requests. Farmer groups would provide information on
present irrigation facilities together with the required assistance, and
would state their agreement with the basic ILC conditions under which
the assistance would be provided. At the same time the association
organizer (AO), District office technical staff, and local DOA and ADBN
staff would prepare a rapid assessment which would include basic
technical, agro-economic and socio-organizational data. The assessment
would be used to rank farmer group requests for further preparation.
20.      Subproiect Preparation.  All subprojects would be prepared to
feasibility study standards sufficient to show the proposals are
technically viable and yield a specified minimum economic rate of
return, which may vary depending on subproject type and location. Each
would be prepared under direction of DOI's Regional Irrigation
Directorate (RID). RID would be directly responsible for subproject
preparation, but depending on the nature of the individual subproject,
could delegate responsibility to the concerned District Irr.gation



-86-                           Annex 7
Page 8
Office (DIO) or request assistance of the central DOI feasibility
section, who would employ local consultants as needed. Preparation work
and feasibility studies would cover technical, economic and
sociallinstitutional aspects, and would be adjusted in scope and cost
according to the expected cost of each subproject.
21.      Farmer Agreement.  Agreement witn farmer groups on
participation, cost sharing and O&M responsibilities would be reached in
three stages: (i) when formulating or updating requests for assistance,
farmers would agree in principle to the conditions of ILC participation;
(ii) after successful completion of their subproject preparation and
feasibility study, farmers would agree in writing to form a formal WUO,
provide a specified contribution in cash, labor and land for
construction of civil works, and assume full responsibility for O&M; and
(iii) after preparation of detailed designs, Government and farmer
contributions would be further quantified and layout of the facility
would be described in detail and annexed to the agreement.
22.      Subproject Appraisal and Approval.  Based on the feasibility
study, an appraisal report would be prepared by the Regional Appraisal
Committee (RAC) chaired by the Western RID Director comprising, in
addition, regional representatives of the MOA, National Planning
Commission and ADBN. The Committee would assess the technical,
economic, and institutional feasibility of each candidate subproject (or
subproject cluster), ensuring in particular that the agreed selection
criteria had been met. Responsibility for approval to proceed with any
given subproject would rest with the Approval and Coordination Committee
(ACC) comprising representatives from DOI, MOA, NPC, MOF, and ADBN, and
would be established in MWR. Subprojects proposed to ACC could include
a single subproject, or a cluster of individual related subprojects
located in the same hydraulic unit. ACC approval of subproject
proposals would consider mainly the results of appraisal and whether the
agreed selection criteria and project cycle procedures had been
followed, particularly with regard to farmer involvement and
participation. ACC approval would be required prior to release of IDA
funds for constru-tion and implementation. The first two subprojects of
each type would require individual IDA review and approval. Other
subprojects would proceed directly upon ACC approval, which would be
documented along with the RAC report and recommendations for each
subproject approved.
23.      Subproiect Implementation.  Subproject implementation would
involve preparation of detailed designs and organization/supNervision of
construction for both the farmer and Government contributions. Where
possible, and especially with small schemes, subprojects would be
implemented in clusters to facilitate organization of construction and
supervision. For implementation of medium and larger subprojects and
subproject clusters, individual establishments would set up under the
direct supervision of the RID. Minor subprojects would be implemented
directly by DIO or by one of the larger subproject establishments.
24.      Subproiect Commissioning.  After completion of construction,
the local DIO would remain associated with the subprojects for a period
between one to three years to rectify structural works, train WUOs for
O&M activities, and coordinate agricultural extension and supplies with



-87-                          Annex 7
Page 9
the DAO. Upon completion of physical works, each subproject would be
inspected jointly by the WUO construction or rehabilitation committee
and DOI staff responsible, and any deficiencies would be noted and
corrected. The subproject wculd then be formally commissioned,
registered with DOI/RID, and handed over to the WUO for O&H. Following
completion, there would be a *commissioning period" of up to three years
when DIO would regularly monitor the subproject and, on request of the
subproject WUO, make modifications or repairs to major structures
necessary for design operation. After the commissioning period, DIO
would continue to monitor and provide technical guidance at a reduced
level.



-88-
Annex 8
Page 1
NEPAL
HAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Flood Rehabilitation Component
DesiRn and Construction of Works
Descript. n of Damage and Repairs Required
1.       Canal Systems.  Damage to canal systems includes breaching of
embankments (often over extensive lengths), damage to intakes, out-
flanking of cross-drainage structures, land slides (in Hill schemes),
and destruction of water courses and field channels. Hajor and medium
projects affected include Kankai, Chandra canal system, Kosi western
canal distribution system, Kamala, Manusmara, Jhaj, Western Gandak, and
others. The estimated command affected by the above projects totals
about 100,000 ha.
2.       River Protection Works.  The exceptional river flood flows in
1987 caused widespread damage to existing embankment protective works
and protective works for structures. In some cases, notably Kamala,
heavy erosion of embankments caused a change in the river course.
Rivers wbore damage was heaviest are the kechi, Kankai, Bearing, Ratuwa,
Budhi, Sunsari, Mawa, Bakra, Khaddo, Kamala, Mainabati, Ghurmi, Balan,
Gachhiya, Baruwa, Chisang, Bagmati, Sama, Khusi, Bishnumati, Lal
Bakaiya, Rato, Bighi, Harha, Jamuni, Jalad, Lakhandei, Rapti, Manahari,
Karha, Tadi, and Trisuli.
Desian and Construction of Flood Rehabilitation Works
3.       Canal Repairs.  Canal repair in the Terai would consist mainly
of reconstructing earthen canal embankments to original alignment and
grade. Structures to be rebuilt would follow standard DOI design and
construction practicea. Construction would be by local contractor
(awarded by LCB), or for very minor works by piece-work contracts or
departmental force account.
4.       Repair of River Protection Works.  Reconstruction or
rehabilitation of river protection works would utilize stone-filled wire
baskets (gabions) as the principal construction material. The design
and installation of gabions is covered by DOI standards. Galvanized
gabion wire is readily available in Nepal, both imported and of
indigenous manufacture, and no difficulty is anticipated in obtaining
the considerable quantity required. The technique of weaving the wire
baskets is well established in the area, and an adequate supply of labor
with this skill is available. Haulage of stone for filling the gabion
baskets would be by small contractors, using their own trucks.  DOI
would be responsible for surveying, design, and supervision of
construction.
5.       Emergency Repair of Six Hill Proiects.  Rehabilitation of the
six flood-damaged Hill projects (Bhimsenkulo, Arutar, Bhorletar,



-89-                         Annex 8
Page 2
Sangepateni, Hallatar and Chorkate Tar) would differ from rehabilitation
works proposed in the Terai. The six schemes range.in size from 60 ha
to 300 ha. They were constructed departmentally, and their O&H is DOI's
responsibility although in practice actual O&H is largely done by
cultivators. FR proposals for these schemes include both rehabilitation
of flood damage and also technical upgrading, particularly of main
canals. To be consistent with the Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC)
approach, urgent flood damage repair works would be completed by DOI
:with maximum contribution of farmer labor) on an emergency basis before
the 1988 monsoon season. Repairs involving system upgrading and
rehabilitation would be completed in the following dry season under ILC,
provided that standard ILC subproject criteria are met and especially
that farmers agree to contribute to capital cost (in cash or kind) and
assume full responsibility for subsequent O&H.



-90-
Annex 9
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Mahakali Starte II Component
Proiect Oraanization
The functions of the various organizational divisions and units
of Mahakali Irrigation Scheme are summarized below.
Enaineerina Division.  The Engineering Division would be
responsible for design, construction, and O&M under the project. It
would be assisted in these tasks by the Project Consultant. The
Division is headed by a Senior Executive Engineer (Senior EE) who
coordinates the units and acts as Deputy Project Manager, and it
comprises three units. The Construction and Design Unit is headed by an
Executive Engineer (EE), who acts as resident engineer for
implementation of the project. The Unit includes six Assistant
Engineers (AE) and eleven Overseers and is responsible for supervision
and quality control of civil works constructed by the international
contractor. The Mechanical UJnit includes machine operators and drivers
and is responsible for O&M of project vehicles and equipment. At
present, it is supervised by a Mechanical Overseer supported by two
Foremen and two Senior Mechanics. Under Mahakali Stage II, existing
staff of the unit would be increased by an additional two mechanics. In
addition, to operate and maintain the vehicles and equipment in the
Stage II area, a sub-unit would be established in Stage II at Belauri.
It would be run by a Mechanical Engineer assisted b) a Mechanical
Overseer and two Foremen, plus mechanics, drivers and machine operators.
The Engineering Division's Operation and Maintenance Unit is
responsible for system O&M during project construction. A second major
objective of the O&M Unit would be to establish proper O&M procedures
and patterns for the combined Stage I and II areas, which would continue
after project completion. The present Stage I O&M Unit is headed by an
AE supported by two Overseers. This staffing is inadequate for O&M of
the Stage I area. Under the proposed project, the Unit would be
strengthened by adding one AE and two Overseers, which would provide in
the Stage I area an Overseer for each block and one AE for two blocks;
sufficient supervisors and canalmen for all four Stage I blocks are in
place. For O&M of Stage II, staff of the Unit would be progressively
increased by adding three AEs and six Overseers plus additional
supervisors and canalmen, and an EE would be appointed to supervise the
O&M Unit. It would be essential for the strengthened O&M Unit to work
closely with the Farmer Organization and Agricultural Divisions and the
WJOs formed under the project, starting with preparation of detailed and
appropriate operating schedules. Good coordination and management is
required for timely and equitable delivery of limited dry season water
throughout the combined Stage I and II command area.
Farmer Organization Division. Under the Stage II project, a
new Farmer Organization Division would be established. It would be



Annex 9
-91-                           Page 2
headed by a SAO supported by twenty A0s.  The responsibility of the
D!vision would be to organize and strengthen farmer .WUOs in the Stage I
and II areas.  Initially, it would concentrate on forming Water User
Groups (WUGs) in tertiary command areas. In later stages, the Division
would organize Water User Associations (WUAs) on secondary canals. and
assist in organizing farmer representatives to participate on the
Project Management Committee (PMC). The Division would coordinate
closely with the Construction and Design and O&M Units of the
Engineering and Design Division to ensure that farmers are involved in
the tertiary planning and layout process and in O&M and that th. 
develop a sense of ownership and responsibility for the project. The
Division would also coordinate with the Agricultural Division to
facilitate WUO seasonal planning and water allocation.
Agricultural Division. Based at the Pilot Farm, the
Agricultural Division is responsible for agricultural extension within
the boundaries of MIP, operation of the Pilot Farm, and in-service
training for farmers, extension workers and other MIP staff. At
present, the Division is headed by a Senior Agricultural Development
Officer (Senior ADO), who is assisted by an expert Agricultural
Censultant; it is staffed by two Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), two
JTs, and six Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs). Under the project, the
Division would be strengthened to intensify operations in the Stage I
area and begin operating in Stage II. Initially, DOA would post three
additional SMSs in plant protection, horticulture and agricultural
engineering, respectively. As extension service requirements increase
to cover the Stage II area, the Division would add additional staff
comprising two SMSs, four JTs and eight JTAs.
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell. Under Mahakali Stage II, M&E
would have an expanded role, as considerable project effort will be
devoted to agricultural extension and farmer organization, in addition
to construction which was the focus of Stage I. In addition, HMGN is
placing increasing emphasis on improved M&E. Under the project, the M&E
Cell would be attached to the PM's office and report directly to the PM.
At present, it is under the Engineering Division and is barely
functional; it is nominally under the control of the Senior EE, but is
staffed by only two overseers. For Stage II, the Cell would be headed
by an EE assisted by two AEs and four Junior Technicians (JTs). The
Cell would collect and evaluate data to fulfill M&E tasks described
below, provide project management with quarterly and annual progress
reports, monitor progress in water charge collections, and prepare the
project mid-term review and completion reports, along with other special
reports as needed.
Administration and Finance Division. The Administration and
Finance Division has responsibility for accounts, administration, and
assessment of water charges and is presently under the control of two
Section Officers with responsibility for accounts and administration,
and for water charges, respectively. Additional staff would be required
only for the Water Charges Assessment Unit. This Unit comprises one
Section Officer and three Anins (water charge surveyors); under the
project, two Overseers and six Amins would be added.



Annex 10
-92-                           Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Assumptions for Mahakali Stage II
Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial Prices
1..      The prices used in the financial analysis are based on the
p;evailing farmgate prices in February 1988. These prices were assembled
on the basis of a sample survey conducted at the farm household level. In
the case of chemical fertilisers and HYV seed, the government controlled
prices were taken to reflect the farmgate prices. The financial and
economic prices for main products, by-products and production inputs used
in the analysis are presented in Annex 1, Table 12. In the case of farm
labor, the daily wage rates for men, women and children vary by month
throughout the year in relation to demand. Similarly, the division of on
farm labor between males, females and children varies according to the
nature of the task undertaken. For these reasons, a weighted average cost
of labor was derived, calculated at NRs 22.51 per day, as shown on Table 1.
Economic Prices
2.       Economic Prices ior Traded Commodities.  The economic price, at
the farmgate, of traded agricultural outputs and inputs were derived from
the January 1988 IBRD-projected 1988, 1989, 1990, 1995 and 2000 world
market prices. Adjustments were made for quality, freight, insurance,
handling, inland transport and processing. A variable exchange rate was
applied to convert prices expressed in U.S. dollars to local currency
values. The exchange rates were taken as US$1.0 - NRs 22.5 from 1987-89
and as US$1.0 - NRs 24.8 for 1990 onwards. Table 2 of this annex presents
the method of derivation of economic prices for the traded agricultural
inputs and commodities.
3.       For commodities currently in surplus, export parity values were
assumed until 1990. However, all commodities were valued at their import
parity value from 1990 onwards on the assumption that Nepal's foodgrain
position, at best, would be at balance and present food deficits were
likely to increase. One commodity, cotton, was credited with a by product
value in deriving its farmgate economic price; its by product value
reflects the imported value of cotton seed.
4.       Economic Prices for Nontraded Commodities.  These prices were
derived from the financial prices using conversion factors. A standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 was used to establish economic prices of
nontraded goods. The valuation of inputs and outputs in economic terms has
also excluded internal transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies as
these represent domestic monetary movements which have no bearing on real
resource costs.



Annex 10
..93-                         Page 2
5.       Economic Prices for ARricultural Inputs. The economic prices of
fertilizer nutrients were derived in the same manner as for other traded
commodities. The economic prices for agro-chemicals, other than
fertilizer, were derived by applying the SCF of 0.9. The shadow wage rate
factor used for agricultural labor was 0.75 in order to reflect substantial
underemployment and scarce alternative labor opportunities in the project
area. This figure was subsequently multiplied by the SCF of 0.9 to correct
for foreign exchange distortions. The resulting shadow wage rate used in
the economic analysis was NRs 15.19 per 8 hour day.
6.       The shadow rate conversion factor for the cost of draft animal
work was estimated at 0.9; this was also subsequently multiplied by the SCF
of 0.9. The economic value attributed to a pair of draft animals was
calculated as NRs 20.25 per 6 hour day, exclusive of the operator.
7.       Economic Prices of the Project Investment Costs.  The construction
of project civil works requires the use of a mixture rf equipment,
materials, and skilled and unskilled labor.
(a) Traded Components include capital intensive works which
require imported materials and expatriate support in survey,
design and construction supervision. Hence, the conversion
factor of 1.00 has been used. It is estimated that about 63
percent of the construction costs fall within this category.
(b)  Non-Traded Components include wc_.ks which require skilled
labor and locally manufactured materials. The SCF of 0.9 has
been used as the conversion factor for these works which
account for about 15 percent of constriction costs.
(c) Unskilled Labor. A ratio of economic to financial wages
equal to that assumed for agricultural labor (.75) has been
used for unskilled construction labor. It is estimated that
the cost of unskilled labor would constitute about 22 percent
of the total construction costs.
The weighted average of these conversion factors would be as follows:
Conversion Factor         Weight
Traded Items                  1.00                    .63
Non-Traded Items              0.90                    .15
Unskilled Labor                0.75                   .22
Construction Costs             0.9                    1.00
Thus, a construction conversion factor of 0.9 has been adopted for
converting the costs of construction works from financial to economic
prices.



Annex 10
_94_                           Page 3
Economic Analysis
8.       The following assumptions were used in contrm;czing th.e cash f;ow
streamst
Replacement Lifesaan. The assumed replacemeiMt periods are as
follows: (i) civil works, 50 years; (ii) equipment, 12 years
(iii) buildings, 30 years; and (iv) vehicles, 6 years.
Yields atid Input Avolication. Crop yields and input application
would increase substantially in the "future with' project
situation. The expected build-up rate for crop yields and inputs
are as follows:
Year    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10
Future withoit            3   7  12  20  33  47  65  83  93  100
Future with              25  50  65  85 100
Crooning Intensity. A build-up period of three years has been
assumed for the transition from 'present' to 'future with' project
cropping intensities.
9.       Sensitivity Analvees. Several sensitivity tests were conducted to
measure the impact of possible changes in the economic environment on the
project's stream of benefits and costs. The economic rates of return for
the Mahakali project under varying assumptions are as follows:
ERR (Z)
BASE CASE                        16
(a) investment costs up 201                14
(b) incremental benefits down by 202       13
(c) investment costs up by 40 Z            12
(d) incremental benefits down by 40 2       8
(e) investment costs up 102 and            13
incremental benefits down 102



Annex 11
-95.,                         Page
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.       Mahakali Irrigation Proiect:  Reassessment of Feasibility, Sir
William Halcrow and Partners, Ltd. (U.K.). October 1987. (Includes Vol. I-
-Main Report; Vol. II--Appendices; Vol. III--Figures; Cost Estimates; and
Financial and Economic Analysis).
2.       Groundwater DeveloPmPnt Strategies in the Terai, Groundwater
Development Consultants (International) Ltd. (U.K.), December 1987. (Includes
Summary; Vol. I--Main Report; Volume II--Land Resources and Agriculture; Vol.
III--Groundwater; Vol. IV--Engineering; Vol. V--Economics; and Vol. VI--Maps).
3.       Groundwater Component for a Pilot line of Credit Pilot Project
(Concept Paper), M. Barber (Consultant), undated.
4.       Staff Appraisal Report (Thailand)--May 29, 1987, Agricultural
Diversification and Peoples Irrigation Project in the North, International
Fund for Agricultural Development, Report No. 6658-TH.
5.       Hill Irrigation Development (Nepal), L. Rijk (Consultant), undated.
6.       Preparation of a Master Plan for Irrigation Development in Nepal-
-Terms of Reference for Consultant, UNDP-NEP/85/013, undated.
7.       Irriaation Rules. 2044 (Draft), Water and Energy Commission
Secretariat (Nepal), undated.
8.       Rapid Appraisal Report of the Boktan Tedhi/Gurgi Farmer-Manaaed
Irrigation System of Kailali District (Draft), R. Yoder, P. Pradhan, D.N.
Tiwari and H. Shrestha (Consultants), April 9, 1987.
9.       Report on Tedhi/Gurgi Farmers Irrigation Scheme of Kailali District,
R.C. Mishra (Consultant), undated.
10.      Report on Farmers Operated Irrigation Schemes in Kanchanpur and
Kailali Districts, R.C. Misnra (Consultant), undated.
11.      O&M and the Mobilization of Local Resources in Government-Managed
Irrigation Schemes in Nepal, R. Barker and J. Lohani (Consultants to
USAID/IMP), August 1987.
12.      Farmer Organization in the Mahakali Stage II Project (Draft), A.
Manzardo (Consultant), undated.
13.      A Study of Operations and Maintenance Costs of DIHM Irrigation
Projects (Report 4/11120586/111), Water and Energy Commission (Nepal),
undated.



-96-                         Annex 11
Page 2
14.      Rehabilitation and Improvement of Yarmer-Managed Irrigation Schemess
Initiating Proiect Brief and Working PaRers, FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program Investment Centre (Report No. 130187 CP-NEP 31 PB & WPs), October 7,
1987.
15.      Third Hill Irrigation Proiect (Feasibility Studv), Sir M. MacDonald &
Partners Ltd., MacDonald Agricultural Services Ltd., and East Consult Ltc;.,
December 1987.
16.      Proceedings of Training of Water Users GrouDs in the Mahakali
Irrigation Proiect, C. Singh, undated.
17.      Water Use Inventory Study--Nawalvarasi District, ARA Engineering
Consultants, Ltd., 1986.
18.      List of Feasible Projects from Prefeasibilitv and Feasibility Study
Proiect (DOI), Department of Irrigation (Nepal), 2044-Pausa.



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Department of Irrigation
Proposed Organization Structure
DEPT OF IRRIGATION
DIRECTOR GENERAL
MONITORING &
EVALUATION
ADMINSTRATION 
FINANCIAL
ADlWSSTRATION|
SMALL iWEGATRO LARGE & MADIUM             GROUNDWATER          PLANNING       RIVER TRA    W NT G
& WATER UJTILISA-     IRRIGATION           IRRIGATION         MANAGEMENT         8 ENVRONMENTAL
TION DIVISION         DIVISNION           SECTION              DIVI CON             DIVISION
SMALL              WATER             GROUNDWATER        GROUNDWATER           RIVER TRANNGt    ENVIRONMENT;
IRRIGATION        UTLISATION             IRIGATION           INV &                           ICI CONSERVATION
SECTION            SECTION               SECTION          EVALUATION                                SECTION
LARGE     1       MEIUM    1          CA A            PLANNI  &  1  [   OESIGN &             QUAUTY
I   IRRIGATION   I  I  IRR!w3ATION   I  I   ECHMCO IA   MANAGEMENT  I  I  FEASIBLITY   |      CONTROL
SECTION           SECTION            SECTION            SECTION       I   SECTION             SECTION
cak\w4-68a     I-



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Project Organization Stages I and HI
*                          |  ~~~~~~~~~~~Mahakali Irrigation |
IDevelopment Board
Manager
Monitorh                                       Manaamgen
and EvlaC _                                         Cmmite
Administration                            Executive                 -   Farr.,er Asisociation  L  _       Agrictitural
and Finance                              Engineer                      Development Officer           Development Officer
Engineering               Association         Extension &
Accounts           Admin.              Mechanical       Construction               Organizers             WtrTatn
Chargesn                 WUGS. &             Maramt
& Design         ~Canal Groups         Mngmn
Water                                 Operation                                                          Pilot.
Charges                                   and                                                             Farm
Unit                                Maintenance                                                       Operation
Water       Land         Land
Charges    Revenue   Acquisition
Cak t4 136(C



!A    [                          C" SO   E
Cro   ni  'a enclar
MAY  1  JUN   |  JUL  |  AUG  |  SEP  |OCT             NOV  |  DEC   |  JAN        FEB   | MAR  |  APR 
Maize           77                               Potatoes
_/  Cotton                    /rSpring Paddy
/           ~~~~Groundnut//X
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/         ~~~Pulses// 
/             /                //                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wheat|
Nursery/               Local Paddy//|
L
|             |                                     / z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Nursery/Spring- Paddy
Spring Paddy////
1l  /                 /               /                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pulse/
a Nursery /Paddy HYV///
Oil Seed
MAY   |  JUN   |  JUL L    AUG   |  SEP  | OCT  | NOV  |  DEC  |  JAN   |  FEB  | MAR  |  APR  |
cak'w4 166Gb



r~~~~~ IFiA   ii
t1 -   H2F -  iI@



MAP SECTION
.,



IBRD I
82'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E4                                                         P6            AB'
31  . ......CH.NA                                                                                                                        MAHAKALI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
I)                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARAKALI STAGE II
RMCT400A'\(                       N                                                                                                                              *$I'. : FLOOD RREABILITATION AREAS
TILC SURPROJECT AREAS
\ ~~~~~5sy''7x1FAt   yr    s  (   fi  \ +                                                                                      < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MOUNTAIN REGION
N =  i a  ..                                                                                  ,,  HILL REGION
2. AR         /'AURA                                                                                                                                             INNER TERAtI
S .,  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~.4   j$QP"  .,                                                                      ., T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAI
-'                                                                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATHMANDU VALLEY
DADELHURA                                  ~              /                                                                                                          -<>0RIVERS
DOT                                            UmLA                        .      .              <G    DEVELOPMENT REGICON dOUN DAtE S
'ACHH"                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE ZONE ROUNDARIES
TE  m                                                                                                              ----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIS~RICT ROUNDARIES
TCUNPUR I         v                   _                 &'{/ "JAJARKOT                                                                                                         ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_,UiAHA,LI                                                          I DAILERJ f
NV                                              \ -C
\\  2-'\A ar                                                                                                                                                                      NG
/~~~~~~~~~~~
~~   R   RMAECRH OKHAL 
It: :cItKU                                               ANCHTHIY:
:~~::~.T  ...V,UiU~It.Dt~I~       A  ROlE-   ITAUKUTA      )1A
N      D                        A~~~~~~
o          40          "I          T20         E6R  KILOMETRRS
O        2'0       4U       40        RDo      TI  DLES
82'                                                                                                                                   88  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AP



~~1                                                                                                                             1TO                                                                                                                                       s.w At
5'      '~~'         CHINA
/   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S                           A                                                              INDIA~D 
C   - ~ ~ ~ Es                                                                                                      \\   '. .     lU |  , 
)') NI 'I XAIN X    ?  10  _  [ s; +DAIJI
\   -77   1  ''     | \       <            \  )                                     TcrtirJryCondMalsetidratoagar  *  -                            \l                                                                  t  \ < \               ,,n
'a                                                                                                      -                      .~~~~~~~1,S.tMdoH E    N DN AN\A G 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                                       \ K                                                        --- T eroryDuqne   --thni rloudri:  I  ", 1     0fina
'\ \ {) X ' ..... ? 940, ;,__ _,._u _~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            \~\  (
V>
NEPAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HL
K          / A /                                                           ~~~~~~~~MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
K    ~~~~~~  \\~~~~~~                     * ~~~~  Projec Headquarters                  Aqsedscts                                                                                   1
\   \~~~~            -..-  ~~~~Block Boundaries                      East - West Highwy
.4-i (                                                          -     ~~eemes    ai  onlGravel I Earth Roads                                                '<\
\                           ~~~~~~~~~Secondary Cas         0       Pancltoyat CapItas                                                                                                         -
____ Tertiary Canals               *       National CapitlO
/                  L>~~~~~[:- - -Main Drainage Lines                PanKtayat Boundaries
L\                                                         - - - - - ~~-Tertiary Drainae Unes      I- nternational Bosndories
(   Siphonsas   .MnMm
0                                     2                  3                                                                                                           0
KILOMETERlS
FEBMW



7   N    ~~~CHINA
P I P A L A D I                   -AyL    > cHA
.~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '\   NEA
INDIA
C-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-ho._,                                         STG 11-.                                             .  I                           eli
8~~ ~~~~ Prjc /une 8ro<l  RorJd- \,                                                                      -   /  i, 
,~~~~ Secondwy Conols - Ponchoyot Boundories . _ _t - SiGE-8{ 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sol C,.lStg.I
. nw ,w i                                                         \    \ ; .    /                  \     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q.iS
ne4rr.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~              ~STG II                                                       ) \.    r)    K1  .        .A__ Oscn
Ff4n*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Prjc Saoce                   -s GrvlRas                                                     *
an ..3.,.v na                           -'!.?\*|A e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                      n a l         a c to y aTEs     IL-D- I-A Mnp-
FEeSt



