Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18396
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1924-NEP)
September 8, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.0:   NRs 25.2 in 1988 (at appraisal), NRs 28.3 in 1989, NRs 33.3 in 1990, NRs 39.9 in 1991,
NRs 45.7 in 1992, NRs 49.3 in 1993, NRs 49.9 in 1994, NRs 55.2 in 1995,. NRs 55.5 in 1996,
NRs 60.2 in 1997, NRs 62.0 in 1998 (at ICR)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet
I kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres =1.50 bighas
I million cubic meter (Mm3) = 810 acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
I cubic meter per second (m3/s) = 35.31 cubic foot per second (cfs)
1 metric ton = 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
ADBN         Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
BLGWP        Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project
DADO         District Agricultural Development Officer
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DOA          Department of Agriculture
DIO          District Irrigation Office
DOI         Department of Irrigation
DTW          Deep tubewells
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FIA          Farmers Irrigation Associations
FMIS        Farmer-Managed Irrigation Systems
HMGN        His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IDS         Institutional Development Support
ILC         Irrigation Line of Credit
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
M & E       Monitoring & Evaluation
MIP          Mahakali Irrigation Project
NPV         Net Present Value
NISP         Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PCR         Project Completion Report
POP         Project Operation Plan
RAD          Regional Agricultural Directorate
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
WUA          Water Users' Association
WUGs        Water Users' Groups
GLOSSARY
cumec        cubic meter per second
kharif      Wet Season (June to October)
rabi         Dry Season (November to February)
Vice President  -              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director -             Hans Rothenbuhler
Sector Managers -              Michael Baxter and Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader -             Ohn Myint



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1924-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................                                                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................................1
A. Project Objectives ....................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ....................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................5
D. Project Sustainability ....................................................6
E. Bank Perfornance ....................................................7
F. Borrower Performance ....................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................8
H. Future Operation ....................................................9
1. Key Lessons Learned ....................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1. Summary of Assessments .................................................... 1 1
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits ...................................................                                          13
Table 3. Project Timetable .................................................... 14
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................... 15
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................                             16
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                                17
Table 7. Studies Included in the Project .................................................... 18
Table 8A. Project Costs .................................................... 19
Table 8B. Project Financing ...................................................                                                  20
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                                         21
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................                                          22
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 28
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................... 29
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions .................................................... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
I Mission's Aide-Memoire ............................. 32
2 Financial and Economic Re-evaluation .............................. 46
3 Borrower's Evaluation .............................. (55
MAPS
IBRD Map No. 19998
IBRD Map No. 20715



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT (Credit 1924-NEP)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mahakali Irrigation
II Project in Nepal for which Credit 1924-NEP in the amount of SDR 29.9 million was
approved on 15 June 1988 and made effective on 18 November 1988. The Credit was
closed on 31 March 1998, one year later than originally planned. Final disbursement
took place on May 7, 1998 and the Credit was fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by a Bank mission' led by Ohn Myint,Task Team Leader,
SASRD, and reviewed by Michael Baxter, Manager, SMU, SASRD. The Borrower's
evaluation is appended to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
February/March 1998. The report is based on material in the project file, interviews with
HMGN officials and project staff, farmer beneficiaries, and Bank staff involved with the
project. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing his own
project completion report and project operation plan and contributing views and
comments reflected in both the mission's aide memoire and the ICR.
Messrs./Mme. Ohn Myint (Mission Leader), T. Estoque (Operations Analyst), S. Ranjitkar (Irrigation Specialist), R.C. Mishra
(Agriculturist), Benson Ateng (Economist), Kiran Gautam (Team Assistant) and Robert Paterson (Irrigation Engineer,
FAO/CP).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit Number 1924-NEP)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Mahakali Irrigation II Project (MIP-II) consisted of four components: (a) a second
phase of IDA support for construction of irrigation and drainage facilities to serve an additional
6,800 ha under the extended Mahakali Irrigation Project area; (b) an Irrigation Line of Credit
(ILC) pilot project to test the Government's new participatory Irrigation Policy (IP) in
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing small and medium farmer-managed irrigation
schemes (FMIS) using surface and groundwater on about 9,000 ha in total; (c) emergency Flood
Rehabilitation (FR) works to repair flood-damaged irrigation and river control facilities in 17
districts in the Eastern, Central and Western regions; and (d) Institutional Development Support
to help Department of Irrigation (DOI) strengthen its capacity for development and
implementation of the Irrigation Sector.
Project Objectives and Works
2.    The project objectives were to: (a) raise agricultural production and farm incomes
through expansion of irrigation areas and improved management of a public irrigation system,
construction and rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation schemes, and restoration of
irrigation schemes and river protection works damaged by August 1987 flooding; (b) improve
O&M and cost recovery in the irrigation systems through, inter alia, increased farmer
participation in project cycle; and (c) strengthen the irrigation subsector to implement HMGN's
new sector program approach to irrigation management.
3.    The project was to finance the following works: Mahakali Stage II Main component,
which includes upgrading and extension of the irrigation and drainage and flood protection
facilities to a new irrigation area of 6,800 ha, and strengthening of agricultural extension
services, training for farmers, staff, and Water Users' Associations (WUAs). Irrigation Line of
Credit component was a pilot on 9000 ha FMIS to establish methods to be adopted in a future
irrigation sector project in which farmer beneficiaries were to contribute to capital costs and
operate and manage sub-projects after completion. The Flood Rehabilitation component was
for the repair and replacement of canal embankments and related structures and associated
protective and remedial river works damaged by the 1987 monsoon floods. The Institutional
Development Support to DOI component was to assist in developing the institutional
capability to support a long-term irrigation sector program.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Implementation of the Mahakali Project Stage II component suffered a series of
delays. The start of construction was delayed by about one and a half years due to the trade and
transit disagreement between India and Nepal in 1989-90. Another delay was cause by HMGN's
termination of the ICB 2 contract in 1993 due to contractor's delinquency in the third year of the
project. A new contract (ICB 3) was concluded to complete the unfinished works only after one
year due to a court case filed by the ICB 2 contractor against HMGN objecting to the
termination. Even then, the ICB 3 contract did not include construction of tertiaries, which, by a
change in the Government irrigation policy introduced in 1992, required farmer participation in
the construction works of tertiary canals by LCB contractors. The award of LCB contracts for
construction of tertiary canals was delayed due to tardiness in reaching an agreement between the
Mahakali Irrigation Development Board and the farmer beneficiaries on the extent of beneficiary
contribution in the construction of tertiaries. Despite these delays, construction was substantially
completed within the one-year extension of the credit.
5.    The original scope of the Irrigation Line of Credit component (ILC) was changed in
1991 from implementation of all types of sub-projects to implementation of only new surface
schemes. Other types of ILC sub-projects were to be financed under the Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Irrigation III Project (BLGWP) (Credit 2144-NEP). Thus, the initial target of
developing sub-projects on over 9,000 ha in total to be operated and managed by farmers groups
was reduced to some 7,900 ha. Not all the ILC sub-projects were completed on time. Most of
the new schemes in the hills operated by Central DOI management had cost and time over-runs.
This is reflected in the wide range of ERRs in the evaluated completed .sub-projects. Frequent
changes of project managers adversely affected project implementation.
6.    The Flood Rehabilitation Component was successfully completed on time. In all 17
districts, flood damages were repaired on about 100,000 ha of irrigated and flood protection land
which are now providing normal services.
7.    The Institutional Development Support Component (IDS) provided technical
assistance to the development and testing of the principles and criteria of the Irrigation Policy of
1992. Mobilization of the technical assistance team for ILC implementation was delayed for
about two years beyond 1992-93, during the transition period from UNDP to IDA support. The
computerized Management Information System (MIS) at both the Central and the Western
Regional Directorate offices has not become fully functional. A number of DOI district
irrigation office buildings including the Central DOI building were completed.
8.    Project Cost. The project cost in Nepali Rupees NRs 2025.3 million is about 83% greater
than estimated at appraisal (NRs 1106.7 million). But in US dollars, the estimated project cost
(US$ 46.4 million) is about 99% of the appraisal estimate. In terms of components, the costs of
the Mahakali Stage II works have decreased by 13% in dollars but the ILC works have increased
by 38% in dollars over the SAR estimate. The cost of IDS of NRs 107.0 million are 37% less in



iv
dollars than estimated and the flood rehabilitation works are 35% less in dollars than estimates.
The Nepali Rupee parity to US Dollar changed from 25.4 to 62.0 during the course of the project.
The IDA Credit of SDR 29.9 million was fully disbursed on May 7, 1998.
9.    The main project's partial impact is apparent from the increase in irrigable area and
cropping intensity in the developed area, objectives achieved even prior to credit closure. The
project was supplying irrigation to new 2,000 ha in Stage II in its last year. Results of the 1977
agricultural baseline survey showed that an increase in cropping intensity of 51% over the
rainfed conditions (to 171%) had been achieved in the project area due to partial irrigation by
shallow tubewells. Farrners' participation in tertiary construction, though slow at the start, has
increased to cover about 70 tertiary canals completed, out of 250. As regards water charges in
Stage I area, collection has always been satisfactory at, 80% of the amount due with a rate of Rs.
200/ha An increase in yields and production of main crops (paddy and wheat) was also observed
in the partially irrigated areas. Based on the satisfactory achievements of the Stage I and a number
of Stage II areas, further yield increases are expected when the project becomes fully operational by
year 2000.
10.  Economic Rate of Return. (ERR). The ERR for Stage II as a stand-alone project based on
actual project expenditure and re-estimated benefits at full development in the year 2000 shows an
ERR of 11.5% as compared with the SAR estimate of 16%. Thus, at an opportunity cost of capital
of about 12% the project just about breaks even in terms of economic viability. Underestimation of
incremental future cropping intensity for yields, and changes in cropping patterns in the "without
project" situation, and a longer construction period, account for the lower re-estimated ERR. In the
case of the ILC sub-projects, cropping intensity and crop yields have increased in all cases, but
again due to prolonged period of construction, ERR for a number of new schemes ranged from 0-
9%, and rehabilitation sub-projects ranged from 9-22%, as compared with the SAR estimate of 19-
73%. In the case of ILC groundwater cluster sub-projects, the ERR varied from 16-18% compared
to SAR estimate of 18-23%. Farmers' contribution in general varied from 1-19% with an average
of about 8% in all the ILC sub-projects. The benefits of emergency flood rehabilitation were noted
but not estimated. Because of its institutional nature, the benefits derived from the IDS component
were not estimated.
Project Sustainability and Key Factors to Achieve Objectives
11.   Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage II.  In general, the construction quality is
satisfactory and no particular problems with maintenance are anticipated in near future. It is
expected that the existing O&M organization will be expanded to take over the O&M of
combined Stages I and II. Adequate budget has been provided for O&M of Stage I works. The
policy of HMGN is that the budget for O&M should be NRs 500/ha/year plus establishment
costs after turn-over of tertiaries and this is considered to be satisfactory for a mature project.
Project staff would maintain the main system as well as secondary canals down to the turnouts to
tertiary canals. Maintenance below this level is the responsibility of the WUGs. Although the
current proportion of turn-over of tertiary canals to WUGs is only about 20% in Stage II, it is



v
anticipated that all the tertiary canals will be fully turned-over by the year 2000. Overall, MIP II
is likely to be sustainable, provided all management transfer program are completed in time.
12.   Water charges collection have been initiated in about 20% of the Stage II area which have
been turnedover to WUGs. The results shows that 81% of the amount assessed (at a rate of NRs
200/ha/year) has been collected. The rate for 1997/98 onwards has been doubled to NRs
400/ha/year and the result has yet to be known.
13.   Environmental Protection. As provided for under the project, two guard-posts in the
Suklaphanta Forest Reserve were completed. Ramped animal crossings in the main canal banks
have been provided. Impact of construction on the Reserved Forest has been monitored.
14.   Irrigation Line of Credit. The sustainability of FMIS developed under the project
depends on DIOs providing timely assistance with those aspects of maintenance and repairs with
which the WUAs cannot cope due to the complexity and magnitude of repair works. However,
in accordance with the guidelines provided under the Irrigation Policy, DOI will have to
differentiate between genuine need and WUAs'undue dependence on DOI. More training will
be required for both DOI staff and the farmers in the case of hill irrigation where landslides
frequently occur.
15.   Institutional Development Support (IDS). The sustainability of the computerized
management information system (MIS) at the central and regional offices, buildings, and other
infrastructure depend upon sufficient O&M funding and capacity to support the systems. Within
the available scarce resources, HMGN should prioritize O&M expenditure to cover expenditure
of existing investments. The adequacy of the current level of O&M funding and the need for a
revision of water charges necessary to cover full O&M would be studied under the newly-
approved Nepal Irrigation Sector Project (Credit 3009-NEP).
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
16.   Findings. The outcome of the project can be rated as satisfactory and the project is likely to
be sustainable. The overall conclusion of the project experience is that due to the introduction of
the new Irrigation Policy, physical and institutional development aspects of the project had been
tested on a trial-and-error basis in the course of implementation. The replication of formation of
WUAs, legalization and turning-over of completed tertiary units to beneficiaries can be regarded as
a good start for the project sustainability at the tailend and a notable achievement.
17.   Farmers understanding of the new rotation irrigation system is still limited. During the dry
season when the system is supplied with a limited amount of water the project area needs to be
divided into 2 to 3 zones of rotational operations. The improvement activities introduced in the
system in relation to operation, training of staff and farmers to understand the new mode of
operation, proper maintenance of the system, turnover of part of the system to farmers, and
collection of water charges to maintain the system properly, are all inter-linked and need continued
support by the Government.



vi
18.   Irrigation Line of Credit. Future operation will be entirely the responsibility of the
WUAs. Improvements to the systems made during the project will have made operation in many
ways easier: less repair works in wet season for previously temporary weirs which have been
replaced by more permanent structures; less interruption to supply due to damage of canals by
cross drainage where new aqueducts have been built. More reliable water supplies will enable
planned operation to be effectively implemented. Nevertheless, the involvement of DOI is still
likely to be needed for repairs by major land slides if the systems are to be sustained.
Key Lessons Learned
19.   Lessons for Future Projects. The main lessons learnt from the project are:
*  Participation of beneficiaries in the design, construction and implementation, and O&M from
the outset is very important, especially in large public irrigation system, where available water
resources have to be shared among many beneficiaries in an organized manner;
c  The success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure depend not only on physical quality
of the structures but also on beneficiaries' understanding of the system's operation, contribution
to investment and commitment to O&M. The design adopted for a public irrigation systems
must be flexible, simple and acceptable by small farmer communities;
-  Service charges to cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement must be imposed
and must be considered as a national policy in any investment project;
*  Adopting prequalification procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines does not
necessarily ensure the selection of a satisfactory contractor in Nepal;
*  Economic analysis before implementation of FMIS sub-projects was often inadequate and
HMGN must take steps to ensure rigorous appraisal of future schemes' viability;
$ Setting a ceiling for cost per hectare may result in spending up to this limit without regard to
economic viability;
.  It is not reasonable to expect increased agricultural extension input from the DADO if
additional resources are not allocated to DADO for this purpose;
.  Responsibility for maintenance during construction of FMIS rehabilitation sub-projects
should be clearly defined and left, as far as practicable, with the WUGs;
*  WUAs responsibility for O&M of new schemes must be carefully and clearly defined at the
outset. In both pumped irrigation and groundwater irrigation schemes, farmers' contribution
should include cost of electrification. In FMIS, DOI should provide assistance in O&M only
in cases of force majeure.



Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1924-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The project objectives were to: (a) raise agricultural production and farm incomes
through expansion and improved management of a public irrigation system, through construction
and rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation sub-projects, and through restoration of
irrigation sub-projects and river protection works damaged by August 1987 flooding; (b)
improve O&M and cost recovery in irrigation systems in the project areas through, inter alia,
increased farmer participation; (c) strengthen the irrigation subsector to implement HMGN's new
sector program approach to irrigation management. The appraised project comprised the
following four components.
2.    Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage II (MIP-11). Irrigation and drainage system for a
new irrigable area of 6,800 ha would include: (a) upgrading and extension of the Mahakali main
canal, construction of about 125 km of unlined branch and secondary canals, 300 km of unlined
tertiary canals and the required drainage network; (b) flood protection works to protect the Stage
II area; and (c) installation of about 12 tubewells to augment canal flows. The component also
included: continuing support to the existing pilot farm-cum-training center; strengthening of
agricultural extension to promote agricultural intensification, irrigated agriculture and efficient
water management practices in the Stage I and II areas; training for farmers, engineering and
agricultural staff, in design, supervision, operation, maintenance and management of irrigation
sub-projects; and strengthening of existing Water Users' Associations (WUAs) and Water Users'
Groups (WUGs) in the Stage I area and establishment of similar additional organization in both
the Stage I and II areas. Buildings, vehicles, equipment and environmental protection in the
Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve would be provided.
3.    Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC). This component, which was a pilot project to test a new
Irrigation Policy introduced in 1988 and to establish methods to be adopted in a proposed
irrigation sector project, included three types of sub-project, mostly Farmer Managed Irrigation
Schemes (FMIS) in which farmer beneficiaries were to contribute to capital costs and manage the
completed sub-projects:
Construction of new surface schemes
Rehabilitation of existing surface schemes
Construction of new groundwater schemes



2
The sub-projects covering about 9,000 ha were to be selected in four hill districts and one terai
district of the Western Development Region, all within the Narayani River basin catchment area.
The Western Regional Agricultural Directorate (RAD) was to provide adequate agricultural
extension staff and services to the ILC sub-project areas. An amount of US$ 1.2 million was
proposed for a subsidiary loan to the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) for
providing credit to farmers groups in the selected ILC sub-projects.
4.    Flood Rehabilitation of projects damaged by the 1987 monsoon was to comprise
replacement of canal embankments, replacement of damaged/destroyed structures, clearing and
repair of cross-drainage, clearing of slides, reconstruction of canals and associated protective and
remedial river works in 17 districts in Eastern, Central and Western regions.
5.   Institutional Development Support (IDS) component to assist DOI in developing its
institutional capability to support a long-term irrigation sector program was to include provision
of buildings, equipment and vehicles to DOI Regional and District Offices and provision of
funding for computerized management information system, staffing, training, equipment and
operation of mobile irrigation teams in the regions. The project component would include:
renovation and construction of a headquarters building; human resources development, including
a detailed manpower assessment of the DOI and its capacities, resources and training
requirements, and development of a comprehensive human resources and corporate plan. The
project component was also to fund consultant services for ILC, training, studies and applied
research as needed to support DOI institutional strengthening, including workshops, in-service,
local and foreign training.
6.    Although containing several completely separate components, which were implemented
largely independently of one another, the project was not unduly complex or demanding for the
borrower or implementing agencies. The objectives were clear, straightforward, realistic and
important for the sector strategies of HMGN and the Bank. The MIP II component was largely a
repeat of the MIP Stage I project. The ILC component was to develop and improve on principles
established in the Irrigation Policy and Asian Development Bank's supported Irrigation Sector.
Proj ect.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The project has satisfactorily achieved or is expected to achieve its main objectives. The
construction of Stage II of the Mahakali Irrigation Project (MIP II) was substantially completed
on the new irrigable area of 6,800 ha (see table 5). Out of that some 2,000 ha of the new areas
had been irrigated partially even before the Credit closing. In the case of ILC, the original scope
of the Credit was changed in 1991 from implementation of all types of FMIS sub-projects to
implementation of only new surface schemes. Other types of ILC sub-projects were financed by
the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project (Credit 2144-NEP). Thus, the initial
target of developing over 9,000 ha in total to be operated and managed by farmers groups was
reduced to some 7,900 ha of FMIS, which have been constructed or rehabilitated. Agricultural
production and farm incomes have increased reasonably and are expected to further increase



3
once the MIP II is fully developed under the attention of HMGN. O&M and farmer participation
in Stage I have improved and cost recovery in the Stage I area of MIP has increased from less
than 30% of the amount assessed before the project to 87% though the assessed rate was low.
The successful experience in the ILC component has enabled the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
to go ahead.
8.    Mahakali Stage II. Subject to the sufficient attention and follow-up by the DOI/DOA
project personnel after the closure of the Credit, the objective of raising agricultural production
and farm incomes is likely to be achieved through higher cropping intensity, higher crop yields,
and adoption of higher yielding crops. Overall cropping intensity was 120% at the time of
project appraisal. A 1997 baseline survey in the project area reported an average cropping
intensity of 171% in the Stage II area before the project became operational (an increase of 51%
over the rainfed condition). The increase is due to use of irrigation from farmers' shallow
tubewells (which has eventually made the proposed augmentation wells unnecessary), adoption
of improved varieties and increase in the use of fertilizers. Farmers are willing to switch over to
the surface water irrigation to be supplied by MIP-II once it is available as it is cheaper for them
in O&M costs compared to the shallow tubewell irrigation.
9.    Most of the nine project years were consumed by the construction activities. At the time
of the Credit closing, only about 20% of the new tertiary canal box-cutting, which is the
contribution of farmers, had been completed. The project's Association Organizers (AO) and
extension staff (JT, JTA) along with overseers were instrumental in organizing WUGs, and
mobilizing farmers for contributing their shares in box-cutting of tertiaries and construction of
field channels. After the Credit closure the Project must have sufficient staff and resources with
same motivation and incentives to organize the farmers to complete the remaining 80% for
effective supply of rotational irrigation in dry season. Firm commitment of HMGN on the
provision of staff and resources are important till the farmers in the Stage II area understand the
system operation like farmers in Stage I area.
10.   Assuming that the success achieved in the Stage I can be replicated in the Stage II, the
project's overall cropping intensity at full operation is now projected at 196%. Thus the project
is now expected to account for a 25% increase over 171% in cropping intensity compared to the
SAR estimate of 76% over 120%. Based on achievements of Stage I and results of the pilot
farm, average paddy and wheat yields are now projected to increase to 4.0 tons/ha and 3.0
tons/ha, respectively, at full development. All this is expected to lead to incremental agricultural
production, employment, and farm incomes in the project area. Preliminary analysis shows an
economic rate of return of 12% and a net present value (NPV) of about NRs. 230 million for
Stage II compared to an economic rate of return (ERR) of 16% and NPV of NRs. 138 million
estimated at appraisal. Reasons for the lower than estimated ERR include delay in achieving
benefits and lower incremental cropping intensity.
11.   ILC Component. Fourteen new surface irrigation sub-projects (4730 ha) and seven
rehabilitation sub-projects (110 ha), all in Western hill districts, were completed. There was a
change in policy in 1991 such that from 1991/92 onwards only new surface water sub-projects
were constructed under this Credit, (1924-NEP). The other types of ILC sub-projects were



4
financed by the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project (BLGW-III) (Cr. 2144-
NEP). This included 36 rehabilitation sub-projects (2137 ha) in Western hill districts and 67
tubewells (959 ha) in Western terai districts. ADBN did not require the proposed subsidiary loan
and the money was transferred to the construction component. A preliminary economic analysis
on eight sample sub-projects, found that cropping intensity and crop yields had increased in all
cases. ERRs for three new sub-projects range from -1.6% to 9% (compared to an estimated rate
of 16% at appraisal), from about 9% to 22% for four rehabilitation sub-projects (19% to 73% at
appraisal) and are about 16% for medium tubewells and 18% for deep tubewells (from 18% to
23% at appraisal). Reasons for the lower than estimated ERRs include higher construction costs
and time overrun for new surface sub-projects, selection of less suitable sub-projects in the hill
and slow implementation of new surface schemes. Some of the new surface hill irrigation sub-
projects, which were directly managed by the Central DOI took more than 5 years to complete
the sub-project instead of originally stipulated as 3 years. Farmers' contributions varied from
0.5% to 19% of the investment costs with an average of about 8%. In only 17 out of 124 sub-
projects was the contribution 10% or more. Contributions are less than envisaged at appraisal and
less than HMGN policy. This is partly due to underestimation and incomplete design of sub-
project costing at the time of fixing the farmers' contribution.
12.  Institutional Development Support (IDS) to DOI. Thirteen new district office
buildings were constructed and 12 existing offices were renovated. A new DOI central building
was completed in January 1997. The component also provided technical assistance to the
development and testing of the principles and criteria of the Irrigation Policy of 1992. However,
mobilization of the technical assistance team for ILC implementation and testing of the
Irrigation Policy was delayed for about two years in 1992-93 during the transition period from
UNDP support to IDA support. Computerized management information system (MIS) and a
library were established in DOI HQ and Western Regional Directorate. Training of staff for
implementation of ILC process and procedure was conducted through workshop and seminars.
HMGN has, as required by the DCA, issued regulations and implemented plans for establishing
WUAs, WUGs, and Farmer Irrigation Associations (FIAs) as legal bodies. Staff training,
operation of a fully effective mobile irrigation team in the Regional Directorates, and provision
of association organizers in the districts and their supervision were only partially realized due to
lack of commitment from DOI. A number of feasibility studies of medium and large FMIS
including updating of country's Irrigation Data base were conducted using IDS funds. The
detailed assessment of DOI manpower, resources and training and the institutional development
from follow-up activities was restricted due to transfer of funds to other project components.
Joint Management schemes were tested using the principles of the Irrigation Policy under IDS
but there was no successful achievement obtained.
13.   Flood Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of 15 projects in the Eastern, Central and Western
Regions affected by the 1987 flood was completed on about 100,000 ha of land in 1992 and the
projects have resumed normal operation. The component was stopped after completion in 1992.



.5
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14    Factors not generally subject to Government control. The start of construction of the
main civil works was delayed by the trade and transit disagreement between India and Nepal
from March 1989 to mid-1990 and the consequent shortage of diesel fuel. Construction was
further delayed by the failure of the first ICB contractor (for Contract ICB 2) to perform.
Contract ICB 2 for the main component of MIP-II, started in March 1990 and was scheduled to
be completed in April 1994. However, the contract was terminated in 1993 due to the slow
progress of construction which, up to then, was only 27% complete against 72% target. A case
was then filed in the Supreme Court by the ICB 2 contractor. Further delay was caused by the
Court's interim order placing a stay notice on proceedings for about one year. The construction
was resumed in later part of 1994 by a new ICB 3 contractor.
15.   Factors generally subject to Government control. Construction of tertiary canals was
originally stipulated under ICB contract. But it was later put under participatory construction
component by a change of Government's Irrigation Policy, introduced in 1992, which required
farmer participation in the construction works of tertiary canals. The ICB 3 contract did not
include construction of tertiaries like in the case of ICB 2 and the construction of tertiaries were
arranged for joint LCB-farmer construction. The award of LCB contracts for construction of
tertiary canals was delayed for more than one year due to delay in reaching a consensus between
the Mahakali Irrigation Development Board and the farmer beneficiaries on the extent of
beneficiary contribution in the construction.
16.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The quality of ILC sub-
projects at entry for implementation was not always satisfactory. Some sub-projects were
selected under local political pressure even though technical viability was doubtful and feasibility
costs were underestimated. Feasibility studies and appraisals that did not distinguish between
irrigated and unirrigated crops, particularly without the project, where the production from a
rainfed area, which was to be irrigated by the subproject, was not included in the without-project
production. Assumed future yields with the project are often over-optimistic. The PCR reports
that much work that is unnecessary (because it could be done by the WUG without assistance)
has been included in subprojects, sometimes to enable contracts to be awarded to the WUG for
doiiiu the work. IDA supervision repeatedly drew attention to the less than rigorous appraisal and
the challenge of sustaining and institutionalizing acceptable standards of planning, design and
construction. Supervision reports stated that some schemes were selected on social and political
considerations, rather than on their technical and economic merits. This is reflected in the long
construction period of centrally operated new surface sub-projects, and the wide range of ERRs
in the evaluated completed sub-projects. Frequent changes of project managers in all major
project components also adversely affected project implementation. In particular, the last
transfer of Project Manager at the time of the Credit closing of the project, in spite of IDA
mission's protest, had created undesirable problems, especially the financial compilation of the
project closing account.



6
17.   Project Cost. The project cost in NRs 2025.3 million is about 83% greater than estimated
costs at appraisal (NRs 1106.7 million). But in US dollars, the estimated project cost (US$ 46.4
million) is about 99% of the appraisal estimate. The costs of the Mahakali Stage II works of NRs
1,220.0 million have increased by 87% in rupees (but decreased by 13% in dollars) and the ILC
works of NRs 549.9 million by 166% in rupees (38% in dollars) over SAR estimate. The costs of
IDS of NRs 107.0 million are 37% more in rupees (37% less in dollars) than estimated but the
flood rehabilitation works cost of NRs 148.2 million are 12% less than estimated in rupees (35%
less in dollars). The Nepali Rupee parity to US Dollar changed from 25.4 to 62.0 in the course of
time. The IDA Credit of SDR 29.9 million was fully disbursed on May 7, 1998.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.   Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage II.  The quality of construction is in general
satisfactory and, provided necessary additional cross-drainage works are constructed in the near
future, no particular problems with maintenance are anticipated. There is an existing organization
for the operation and maintenance of Stage I of the Mahakali Project, which is effective and
would benefit from training in improved O&M procedures. It is expected that the existing
organization will be expanded to take over the O&M of Stage II. Adequate budget has been
provided for O&M of Stage I works. The policy of HMGN is that the budget for O&M should be
NRs 500/ha/year plus establishmnent costs and this is considered to be satisfactory for a mature
project after farmers took over the O&M of tertiary canals. The cost of O&M of completed major
irrigation projects is estimated to be about NRs 1000/ha/year (at least NRs 500 direct expenditure
plus about NRs 500 establishment costs). Water charges are now NRs 400/ha/year. Even if 100%
of the assessed amount is collected, the subsidy by HMGN would be about 60% of the cost of
O&M. If the subsidy is to be reduced water charges must be further increased. A study to be
funded under NISP, which will review HMGN's O&M policy and water charges, will also
indicate whether the proposed level of funding will be adequate for sustaining the project.
Project staff would maintain the main system and secondary canals down to the turnout to
tertiary canals. Below this level is the responsibility of the WUGs. Project staff would initially
operate the system down to and including the secondary canals; in due course operation of
secondary canals would be taken over by the WUAs, as has already happened in Stage I. Overall,
although there must be some uncertainty about how the Government would support further O&M
organization and funding, MIP II is likely to be sustainable.
19.   A Project Operation Plan has been prepared by consultants in March 1998 for DOI but
requires some more revision and augmentation, particularly with regard to the costs of O&M and
water management. There has been only limited attempt to collect water charges in Daiji Area
(about 285 ha) in the Stage II area because reliable water supply has not yet been fully
introduced. In the Stage I area, 87% of the amount assessed (at a rate of NRs 200/ha/year) has
been collected in the last ten years. The rate for 1997/98 onwards has been doubled to NRs
400/ha/year but the result has to be seen on ground. Of the amount collected, 15% is returned to
WUGs and WUAs from the DOI O&M budget. Transfer of collected water charges directly for
use in O&M of the project has to be considered rather than remitting to the central treasury.



7
20.   Environmental Protection. Two guard-posts in the Suklaphanta Forest Reserve. were
completed. Ramped animal crossings in the canal banks have been provided. Vehicles,
equipment, two fellowships and training of Department of Wildlife and Nature Conservation
staff have been provided. The impact of construction on the Reserve has been monitored.
21.   Irrigation Line of Credit. Sustainability depends on District Irrigation Offices (DIO)
providing timely assistance with those aspects of maintenance and repair with which WUG
cannot cope. Technical assistance by DIO to WUA seems to be readily available, but funds for
repairs are usually scarce in some cases. DOI's PCR reports that sustainability of some sub-
projects is in doubt: farmers have not been trained sufficiently to operate and maintain new types
of structures with concrete, masonry and steel gates; canals and distribution systems planned and
built without users' active participation are damaged; and WUGs often do not mobilize resources
for maintenance and repair but carry out repairs on an ad hoc basis when and where it arises.
There are cases where even for a few bags of cement WIG approached DIO with full
dependency syndrome. The Government and DOI should instruct DIOs to strictly abide its
Irrigation Policy which stated that no sub-project would be allowed to tap HMGN's resources
within 5 years after rehabilitation.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   The project concept, which was based on the technical advice and suggestions of IDA at
the time of project preparation, were sound. The main MIP II component was not innovative,
which contributed to its success. The ILC component, although innovative for IDA had the
experience of ADB's Irrigation Sector Project to guide it. IDA contributed to the preparation of
the ILC component by its involvement as the executing agency for the UNDP-financed Irrigation
Sector Support Project, which identified and prepared sub-projects for inclusion in the ILC
component and formulated criteria and methods of implementation. IDA overestimated ADBN's
need for additional resources in the rural credit system without really analyzing the terms and
conditions of ADBN credit.
23.   During implementation, IDA provided frequent and effective supervision by both
engineers and agriculturists as well as other specialists as required. IDA adopted a flexible
approach to the project, allowing reallocation of Credit categories and extension of the closing
date. IDA must share responsibility with DOI in being slow to deal with unsatisfactory
performance of the ICB 2 contractor and tardiness in taking prompt decision for effective
actions.
24.   Covenants requiring HMGN to increase water charges to cover the full costs of O&M
were ignored by supervision missions and it was only by making it a condition of credit
extension for one year that IDA was able to make HMGN increase water charges in the MIP
project areas. Charges are still not at a level to cover the full cost of O&M. IDA had little
success in achieving its often-stressed objective of stage-wise completion of canal construction in
order to obtain early agricultural benefits. IDA's supervision of the ILC and IDS account
compilation in the early stages of the project was not effective until a system of project



8
supervision by specialized SOE and account review missions was introduced due to inadequate
time and capacity of supervision missions to review such account details.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   The Borrower made considerable efforts to implement the project with diligence and
efficiency. The attention paid by HMGN to irrigation is shown by the several revisions (in 1992
and in 1997) to Irrigation Policy 1988 as it evolved during the project. The project management
cooperated well with supervision missions and showed strong commitment to effectively
complete the project. The project was delayed by Government's and farmers' slowness in
reaching agreements on tertiary construction following changes to HMGN's Irrigation Policy. It
took nearly 18 months to get the agreement, due to which the Credit had to be extended by a year
to complete the tertiary canals The Borrower's consultant provided satisfactory supervision and
quality control during construction but seems to be short of staff at the closing phase of the
project. There were frequent changes of the project manager of the main component and project
coordinators of the ILC and IDS components in the course of implementation, resulting in
unnecessary tardiness in decision making and delays in account compilation.  Regional
Directorates could be more effective to overcome the problem if concerted efforts were made
timely.
26.   The Borrower generally complied, although sometimes late, with the many covenants in
the DCA except with regard to relending to ADBN (Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the DCA: ADBN
did not want the loan) and increasing water charges to cover the full cost of O&M (DCA
Schedule 4 (r): see para 28). Not all ILC sub-projects were selected in accordance with Schedule
6 and this is a major lesson learnt in the development of Irrigation Sector.
27.   There was initially a lack of coordination between DOI and DOA at district and regional
levels but this was satisfactorily resolved in 1996. Compilation of ILC accounts and submissions
of applications for withdrawals from the Credit were often and substantially delayed due, in part,
to lack of coordination between central, regional and district irrigation offices. Audit reports for
the main component and mostly for the ILC and IDS components were often late. DOI has been
advised to take some drastic actions on the officers concerned for failure of timely account
compilation.
28.   A detailed Project Completion Report (PCR) and Project Operation Plan (POP) were
prepared and made available to the mission in advance of the review. The cost compilation on
the project particularly on ILC and IDS component has to be updated. DOI has been asked to
revise the PCR and the POP taking account of comments made by IDA mission.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   Based on the assumptions described above, the NPV of the two main components are
estimated to be positive when cash flows are discounted at 10%. The main objectives of the



9
project have been met and the works completed satisfactorily. It is reasonable to assume that the
benefits will be generally sustainable. The outcome can therefore be rated as satisfactory and
the project is likely to be sustainable.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
30.   Mahakali Stage II. During the wet season (15 May to 15 October) ample water is
available in the Mahakali river and the main system and secondary canals will be kept full
continuously when needed for irrigation. Closures for maintenance will, as far as practicable, be
at times when irrigation is not required. During the dry season (15 October to 15 May) the supply
at the headworks is currently limited to 4.25 m3/s for the total area of about 11,600 ha (Stage I-
4,800 ha and Stage II- 6,800 ha). The project area will be divided into possibly two or probably
three zones for dry season operation; each zone will receive water for one week in rotation with
the other zones. During its turn, all canals in the zone will be full; there are no gates at the heads
of tertiary canals; it will be up to the WUG group to allocate water and farmers to irrigate the
area they chose with the water available. When another zone is receiving water the gates at the
heads of secondary canals in the dry zones will be closed and secondary and tertiary canals will
be dry. Performance indicators for future operation include area irrigated, cropping intensity and
agricultural production. The introduction of monitoring and evaluation would help to ensure
sustainability.
31.   Irrigation Line of Credit. Future operation of all ILC sub-projects, as in the past, will
be entirely the responsibility of the concerned water users. Improvements to the systems made
during the project will have made operation in many ways easier: less repair work in wet season
for previously temporary weirs where these have been replaced by more permanent structures;
less interruption to supply due to damage of canals by cross drainage where new aqueducts have
been built. More reliable water supplies will enable planned operation to be effectively
implemented. Nevertheless, the involvement of DIO and in some cases, the Mobile Irrigation
Team, is still likely to be needed for major repairs if the systems are to be sustained.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   Lessons for Future Projects. The main lessons learnt from the project are:
*  Participation of beneficiaries in the design, construction and implementation, and O&M from
the outset is very important, especially in large public irrigation system, where available water
resources have to be shared among many beneficiaries in an organized manner;
*  The success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure depend not only on physical quality
of the structures but also on beneficiaries' understanding of the system's operation, contribution
to investment and commitment to O&M. The design adopted for a public irrigation systems
must be flexible, simple and acceptable by small farmer communities;



lo
* Service charges to cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement must be imposed
and must be considered as a national policy in any investment project;
*  Adopting prequalification procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines does not
necessarily ensure the selection of a satisfactory contractor in Nepal;
*  Economic analysis before implementation of FMIS sub-projects was often inadequate and
HMGN must take steps to ensure rigorous appraisal of future schemes' viability;
*  Setting a ceiling for cost per hectare may result in spending up to this limit without regard to
economic viability;
.  It is not reasonable to expect increased agricultural extension input from the DADO if
additional resources are not allocated to DADO for this purpose;
*  Responsibility for maintenance during construction of FMIS rehabilitation sub-projects
should be clearly defined and left, as far as practicable, with the WlUGs;
D  WUAs responsibility for O&M of new schemes must be carefully and clearly defined at the
outset. In both pumped irrigation and groundwater irrigation schemes, farmers' contribution
should include cost of electrification. In FMIS, DOI should provide assistance in O&M only
in cases of force majeure.



11
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial      Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        Li                        E              IL/
Sector policies                      E                          LI             El
Financial objectives                  [I                         L             LI
Institutional development                          L             L             LI
Physical objectives                  LE                          L             LI
Poverty reduction                                  L             L             LI
Gender issues                         L            L             LI
Other social objectives               L            L             L             L
Environmental objectives             FI                          L             El
Public sector management              LI                           ]           LI
Private sector development             i           LI            L 
Other (Technical Issues)                           L             LI            LI
B. Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikely     Uncertain
Highlv
C. Bank performance               satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                      L                        11 
Preparation assistance                          E  l]
Appraisal                                       F7 [    
Supervision                        K                          K]



12
Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(VI ~    (/
Preparation                          i          dJ           K
Implementation                     E7 E                
Covenant compliance               K             7               ]
Operation (if applicable)         K]            E]
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
(/)(/)(1



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title              Purpose                               Year         Status
Preceding operations
1. Birganj Irrigation Project    Complete & upgrade irrigation & drainage for  1973    Completed in
(Narayani Zone) Cr. 373-NEP   16,300 ha of the Narayani Irrigation System and to  1981. PPAR
provide groundwater irrigation to 2,700 ha            No. 4267 1982
2. First Rural Development  To improve small-scale irrigation schemes in the  1976    Completed in
Project Cr. 617-NEP         hills and develop a high lift scheme on about 1900 ha  December 1983
in Nuwakot
3. Bhairawa-Lumbini GW I    To provide 64 deep tubewell systems serving 7,600    1976    Completed in
Project Cr. 654-NEP         ha                                                    March 1983.
4. Narayani Zone Irrigation  Complete & upgrade irrigation & drainage for  1978    Completed in
Development Stage II Project   12,800 ha of the Narayani Irrigation System and to  March 1987
Cr. 856-NEP                 provide groundwater irrigation to 800 ha north of the
system
5. Sunsari Morang Irrigation I  To complete and upgrade the first 12,000 ha of the    1978    Completed in
Project Cr. 812-NEP         Sunsari Morang Irrigation System                      June 1987
6. Second Rural Development  To improve small-scale irrigation schemes in the  1979    Completed in
Project Cr. 939-NEP         Mahakali Zone                                         1987
7. Mahakali Irrigation Project   To rehabilitate and upgrade existing irrigation system   1981    Completed in
Stage I Cr. 1055-NEP        for 3,400 ha and extend irrigation to 3,200           December 1988
8. Bhairawa-Lumbini GW      To complete unfinished Stage I wells and construct   1983    Completed in
Irrigat. Stage II Cr.1316-NEP    new wells for 7,000 ha                           October 1990
9. Narayani Irrigation III  To complete and upgrade another 8,700 ha of the  1986    Completed in
Project Cr. 1715-NEP        Narayani Irrigation System                            June 1995
10. Third Rural Development   Construction of 28 small irrigation schemes and  1986    Completed in
Project Cr. 1727-NEP        rehabilitation of 18 schemes in Rasuwa and Nuwakot    August 1994
11. Sunsari Morang Irrigation   To improve the design and operation of the Sunsari   1987    Completed in
11 Project Cr. 1814-NEP     Morang Irrigation System (Phase II), including        May 1994
provision of desilting facilities & imrpoved O&M.
12. Bhairawa-Lumbini GW    To raise agri. production and farm incomes, improve   1990    On-going
Irrigation III Project Cr.2144-   O&M and cost recovery of the public irrigation
NEP                         systems and strengthen the Irrigation sub-sector
13. Sunsari Moirang Headorks   To eliminate siltation in the Sunsari Morang  1993    Completed in
Project Cr 2430-NEP        Irrigation System                                      December 1997
14. Irrigation Sector Project    To finance farmer-managed irrigation schemes in  1998    Yet to be
hills and terai and management transfer of public     effective
irrigation in Sunsari Morang Irrigation System Phase
III & water resources strategy formulation
Following Operations:
1. Terai Groundwater Project   To develop groundwater irrigation in the Terai  1999



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                   February 5, 1986
Preparation                                                  January26, 1987
Appraisal                                                    February 10, 1988
Negotiations                                                 May 2, 1988
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                 Not applicable
Board Presentation                                           June 15, 1988
Signing                                                      September 21, 1988
Effectiveness                                                November 18, 1988
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                        Not Applicable
Midterm review (if applicable)                               Not Applicable
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if                       Not Applicable
applicable)
Project Completion                        September 30, 1996  March 31, 1998
Credit Closing                           March 31, 1997      March 31, 1998



15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal Estimate               3.80   11.80   27.20   27.20   32.40   37.20   40.20   41.20   41.30   41.30
Actual                           0.73    8.19   11.86   16.38   22.89   25.56   29.79   35.87   40.81   41.88
Actual as % of Estimate          19%    69%    44%       60%      71%    69%      74%     87%    99%    101%
Date of Final Disbursement    May 7,1998



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementstion
Key Implementation                                                Appraisal       Revised          Actual              Percentage
Indicators in SARI                                                Estimate        Estimate         Completed          Completion
Presidenfs Report                                Units            (Quantity)      (Quantity)       (Quantity)             (%)
A. Mahakrali Stage 11 Component
Main Camrl Earthn,orbk to Beldani
Modification to Stage I Canal                    km                          14.00           14.28            14.28       100
Extension Stage 11 Canal                         km                          20.96           20.96            20.96       100
Access Road to Stage 11                          km                          20.96           19.96            19.96       100
Main Canal Structures
ChaudharCrossing                                 no.                          1.00            1.00             1.00       100
Syphons                                          no.                          2.00            3.00             3.00       t00
Others                                           no.                        42.00            42.00            42.00       t00
Main 3 Branch Camal Earthw-rkb                   km                          15.48           16. 17           16.1 7      100
Main 3 Branch Canal Stnrchires
Syphons                                          no.                          1.00            1.00             t.00       t00
Others                                           no.                        29.00            34.00            34.00       100
.Vhiv,agar C-na Earl/hmvrkx                      km                          21.14           21.14            21.14       100
Shivnagar C ana/tnrctres                         no.                         43.00           50.00            50.00       100
Chaalhar Diser,sirn
Earthworks                                       km                           3.95            5.75             5.75       100
Gabion Protection                                m3                      15,650.00       20,024.00        20,024.00       100
Block 5 Cana/ lSy.nemn
Secondary Earthworks                             km                           5.20            5.20             5.20       100
Secondary Stuctures                              no.                        1I.00            21.00            21.00       100
Tertiary Development                             km                          92.00           93.67            93.67       100
Bitck 6 Canayl S,tem
Secondary Earthworks                             km                          19.31           19.31            19.31       100
Secondary Strutures                              no.                         56.00           51.00            51.00       100
Tertiary Development                             km                          97.00           93.67            93.67       100
Bl-k 7 Canal System
Secondary Earthworks                             km                          15.71           14.44            14.44       100
Secondary Structures                             no.                         57.00           44.00            44.00       100
Tertiary Development                             km                          03.00          102.43            92.19       90
Block 8 Canal rysterer
Secondary Eanthorks                              km                          16.77           16.77            16.77       tOO
Secondary Structures                             no.                         5S.00           56.00            56.00       100
Tertiary Development                             km                          77.00           60.00            60.00       100
Main D)rainage
Earthworks                                       km                          19.81           40.20            40.20       100
Stmctures                                        no.                          5.00           11.00            11.00       100
1l16orl,Srnds                                    km                           1.98            1.15             1.15       100
Qff-Canal Roads                                  km                          6.76            18.48            18.48       100
BrIldings
Farmers Center                                   no.                         1100            I0.00            10.00       100
Guard Posts                                      no.                         2.00             2.00             2.00       100
No of legalized Water Utsers
Ginrrqes (W IG.r)fircrred                        no.                        262.00          262.00           250.00      95.42
Ao of WlO rrnemhers trahine in
tcriary O&M                                      no.                      1,864.00          262.00            49.00      18.70
No,. ofcornpleed tertiaries
trracd-o<vcrtr, WIIO.s                           no.                        262.00          262.00            36.00      13.74
B. Irrigation rine of Crdit
Area of FMNS schemem completed                   ha                       9,000.00         7,936.00        7,936.00      100.00
No. of WUA members trained in WUA                no,
administration and financial manter
C. Flood Rehabilitation
Completion of repairs to 19S7 flood
danage                                          Iha                     100,00o.00       100,000.00      100,000.00      100.00
D. Institutional Development Support
Constnuction of new HQ for DOI                   no.                          1.00            1.00             1.00      100.00
Improvement of DOI efficiency thmn
nea MIS for works monitoring and
evaluation



17
Table 6: Indicators for Project Operation
ICR Estimate
Actual or      at full
Key Operating Indicators in SAR       Unit   SAR Estimate  ICR Estimate  development
A. Mahakali Stage II Component Input
Input:
- Timely delivery of irrigation water
to newly-developed irrigated areas            ha        6,800         2,000          6800
- No. of tertiary schemes                    no.        227            262           262
- legally turned over to WUAs                no.        227            12            262
- Annual rate of water charges collection    %          100            82            100
Output:
- Cropping intensity                         %          120            171           196
- Crop Yield - Paddy                       tons/ha      3.5            2.8            4
- Crop Yield - Wheat                       tons/ha      2.6            1.8            3
- Farm Incomes                              Rs./ha     58,160        28,543         56504
B. Irrigation Line of Credit *
Agricultural development measured in terms
of production:
- Cropping Intensity-MIPII                   %         190-240       140-224       180-250
- Cropping Intensity-BLGWP                   %          190            180           190
- Crop Yield - Paddy-MIPII                 tons/ha      3.3            2.8           3.0
- Crop Yield - Paddy-BLGWP                 tons/ha      3.75           2.8           3.2
- Crop Yield - Wheat-MIPII                 tons/ha      2.6            1.1           2.2
- Crop Yield - Wheat-BLGWP                 tons/ha      2.7            1.4           2.0
- Farm Incomes-MIPII                        Rs./ha     14,000        23,470         23470
- Farm Incomes-BLGWP                        Rs./ha     13,500        21,000         22000
- Farmers contribution to capital costs-MIPII  %         10             8             8
- Farmers contribution to capital costs-BLGWP  %        7-40           12            12
C. Flood Rehabilitation
- Improved system performance on flood-
affected command area of 100,000 ha
measured in terms of agricultural production  %          100           100           100
D. Institutional Development Support
- MIS system now functional                  %          100            70            100
- No. of DIOs now preparing full-scale       %          100            90            100
irrigation projects
*ILC pilot project under MIPII Credit dealt with only new surface irrigation sub-projects. All rehabilitation
and groundwater sub-projects were transferred to Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation II Project
(Cr.2144-N EP).



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Feasibility and other   Purpose as Defined     Status          Impact of Study
specialized studies  at Appraisal/Redefined
1. Rani Jamra       To determine suitability  Complete    Technical complexity of
Kulariya Kulo System  for investment                      headworks was identified
2. Proganna Kulo     To determine suitability  Complete    Found feasible
System              for investment
3. Low Flow         To determine dry season    Complete    Dry season flows of Terai
measurements         flow of Terai rivers                 rivers determined
updating
4. Master Plan Data    To update irrigation data    Complete    Data base updated
Base on Irrigation   base prepared in 1992
update
5. Social Assessment  To complete social      Complete    NISP preparation
study of NISP Model  studies of NISP model
Project             project
6. Irrigation Policy  To update Irrigation    Complete    Policy updated
2049 Update          Policy 2049
7. Social Economic    To update project's     Complete    Updated data used for
Baseline Survey 1997  socio-economic data                 economic analysis



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
US$ million                  US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs     Costs     Costs     Costs     Costs
A. Mahakali Stage II Component
Stage ! Main Canal Improvements       0.20      0.30      0.50     0.34       0.78      1.12
Stage 11 Main Canal                   1.30      2.10      3.40     1.52       2.47     3.99
Stage 11 Distribution Canal           4.10      5.70      9.80     4.19       5.12      9.31
Flood Protection and Drainage         1.10      1.50      2.60      1.64      1.49      3.13
Project Administration                1.30      2.70      4.00      1.42      3.08      4.50
Farmer Organization                   0.20      0.00      0.20     0.10       0.00      0.10
Agricultural Development              0.40      0.10      0.50     0.49       0.00      0.49
Operation & Maintenance               0.10      0.30      0.40      1.20      0.00      1.20
Land Acquisition                                                   0.70       0.00      0.70
Sub-Total-Mahakali Stage-II           8.70     12.70     21.40    11.60      12.94     24.54
B. Irrigation Line of Credit             5.50       2.50     8.00      7.07      3.17     10.24
C. Flood Rehabilitation                  2.20       3.70     5.90      1.68      2.85      4.53
D. Institutional Development              1.20      1.70     2.90      0.73       1.04     1.77
Total Baseline Costs                 17.60     20.60     38.20    21.08      20.00     41.08
Physical Contingencies                1.50      2.40      3.90
Price Contingencies                   2.20      2.40      4.60
Total Project Costs                  21.30     25.40     46.70



20
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Lat I Estimate
US$ million                     US$ million
Local       Foreign    Total    Local       Foreign    Total
Costs       Costs     Costs     Costs       Costs      Costs
His Majesty's Government of Nepal    3.90        0.40      4.30      4.50         0.00      4.50
Farmers                              1.10        0.00       1.10      0.80        0.00      0.80
IDA                                 16.40       24.90     41.30     21.96        19.92     41.88
Total                               21.40       25.30     46.70      27.26       19.92     47.18



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate       ICR Estimate
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) (%):
Stage 11                                                       16.00                   11.46
Irrigation Line of Credit
New Surface Sub-projects                                      16.00                 -1.61-8.76
Surface Rehabilitation Sub-projects                        19.00-73.00             9.07-21.94
Groundwater Cluster                                        18.00-23.00             16.28-17.95
Net Present Values (NPVs) (NRs. million)
Stage Il                                                       138.00                  -27.73
Underlying Assumptions
Project Life                                                  30 years                30 years
Standard Conversion Factor                                     0.90                    0.90
Unskilled Labor Value-Shadow Wage Rate                          0.75                   0.70
Financial Wage Rate (NRs.)                                     22.50                   50.00
Opportunity Cost of Capital (%)                                12.00                   12.00



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                    OD 13.05 - ANNEX DS
SAR - South Asia Regional Office                                                                                                                                             Page:  I
SASRD - Rural Development Sector Unit                                                                                                                   Run Date: 07/30/98 at 10.59.05
Form 590 Date: 0323/1998
Project ID: NP-PE-10310   - MAHAKALI IRRIG. 11
original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                 CommentS
Agrtement: CREDIT Credit Number: IDA -19240
Text Reference: Sec.3.01
05,04        C        09/21/1988                Carry out project with due diligence in                 In compliance.
conformitywith appropriate standards, and provide
the funds,facilities, services and other resources
required.
Text Reference: Sec. 4.01 (a)
01                                              HMGN shall cause DOA, ADBN, DOI and MIDB to
maintain separate records and accounts for all
project expenditures.
Text Reference: Sec. 4.01(b)
01           CD       07/15/1994                Furnish annual audit reports not later than 12          In compliance with delay.
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Text Reference: Sec. 4.01 (c)
01           CD       01/15/1995                Furnish unaudited Project Accounts and financial    In compliance with delay.
statements for each fiscal year not later than
sixmonths after the end of each such year.
Text Reference: Sch 3, Sec.2
05            C                                 Bmploy project consultants.                             Appointed Sir William Halcrows a Partners as
project consultant.
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (a)
05            C       09/21/1988                Appoint a project Director to carry out overall         Ini compliance initially. Later it was revised to
monitoring and coordination of various activities   replace with the three project managers for each
under the project.                                      component (main, ILC, IDS).
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                       OD 13.05 - ANNEX DS
SAR - South Asia Regional Office                                                                                                                                                Page;  2
SASRD - Rural Development Sector Urnit                                                                                                                     Run Date: 07130198 at 10.59.05
Form 590 Date: 03/23/1998
Project ID: NP-PE-10310   - MAHAI(ALI IRRIG. 11
Original      Revisead
Covenant              Fulfill       Fulfill
Class(s)   Status       Date         Date     Description of Covenant                                   Comments
Text Reference. Sc/iL 4 (b)
05            C                                  Appoint project managers for MIP II, Irrigation          All Project Managers were appointed since 08/88.
Line of Credit (ILC) Pilot Project, Flood Rehabi-
litation (FR) and Institutional Development
Support (IDS)
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (c)
05,06         CD                                 Provide D0I with an adequaate headquarters               The new D01 Headquarters Building, started in
buildingand facilities in Kathmandu, and provide    11/94,
Depart- ment of National Parks and Wildlife                was complete in 2/97. Suklaphanta guard posts
Conservation with guard posts at Royal Suklaphanta  were constructed.
Wildlife Reserve b'orest.
Text Reference: &ch. 4 (d)
02            CD                                 Establish & maintain the Task Force for                  Borrower issued Government's Order to increase the
recommend-ing (i) water charge assessment               water charges to NRs400/ha starting from FY1997/98
procedures; (ii) target to cover full DaN costs;         (July 15, 1997) in MIP area.  It was learnt that
(itiia policyfor phasing it; (iv) water                 the farmers are dissatisfied with the steep rise
wholesaling; (v) proce,dures to assess farmers'          of charges and reluctant to comply with.
repayment capacity; and (vi) procedures for 
review.                                                                                                            IA
Text Reference: Sc/i 4 (e)
02            CD       12/31/1988                Furnish a Cost Recovery Task Force Action Plan.          See above comments.
Text Reference: Sc/I. 4 (I)
05            C                                  Establish the Approval and Coordination Committee   ACC had been established, and functioned
(ACC) to review and approve the subprojects under   satisfactorily throughout ILC implementation.
ILC component.
Status:
C    - Com4plied with
CD   - Comnpliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected In Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not rat Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                       0OD 13.05 - ANNEX D)5
SAR - South Asia Regional OMfce                                                                                                                                                 Page:   3
SASRD - Rural Development Sector Unit                                                                                                                      Run Date; 0713019  at 10.59.05
Form 590 Date: 0312311998
Project ID: NP-PE-10310 - MAHAKALI IRRIC.11I
Original      Revised
Covenant               fulfill      Wulfill
clausCs)   Status       Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                  Comments
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (g)
05            C                                  Establish Regional Appraisal committee (RAC) for    RACs for all three western development regions had
purpose of appraising each subproject and                been established and functioned satisfactorily
recommending to ACC the course of action,                during ILC implementation.
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (h)
10            C                                  ILC subprojects selected and implemtented                Implemenited satisfactorily.
accordingto principles end criteria of DCA,
Schedule 6.
Texa Reference: Sc/i 4 (i)
06            C                                  Actions to minimize risk of malaria and water-           Pilot project on participatory approach to
related diseases and adverse environmental               Environmental Protection Program was completed and-
impact.environmental assessment and measures to be  on-going ILC subprojects were using its results
included in ILC subproject preparation.                  with the assistance of NGOs/1NGOs.
Text Reference: Sch. 406)
es            C        12/31/1988                Furnish an overall OeM plan for the irrigation           KIP-11 construction was lust completed. All of
schemes In MIP I and 11 areas.                          HIP-I was turned over to beneficiaries.
POPprepared by November 1997 covered O&M plan for
the whole area. The POP was commented and asked
for finalization and resubmit to IDA in April
1998.
T'ext Reference: Sc/I. 4 (k)
04            C        03/31/1989                Furnish estimated budgetary allocations for OeM          FY 1998 Budget was found sufficient.
for MIP I and HIP II areas for forthcoming FY
together with actual budget allocations made.
Text Reference: Sc/I. 4 (1)
04            C        12/31/1991                Commencing on January 1, 1989, and thereafter on a  Received HIP  Semi-annual and Quarterly Progress
semi-annual basis, furnish project progress             Reports covering up to 12/31/97. ILC/lDS closed by
report.                                                  07/15/97.
status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Compiled with
SOON - Compliance Expect:ed in Reasonably Short: Time
CP   - Complied witlh Partilully
NYD - Not: Yet: Due



LIga  CovenaUt Report: LAtest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
SAR - South Asia Regional omce                                                                                                                                               Page:  4
SASRD - Rural Development Sector Unit                                                                                                                   Run Date: 07/30/98 at 10.59.05
Form 590 Date: 03/2311998
Project ID: NP-PE-10310   - MAHAKALI IRRIG. 11
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Claes a)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (m)
09           C        06/30/1989                Furnish a draft Action Plan and timetable for           D0I reorganized by HMGN in 1993. ILC TA had been
strengthening DOI to carry out ILC component, and   working on strengthening since June 1994.
thereafter implement.
Text Reference: SchL 4 (n)
09           C        06/30/1989                Furnish an action plan and timetable for develop-   MIS had been established at D00  HQ supported by
ment of M6E and management information system           the project consultants and has been used since
(MIS) within DOI, and, thereafter implement.           then.
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (o)
12           C        12/31/1988                Furnish IDA proposed regulations and plans for          Existing Irrigation Policy 1992was revised
establishing Water User Asvsociations (WUAs) and        recently in 1997. WUA and WUG have been legalized
Water User Groups (WUGs) as legal bodies; issue         in all MIP and ILCsubprojects since last 6 years.
regulations and implement.
Text Reference: SchL 4 (p)
12           C        12/31/1988                Furnish proposed regulations and plans for the          FIAs have been established as legal bodies under
establishment of Farmer Irrigation Associations         Registration of Associations Act 2034 and
(FIAs) as legal bodies; issue such regulations and  Irrigation Regulation 2045.                                   tn
take suitable action to implement such plan.
Text Reference: Scha 4 (q)
12           C        06/30/1990                Take actions to establish WUG in each tertiary          WUGs in MIP stage I area have been formed,
cultivable command area (CCA) (of HIP) already          legalized and were given full ownership and
receiving water, and in all other tertiaries CCA    management of tertiary canals. HIP-II is being
is to be bought under irrigation, not later than 6  replicated the MIP-I model after completion.
months before the tertiary canal is scheduled
todeliver irrigation water.
Status:
C    - Cosplied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Parti.-lly
NYD      Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05 - ANNEX DS
SAR - Soutb Asis Regional Office                                                                                                                                             Page:  S
SASRD - Rural Developmeut Sector Unit                                                                                                                   Run Date: 07/30/98 at 10.59.05
Form S90 Date: 0313311398
Project ID: NP-PE-10310   - MAHAKALI IRRIG. 11
Original      Revised
Covenant              telfill      Fulfill
Claaa(s)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Comeats
Text Reference: Sch. 4 (r)
02            CD      06/30/1989                In MIP I and II areas: - evaluate water charge          Action taken yearly by WUA in Stage I area. Water
arrears,and take actions for collection or write    charges collected 87% of targeted amount in last
off of such arrears;                                    12 years. The rate has been increased by 100%
starting from this year and the outcome has yet to
be observed.
Text Reference: Sck 4 (r)
02            CP      06/30/1991                In MIP I and II areas: achieve collection               See above on water charges recovery.
efficiencies for current water charges plus
rescheduled arreara.
Text Reference: Sch 4 (r)
02            C       07/15/1992                In MIP I and II areas: by July 15, 1992 and             Agreed and action taken by the Borrower that Stage
thereafter revise, if required, the level of water  I area water charges  be increased to NRs400
charges.                                                starting FY1998 and similarly to Stage II area
after turnover.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Govenant Compliance                                                                                  OD 13.05 - ANNEIX DS
Full Text of General Covenant Classification                                                                                          Run Date: 07130198 at 10.59.05
Covenant Class
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-3ectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS2.25 Cost Recovery Policy          Pricing policy does not achieve full cost
recovery for O&M but has been revised upward
by 100% in 1997/98.
2. OP4.07 Water Resources Management     No comprehensive framework for integrated
water resources management as the project is a
stand-alone irrigation project



29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned         Revised           Actual
Project Cycle                                                                 l
Weeks   US$(000) Weeks  US$(000)  Weeks  US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal*                                         68.4      119.0
Appraisal-Negotiations*                                           21.0       42.2
Negotiations through Board                                         8.0       16.7
Approval*
Supervision**                  41.7     66.8    37.3      53.6   246.0      437.1
Completion**                   24.0     57.5    14.0      33.6     8.2       24.4
TOTAL                         65.7    124.3   51.3       87.2   351.6      639.4
(*)   Planned and Revised figures were not available for these stages of the project
cycle.
(**)  Planned and Revised figures prior to FY96 were not available for these stages of
the project cycle.



30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of         Days in        Staff Skills      tation          ment          Types of
Project Cycle        Year      Persons       Field        Representedl/       Status       Objectives     Problems2/
Preparation            1/87        4           5             Eng(2),Eco,Agr         -              -               -
Preparation            4/87        4           7             Eng(2),Eco,Agr         -              -               -
Preappraisal           11/87       5           22            Eng(2),Eco,Hydr        -              -               -
-Geol,Agr
Appraisal              2/88        6           14            Eng(3),Hydr-           -              -               -
Geol,Ag,Eco
Supervision 1          11/88       2           6             Agr,Eng                 1              I              F
Supervision 2          4/89        3           3             Eng,Eco,Agr             I              I              P
Supervision 33/        7-8/89      3           23            Eng,Eco,Agr
Supervision 4          3/90        1           4             Ag                     2               1              C
Supervision 53/        6-7/90      3           23            Eng,Ag,lnst
Supervision 6          10/90       2           7             HydroGeo,Agr,          2               I            F,M,T
Econ
Supervision 7          2/91        2           12            Ag,HydroGeo            2               1              T
Supervision 8          34/91       2           21            AgEcon,Anth            2               1            Pr,T,M
Supervision 9          7/91        1           21            AgEcon                 2               2             T,M
Supervision 10         10-11/91    4           6.5           Eng,Ag,AgEcon,         2               1            Pr,C,F
HydroGeo
Supervision 11         34/92       3           7             Ag,Econ                2               1            Pr,T,M
Supervision 12         11/92       5           8.8           Eng(2),Soc,Ag,         2               2             T,M
HydroGeo
Supervision 133/       3/93        2           3.5           Fin(2)
Supervision 14         34/93       4           2             Ag,Eng                 4               4              T
Supervision 15         9/93        3           8             Ag,Eng,Hydro-          4               4              T
geo
Supervision 163/       4/94        2           7             lEng,Ag                3               3
Supervision 17         5-6/94      4           11            Eng(2),Ag,Inst         2               2
Supervision 183/       11/94       1           3             Eng
Supervision 19         4/95        4           5             Eng(2),Ag(2)           S               S
Supervision 20         11-12/95    2           16            Eng(2)                 S               U              T
Supervision 21         3/96        2           7             Eng(2)                 U               U             T,C
Supervision 22         9/96        2           4             Eng(2)                 S               S              C
Completion             1/98        4           7             Eng(2),Eco,Fin



31
I/ Eng=lrrigation Engineer; Eco=Economist; Ag=Agriculturist; HydroGeo=Hydrogeologist; Inst=lnstitutional Development
Specialist; Anth=Anthropologist; AgEcon=Agricultural Economist; Soc=Sociologist;
2/ T=Technical; F=Funds Availability; C=Covenant Compliance; M=Management; Pr=Procurement; P=Political
3/ No report on file for this mission.



32
Appendix I
Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1 924-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
January-March 1998
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs./Mme. 0. Myint, T. Estoque, S. Ranjitkar, R.C.
Mishra, and K. Gautam (Bank) visited the project from January 30 to February 13, 1998 to
supervise and prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) on the above project. The
mission was later joined by Benson Ateng (Bank, 12 to 14 February) and Robert Paterson
(FAO/CP, 12 to 26 February). During its visit the mission held discussions with staff from
the Department of Irrigation (DOI) and the Mahakali Irrigation Project (MIP), project
consultants, farmers and other agencies and individuals concerned with the project. The
mission reviewed project documentation and other relevant studies and reports; the draft
Project Completion Report (PCR) dated December 1997 prepared by the consultants for MIP
II and the draft Project Operation Plan (POP) dated December 1997 are major sources of
information for the ICR. The mission's preliminary findings were discussed with the
Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR).
2.    This Aide Memoire is based on the findings of the mission and records the views of
the Bank, Borrower and implementing agencies on project implementation and operation. It
will be discussed at a wrap-up meeting at DOI on 1 March, 1998, attended by representatives
from the National Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), DOI and the
Project Manager and staff. Amendments agreed at the meeting will be duly incorporated.
The findings of the mission are subject to the approval of the Bank management. The mission
wishes to thank the Director-General, DOI, the Project Manager (PM) and staff of MIP and
other concerned agencies, for their cooperation and assistance.
The Proiect
3.    The Mahakali Irrigation II Project was financed under IDA Credit No. 1924-NEP of
SDR 29.9 million. The credit was signed on September 21, 1988 and became effective on
November 18, 1988. The project comprised four components: (a) construction of irrigation
and drainage facilities to serve an additional area of 6,800 ha of the Mahakali Irrigation
Project; (b) an Irrigation Line of Credit for farmer-managed irrigation schemes; (c) emergency
flood rehabilitation works to repair flood-damaged irrigation and river control facilities; and
(d) institutional development support to the Department of Irrigation.



33
4.    The Project Objectives were to: (a) raise agricultural production and farm incomes
through expansion and management improvement of a public irrigation system, through
construction and rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation schemes, and through
restoration of irrigation schemes and river protection works darnaged by August 1987
flooding; (b) improve O&M and cost recovery in irrigation systems in the project areas
through, inter alia, increased farmer participation; (c) strengthen the irrigation subsector to
implement HMGN's new sector program approach to irrigation management. Details of the
project components are as follows:
Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage II
5.    This main component was to comprise:
Irrigation and Drainage: (a) upgrading and extension of the Mahakali Main Canal,
construction of about 125 km of unlined branch and secondary canals, 300 km of unlined
tertiary canals and the required drainage network; (b) flood protection works needed to protect
the Stage II area from recurrent floods, including realignment of the Chaudhar River to its
pre-1979 course, (c) installation of about 12 augmentation tubewells to be located on the
eastern side of the Shivnagar Branch Canal.
Agricultural Intensification Suport: (a) continuing support to the existing pilot farm-cum-
training center and (b) strengthening of agricultural extension support to promote agricultural
intensification, irrigated agriculture and efficient water management practices in the Stage I
and II areas.
Training: Provision of training for farmers and engineering and agricultural staff, in design,
supervision, operation, maintenance and management of irrigation schemes.
Farmers Organization Support: (a) strengthening of existing Water User Associations and
Water User Groups in the Stage I area; and (b) establishment of similar additional
organization in both the Stage I and II areas.
Provision of Buildings. vehicles and equipment
Environmental protection in the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve.
Irrigation Line of Credit
6.    This component was a pilot project to establish methods to be adopted in a proposed
irrigation sector project. The component was to comprise:
Irrigation Subprojects: This activity included three types of subproject, in which farmer
beneficiaries were to contribute to capital costs and manage the completed subprojects:
-     Construction of new surface schemes



34
Rehabilitation of existing surface schemes
Construction of new groundwater schemes
The subprojects were to be selected in four hill districts and one terai district of the Western
Development Region, all within the Narayani River basin catchment area.
Agricultural Extension Support: The Western Regional Agricultural Directorate (RAD) of
DOA was to provide adequate agricultural extension staff and services to the ILC subproject
areas under the framework of its ongoing programs, and participate in other ILC activities as
needed. To support these collaborative activities, the project was to finance incremental costs
of DOA, specialized technical assistance and training in irrigation for extension staff.
Subproject Credit Support: An amount of US$ 1.2 million was set aside in the Project cost
estimate and financing arrangement for a subsidiary loan to ADB/N for providing credit to the
farmers of the selected ILC subprojects in accordance with agreed procedures.
Flood Rehabilitation
7.    Flood Rehabilitation to projects in the Eastern, Central and Western Regions damaged
by the 1987 monsoon was to comprise: replacement of canal embankments, replacement of
damaged or destroyed structures, clearing and repair of cross-drainages, clearing of slides,
reconstruction of distribution canals, and associated protective works; and remedial river
works included replacement of original protective works, replacement of damaged structures,
repair of river embankments and works necessary to protect replacement works.
Institutional Development Support (IDS) to DOI
8.    The assistance to be given to the DOI in developing the institutional capability to
support a long-term irrigation sector program was to comprise:
Strengthening of DOI Regional and District Offices by providing buildings, equipment and
vehicles and providing funding for staffing, training, equipment and operation of mobile
irrigation teams.
DOI Headquarters Renovation and Strengthening: Renovation and construction of a
headquarters building. Human Resources Development, including the financing of a detailed
manpower assessment of the DOI and its capacities, resources and, training requirements and
developing a comprehensive human resources and corporate plan.
Monitoring. Evaluation and Management and Studies. The project was to fund consultant
services, training, studies and applied research as needed to support DOI institutional
strengthening, including workshops, in-service, local and foreign training.



35
9.    The total project cost of US$46.7 million was to be financed with the help of an IDA
credit of US$41.3 million (SDR29.9 million). Stage II design works were undertaken from
mid-1987 to mid-1989
Mission's Findings
Project Implementation
10.   Mahakali Stage II. Construction of the project has been satisfactorily completed.
Implementation took longer than expected at appraisal due to (a) delay in award of the main
construction contract due to the trade and transit disagreement with India, (b) failure of the
first ICB contractor (for Contact ICB 2) to perform and (c) delay due to change of
Government policy concerning construction of tertiary canals. ICB 2 for the main component
of MIP-I1, started in March 1990, was scheduled to be completed by April 1994. However,
the contract was terminated in 1993 due to the slow progress of construction which, up to
then, was only 27% complete. A case was then filed in the Supreme Court by the ICB 2
contractor. Further delay was caused by the Court's interim order placing a stay notice on
proceedings. A new ICB 3 contract was let in July 1994 to be completed in 30 months by
December 1996. The works were satisfactorily completed in June 1997, six months later than
planned. Despite the delays in project implementation, the Daiji area (285 ha) was put into
partial operation in November 1996 using the completed portion of the Stage II main canal
and, in 1997, irrigation was extended to parts of Blocks 5 and 6.
11.   Due to new Irrigation Policy of HMGN introduced in 1992, which required farmer
participation in the construction works of tertiary canals, the ICB 3 contract did not include
construction of tertiaries. The award of LCB contracts for construction of tertiary canals was
delayed due to delay in reaching a consensus between the Mahakali Irrigation Development
Board and the farmer beneficiaries on the extent of beneficiary contribution in the
construction of tertiary canals. This was finally settled and four LCB contracts for the
construction of tertiary canals in the four blocks in the Stage II area were awarded in June
1996 to complete the structures and embankments, in which farners would excavate the
tertiary canals, in 12 months. The Credit, which would have closed by March 1997, was
extended by one year to 31 March 1998. The construction of tertiary canal structures and
embankments started in November 1996 and was substantially completed in February 1998.
So far, farmers have excavated the tertiary canals in only 30 out of the 262 embankments
constructed. It is expected that when farmers see water in the secondary canals they will be
eager to organize themselves to carry out the comparatively small amount of excavation
needed to complete the tertiary canals to supply water to their fields.
12.   The following works envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for MIP II main
component have been completed satisfactorily before the Credit closing date of March 31,
1998. The quality of works and the ICB 3 contractor's performance are, in general,
satisfactory.



36
13.  Irrigation and Drainage. Modification of the 14-km Mahakali main canal, extension of
the main canal by about 21 km, and construction of about 38 km of branch canals, 56 km of
secondary canals, 45 km of drain and flood bunds, 343 canal-related structures and about 20
km of off-canal roads were completed. Further enlargement of the Stage I canal to take the
additional water resulting from the 1996 Mahakali Treaty with India is expected to be
completed by the end of March 1998. The total tertiary canal length of 317 km with 3,962
structures is being constructed and is expected to be complete before March 31, 1998, leaving
the farmers to excavate the canal cross-section.
14.   Agricultural Intensification Support.  The pilot farm continues with agricultural
activities and has trained about 9,700 farmers and staff. More than 8,000 minikits have been
distributed and 10 farmer centers have been constructed.
15.   Farmers' Organization Support.  In the Stage II area, 1757 outlet groups and 250
tertiary committees were formed; 49 members of water users' organizations were trained in
tertiary O&M. 1,959 farmers in the Stage I area were trained, and 1,313 outlet groups, 176
tertiary committees and 4 WUAs were formed.
16    Environmental Protection. Two guard-posts in the Suklaphanta Forest Reserve were
completed. Ramped animal crossings in the canal banks have been provided. Vehicles,
equipment, two fellowships and training of NPWC staff have been provided. The impact of
construction on the Reserve has been monitored.
17.   Works proposed in the SAR that have not been constructed or completed include silt
control facilities near the headworks, 12 augmentation tubewells (not considered necessary at
this stage; many STW have been installed by farmers) and completion of the tertiary canals as
described above. Some further cross-drainage works are needed. Although proposed in the
SAR, rotational water supply has not been introduced (because it is not needed, see para 35)
and a Project Coordination Committee has not been established. There has been no
appreciable strengthening of the Stage I O&M division; it is, however, recognized that
training in improved procedures is needed. A unit for monitoring and evaluating project
performance has not been established
18.  Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC). The SAR envisaged that about 9,000 ha of new and
rehabilitated farmer-managed irrigation systems would be built under the project. Fourteen
new surface irrigation subprojects (4730 ha) and seven rehabilitation subprojects (110 ha)
were completed all in Western hill districts. There was a change in policy in 1991 such that
from 1991/92 onwards only new surface water subprojects were constructed under this Credit,
1924-NEP, and other types of ILC subprojects were transferred to the Bhairawa Lumbini GW
Irrigation III Project (BLGW-III) (Cr. 2144-NEP). This included 36 rehabilitation subprojects
(2137 ha) in Western hill districts and 67 tubewells (959 ha) in Western terai districts. In
addition, under BLGW-III 186 rehabilitation subprojects (11,480 ha) in 20 hill districts in the
West, Mid-West and Far-West Regions, 36 rehabilitation subprojects (12,419 ha) in 6 terai
districts, 25 turnover projects (3109 ha) in 10 districts and 42 tubewells (9170 ha) in 7 terai
districts were completed. Furthermore, 57 hill rehabilitation subprojects (8049 ha) in 23



37
districts, 12 rehabilitation subprojects (13,365 ha) in 6 terai districts and 43 tubewells (851 ha)
in 7 terai districts (total 21,459 ha) will be carried over to the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
(NISP). Similar transfer arrangements to BLGW III were made for the Institutioral
Development Support (IDS) component. The provision in the IDA Credit 1924-NEP for
funds for ADBN was not required. The proposed Subsidiary Loan Agreement was never
signed because ADB/N did not need it.
19.   The ILC component can be considered to have been successfully concluded and has
enabled NISP to be designed using lessons learned from the ILC pilot project.
20.   Institutional Development Support (IDS) to DOI. Thirteen new district office
buildings were constructed and 12 existing offices were renovated. A new DOI central
building was completed in January 1997. Computerized management information system
(MIS) and a library were established. The detailed assessment of DOI manpower, resources
and training and the institutional development from follow-up activities was restricted due to
transfer of funds to other project components. Training of staff for implementation of ILC
process and procedure was conducted. HMGN has, as required by the DCA, issued
regulations and implemented plans for establishing WUAs, WUGs and FIAs as legal bodies.
Staff training, operation of a fully effective mobile irrigation team in the Western Regional
Directorate and provision of association organizers in the districts and their supervision were
only partially realized due to lack of commitment from DOI. A number of feasibility studies
of medium and large FMIS were conducted using IDS funds.
21.   Flood Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of 15 projects in the Eastern, Central and
Western Regions affected by the 1987 flood was completed in 1992 and the projects have
resumed operation.
22    Technical Inputs. Technical support and training in design, construction, supervision
and water management for the main MIP-II component of the project used 225 months of
international consultants and 467 months of national consultants hired under an international
consulting firm throughout the implementation period for design and construction
supervision. The costs of technical assistance for implementation support for the ILC and IDS
components were shared with BLGW III (US$ 0.31 million from MIP credit out of the total of
US$0.81 million), for 22 months of international consultants and 187 months of national
consultants hired under an international consulting firm.
Project Cost
23.   The estimated total cost of the project at appraisal was about US$46.7 million (NRs.
1,107 million). The actual expenditure for the project at the time of credit closing on March
31, 1998 is estimated to be about US$46.4 million or about 99% of the SAR estimate in US
dollars. (See Table 1). When expressed in current Nepalese Rupees it is about NRs.2015
million or about 182% of the SAR estimate) due to the devaluation of the Nepalese Rupee
with respect to the US dollar in the course of project implementation (US$1= NRs.21.90 at
appraisal to about NRs.60.0 in 1997/98). As of end of 22 February 1998, SDR 29.78 million



38
(US$41.73 million equivalent) have been disbursed. It is expected that by the closing date of
March 31, 1998, the SDR 29.90 million Credit (US$49.9 million equivalent) will be fully
disbursed.
Project Benefits
24.   Mahakali Stage II. The SAR objective of raising agricultural production and farm
incomes is likely to be achieved through higher cropping intensity, higher crop yields, and
adoption of higher yielding crops. Overall cropping intensity was 120% at the time of project
appraisal. The SAR projected a cropping intensity of 186% with the project, a 66% increase.
Results of an agricultural baseline survey conducted in 1997 showed that an average cropping
intensity of 171% had been achieved in the Stage II area even before the project became
operational (an increase of 51%). The increase is accounted for by increased use of irrigation
from shallow tubewells, adoption of improved varieties, and increase in the use of fertilizers.
Demonstration effect of the Stage I area has also played a role. The first irrigation by the
project was for 285 ha in the Daiji area during 1996 rabi. In kharif 1997 a firther 300 ha was
irrigated in the Stage II area. Assuming that the success achieved in Stage I can be replicated
in Stage II, the overall cropping intensity when the project is fully operational is now
projected at 196%. Thus the project is now expected to account for a 25% increase in
cropping intensity compared to the SAR estimate of 66%.
25.   Crop yields were also expected to increase as a result of the project. For example,
paddy and wheat yields were projected to increase from 1.6 tons/ha and 0.4 ton/ha in future
without the project to 3.5 tons/ha and 2.6 tons/ha, respectively, in future with the project. The
baseline survey found that average paddy and wheat yields had risen to 1.85 tons/ha and 1.80
tons/ha, respectively, due to the same reasons given above. Based on achievements of Stage I
and results of the pilot farm, average paddy and wheat yields are now projected to increase to
4.0 tons/ha and 3.0 tons/ha, respectively, at full development. All this is expected to lead to
incremental agricultural production, employment, and farm incomes in the project area.
Preliminary analysis, based on actual project expenditures and re-estimated benefits at full
development in 1999/2000, shows an economic rate of return of 12% and a net present value
of NRs. 229.5 million for Stage II compared to an ERR of 16% and NPV of NRs. 138 million
estimated at appraisal.
26    ILC Component. Because ILC subprojects are spread over a wide geographical area
covering a number of new and rehabilitation schemes, preliminary economic analysis has
been carried out on sample basis covering three new subprojects, four rehabilitation
subprojects and one groundwater cluster. Cropping intensity and crop yields have increased
in all cases. ERRs for the three new schemes range from -1.6% to 9% (compared to an
estimated rate of 16% at the time of appraisal). For the four rehabilitation subprojects, the
ERRs range from about 9 to 22% (compared to a range of 19 to 73% estimated at appraisal).
In the case of the one groundwater cluster, the ERR is about 16% for MTW and 18% for
DTW (compared to estimated rates that ranged from 18 to 23% at appraisal). Farmers'
contributions in the completed schemes were, in general, less than the appraisal estimates and
less than required by HMGN's irrigation policy prevailing at the time. The farmers'



39
contribution varied from 0.5% to 19% of the investment costs, with an average of about 4%.
In only 17 out of 124 subprojects was the farmers' contribution 10% or more. The low levels
of contributions can be explained in some cases by underestimation of total project costs when
fixing farmers' contributions..
Borrower Performance
27.   The Borrower made considerable efforts to implement the project with diligence and
efficiency and the project management cooperated well with supervision missions and showed
strong commitment to effectively complete the project. However, the project suffered setbacks
due to Indo-Nepal Trade and Transit Crisis in the early 1990s followed by diesel shortages.
These factors delayed mobilization of ICB 2 contractor by at least 18 months. In the course of
implementation, the performance of civil works contractor was unsatisfactory and the
progress achieved after 2 1/2 years was only 27% against the target 70%. The contract was
terminated in the project's fifth year. Mobilization of the new contract was again delayed by
another year due to the ICB 2 contractor filing a protest in the Supreme Court and the Court's
interim order placing a stay notice on construction. The ICB 3 contract performance was
satisfactory. There were also delays due to Government's and farmers' tardiness in reaching
agreements on tertiary construction following changes to HMGN's Irrigation Policy. It took
nearly 18 months to get the agreement due to which the Credit had to be extended by a year
The Borrower's consultant closely estimated the cost of the ICB contracts and provided
satisfactory supervision and quality control during construction. There were frequent changes
of the project manager of the main component and project coordinators of the ILC and IDS
components in the course of implementation, resulting in unnecessary tardiness in decision
making. Nevertheless, with the concerted effort of the Borrower, the consultants, and the ICB
3 contractor, the project was completed within the extended time and partial operation of the
MIP Stage II started one year ahead of the credit closure.
28.   The Borrower generally complied, although sometimes late, with the many covenants
in the DCA except with regard to relending to ADBN (Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the DCA:
ADBN did not want the loan) and increasing water charges to cover the full cost of O&M
(DCA Schedule 4 (r): see para 28). Not all ILC subprojects were selected in accordance with
Schedule 6.
29.   There was initially a lack of coordination between DOI and DOA at district and
regional levels but this was satisfactorily resolved in 1996. Compilation of ILC accounts and
submissions of applications for withdrawals from the Credit were often and substantially
delayed due, in part, to lack of coordination between central, regional and district irrigation
offices. Audit reports for the main component and mostly for the ILC and IDS components
were often late but not to the stage of credit suspension.
30.   A detailed Project Completion Report and Project Operation Plan (POP) were
prepared and made available to the mission in advance for review. The cost compilation on
the project particularly on ILC and IDS component is incomplete. DOI has been asked to
revise the PCR and the POP taking account of comments made by IDA.



40
Bank Performance
31.   The project concept, which was based on the technical advice and suggestions of IDA
at the time of project preparation, was sound. During implementation, IDA provided frequent
and effective supervision and adopted a flexible approach to the project, allowing reallocation
of Credit categories (see Table 2) and extension of the closing date. However, IDA must share
responsibility with DOI in being slow to deal with unsatisfactory performance of the ICB 2
contractor. By making it a condition for credit extension, IDA encouraged HMGN to increase
water charges in the project areas. IDA had little success in achieving its often-stressed
objective of stage-wise completion of canal construction in order to obtain early agricultural
benefits. IDA's supervision of the ILC and IDS account compilation in the early stages of the
project was not effective until specialized SOE and account review missions were fielded.
Project Sustainability
32.   Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage II. There is an existing organization for the
operation and maintenance of Stage I of the Mahakali Project, which is effective. It is
expected that this will be expanded to take over the O&M of Stage II. Adequate budget has
been provided for O&M of Stage I works: NRs 5 million (plus about NRs 2.4 million/year for
establishment costs; i.e. NRs 1042 + 500= 1542/ha/year) in 1996/97 and NRs 3.5 million in
1997/8. (NRs 729 + 500 = 1229/ha/year). This is said to have been adequate for O&M and
final commissioning works with WUGs taking responsibility for tertiary canals. The policy of
HMGN is that the budget for O&M should be NRs 500/ha/year plus establishment costs and
this is considered to be satisfactory for a mature project. A study to be funded under NISP,
which will review HMGN's O&M policy and water charges, will also indicate whether the
proposed level of funding will be adequate for sustaining the project. Project staff would
maintain the main system and secondary canals down to the turnout to tertiary canals. Below
this level is the responsibility of the WUGs. Project staff would initially operate the system
down to and including the secondary canals; in due course operation of secondary canals
would be taken over by the WUAs, as has already happened in Stage I.
33.   A draft Project Operation Plan has been prepared by consultants for DOI but requires
some revision and augmentation, particularly with regard to the costs of O&M and water
management. The recommendations of this plan are not all being implemented, particularly
those concerning monitoring of water flows. There has been no attempt yet to collect water
charges in the Stage II area because reliable water supply has not yet been fully introduced. In
the Stage I area, 87% of the amount assessed (at a rate of NRs 200/ha/year) in 1996/97 was
collected. The rate for 1997/98 onwards has been doubled to NRs 400/ha/year. 15% of the
amount collected is returned to WJUGs and WUAs from the DOI O&M budget to cover the
costs of O&M of tertiary canals and other expenses.
34.   Irrigation Line of Credit. Sustainability depends on DIO providing timely assistance
with those aspects of maintenance and repair with which WUG cannot cope. Technical
assistance by DIO to WUJG seems to be readily available, but funds for repairs are usually
scarce. DOI's PCR reports (Part IV, page 52) that sustainability of some subprojects is in



41
doubt: fanners have not been trained to operate and maintain new types of structures with
concrete, masonry and steel gates; canals and distribution systems planned and built without
users' active participation are damaged; WUGs often do not mobilize resources for
maintenance and repair but carry out repairs on an ad hoc basis. There are cases where even
for a few bags of cement WUG approached DIO.
Future Operation
35.   Mahakali Irrigation Project. During the wet season (15 May to 15 October) ample
water is available and the main system and secondary canals will be kept full continuously
when needed for irrigation but with closures for maintenance as far as practicable at times
when irrigation is not required. During the dry season (15 October to 15 May) the supply at
the headworks is limited to 4.25 m3/s. The project area will be divided into possibly two or
probably three zones for dry season operation; each zone will receive water for one week in
rotation with the other zones. During its turn, all canals in the zone will be full; there are no
gates at the heads of tertiary canals; it will be up to the WUG group to allocate water and
farmers to irrigate the area they chose with the water available. When another zone is
receiving water the gates at the heads of secondary canals in the dry zones will be closed and
secondary and tertiary canals will be dry.
36.   Irrigation Line of Credit. Future operation, as in the past, will be entirely the
responsibility of the water users. Improvements to the systems made during the project will
have made operation in many ways easier: less repair work in wet season for previously
temporary weirs where these have been replaced by more permanent structures; less
interruption to supply due to damage of canals by cross drainage where new aqueducts have
been built. More reliable water supplies will enable planned operation to be effectively
implemented. Nevertheless, the involvement of DOI is still likely to be needed for major
repairs if the systems are to be sustained.
Issues and Lessons Learned
37.   The cost of O&M of completed major irrigation projects is estimated to be about NRs
1000/ha/year (at least NRs 500 direct expenditure plus about NRs 500 establishment costs).
Water charges are now NRs 400/ha/year. Even if 100% of the assessed amount is collected,
the subsidy by HMGN would be about 60% of the cost of O&M. If the subsidy is to be
reduced water charges must be further increased. The study proposed in NISP will help to
establish the level of charges.
38.   Adopting prequalification procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines does not
necessarily ensure a satisfactory contractor.
39.   Introduction of irrigation should be accompanied by assistance to farmers with land
leveling.



42
40.   Economic analysis of ILC subprojects is often inadequate. The mission noted
feasibility studies and appraisals that did not distinguish between irrigated and unirrigated
crops, particularly without the project, where the production from a rainfed area, which was to
be irrigated by the subproject, was not included in the without-project production. Assumed
future yields with the project are often overoptimistic. The PCR reports that work that is
unnecessary (because it could be done by the WUG without assistance) has been included in
subprojects, sometimes to enable contracts to be awarded to the WUG for doing the work.
IDA supervision reports repeatedly drew attention to the less than rigorous appraisal and the
challenge of sustaining and institutionalizing acceptable standards of planning, design and
construction. Supervision reports stated that some schemes were selected on social and
political considerations, rather on their technical and economic merits. HMGN must institute
adequate controls to ensure that subprojects to be implemented have been shown by rigorous
appraisal to be viable.
41.   Lessons, which have been learned from ILC and have been incorporated into NISP,
are described below.
42.   Setting annual area or budget targets in advance causes implementation to be supply
led rather than demand led, which is the intention.
43.   Setting a limit on the cost per hectare can result in a temptation to spend up to the limit
ignoring the economic viability of such expense.
44.  It is not reasonable to expect increased input by DADO for agricultural extension if
additional resources are not allocated to DADO.
45.   Responsibility for maintenance during construction of ILC rehabilitation subprojects
should be clearly defined and left, as far as practicable, with the WUG. construction contracts
should make clear that damage caused by contractor's negligence should be his responsibility.
Damage caused by DOI design should be repaired by the contractor at DOI's expense.
46.   For new ILC subprojects the time at which responsibility for O&M is to be assumed
by WUG must be carefully and clearly defined to avoid continuing the responsibility of DOI
indefinitely due to minor omissions or imperfections in their work. In the case of groundwater
and other subprojects for which WUG has arranged a loan from ADBN, there is strong
incentive to delay taking over the subproject because this triggers the onset of the loan and
accrual of interest.
47.   Farmer managed irrigation schemes are still likely to turn to DOI in the future for
assistance with major problems. Some ask for assistance with even minor problems within
their own capabilities; such requests should be resisted.
48.  In calculating the farmers' contribution for groundwater projects the cost of
electrification is ignored. This is not the case in pumped surface irrigation schemes



43
49.   Ownership of DTW and pumping equipment for new surface water schemes needs to
be clarified.
Next Steps in ICR Preparation.
50.   HMGN will revise their PCR and POP to take account of the comments of the Bank
and submit the revised PCR to the Bank by 15 April 1998. The evaluation summary of the
PCR will be revised to include some missing items that the Bank considers important. The
summary, to be attached unedited to the Bank's ICR, should also include:
(a) an assessment of project design and operation experience;
(b) an evaluation of HMGN's own performance during the evolution and implementation of
the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
(c) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of
the project, including effectiveness of the relationship between HMGN and the Bank, with
special emphasis on lessons learned.
When approved by HMGN, the Bank will treat this report as HMGN's own evaluation report
of the project and plan for the operation phase of the project.
51.   The Bank will prepare and submit to HMGN by 1 May 1998 a draft ICR for comment.
The mission recommends that HMGN's comments on the Bank's draft ICR be sent to the
Bank within one month of receiving the report. The Bank will incorporate the comments
before the final ICR is issued.
mipicra2.doc



Mahakali Irrigation 1t Project                                                                          Table I
tmplementation Completion Repont
Project Costs
Mahaalia It ICR                                                                            Table                  -       -
Project Costs (NRs'000)
12-3 4--Aug-98    _____SAR p48   _______                              ___Actual
MAahakall Stage If      __________  198819   1989190  1199011   1991/2   199213   1934 1994/5   1995/6   1996/7   199718   199819 _Total                      Actuat/SAR   Sources
5      1IC82  PaidinUS$                 __        __       __       __                 __ 
6            Equivalent ir, NRs
7            Paid iii NRs
8            ICB 2 totlt ii. NRs                            5.000   35,000   50,000   25,000   30.669                                                   145,669 ___ __PCR Fig 2.2 & 13.5
9 __C103  Paid inUS$                                                __   ___-
10      _     Equivalert  ir. NRs       _ _  _                                 _ _                     .. __.. . -                                                           ~  .      .-   
1 __Paid in NRS                                                 .                                  100100             04               ~504
12           IC6 3to3latir.00N_ 17Rs05 ___0___4 7
15s    Total Civi Works  _   _ _ __     508,463   __ _ __ _ _                                    _ _        __785,710                                                    1.55    CR  _1___
-16      an    ultlr      ___           ____         870 .         190    2,720    3,000          250.Ldacuson4,490    250 2,990  _13,510    9,4-60  -2-50  496_               CR3,Svc3Ap670 -
17     josPaidminUS$
.18         - quivaient w NRs              
1-9         .Paid in PDS' )00                      ___                                                                                                    2.001               PCR T 3.7
20 ____Equivatentir NRs                                                                                           ---.
21 ____PritNa____                       ______32.120 _                                                                                                                        PCR T3.7
22            Total Consul ants       ___                   __                                                                                                    _            _-11
23    project atinr~~~ittioaIn  ____        2.430    2,560    5,0        ,2    _437                                         ..1,8                                 .17.S/vOct93A4pl       
24     TotatProjeadmrinu. trtion         112.947
25     fat1rrms2raaazatio, i upr          5,476___--                                                              __-.-                                  -       .      .-
26     Agricuhural developr. iunt support  13,821                                                                __
27     Oper~ation & m-iten ince support  11,870                               -           _      -                                               _     _      -          -         =-
28    I      I ota Maak iiStagetl1       652,577   35,880   60,090   83,700  113,650   67,950   27,580 -126,840  277,250  319,070. 85,970. 22,240' 1,220,220 _.___,_l187 SItI197tu91f92sh.nPCRApr$5ex.escii.e,
29 IrrigatIon Lineaof CredIt                                                                                                                                                                                          4
30  -irida LandacquisitianI ___________                                                      _       ______   ...I-            498.2,135                                      .-  ..   . -I   ~,  - I     --.-.-        - -__-  -
31     CrvIt works and buiti -igs                ____ 49,221   39,901   95,131   92.6-46   64,865   42,345   39,162   23,000                            444,136                                            __
32 -ProjectadmiinLsrato i                                    2,388    3,824    1,710    2,151    1.834    1.485 __1,267    1.6    ___15,804
33     Farmers organiza!ip, support__                                                                                                __
34   -.Consultant, training. tudies ___-                                         -        -       5499     820       ,4        -1.3
35  -        TotaILCby 4MON_                          -   6-1,672   43,726   90,842   986      7298 5,0 4,72                4663                      -4856PRll2+N   abla
36 _   FarMers Contribiuttoi,________                        7,699    6,515   14,430   14,1i35   10,758    7.766 J6,329    3,675                         71,308              C aIculFa t e-d: Q63-6 -Q3]4
37       7T"talL-c..  _____              207,018            59,371   50,241  111,272  108,998   82.956   59,886   481,801   28,338  --549,864-                           2.66 _Total PCR IiIIp13_-1_9;anatpora
38,Flood rehabllllation  ____________
39    ILand acquisitio                                                                                               ---__-_---
40 -CivIl works East DevIopment Region                      83,420   25,330           _ _                 _                                              108.750
41 Civil works Centrall>vekipment Region    -18,940  _11,940                      _                       --                        -30,880 --
42     Civi works West De% dtopten"t Region                  8,660           ___                                                                           ,6
43 -Project Administratio _____                    __
44       Totat~~~~fllood I ehabitiation  169.214      11,2       720-                          -        -        -         -        -148,290                        088
45Inslltutional developmren_____       _______
48    iFreign consuktantssiidIn PO-S
47      -     Equivalent ii. NRs
48            Paid inNRts
479          -Totalforeign ons in NRs                                                 -                
590    0wexpenditure in :4Rs           ___         __
51  -    Totatt~~~~-nstuitutnratdeveloprn  77,8-67  -     -        -     20,751,__2.969_  17,944   54.955"  10.341.                                 106,960        71 i  P CR -1 11/2-8 -
52     GRANOTOTAL(NR4.0006)            1,100.,675'    M88   20481  17121   245,673  179,917  128.480  241,681  336,392  347,408   85.970   22.240  2,025,334             1.833
53     NtRa/US$ (Note 1)   ______25,241   28.28    33.32    39.99    45,67    49.26    49                             5.2      55.5    60.24       62  _   505.--
54 --GRN  TOTAL (US .000o)                49   1421.5531 8149.981  5139.17 6143.363 3939.505 26082-07  893   0401  6259603 1427.125 358,7097    46,361
--Note I.Sources: FY) Ito FY93 Report 17034 - NEP._FY94 onwards. Ofrice Memorandum dated.Feb 6 1998 from Hans Rothrerbulter. SAR quoted Rs 2I.90US$1 l- --        .-
For Consultnt u-s: I  NRs.     ____PSl=NRs                 For 0C82 US$1=NRs           FrICB 3 US$1  NR
A  B   C        _______  ~~~~~~~~~~~E IF__                                                              MN                         P                 RS-V
IG,  H  11                                                    0                                                                     v~~~~~~~~~rprip~u l



45
Mahakali Irrigation II Project                     Table 2
Implementation Completion Report
Reallocation of Credit
Reallocation of Credit                             22-Feb-98
Allocation    SDR          US$      US$   US$   US$   US$
Category  Description                  Original    Latest    Latest MIP   ILC   FR    IDS
IA       Civil works MIP II             13,010  14,433    20,326  20,326
1B       Civil works: Flood rehabilitation  4,770   3,357  4,418                4,418
iC       Civil works: Institutional development   940  914  1,369                     1,369
2A       Equipment MIP II                  650     135       192    192
2B       Equipment: Flood rehabilitation   180      89       116                 116
2C       Equipment: Institutional development   180  119     166                        166
3Ai      ILC New Subloans                  400     -
3Aii     ILC New Construction            1,900   6,055     8,610         8,610
3Bi      ILC Other Subloans                480     -
3Bii     ILC Other constuction           2,000     613       872           872
4A,B,C,D  Salaries, O&M for MIP            730     640       890    890
5,       Salaries ILC, IDS                 150    311        445           445
6A       Consultants MIP il              1,560   2,743     3,823   3,823
6B       Consultants Flood rehabilitation  180     211       316                 316
6C       Consultants IDS                   650     130       179                        179
SA       Special Account                            31         6
7,       Unallocated                     2,120     -
.Total                         29,900  29,781    41,728  25,231  9,927  4,850 1 1,714



46
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit No. 1924-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix 2
Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
I. Stage II Component
1.    Financial and economic re-evaluation of Mahakali Irrigation Project Stage II is
based on data collected during a 1997 agricultural baseline survey conducted to update
the findings of a socio-economic survey of the project undertaken in 1988 and on the
findings of the ICR mission during field visits.
A. Agricultural Production
2.    The Project was expected to raise agricultural production and farm incomes
through: (a) expansion and management improvement of a public irrigation system, (b)
construction and rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation schemes on a cost
sharing basis in conformity with the country's Irrigation Policy, and (c) restoration of
irrigation schemes and river protection works damaged by August 1987 flooding.
Irrigation water was expected to be available, chronic flooding would be diminished,
water management at the field level would improve, and farmers would be trained on
improved irrigation management practices. All this was expected to lead to higher
cropping intensity and crop yields and changes in cropping patterns.
3.    Overall cropping intensity at the time of project appraisal was about 120%. The
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) projected cropping intensity to increase to 186% with the
project, an increase of 66%. Results of an agricultural baseline survey conducted in 1997
showed that an average cropping intensity of 171%, an increase of 51%, had been
achieved in the project area even before the project became operational (Table 1).
Increased use of irrigation from shallow tubewells, adoption of improved seed varieties,
increased use of fertilizers, and demonstration and favorable effects from Stage I area
account for the increase in cropping intensity. The impact of these factors was not
foreseen at the time of appraisal. Based on the assumption that the success achieved in
Mahakali Irrigation (Stage I) Project can be replicated in Stage II area, cropping intensity
when the project is fully operational is now projected at 196% (Table 2). Due to the
impact of the factors that were not foreseen at appraisal and the possibility that the
farmers are likely to switch to surface irrigation at the project's full development, the



47
project is now expected to account for about a 25% increase in cropping intensity
compared to a 66% increase estimated at appraisal.
4.    Increased use of irrigation from shallow tubewells, adoption of improved seed
varieties, increased use of fertilizers, and demonstration effect from Stage I area have
contributed to higher increases in the productivity of paddy and wheat in the without
project situation than was anticipated at appraisal. Average paddy yields have risen by
about 20% while wheat yields have more than doubled. There have also been increases
in the yields of maize. oilseeds. and pulses since 1988. Based on the achievements of
Stage I area. further yields are expected when the project becomes fully operational. For
example, paddy yield is expected to double and wheat yield is anticipated to increase by
almost 67% over current levels. More modest yield increases are projected for maize,
oilseeds and pulses. Details are given in Table 3.
5.    At appraisal. it was expected that the project would lead to increase in area of wet
season paddy cultivation. use of high yielding crop varieties (HYVs), introduction of
some spring paddy. increased area in wheat. oilseeds and pulses in the dry season,
introduction of new crops including groundnut and cotton in the wet season, potato in the
drv season. and pulses in the hot season, and reduction in the maize area in the wet
season. No significant changes in cropping patterns were expected to occur without the
project. There have been a number of changes in the cropping patterns in the area since
1988. For example. the areas under paddy, wheat. and pulses have increased while those
under maize and oilseeds have declined. Further expansion in area under paddy and
wheat is expected following project completion. This is expected to be offset by a
decline in the area under maize and oilseeds. The area under lentils/chickpeas is expected
to remain about the same, and some farmers are likely to introduce a spring crop
(possibly pulses). Farmers have shown a keen interest in growing sugar cane, but they
are constrained by inadequate processing capacity within reasonable proximity to the
project area. Thus expansion in sugar cane area is unlikely. Similarly, cotton has been
grown in the project area in recent years but the crop proved unprofitable and production
has now been discontinued. Stage I farmers have been reluctant to introduce groundnuts
and soybeans. Thus. Stage II farmers are unlikely to introduce these crops. The area
under potatoes and vegetables is likely to expand in response to market demand when the
project is fully operational. Details are presented in Table 3.
6.    A large increase in both area and production of basic foodgrains (rice and wheat)
is anticipated (Table 3). Area under rice and wheat is projected to increase by about
2,530 ha.  Incremental foodgrain production is projected at about 19,370 ton/year
compared to 13.635 ton/year envisaged in the SAR. Output of pulses and vegetables will
also increase while that of maize, oilseeds, and sugar cane is expected to fall. A
comparison of annual incremental crop production at full development calculated from
the projected cropping patterns. intensity, and yields at appraisal and ICR is summarized
below. While the project is expected to lead toincremental crop production. re-estimated
incremental production is only 63% of that projected at appraisal due to the



48
underestimation of incremental production in the without project scenario at the time of
appraisal.
Estimated Incremental Crop Production (Mt/Year)
Ve.g .~~~~ ..~~            8,650
Sug         b1N/A                                   1
.,            ~~~27,275     ~      ;::::~:z'~$
B. Farm Incomes and Impact on Poverty
7.    At appraisal the financial impact of the project on the beneficiaries was analyzed
using three farm models characterized by differences in farm size and cropping patterns.
Annual net incremental farm incomes' of small (1.2 ha), medium (3.3 ha), and large (7.1
ha) farms were estimated to increase by about 415, 435, and 420 percent, respectively,
over the future without project levels. For this ICR, based on revised cropping patterns,
yields and intensity and per hectare financial crop budgets in Tables 4, 5, and 6, annual
net incremental farm incomes of small (1.0 ha), medium (3.0 ha), and large (7.0 ha) farms
are re-estimated to increase by about 85, 102, and 127 percent, respectively, over the
future without project levels. Overall, farm incomes are expected to increase by an
average of 98 percent over the without project scenario. Even though these are large
increments, they are substantially lower than those estimated at appraisal. Re-estimated
incremental net farm incomes are summarized below. Many farm families in the project
area would remain below the average national per capita income of around US$ 200 (NRs
11,406) in spite of substantial increases in income unless they can supplement their
income from non-farm sources. Details on incremental farm incomes are given in Table
7.
Annual Incremental Net Farm Incomes by Farm Size (NRs)
SAR                       C
..~~,.~~... 24,770
Med3tfiif.i'.                       64,989    t7;.|69
~~~.~~~~~ ~121,156                           ~
'Net return to family labor and farm capital investment before tax and water charge payments, assuming
that farm implements are fully owned by the farm family. Depreciation is excluded from the input cost.



49
C. Employment Impact
8.    The Mahakali stage II component was expected to generate employment through
construction, expansion and intensification of agricultural production, and agribusiness
activities such as marketing, transport, and processing.  It is estimated that the
construction of civil works will have employed a total of 3.31 million man-days of labor
by the time that the tertiary network and field channels are completed (compared to 2.88
million man-days anticipated at appraisal).  Furthermore, future operation and
maintenance of Stage II is expected to require 88,000 man-days per annum. Expansion of
cropped area and increases in crop yields are projected to lead to significant expansion in
agricultural employment -- both family and hired labor. Agricultural employment is
expected to increase by about 0.37 million man-days per year at full development. On
the basis of 240 man-days per annum, this is equivalent to 1,540 full-time farm jobs
(compared to 2,800 jobs projected at appraisal). Details are given in Table 8.
D. Economic Re-evaluation
9.    At appraisal, the economic evaluation was based entirely on quantifiable
agricultural benefits.  Emergency flood rehabilitation benefits were noted but not
estimated due to lack of sufficient data because of the widely spread geographic nature of
this component. The economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value -- NPV -- (at a
12% discount rate) for Mahakali Stage II were estimated at 16% and NRs 138 million,
respectively.
10.   Economic re-evaluation is carried out using similar methodology as the one used
at appraisal. However, adjustments are made with regard to prices and conversion
factors, "with" and "without" project situation, benefit build-up rates, and project cost in
light of actual outcome or revised expectation. Farm benefits and costs at full
development are calculated on the basis of farm budgets prepared from the 1997
Agricultural Baseline Survey data for Stage II area and compared to the without project
situation. Financial output values, production costs, and gross margins per hectare are
presented in Table 5. Financial and economic prices of farm inputs and outputs are
presented in Table 9. Conversion indices for local and foreign costs are given in Table
10. Economic re-evaluation results are presented in Table 11. The ERR for the
component is re-estimated at 11.5% (compared to 16% in the SAR). A 12% discount rate
gives a negative NPV of NRs 27.7 million. Thus, at an opportunity cost of capital of
about 12% the project just about breaks even in terms of economic viability.
Underestimation of incremental cropping intensity and yields and changes in cropping
patterns in the without project situation and a longer implementation period account for
the lower re-estimated ERR.



50
II. Irrigation Line of Credit Component2
11.   A sample of eight completed Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) sub-projects are re-
evaluated to assess the economic impact of the component. The sample consists of three
new surface sub-projects, four rehabilitation surface sub-projects, and one groundwater
cluster. The results are presented in Table 12. Cropping intensity and yields have
increased in all the sub-projects in the sample. Yields have improved even in cases where
irrigation has ceased or irrigated area has not increased.3 Cropping intensities and yields
in parenthesis (Table 12) refer to the future potential situation expected at end of the
development period assuming the same rate of increase. These are used to estimate the
ERRs shown in the table.
12.   Increases in cropping intensity, irrigated area, and crop yields vary with sub-
project type (Table 12). For example, cropping intensity in the three new sub-projects
has increased by 9-71% (compared to 80% in SAR). It is estimated that at the end of the
development period, the range will vary from 81-115%. The four rehabilitation sub-
projects have achieved increases in cropping intensity that range from 0-62% (compared
to 60-80% in SAR). The range is projected to vary from 28-68% at full development.
An increase of 16-69% in cropping intensity has been achieved in the one groundwater
cluster. The range is projected to vary from 78-82% at full development.
13.   Re-estimated ERRs range from -1.61 to 8.76% (compared to 16% in SAR) for the
three new sub-projects, 9.07-21.94% (compared to 19-73% in SAR) for the four
rehabilitation sub-projects, and 16.28-17.95% (compared to 18-23% in SAR) for the one
groundwater cluster. The ERRs for the new surface sub-projects are all below the
estimated opportunity cost of capital (12%) in Nepal, suggesting non-economic viability
of developing this type of hill irrigation in the countrv. Rehabilitation of surface and
construction of groundwater clusters appear economically profitable provided a two-
season cropping pattern is adopted.
14.   Key economic impact indicators of the ILC component are summarized in Table
I 3. Appraisal and present estimates are compared in the table. Reasons for the lower re-
estimated ERRs include lower cropping intensities than anticipated due to the reduction
in winter wheat and spring paddy cropped areas from that expected at appraisal. lower
crop yields than projected (60. 20, and 35% lower than expected for paddv, wheat. and
maize. respectively), higher construction costs. longer sub-project implementation
periods. and selection of less suitable sub-projects.
- Th is section is based on a report prepared by ILC TA Team, Project Completion Report for Irrigation
Line of Credit Pilot Project and Institutional Development Support Components, June 1997 and
information collected by the ICR mission during field visits.
This could be attributed to inaccuracy of the databaseebtained on existing crop yields at the time of sub-
project study.



TABLE 1                                    Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropping Intensity by Irrigation Status and Farm Size
Irrigated Condition        Rianfed Condition               Overall
Cropped Irppntestgra(A  Cropped Cropping              Cropped Cropping
Farm Size  |Area (HA)|ACrre  A)| Intensity Area (HA)| CroppedIntensity Area (HA)   Intensity
Farm Sze   Are (HA)Area (HA)  (%          Area (HA)  (%              Area (HA)   (%
Marginal         29       56.6    195.1    36.1      65.8    182.3    65.1    122.5    188
Small            67.1    133.2    198.5    92.5    158.6   171.5    159.6   291.8    182.8
Medium           74      137.4    185.6    72.4    107.1    148.1    146.4   244.5    167
Large         1 68.8    106.8    155.2    36.6       51      139.3    105.4    157.8    149.7
Total I Overall    239   434.1    181.6   237.6 | 382.5    161        476.6 | 816.7    171.3
Average         I_I P_o_etI Ltg 1_
Source: "Mahakali Project (Stage 11)." AgricuiltuLral Baselinie Survey: July 1997.



52
TABLE 2                         Nepa
Mahakal Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropping Pattemr - With and Without Project
a.) 199697 and Future WJthout Prolect
Small     Medium   I  Large     O
Farm       Farm       Farm     Overall
Season / Crop                   % of Cultivated Area
Spring
Pulses                               0          0.5       0.5      0.3
sub-total       0          0.5       0.5       0.3
Kharif
Paddy                              72           68        73       71
Maize                              22           20        14       20
sub-total      94           88        87       91
Rabi
Wheat                              47          35         20       37
Lentils/Chickpeas                   9          11         13      11
Oilseed                            28          21         19       24
Potatoes                          0.5          0.5       0.5      0.5
Vegetables                        0.5          0.5       0.5      0.5
sub-total      85           68        53       73
Perennial
Sugarcane                           5          10          9        7
Cropping Intesity                    184         156       149      171
Percent of Cultivated Area            47          31        22
b.) 1996197 and Future With Prelect
Small     Medium      Large
Farm       Farm       Farm    Overall
Season i Crop          _         % of Cultivated Area
Spring
Pulses                               5            S         5        5
sub-tota        5            5         5
Kharif
Paddy                               90          89        88       89
Maize                                5           4         3        4
sub-total      95           93        91       93
Rabi
Wheat                              73          68         64       70
Lentils/Chickpeas                   9           10        12       10
Oilseed                            10           9          8        9
Potatoes                            2           2          2        2
Vegetables         st2                           2         2        2
sub-total       96          91        88       93
Perennial
Sugarcane                           4            8         6
Totl Cropping lnteity                200         195       191      196
Percent of Cultivated Aro             55          30        11
Source: "Mahui Prj (Stage l)., Agricutu BSdin Surw: July 1997.



TABLE 3                                                   Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Impact on Crop Production
Future Without Project                         Future With Project           |
Yield    Crop   Production  Value              Yield     Crop   Production  Valu
Crop          _ (tonnelha) Area (ha)  (tonne)    'NRs           (tonnelha) Area (ha)  (tonne)   (NRs
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   0 0 0 )
Paddy                           2.00   4,828       9,656   59,867               4.00   5,527     22,108  137,067
Whpat                            1.80   2,516      4,529   32,154               3.00   4,347     13,041   92,591
Maize                           1.50   1,360      2,040   13,056                1.80     248        447    2,862
Oilseeds                        0.80    1,632      1,306   22,587               0.95     559        531    9,186
Lentils/Chickpeas               0.80     748        598    9,993                0.95     621        590    9,852
Spring Pulses                   0.80      -         -        -                  0.85     311        264    4,408
Potatoes                        7.50      34        255    1,403               14.00     124      1,739    9,563
Winter Vegetables                7.50     34        255    1,530               12.00     124       1,490    8,942
Sugar Cane                     42.00     476      19,992   13,994              50.00     311     15,525   10,868
Total                      38,631  154,584 1                               55,735  285,339
lIncremental Foodgrain Production (tonne/annum):  19,371
lIncremental Value of Production (NRs'000/annum):  130,754 |



TABLE 4                                                                 Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Crop Yields, Labor Requirements, and Input Use             Implementation Completion Report
Main       By-    Bullock  Manual   Seed                                     Manure Pesticide
Crop               Season   Product   Product    Pair    Labor (klaFrtisrkgh)kla)NRha
(kglha) It  (kgiha)  (days/ha) (days/ha) (kg/ha)       Fertiiser(kg/ha)        (kg/ha  (Ns/ba)
Phosphiate
Nitrogen            Potassium
PRESENT SITUATION
Paddy                            Kharif    1850      2250       35       140      55       25         5          0        100       0
Wheat                            Rabi      1640      2000       30       90       120      40         15         0         0        0
Maize                            Kharif    1380      2500       30       110      25       10         0          0         0        0
Ollseeds                         Rabi      730       1500       28       55       15       25        10          0         0        0
Lentfls/Chickpeas                Rabi      760        30        28       55       28        0         0          0         0        0
Potatoes                         Rabi      6930        0        35       145      850      35         10         0         0        0
Vegetables                       Rabi     6690         0        35       145       2       40         15         0        200       0
Sugar Cane                     Perennial  38740       0         42      290      4000      60         15         5         0        0
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION                                                                                                                 U'
Paddy                            Kharif    2000      2500       35       145      55       30        10          0        100       0
Wheat                            Rabi      1800      2250       30       95       120      45        20          0         0        0
Maize                            Kharif    1500      2500       30       115      25       15         0          0         0        0
Oilseeds                         Rabi      800       1500       28       60       15       30        10          0         0        0
Leptils/Chickpeas                Rabi      800        30        28       60       28        5         5          0        0         0
Potatoes                         Rabi      7500       0         35       150      850      40        15          0        0         0
Vegetables                       Rabi      7500       0         35       150       2       45        15          5       200        0
Sugar Cane                    IPerennial  42000       0         42       300     4000      70        20         10         0        0
WITH PROJECT SITUATION
Paddy                            Kharif    4000      3000       38       170      55       60        30         20         0       150
Wheat                            Rabi      3000      2500       30       120      120      60        30         20         0       75
Maize                            Kharif    1800      3500       30       125      25       20         10        10         0       100
Oilseeds                         Rabi      950       1800       28       70       15       35         15        10         0       50
enUls/Chickpeas                  Rabi      950        30        28       70       28       10        10          0         0       20
Pulses                          Spring     850        30        28       65       28       10        10          0         0       20
Potatoes                         Rabi    14000         0        38      250      1000      60        30         30       3000      300
Vegetables                       Rabi    12000        0         38      220        2       60        30         30       3000      300
Sugar Cane                     Perennial  50000       0         45      330      4000      80        60         30       1000      600
1/ Kg. Nitrogen per hectare for pulses
Source: 'Mahakali Project (Stape 11)." Agricullural Uaseline Survey: Jul), 997.



TABLE 5                                                                                Nepal
Mahakall Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Financial Output values, Production Costs and Gross Margins (NRs per Hectare)
Gross          Net         Net Returns
Crop               Season    Output Value                                             Cost of Production                                    Margin       Retums           per day
Per ha      Per ha 11      family labor
Main     By-    Total   Bullock   Manual   SedTotal
Product Product  Vat    Pair    Labor    Seed                  Frtllser             Manure Pesticide   cost
(kg/ha) 1/ (kgiha)        (daysiha) (days/ha)  (kgh)
PRESENT_SITUATION___ __                                        Nitrogen Phosphate Potasslum                                      I
P~RESENT SITUATION
Paddy                            Kharif   11470    1350   12820    4200        7000     446       379       156        0        60       0      12240      580          8630             43
Wheat                             Rabi    11644    800    12444    3600        4500     1260      606       468        0         0       0       10434    2010          8535             81
Maize                            Khard    8832      500    9332    3600        5500     225       152       0          0        0        0       9477     -145          7231             56
Ollseeds                         Rabi    12629      150    12779    3360       2750     365       379      312         0        0        0       7165     5614         10471             162
LentIls/Chickpeas                Rabi    12692    455    13147    3360         2750     641        0        0          0        0        0       6751     6395         11253             174
Potatoes                         Rabi    38115       0      38115    4200      7250     9265      530      312         0        0        0      21557    16558         25145             130               Ln
Vegetables                       Rabi    40140       0      40140    4200      7250      700      606      468         0        120      0      13344    26796         35384             183
SugarCane                      Perennial  27118      0      27118    5040    14500    3600        909      468         73       0        0      24590    2528          13779             26
WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION
Paddy                            Kharif   12400    1500   13900    4200        7250     446       455      312         0        60       0      12722    1178           9403             45
Wheat                            Rabi    12780    900    13680    3600         4750     1260      682      624         0        0        0      10916    2764           9502             85
Maize                            Khari    9600      500    10100    3600      5750      225      227        0          0        0        0       9802      298          7885             58
Ollseeds                         Rabi    13840    150    13990    3360         3000     365       455      312         0        0        0       7491     6499         11569             164
LentlslChickpeas                 Rabl    13360    455    13815    3360         3000     641       76        156        0        0        0       7233     6582         11652             165
Potatoes                         Rabi    41250       0      41250    4200      7500     9265      606      468         0        0        0      22039    19211         27986             140
Veebles                           Rabi    45000      0      45000    4200      7500     700       682      468         73       120      0      13743    31257         40032             200
SugarCoane                     Perennial  29400      0      29400    5040    15000    3600       1061      624        146       0        0      25471     3930         15456             28
WITH PROJECT SITUATION
Paddy                            Kharil   24800    1800   26600    4560        8500     446       909      936        292       0       150     15793    10808         20178             83
Wheat                            Rabi    21300    1000   22300    3600         6000     1260      909      936        292       0        75      13072    9228         17028             121
Maize                            Kharif   11520    700    12220    3600        6250     225       303      312        146       0       100     10936    1284           9297             63
Ollawds                           Rabi    16435      180    16615    3360      3500      365      530      468        146        0       50      8419     8196         13691             166
LentslChickpeas                   Rabi    15865    455    16320    3360        3500      25       152      312         0        0       20       7369     8951         14446             175
Pulses                           Spnng    14195    455    14650    3360        3250     641       152      312         0        0        20      7735     6915         12197             160
Potatoes                          Rabi    77000      0      77000    4560     12500    10900      909      936        438      1800    300      32343    44657         57452             172
Vegeubles                        Rabi    72000       0      72000    4560     11000      700      909      936        438      1800    300      20643    51357         63027             215
SugarCane                      Perennial  35000      0      35000    5400    16500    3600       1212      1872       438      600      600     30222    4778          17363             29
Source kitohak.li Project (Slage Il) Agricultur1l BtcineSu-riv July 1997



tABE  6                                                                                                                                                         14.Pol
tafr~a ktgt baaa ten PwPon 
ltptsnttlolaos Caniptodm    port
Aaa., Fonntsu B.' l - Wh and tasti"oat POj.'.. (As)
______________  Saul Psawo (IA (toO                                  MoOs   Fvss 2.0 (sal                                                Lsnsq PornO (1.0 (sat                                          Onobsi Avun   (946 hal~~LAS% fam (70 ho  AvercialAaba
Psaur mat.iil _l __               Futub _ *                          Fola.ss  5jFure  o ac        I__u__ 6th O             _                It u tur WWttslhowt ei  i    _ aaO 660 Fn, iPijd             Fstmo"Wllsg         __i           i                 ___r
Samis"IntCr           Ow"          tP_c"e       tht    Output, Pro,"114,11    WI 0t*" olp ructian    WI    Oulpuld  Ptiucl                         hJ          Oulpul  tre      v    Not    O."d   P rtol0a Ioblut   PNductan                          Mel    Outptl  Pducton    Net
4aMs       Costa    Nalao na   VaIn.       Coats    Rotans           Vat.h       Casio    Satrn.   Vale         Cts    R ns              Vho       Cot    Roltls    Vatko        Cas    RPlHaNI          Vats       Cosa    Rsoswns   VaI.          Coots    Romas.
t ;o.awatrni0,ads~ans           0           Q         0         0            0         a           207          20       1C7          a                                                    4G 46  53  <31  Q      0         0           73           7        6|          I           0          0
Ada.                            0           5                 660           91       572             0           a         0      2004         .30      tI.:           5"         50          0      4670      ItO       3100            0           0         0       1.21         192       940
aJl             Q           a          0      GM            07       57t           207          20        la?     2004          335      1666          40          53       431       676       0t       167S0          73            7        6      1122          113       W40
63w,
LOW dPas"                       0            0         0         0           5          00                        0         0         0           0         0             0         6         0         0         0          0            a           5         0         0            a         0
Pahj                        IOOQ          2455      1503    21t33         4225    17600          28356         214      t9tl2    64112        S5632    49133          7102S    26537    42492   14U437    43244   I06I 3             16575        S065      11480    36435          63S2    20043
pub"                             0           0         0                                             0            0         0a        0                                                                 0                    0                        0         0         0            0
VA" t2                                       '1ll    1061    5271         4X         452          6060         1321   423S         1337         320      101t7 6S60              2734      1164      a3         60        1 t         332S          57       2          0
56im  ta    i22W         2916      942fl4    MI291        4330     18001         34416       10503    23913    66100         15050    50150          0002      31271    40650   151171        4 4   101052           10004        5152     14152    57250          056      20603
N.m
YAaas                         6430        114%      44O6    1464          I31       11136         14364        43tt7     "77      41469        9000     116 0         11152      6515    t2637    011t2        23092   0e121           t682        2450        t11t   23966           t345    16523
L.tlACliapao                  1243         10       1076       13340        125      1214          4550         714      3045      4465          513  t502            12S1t   2241         1035t     12402      1704  t079S            2437         379      2057      2438          262      2154
Co4ne                         391          504      3321      ISIS          235      1261          614        1525      1288      4001          720     "3t1         log0?      3169    249          0480      1072      sl14         50W          924      46to      2393          399      I94
Poo                            2t6          61       146      1404          322      1052           610         16        t2Q      4211        1510      3140          1444       504       S40       "31       21n5      15Q6          347         lo6       217      2300           17      1771 3
vaiptoons  ~           226           10      2001    113            124      1164           015           15     0am       3648          491      5446         (575       213       1202      9193      1356      7037          310          40       336      2200          204       1042
m*mt    122              2503               204t          320    M645            2900         6                  501         12        4             52349     13092    40257   1312C4    31459         960          17349        390      13445    33203          66 
Isla         6221      949      6271         512          3         0(0          4032      4190i    514          181       23            05221   10350       0564     134061    702        59           3610         1614      160       3620.        1215      131
Tsti    25721         5920    19001       47541       0926    3508          7247         2145      51016   13205         3170     10035         153221    51773    46500  300006         64002   216S02         4066         113       256       74374        1702 5 6754
U Prahcson coat Oiadwoo (spot . lbosso. pocdWAs) MO d  Wm, O  odasFtIO mty-Owlasd tMQuaCao (OWA.4ab    d a                 l  a505C0N6Cks(
26a6 0,            t sb asoao gm read    1 IcpuIy accoat OK 0%. 161S and 25%  1 an tu. aO. . atd Aiga tim raq-rs elnts. masp cts ly; hdno  drait d pols AcCs t" tot 22% .1 saOqsrest (Saut. 2061 farm 0,say)
5-_  61.64. ft4. r     VIII A,1   k.A"OO  W.$ So 6S.) J  IMtI



TABLE 7                                                                Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS TO FARM HOUSEHOLDS (NRs)
Small Farm                    Medium Farn                      Large Farm                    Overall Average
Without   With                Without   With                 Without   With                  Without   With
Future   Future  Increment    Future   Future  Increment     Future   Future  Increment     Future   Future  Increment
Gross Value of Production        25721   44754    19033         72473  132057    59584        153281   300984    147703       40996    74374    33378
Minus: -Production Costs          5920    8856       2937       21454   31703    10249         54773   84082    29309         11337    17025      5688
-Water Charges 1/            561      400      -161        4684     1200      -484        3930     2800     -1130         943      672      -271 un
-Tools and Equipment         270      450       180         540      900       360         810     1350       540         360      630       270 4
-Land Tax                     10       10         0         309      309         0         720      720         0         173      173         0
sub-total    6761    9716     2955       23987   34112    10124         60233    88952     28719        12813    18500     5687
Net Retums to Farm Household     19230   35488    16258         49026   98846    49820         93859  213382    119524        28543   56504    27961
Net Return per Hectare           19230   35488    16258         16342   32949    16607         13408    30483     17075       14271    28252    13980
Net Benefit per Family Member 21  2747    5070       2323        4903    9885      4982         6257    14225      7968        3358     6648      3290
1/ Water Charges based on the costs of purchasing water from a tubewell owner in without preparation situaton - NRs 750/ ha l applipation
and NRs 400 t ha / annum In the with project situation (proposed MIP rate for 1997-98)
21 Assumes average household of size 7. 10, and 15 for small, medium, and large (arms respectively; 8.5 members for average houshold
Sourec: "Mahakali l'roici (Slagc i1)." Agricultural l1asciimic Sur% cy: July 1997.



TABLE 8                                     Nepal
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Impact on Agricultural Employment
Future Without Project              Future With Project
Mandays                            Mandays  Crop
Crop             per   Area)Crop   Total Days       per   Area (ha) Total Days
hectare          __   ___hectare    ____
Paddy                        145   4,828   700,060              170   5,527   939,573
Wheat                         95   2,516   239,020              120   4,347   521,640                        t
Maize                        115   1,360   156,400              125     248    31,050                        o
Oilseeds                      60   1,632    97,920               70     559    39,123
LentilslChickpeas             60     748    44,880               70     621    43,470
Spring Pulses                 60     -          -                65     311    20,183
Potatoes                     150      34      5,100             250     124    31,050
Winter Vegetables            150      34      5,100             220     124    27,324
Sugar Cane                   300     476   142,800              330     311 _ 102,465
Total _         11,628  1,391,280          _       12,172  1,755,878
JIncremental Employment per Annun (mandays):  364,5981
Incremental Employment per Annun (manyears):  1,519



TABLE 9              NEPAL    5
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Financial and Economic Prices in 1997 (NRs).
Commodity         Unit      Financial    Economic
Price       Price
FARM PRODUCE
Main Products
Paddy                Per Kg.         6.20         12.76
Wheat                Per Kg.          7.10        13.63
Maize                Per Kg.          6.40        11.76
Oilseed              Per Kg.         17.30        22.36
Sugarcane            Per Kg.          0.70         1.38
Pulses               Per Kg.         16.70        15.03
Potatoes             Per Kg.          5.50         4.95
Vegetables           Per Kg.          6.00         5.40
By Products
Paddy                Per Kg.          0.60         0.54
Wheat                Per Kg.          0.40         0.36
Maize                Per Kg.          0.20         0.18
Oilseed              Per Kg.          0.10         0.09
Pulses              Per Kg. N        15.15        34.97
FARM INPUTS
Labour
Human Labour         Per day         50.00        33.75
Draught Power 1/     Per day        120.00       108.00
Seeds
Paddy                Per Kg.          8.10        16.67
Wheat                Per Kg.         10.50        20.16
Maize                Per Kg.          9.00        16.54
Oilseed              Per Kg.         24.30        31.41
Sugarcane            Per Kg.          0.90         1.77
Pulses               Per Kg.         22.90        13.53
Potatoes             Per Kg.         10.90         4.46
Winter Vegetables    Per Kg.        350.00       270.00
Chemical Fertiliser
Nitrogen             Per Kg.         15.15        34.97
Phospate             Per Kg.         31.20        38.68
Potassium            Per Kg.         14.60        23.15
Manure               Per Kg.          0.60         0.54
1/ Bullock pair including cost of the operator.
Source: "Mahakali Project (Stage II)." Agricultural Baseline Survey: July 1997.



60
TABLE 10
NEPAL
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Conversion Indices for Local and Foreign Costs
Local Cost    Foreign Cost   Annual Average
Year       (GDP Deflator) (MUV Index) %   Exchange Rate
%     (MV(NRs?US$)
FY94            7.4            1.7           49.26
FY95            6.3           5.9            49.94
FY96            6.6           1.6            55.20
FY97            9.2           -4.9           57.50
FY98            7.0           -1.6           60.24
FY99            7.0           2.8            63.84
FY00            6.0           3.1            66.98
FY01            6.0            2.9           70.40
FY02            6.0           2.7            73.28
FY03            6.0           2.7            76.45
FY04            6.0           2.6            80.00
FY05            6.0           2.6            83.01
FY06      [    6.0            2.6            85.73
Stancard Conversion Factor = 0.90
Ooportunity Cost of Caoitat = 12%
Source: Worid Bank. Nepal: exchange Rate and Price Contingencies for Project Analysis,
Memo Dated February 6. 1998
Note: - Local Cost is the annual percentage in the GDP deflator
- Foreign Cost is the annual percentage change in the Index unit of
Manufactured Exports (MUV)
- Figures up to 1997 are actuals.
- All figures are period averages.
- Figures for fiscal year, where not available, are calculated as the average of
contiguous fiscal years.



61
TABLE 1 1
NEPAL
Mahkali Irrigation 11 Project
mplementation Completion Report
Economic Re-evaluation
Economic Costs (NRs '000)           Agricultural Benefits (NRs '000)  NRs '000
Year      Capital     O&M       Tubewell  Net Total   With   VWithout  Incremental Incremental
O&M Costs              Project   Project    Benefits  Net Benefits
Saved
FY88           32,540           0          0    32,540  129,817  129,817             0      -32,540
FY89           57,520           0          0    57,520  129,817  129,817             0      -57,520
FY90           81,380           0          0    81,380  129,817  129,817             0      -81,380
FY91         110,020            0          0   110,020  129,817  129,817             0    -110,020
FY92         134,870            0          0   134,870  129,817  129,817             0    -134,870
FY93          44,490            0          0    44,490  136,880  136,880             0      -44,490
FY94           18,586           0          0    18,586  140,743  142,843        -2,100      -20,686
FY95         202,220            0          0   202,220  142,431   149,005       -6,574    -208,794
FY96         330,120            0          0   330,120  153,082  158,987         -5,905    -336,025
FY97           14,230       5,731      1,124     18,837  227,231   161,421      65,810      46,973
F.Y9 _8   13,953            5,160      2,248    16,865  301,380  163,449       137,931     121,066
FY99               0        5,266      3,407      1,859  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,382
FY00               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207.325
FY01               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY02               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY03               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288      209,241     207,325
FY04               0        5.323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288      209,241     207,325
FY05               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207.325
FY06               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166.288      209,241     207.325
FY07               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166.288    209,241       207.325
FY08               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY09               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY10               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY11               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY12               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288      209,241     207,325
FY13               0        5.323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166.288      209.241     207.325
FY14               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY15               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY16               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288    209,241       207,325
FY17               0        5,323      3,407      1,916  375,529  166,288      209,241     207,325
NPV@12%                (27,731.48)
EIRR                      11.46%
NPV@11.45%                766.08
EIRR                      11.46%



62
TABLE 12                                       NEPAL
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Re-evaluation Results - Irigation Line of Credit
NEW SURFACE SUB-PROJECTS
Name of                   Cropping      % Increase in   Yields before & present  Projected EIRR
Sub-Project  Completed   Intensity (%)    Irrigated area     (and projected)    based on PBME
(District)  before & present (before & present   Paddy     Wheat         Survey
(DIStrict)          (and projected)      in ha)        (tlha)      (tUha)      (1996-97)
1. Lwangghalef    90/91     129-138            13%          1.5 - 2.0   0.73 -1.1      8.76
(Kaski)                    (210)          (40-45)         (3.0)       (2.4)         8.76
2. Atrauli Puttar    94/95   135 -206          155%        1.30-2.14   1.6-0.91         1.61
(Tanahu)                    (250)           (242)          (2.8)      (2.4)        (-) 1.61
3. Bangre Besi    94/95      134 -147       Defunct after    2.0 - 2.5   0.47 - 1.5    3.06
(Lamjung)                   (228)         completfon       (3.0)       (2.0)
GROUNDWATER CLUSTER
1.Kopwa ciuster   92/93      124-140         No increase    (132-.225    i  1.(23)9    16.28
MTW-4                      (206)                         1.63.45    12.3-08          79
(Kapilvastu)    92/93     127-196         No increase   | (2. 3)     1(23)                  - 17.95
DTW _-3                    (205)                       __ 2__3 _   __ _2   _ ___3_ __ _
SURFACE REHABILITATION SUB-PROJECTS
1. Dhundure       90/91       112-137           -50%        1.76 - 1.70   No winter     9.07
(Gorkha)                       (180)           (25 - 12)      (2.8)    cultivation
2. Marang Ghat    89/91       160-185           21%          2.9 - 3.39   1.08 - 1.17   21.94
(Tanahu)                       (190)           (19 - 40)       (3.4)      (2.2)              ._
3. Satrasaya      90/91       180-180            0%          2.5 - 3.4    2.0 - 1.5     13.39
Phant (Tanahu)                 (208)           (25 - 25)       (3.5)      (2.2)          _
4. Lamage Phant   90/91       162 - 224          24%         2.3 - 3.0   2 - 2.1        18.98
(Syangja)                      (224)           (50 - 74)       (3.2)      (2.4)          _



63
TABLE 13                                    NEPAL
Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
KEY INDICATOR IMPACT ASSESSMENT
KEY INDICATOR                UNIT     APPRAISAL         PRESENT SITUATION
ESTIMATE        Surface    Groundwater
PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE
Irrigated Area                        Ha          9000           6977          959
New/Rehab Surface and Groundwater     No                          57            67
Sub-Projects Supported
Water Availability at Command Area    I/sec/ha               1.66 to 10.14   .75 to 1.5
ECOMONIC PERFORMANCE
Cropping Pattern
Monsoon  Percent   Paddy - 85%    Paddy - 88%   Paddy - 76%
Others - 5%
Winter Percent   Wheat - 40%    Wheat - 22%   Wheat - 29%
Others - 10%    Potato - 5%    Potato - 4%
Others - 6%   Oilseed - 21 %
lI               _ _ _    Others- 17%
Spring  Percent    Maize - 35%    Maize - 35%   Maize - 21%
Paddy - 20%    Paddy - 12%
Others - 1 %
Cropping Intensity                    %            190           174           168
Chemical Fertilizer  Kg/ha       925           310           862
Crop Inputs         Farm Manure   Ton/ha           17             28            33
Farm Labour  Md/ha         1191           840           1009
Crops Yields                                  Paddy - 3500   Paddy - 2691  Paddy - 2850
Kg/ha    Wheat - 2600   Wheat - 1051  Wheat - 1085
._________________________________     Maize  - 2000  Maize - 1157  Maize  - 1485
Net Farmer Income                   Nrs/ha        14000         24014         19545
EIRR                                            New 16%        New 3%          17%
Rehab 25%     Rehab 15%
Estimated Farmer Contribution to    Nrs 000         -           11706          469
Total Capital Costs                   %           10%             7%           17%
Estimated Employment Generation     Md/ha           -            252           116
Operation & Maintenance Costs       Nrs/ha                     New 2780        280
Rehab 302



rJ4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate         ICR Estimate
Economic Rates of Return (%)
Stage 11                                                    16.00                    11.46
Irrigation Line of Credit
New Surface Sub-projects                            16.00                 -1.61-8.76
Surface Rehab. Sub-projects                    19.00-73.00               9.07-21.94
Groundwater Cluster                            18.00-23.00              16.28-17.95
Net Present Values (NRs. million)
Stage 11                                                   138.00                   -27.73
Underlying Assumptions
Projecr Life                                             30 years                  30 years
Standard Conversion Factor                                  0.90                      0.90
Unskilled Labor Value - Shadow Wage Rate                    0.75                      0.70
Financial Wage Rate (NRs.)                                 22.50                     50.00
Opportunity Cost of Capital (%)                             12.00                    12.00



65
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit No. 1924-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIION REPORT
Appendix 3
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
1.   INTRODUCTION
The Mahakali Irrigation II project was financed under World Bank Credit No. 1924 NEP of
SDR 29.9 million and comprised four components as set out in the 1988 SAR:
A -   construction of irrigation and drainage facilities to serve an additional area of 6800 ha
under the Mahakali Irrigation Project.
B -   an Irrigation Line of Credit project.
C -   emergency flood rehabilitation works to repair flood-damaged irrigation and river
control facilities.
D -   institutional development support to the Department of Irrigation.
This section of the Project Completion Report summarizes all four components while
Sections II, gives details of the MIP II component, Section III gives details of the ILC and
IDS Components and for completeness. Section IV gives the details of the Bhairawa Lumbini
Project which took over several ILC sub-projects.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Project objectives were to:
(a) Raise agricultural production and farm incomes through expansion and management
improvement of a public irrigation system, through construction and rehabilitation of private
farmer-managed irrigation schemes, and through restoration of irrigation schemes and river
protection works damaged by August 1987 flooding;
(b) improve O&M and cost recovery in irrigation systems in the project areas through, inter
alia, increased farmer participation;
(c) strengthen Nepal's irrigation sub-sector, particularly as needed to implement HMGN's
new sector program approach to irrigation management.



66
3.    PROJECT COMPONENTS
Details of the project components are as follows:
3.1    Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage 1I
This component comprised:
Irrigation and Drainage
upgrading and extension of the Mahakali Main Canal, construction of about 125 km of
unlined branch and secondary canals, 300 km of unlined tertiary canal and the required
drainage network;
flood protection works needed to protect the Stage II Project area from recurrent
floods, including realignment of the Chaudhar River to its pre-1979 original course;
installation of about 12 augmentation tubewells to be located on the eastern side of the
Shivnagar Branch canal.
Agricultural Intensification Support
continuing support to the existing pilot farm-cum-training center, strengthening of
agricultural extension support to promote agricultural intensification, irrigated
agriculture and efficient water management practices in the Stages I and II Project
areas;
Training
provision of training for farmers and engineering and agricultural staff, in design,
supervision, operation maintenance and management of irrigation schemes;
Farmer Organization Support
strengthening of existing water User Association and water User Groups in the Stage I
Project area and establishment of similar additional organization in both the Stage I
and II Project areas;
Provision of Building, vehicles and equipment
Environmental protection in the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife Reserve,



67
3.2   Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Project
This component comprised:
Irrigation Sub-projects
- this activity included three types of Sub-Project, where capital costs were to be
contributed and management to be undertaken by farmer beneficiaries:
- Construction of new surface schemes
- Rehabilitation of existing surface schemes
- Construction of new groundwater schemes
The Project were to be selected in four hill districts and one terai district of the
Western Development Region, all within the Narayani basin catchment area.
Agricultural Extension Support
- the Western Regional Agricultural Directorate (RAD) of DOA was to provide
adequate agricultural extension staff and services to the ILC Sub-Project areas
under the frame work of its ongoing programs, and participate in other ILC activities
as needed. To support these collaborative activities, the project was to finance
incremental costs to DOA, specialized technical assistance and training on irrigation
for extension staff.
Sub-project Credit Support
- an amount of US$ 1.2 M was set aside in the Project cost estimate and financing
arrangement for a subsidiary loan to ADBN for providing credit to the farmers of the
selected ILC Sub-Projects following the agreed procedures.
3.3 Institutional Development Support (IDS) to DOI
The assistance to the DOI in developing the institutional capability to support a long term
irrigation sector program comprised:
Strengthening of DOI Regional and District Offices by providing buildings, equipment and
vehicles and providing funding for staffing, equipment and operation of a mobile irrigation
team.
DOI Headquarters Renovation and Strengthening
Human Resource Development, including the financing of a detailed manpower assessment of
DOI and its capacities, resources and training requirements and developing human resources
and corporate plan.



68
Monitoring, Evaluation and Management Information. Under the project the small M&E unit
DG/DOI was to be strengthened with specialized assistance and incremental staff, facilities
and equipment as needed to serve the project and ultimately to cover all DOI activities.
Specialized Consultant Services, Training and Studies. The project was to fund consultant
services, training, studies and applied research as needed to support DOI institutional
strengthening including workshops, in-service, local and foreign training.
3.4   Flood Rehabilitation
Flood Rehabilitation to projects in the Eastern, Central and Western Regions damaged by the
1987 monsoon comprised:
- replacement of canal embankments, replacement of damaged/ destroyed
structures, clearing and repair of cross drainage, clearing of slides,
reconstruction of distribution canal, and associated protective works.
- remedial river works, included replacement of original protective works,
replacement of damaged structures, repair of river embankments, and works
necessary to protect replacement works.
4     ACHIEVEMENTS
4.1   Mahakali Irrigation project, Stage II
4.1.1  Construction of Irrigation Facilities
Design and Tender Documents
The main Stage II design was undertaken between July 1987 and June 1989 with
drawings and tender documents being completed by August 1989. and included a
number of design changes, viz.: (a) the aqueduct designed to pass over the Chaudhar
river was changed to a syphon (b) the Shivanagar Canal embankment was heightened
to provide flood protection and lengthened to enable gravity irrigation in the
Shivanagar area; (c) minor structure alterations; and (d) changes in the alignrnent of
the main canal through the forest area. The design of tertiary canals commenced in
1990 and continued to June 1997 with beneficiary involvement in selection of
alignments. Indicative designs for the Stage II LCB gates were prepared early in 1995
and fabrication drawings prepared by the site staff.
ICB 2 and ICB 3 Contracts Works
ICB 2 was let in March 1990 at a tender price of Nrs Nrs 535.8 million and a
completion period of 48 months to April 1994 but the contract was terrninated in 1993



69
due to the slow progress with only 23% of the Works complete. At termination the
contractor had substantially completed the earthworks of the Main 2 canal, 40
structures, and estimated 25% of the Main 3 and 15% of the secondary canal
earthworks.
Following a delay caused by a Stay Order, ICB 3 was let in July 1994, to Koneco, at a
tender price of Nrs Nrs 640.5 million and a completion period of 30 months to
December 1996. The main works were substantially complete on 18 June 1997
although Koneco was given a variation order in June 1997 to increase the capacity of
the Main I Canal by January 1998, the achievement being; 37km of distributary canal,
56km of secondary canal and 45km of drain and flood bund earthworks, 225
structures, more than 18km of off-canal and 11 farmer centres.
LCB Contracts Works
Six LCB contracts were let as follows:
LCB 1 - Outstanding work on 10 tertiaries in the Daiji area left, over ICB 2, was
undertaken between November 1994 and August 1995 at a cost of NRS 6.57.
LCB 2 - The contract for 14 irrigation was undertaken between February and July
1996 at a cost of Nrs 2.57 million.
LCB 3 to 6 - Contracts were awarded in June 1996 for the construction of 252 tertiary
canals comprising 357km of earthwork and 4040 minor structures at a total tender
price of Nrs 129 million. As a result of modifications the final length of tertiaries built
was 328km with 3962 structures.
In addition to the six LCB contracts, numerous small contracts were undertaken under
the auspices of the Project O&M Division.
4.1.2  Agricultural Intensification Support
- The 22.8 ha Pilot Farm, established during Stage I, continued with Project support,
to serve as a focal point for agricultural activities in the Mahakali Irrigation Project
command area and its major activities were crop modeling, application of RWS
system, adaptive system, adaptive trials, vegetable models, fruit orchard, vetiver grass
nursery (used for soil and water conservation), agricultural laboratory and high quality
seed production.
- Agricultural Extension Services provided; a total of 442 training sessions for
9685 farmers and field staff, 1600 demonstrations and distribution of more than 8000
minikits since 1987, construction of 11 Farmers Service Centres throughout the
command area to provide farmers with a venue for agricultural activities and WUGs
water management activities.



70
4.13  Water Management
A Water Management Specialist provided inputs 1989 and 1990, for assisting DOI and
farmers for a future rotational water supply operation, through and establishment of
field trials.
4.14  Farmer Organization Support
A Farmer Organization Support program was initiated by the Farmer Organization
Specialist in 1989 when arrangements to form farmers associations and train members
began. Association Organizers (Aos) worked in both Stage I and Stage II of the
project. In Stage I the main activity was institutional development and training where
1313 outlet groups, 176 tertiary committees and 4 WlUSs have been formed and 1959
farmers have received training since 1989. In Stage II, since October 1995, 1834 outlet
groups, 262 tertiary committees, and 4 WUJAs have been formed. Besides taking on
O&M commitments, farmers were also involved from an early stage in the planning,
design and implementation of the tertiary system.
4.2   Irrigation Line of Credit Component
From 1988 to 1990 10 new, 43 rehabilitation Sub-Projects and 4 groundwater clusters
were started. However from the second year onwards to the end of the MK-II project
component, priority was placed on the construction of new surface Sub-Projects only.
All uncompleted rehabilitation Sub-Projects and the four groundwater clusters were at
the end of the FY 1991/92 transferred to the BLGW-III project.
4.2.1  New Surface Schemes
fourteen Sub-Projects in six districts were taken up for implementation, of which eight
Sub-Projects Capable of irrigation 2015 ha were completed by 1994/95. the other six
were substantially completed by the end of 1996/97 irrigation a further 2,715. In all,
these fourteen Sub-Project cover 4,730 ha of newly irrigable command area. On
average the final costs are almost double the original estimates, while the FIA
contribution is half that expected.
4.2.2  Rehabilitation FMISs:
Under the project 43 Sub-Projects were initially chosen for rehabilitation in the six
districts covering a designed command area of 2,247 ha. Only 7 Sub-Projects were
fully completed (110 ha) utilizing the MK-II project credit. The remaining 36
covering 2,137 ha were transferred during construction to the BLGW-III project for
completion. Total costs were therefore shared between the two projects for these 33
Sub-Projects. In general final costs were in line with the initial estimates.



71
4.2.3  Groundwater New Schemes:
Four clusters of groundwater schemes in the Districts of Nawalparasi and Kapilvastu
were initially taken up, covering 959 ha, but were subsequently transferred to BLGW-
III project for completion
4.3.  IDS component
The following were the achievements under the IDS component:
4.3.1  Strengthening of DOI Regional and District Offices:
13 new District office buildings were constructed, in the Western, Mid-Western and
Far-Western Regions.
12 other DOI buildings at the Cente, Regional and District level were renovated.
4.3.2  DOI Headquarters renovation and Strengthening:
The new DOI central office was completed in Jawlakhel and occupied from January
1997.
4.3.3  Human Resource Development
A training needs assessment and a range of other trainings for staff involved in the ILC
implementation were completed.
4.3.4  Monitoring, Evaluation and Management Information
A computerized management information system was initially established together
with a library, though both ceased to be fully operational from 1992
4.3.5  Specialized Consultant Services, Training and Studies
Feasibility studies were undertaken for the Rani Jamra Kulariya Kulo and Proganna
Kulo systems.
4.4   Flood Rehabilitation Component
5     Project Finance and Costs
5.1   DCA Allocations and Disbursements by Component
DCA allocation for the various components of the Mahakali Irrigation II Project are
presented in Table 1.



72
It was agreed that the Credit closing date of 31 March 1997 be extended by twelve
months.
5.2   Record of Disbursements by Year
A comparison of estimate (ie in SDR) and actual loan credit dispersements on a yearly
basis for each component, individually and in total, is presented in Table 2. At
November 1997 the percentage utilization for each component were; MIP II - 90.75%,
ILC - 99.4%, Flood Rehabilitation - 99.8% and IDS - 107.15 %. Overall utilization
was 94.39% at SDR 28.22 million, however, for the MIP II component several
withdrawal applications have still to be submitted.
6     CONCLUSIONS ON PROJECT EVALUATION
6.1   Project Design
6.1.1  The Mahakali Irrigation Stage II area to meet the project objectives, namely; to raise
agricultural productions and farm incomes; improve O&M and cost recovery; and
strengthen Nepal's irrigation sub-sector. Development included the rehabilitation of
flood protection works, provision of an irrigation infrastructure, and preparing and
training the beneficiaries and assisting the project authority in the task of organizing,
operating and maintaining the project systems to ensure a sustainable project. The
elements of the project design were set out in the SAR; these elements which include
lessons learnt from Stage I, have proved to be appropriate to the project needs,
Virtually all the project design elements have commenced or have been implemented.
The main elements still to be implemented are; (I) the introduction of a rotational
water supply system; (ii) the strengthening of the existing O&M Divisions; and (iii)
the establishment of a Project Coordination Committee
The intention to construct the Stage II tertiaries on a block by block basis could not be
fulfilled because of the termination of the ICB 2 contractor and the subsequent shorter
ICB 3 contract period.
6.1.2. ILC Component
The component was intended as the first stage in establishing the framework for an
irrigation sector programn to give long term support to small irrigation systems, based
on a demand driven approach, with increased farmer participation. It can be concluded
that the objectives of establishing the process and procedures and then strengthening
the irrigation sector program approach were in general achieved although the 9,000 ha
target for rehabilitation and construction of new surface and groundwater systems
proved over optimistic, within the original credit allocations. In addition, setting
annual area or budget targets in advance, meant that the project was still supply-led,
rather than demand-driven. The project assistance in the provision of credit via



73
ADBN was not realized due to poor cooperation and communications between
Department of Irrigation and Agriculture.
6.1.3  Institutional Development Support
The physical strengthening of DOI as designed, through the IDS component, was
successfully achieved. However, the software aspects relating to human resources
development, staff training, operation of a fully effective MIT in the Western Region
Directorate and AOs in the Districts, were only partially realized due to a lack of
commitment from the DOI side.
6.2   Project Appraisal
The Project Staff Appraisal Report adequately covers the scope and outputs expected
from the Mahakali Irrigation II Project.
6.2.1  Mahakali Irrigation Project, Stage II.
The four and a half year delay in completing Stage II construction has had an adverse
affect on the project, however the Economic Reappraisal of July 1997 concluded that
the project was still economically viable provided the project yield level and cropping
intensities are reached by 1999/2000. Increased water releases following the 1997
Integrated Mahakali Treaty will allow a review of cropping patterns to optimize
project benefits.
The excellent results being achieved in Stage I are expected to be replicated in Stage
II. The earlier and continuing effort put into farmer training and association
development coupled with the lessons learnt from Stage I will reduce the time needed
to achieve full benefits.
The rate of recovery of water charges is reasonably high and can be increased. in
consultation with fanner organizations, the project is in the process of explaining and
introducing the new increased in water rates.
6.2.2  Irrigation Line of Credit
The detailed selection criteria and implementation procedures included in the SAR,
provided a sound basis for how the DOI staff should establish the sector program and
assist in the future development of improved cycle procedures. Some
misunderstandings arose though, in relation to the following:
- established cost ceilings were not explained and no provision was made for updating
them
- the commissioning period was mistakenly used to undertake additional construction
works



74
- some projects already selected by DOI criteria had poor farmer participation, other
had serious cost overruns indicating survey and investigation
6.2.3  Institutional Development Support
Action plans for the majority of the program were not included in the SAR document,
though cost streams were. In actuality the IDS component did not commence until
1991, which was some three years later than proposed according to the cost streams.
6.3   Project Implementation
6.3.1  The Mahakali Irrigation Stage II
The 1989/90 National Fuel Crisis and delays on ICB 2 and ICB 3 Contracts delayed
the project program by four and a half years. After eleven years 91987 to 1998),
project achievements during the design and implementation stages include:
- flood control measures consisting of diverting the chaudhar river back to its former
course and constructing flood protection bunds.
- provision of irrigation facilities, by extending the existing main canal from the Stage
I area, and constructing a gravity distribution system to serve the Stage I area, and
constructing a gravity distribution system to serve the stage II area, together with
necessary drainage works;
- construction of all-weather roads within the area and to link the new town of Belauri
to the East-West Highway;
- the development of the Pilot farm as the focus for agricultural endeavour and a
successful agricultural extension service;
- expanded and formalized training to farmers and project staff in design and layout of
tertiary canals, water management and agricultural practices;
- the strengthening of existing, and establishment of new, farmers organizations and
the training of farmers within the Stage I and II area and involving development and
implementation; and,
- improved cost recovery.
6.3.2  Irrigation Line of Credit
The implementation schedule of the SAR expected the ILC and IDS components to be
completed by the end of the FY 1995/96 whilst the DCA document mentioned the
30th September 1996. Adequate supervision by DOI, supported by thte consultant



75
teams and IDA supervision missions, has resulted in most of the surface schemes
undertaken being completed by the end of the FY1995/96, when eight new surface
schemes commanding 2015 ha were ready for irrigation. The remaining larger Sub-
Projects of Rainstar (850 ha). Sardikhola Paranchaur (350 ha), Kisan Andhighat (205
ha), Polyangtar (160 ha), and Shankhadev right & left banks (1150 ha), were
substantially completed by the end of the FY1996/97 as they could not be carried over
to the proposed NISP.
Time required for implementing individual Sub-Projects varied depending on the
complexity of the scheme. Time required for farmer organization and agreement
negotiations often took six to twelve months whereas for construction of new surface
schemes the average construction period was five year (compared with a requirement
of 3 years as stated in the SAR) and for rehabilitation type of works, two years.
7.    LESSONS LEARNT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1   Lesson Learnt
7.1.1  The Mahakali Irrigation Stage II
Training
-     11Farmers in the first WUGs did not have a clear idea of their role or
understanding of the RWS system. Training of farmers needed to be more focused on
1) the role of WUGs 2) a proper understanding of RWS. farmers will then be better
prepared for more meaningful participation in planning, operation and maintenance of
their systems.
AOs should receive more specific, including on-the-job, training
ICB Contracts
-     The cheapest contract price does not necessarily produce the cheapest outcome.
More should be done to attract top class international contractors to bid for work in
Nepal. Higher rates should be accepted and prequalification standards increased and
adhered to. State or Quasi-state enterprises have no incentive to perform well.
Rotational Water Supply
-     The discipline needed to use RWS will not be developed if excess water is seen
to be available. Less water entering the system may be more acceptable that having
water discharged to waste, with releases planned to increasing with development of the
command area.



76
7.1.2  Irrigation Line of Credit
Physical achievements in supporting irrigation development in the private sector have
been good under the ILC component. However, many problem have been
encountered in preparing the irrigation sector for taking up the newly proposed
program approach to irrigation, which was one of the main outputs of both the ILC
and IDS project. These problems and the lessons that can be learnt in trying to
overcome them, are summarized below:
-     Requirement for Promoting the Demand Driven Approach
-     Improvement of Beneficiary Contribution
-     Strengthening of FIAs Role in Irrigation Development
-     Improvement by DOI Staff in the Implementation of the Procedures Associated
with the Irrigation Sector Program
-     Improvement of DOI Staff Technical Capabilities
-     Improvement in Human Resources Development
-     Intensification of Irrigation Activities Rather Than Extensification
-     Overall Project Objectives to be Focused on Improved Agricultural
Production
-     Improvement in Co-ordination and Operations with Line Agencies-
Improvement of Project Quality Assurance and Quality Control
-     Requirement for Continuous Technical Assistance Team Assist.
-     Requirement for a Fully Functional management Information System
7.2   Recommendations
7.2.1  The Mahakali Irrigation Stage II
With regards to this component the following factors should be considered:
-     Since HMGN irrigation policy is reviewed regularly, consideration should be
made in the DCA for mutually agreed modification to the Credit conditions.
-     Land Leveling. Consideration should be given to carrying out a survey of the
land leveling requirements of Stages I and II and formalizing assistance to the farmers.
-     Siltation. Provision to be made to study the long term affect of siltation and
for introducing silt basin(s) into the system if necessary.
-     Updating RWS Systems and Cropping Patterns. With the increased water
supply continuous irrigation down to tertiary level during Kharif is now possible and
the cropping patterns should be reviewed to optimize this.



77
7.2.2 Irrigation Line of Credit
With regard to this component the following factors should be considered:
Stronger Confirmation of a Genuine farmer Demand
Improved evidence is needed to demonstrate this it is a genuine farmer
demand for government assistance for system rehabilitation and not just
deferred maintenance.
Reducing Domination of the Program Implementation by Annual Financial
targets
The Irrigation Sector program has to be made truly demand led, rather than the
continuing supply led syndrome, detailed through budget programs setting
targets for each District office to meet each year.
Altering the Priorities of the Irrigation Sector Program
The future program needs to prioritize the improvements to be undertaken
within a Sub-Project area based on enhancing agricultural benefits through
concentrated extension activities, rather than letter the program be dominated
by civil works to just improving the water supply.
- Creating a Separate Irrigation Sector Program Structure
Due to the many entities involved in the implementation of the irrigation sector
program there is a need to create a separate organizational structure that
controls its execution.
Establishing an Environment for Better Quality Assurance and Control.
Better quality assurance and quality control needs to be exercised at all stages
of the NISP program. The procedures are all well documented and being
continuously disseminated, but what is still required is the conviction of the
government officials involved to put them into practice.



78
Table 1: Credit Allocations and Disbursement by Category
A. MIP-11
1) Civil Wor-ks                              13,910,000     549,793,412       9,705,014                       12,933,010
2) Mater ial, Equipment and Vehicles            130,000        4,256,416         70,730                          129,384
4) Salaries and allowances for                 1,140,000      34,045,964        635,540                          635,157
project staff, and operations and
maintenance costs
6) Consultants, training and studies          2,880,000      133,440,224       2,339,969                       2,691,793
Sub-Total                   18,060,000     721,536,016      12,751,253                       16,389,344
B. IRRIGATION LINE OF CREDIT
2) (b) Material, equipment and vehicles  Zero
3) Construction of Sub-Projects:
(a) New Surface Irri. (DOI Contribution)   6,080,000     364,009,317       5,664,480                        6,055,457
(b) Other Sub-Projects (DOI Contribution)    610,000      26,413,781         613,174                         613,173
5) Salaries and allowances for incremental      300,000       13,288,265        231,833                          243,100
staff and other operation costs for Part
B&D of the project.
6) Consultants, training and studies            220,000       15,883,104        210,533                          210,533
Sub-Total                    7,210,000     419,594,467       6,720,020                        7,122,263
C. FLOOD REHABILITATION
1) Civil Works                                3,360,000     136,207,249       3,356,847      136,207,249       3,356,847
2) Materials, equipment and vehicles             90,000        3,235,970         89,227        3,235,970          89,227
Sub-Total                    3,450,000     139,443,219       3,446,074      139,443,219       3,446,074
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
1) Civil Works                                  940,000      27,590,235         946,867       27,590,235         946,867
2) Materials, equipment and vehicles            110,000       3,938,780         119,489        3,938,780         119,489
5) Salaries and allowances for incremental    refer to ILC alloc  4,868,014      68,247        4,868,014          68,247
staff and other operation costs for Part  above.
B&D of this project
6) Consultants, training and studies            130,000        1,797,171        129,771        1,797,171         129,770
Sub-Total                    1,180,000      38,194,200       1,264,374      38,194,200        1,264,373
Total               l    29,900,000    1,318,767,902      24,181,721      177,637,419 [    28,222,054
Note: Final Disbursements for Components A and B including NRs. equivalents, will be available at the time of final audited accounts



79
Table 2: Loan Credit Disbursements by Year
F| ancial    ,-.n.m       .                                                      ,,C.iIh            -
88/89                     2.75          0.493                                                        0.493          17.91
89/90                     5.79          1.051                         2.993           0.083          4.127          71.27
9(/91                     6.37          1.101          0.865          0.125                          2.091          32.82
91/92                     4.78          2.436          0.966                          0.086          3.488          72.97
92/93                     3.77          2.299          2.355                          0.095          4.749         125.97
93/94                     3.48          0.664           0.82          0.329                          1.813          53.37
94/95                     2.17          1.888          0.884                           0.11          2.882          132.8
95/90                     0.72           2.81          0.831                           0.89          4.531         629.12
96/97                     0.07          3.112          0.402                                         3.514        5020.97
97/98*                                  0.537                                                        0.537      N/A
Total               29.9          16.391          7.123          3.447           1.264         28.225          94.39
Total by
Component                 29.9          18.06           7.21           3.45            1.18
% by
Componient                              90.75          99.41          99.89          107.15



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19996
CHINA
NEPAL
'K.Ih,,"d~
INDIA
s u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
CE Siphons                 2                           X    X
,MX  j   tA    A    H   E  N   D   R    A   N    A    G    A                                                                                ABA
<   A   l    /   ><  \  /   002                      ~~~MAHAKALI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT                     \'j)  
:   z  =  g   g        -  _  \   \ \  I            X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   B ro- k c B - ad q uti r   ,  E a st     -     W est     H ,g h w ay   \X\    
c  !t   S/   ?    X                 W S                  =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Moi,, Coaml Stoge 11rvi  Ec th R..d,        <       
7    ;    T   rtior~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecdy C-onls                     Pr.nch.yr t Capital          ,,,,, , ,
<   '   \  .              /                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mai,, D-i-cg. Li-e  P-nhayat Bo-nd.,-                                                "',,*,,',S*""'
~~~ ' ,   u        - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tertio,y D.i-rg. Lins   . .-  Inmerationml llo-d-i., ,,, ;   ;;
\                     n   ~~~~~~~      ~        ~     ~      ~~Siphons23                                          |.,;
. , ., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS -F3ur 2



IBRD 20715
6) MA  C
_                  -                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAHAKALI IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT                                                                                                                                            6 /   chonavthanc,aainu
_._                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST A GE I I                                                                                                                                    Buh)Hlhizaa C,a,-nR
1  Ch-dh.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)Dah,  tan
*  Project Headquarters                  Main Drainage Lines                                                       cn.atw                               >     (6    p             QR.nnl Cnats.af Cltuadta
*       Project Subcenter                    Gravel Roads                                                                                                                             6)Srai /    MoolEh1fSar
Project Bound'aries            -          --Earth, Roads \Hs-s \PI ow  
Block Boundaries             13      Panchyayt Capitals                                               f           \SSTAGI                 '  
Moin Canals                  B@    National Capital                                                   \   \  CX            IBRD 9990              l
aarnaaD, n'u                                                                         Se andary Canals                   Ponchaoyt Boundaries;   
snUlMmtemalJond}Flfmv                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~TertiaryCanals  -     - International Baundaries                                                                                           J                            _/
MMOnDs mal PirgPaCe C momam                           I               !              I               |                                                        .          \                  _   .                                                Map~~~~~~~~~~rj  C
aau ,a,,a                                        0               1              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEA   3V0                                                                                                                              ,     1
ensemecorasopsnceol                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                     ~          ~~~~~KILOMETERS  .N D I A
FEBRUORO 19B8



