Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20969-POL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR9.0 MILLION AND US$7.5 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$15 MILLION TOTAL AMOUNT)
TO
MIEJSKIE PRZEDSIEBIORSTWO ENERGETYKI CIEPLNEJ S.A. W KRAKOWIE
(THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE OF KRAKOW)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
May 9, 2001
Energy Department
Poland Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/30/2001)
Currency Unit = New Polish Zloty (PLN)
PLN1.0 = US$0.2492
US$1.0 = PLN4.013
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHP      -  Combined Heat and Power Plant
DH      -  District Heating
DHW    -  Domestic Hot Water
DHE    -  District Heating Enterprise
EPSC    -  Energy Performance Service Contract
ESCO   -  Energy Service Company
ESMAP -  Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GEF     -  Global Environment Facility
HOB    -  Heat-Only Boiler
MoE     -  Ministry of Economy
MoF     -  Ministry of Finance
MPEC   -  Municipal District Heating Enterprise in Krakow
URE    -  Energy Regulatory Authority
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:    Henk Busz
Task Teamn Leader:    Rachid Benmessaoud



POLAND
KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Countty Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     17
3. Benefits and target population                                                    18
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        26
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        28
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          29
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  29
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       30
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economnic                                                                         30
2. Financial                                                                         31
3. Technical                                                                         34
4. Institutional                                                                     35
5. Enviromnental                                                                     36
6. Social                                                                            37
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                39
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    40
2. Critical risks                                                                    40
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    43



G. Main Loan Conditions
l. Effectiveness Condition                                                            43
2. Other                                                                              43
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          44
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         44
Anmexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          45
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   53
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities                          64
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       71
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   78
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            81
MAP(S)
JBRD 31349



POLAND
KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSEG
Date: May 9, 2001                                  Team Leader: Rachid Benmessaoud
Country ManagerlDirector: Michael F. Carter        Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz
Project ID: P065059                                Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion, VY -
Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment; Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
L:Program Financing Data".-'..:. 
[X] Loan     E ] Credit   t Grant       [1 Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): EUR9.0m and US$7.5m (US$15m equivalent total); disbursement-linked, level principal repayment
| Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 4                           Years to maturity: 11.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four years, and 0.75%    Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:    Sourc                   'oca                        ,  'Foreiga'         Total
BORROWER                                                       47.04            0.00         47.04
IBRD                                                            0.00           15.00         15.00
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                16.00           0.00         16.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                         63.04           15.00         78.04
Borrower: MUNICIPAL DISTRICT HEATING CO. OF KRAKOW
Responsible agency: MUNICIPAL DISTRICT HEATING (MPEC) CO. OF KRAKOW
Address: Al. Jana Pawla II 188
30-969 Krakow, POLAND
Contact Person: Mr. Marek Jaglarz, President
Tel: 48(12)6441822                 Fax: 6445510                 Email: mjaglarz@mpec.krakow.pl
Other Agency(ies).
Other contact at MPEC
Contact Person: Janusz Miechowicz, Head of Foreign Cooperation Department
Tel: 48(12)6445326               Fax: 6445326                 Email: jmiechow@mpeckrakow.pl
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
Annal1 2002        ' 2003       20(4   2005 ..    200          00
Annuall-   6.28        3.89      2.71        1.51 1    0.54       0.07
Cumulative    6.28       10.17      12.88      14.39      14.93      15.00
Project implementation period: 2001-2007
Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
5cs PAO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~WO, 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Framework Program. The World Bank is proposing a framework program (the program) to improve
energy efficiency of the heating systems and overcome barriers to energy efficiency and energy
perforrnance contracting in the building sector in Poland. The implementation of the program will b
initiated with an IBRD financing for the proposed Krakow Energy Efficiency Project (the project) and
complemented with GEF fnancing for an associated project (the GEF project). Though these have not
been fully blended into one project because of differing processing schedules, both the IBRD and
GEF-financed projects are presented in this section to provide a full understanding of the cohesive design of
the program. Indicative costs and financing plan for the program over the period 2001-2007 is presented in
Table 1.1 below. The Bank is preparing the associated GEF project to secure the total financing required
for the program. The program is designed in such a way that the approval of the GEF financing wil. not
affect the overall achieverment of the Krakow Energy Efficiency Project.
Table Ii - Framework Pr    m
J  mo             u        n~~~~~~~~~~~~~mut| of |IBRD | GEF  MPEC    B omcanks Toh
I District Heating        Other Power and   50 74   490%    6 70    -  44 04  ..50 74.
Modernization            Energy Conversion
2 ESCO Financing          Other Power and   27 00   26%    S 00        3 00      16 00    27 00
Energy Conversion
3 Technical Assistance    Institutional  0 30    0%    0 30                              0 30
T ADevelopment
Sub-Total IRRD-Financed Project     78.04   75%   15.00          47.04    16.00     78.04
GEF PaTtial Risk Guarante  Barrier Removal   2  0 2%8 00                      15 00     23 00
Commercial Financing    (client credit risk)   23 00   22%
Barrier Removal
5 GEF Capital Cost Grant    (implementation    2 00    2%       2 00                       2 00
costs)
6 GEF Technical Assistance    Institutional  1 00    1%          1 00                      I 00
Development
Sub-Total GEF-Financed Project      26.00   25%          11.00            15M00     26.00
Total - Framework Program         104.04  100%   15.00  11.00  47.04    31.00    134A4
The Project The objective of the IBRDfinancing is to improve energy efficiency of the heating s'fstems
in the Malopolskie Voivodship (the Krakow region). This will be achieved by: (a) continuing the
modernization program for the city's district heating systems; (b) helping consumers decrease their heat
energy consumption by improving the energy efficiency at the end-user level; and (c) developing in K rakow
the knowledge and mechanisms necessary for financiers to fund end-user energy efficiency projects.
Using the IBRD financing, the Municipal District Heating Company of Krakow (MPEC) will modernize
the district heating system and use its subsidiary Energy Service Company (the ESCO) to deliver energy
management services, on a tum-key and perfornance basis. Created with extensive IBRD assistance, the
ESCO will use its experience in actual achievesnent of savings to help clients: (i) identify energy saving
- 2 -



opportunities within their buildings and from other energy uses as appropriate; (ii) arrange project
financing through local banks, cofinanced initially by the Bank; and (iii) repay the investments from the
energy cost savings which the ESCO guarantees. Project payback periods would be established to suit the
needs of the consumer, the banks and the ESCO.
"Paid-out of savings" projects based on the perfornance contracting principle create a partnership between
the end-user, the lending bank, and the ESCO, all working towards to a conmnon objective of reducing the
consumer's utility costs. Such projects are cash-flow neutral and therefore do not result in incremental debt
for the consumers, because the cost of the investments are repaid by the consumer's energy savings. The
ESCO and/or the bank, not the consumer, makes the up-front investments, but the consumer receives at no
risk the immediate facility improvement and higher comfort from the moment the project is implemented.
These projects also create a risk sharing arrangement whereby the ESCO retains the technical performance
risk and the bank underwrites the client-credit risk (which is the bank's core business).
An Associated GEF Project. The objective of the GE fi nancing is to remove barriers to
market-oriented transactions and increase public and private sector investments in energy efficiency in
buildings. The proposed GEF contribution will comprise GEF guarantee and grant facilities.
*   The objective of the GEF guarantee is to demonstrate the technical and commercial viability of
building retrofit energy efficiency projects for utilities, end-users, and commercial financial
institutions in Poland. This will be achieved by addressing the specific risks of commercial banks'
participation in energy efficiency project financing under the IBRD project, utilizing a GEF funded
limited loan and partial risk guarantee facility. Specifically, the GEF guarantee will address: (a)
the risks of the timing of payments between clients (end-users) and the ESCO; and (b) the risks of
client default in the obligations between clients and the ESCOs and/or the banks.
*   The objective of the GEFgrant is to cover the direct incremental costs of higher-cost energy
efficiency measures (windows and insulation). This would enable the ESCO to offer these
materials in the context of a package of services with acceptable levels of financial risks. The
grant will be available for the competitive bulk purchase of equipment components, which will
enable the ESCO to pass on lower costs to the end user.
Within the framework of the IBRD financing (the base case for GEF purposes), a plan and model exist for
market penetration for energy efficiency services in buildings under the following constraints: (i) the
potential development of specific market segments (private versus public buildings); (ii) the rate at which
commercial banks are able to lend directly to the ESCO clients; and (iii) the level of commercial and
private financing available to the energy efficiency investments. The expected market characteristics and
penetration in each of the identified market segments shows that, in the Krakow region: (i) primary IBRD
supported activity will be in public sectors; and (ii) the addition of the GEF non-grant facility will make
more of the private market eligible for ESCO services and enable significant sales growth even within the
Malopolskie Voivodship. Under this scenario, the IBRD-financed base case for the ESCO activity over 6
years shows estimated sales of about US$24 million and a return on equity (ROE) of 5% in the sixth year.
By the tenth year sales are expected to total about US$48 million and the ROE will reach about 7%. The
GEF guarantee facility will help overcome the incremental risk to commercial banks' participation in the
project by guaranteeing a part of the banks' loan exposure. The GEF grant will capture further savings by
helping in the implementation of comprehensive energy efficiency packages. Over the same base-case
period described above, the GEF alternative case would result in an increase in ESCO activity in the
private sector buildings, with a 60% increase in sales, a higher than 11% return, and a coimmensurate
incremental increase in global environrnental benefits associated with the activity. By the tenth year with
the GEF project, sales are expected to total about US$96 million and the ROE to average at about 11%.
- 3 -



During an initial period of up to three years, GEF support would be dedicated to projects undertaken by the
ESCO in the Krakow region. Thereafter, it would be available to other utilities and/or private ESCOs
active in the Polish building energy efficiency market at large. Upon project completion, an exit stralegy
for the GEF's participation is expected to be pursued.
The associated GEF project was endorsed by the GEF Political Focal Point in Poland (February 200)) and
by the GEF Council (May 2000). The GEF Secretariat has approved a grant from the Project
Development Facility - Block B (PDF-B) to help finance specific activities required for the preparation of
the GEF project and not originally envisaged for the IBRD-financed project. Subject to satisfactory
completion of these preparatory activities, the GEF project will be submitted to the GEF CEO and to the
Board of the World Bank for approval.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key outcome-level perfornance indicators for the Development Objectives (DO) ratings related to the
IBRD project would include:
* Increased customer satisfaction (quality of services as measured by an annual random survey of
apartment owners and building owners in DH core areas)
* Quantified energy savings and associated emission reductions of local air pollutants (sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulates) and of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide)
* ESCO annual sales and level of cofinancing
Key output-level perforrnance indicators for the Implementation Progress (IP) ratings related to the I13RD
project would include:
*  For the End-user: Competitiveness and affordability of district heating and hot water services
within the project's target areas.
3   For MPEC: Increased efficiency of the district heating system
*   For the ESCO: Market penetration in the public and private building sectors
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Anne) l)
Document number: No. 16484-POL            Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/16/1999
Date of CAS Progress Report: August 25, 1999.
The project supports the CAS objectives of promoting much needed infrastructure growth, including a
greater role for the private sector, and achieving envirornental sustainability. The project would achieve
this by: (i) improving energy efficiency throughout the heat supply chain by reducing the energy intensity
of district heating and end-user systems; (ii) establishing and developing an unregulated institutional
structure and business with possible private participation to develop the market for energy efficiency
projects; and (iii) establishing the financing incentives that will improve the availability of local funding
for energy efficiency projects as well as maximize local participation for maximum sustainability. The
project also supports the overarching economic themes of market determination of capital allocation,
market and institutional efficiency, and the shift of the role of the state/municipality from direct parti cipant
in the economy to that of a facilitator. The project would result in improved air quality by reducing  he
discharge of smoke and particulates from burning coal in many small, dispersed boilers and by using more
efficient heat sources such as cogeneration and firing cleaner fuels such as natural gas. The enviromnental
benefits achieved by the project are closely linked to the EU accession standards, which are also set as an
important development benchmark in the CAS.
- 4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government's Energy Policy and Strategy calls for energy security through cost-effective supply of
energy, at socially acceptable prices and in an environmentally sustainable manner. This is in line with the
EU strategy for the energy sector. Economic pricing combined with environmental measures provides
incentives to promote and implement the energy efficiency agenda. While energy efficiency will help bring
costs down, the need to improve energy efficiency and to safeguard the environment has been a comerstone
of Poland's energy and environmental policy since 1990. Although substantial success in supply-side
energy efficiency programs has already been achieved nationwide, it is widely recognized that substantial
additional improvements in end-use energy efficiency and in air quality can be achieved.
The Government also supports the development of market-based energy efficiency initiatives. This was
accelerated by: (i) the major reforms in energy prices pursued since 1991 which resulted in the gradual
phase-out of consumer subsidies and in the setting up of a regulatory system with appropriate pricing rules
to ensure that energy prices gradually reach an economic levet, (ii) the tighter enforcement of environmental
standards to improve air quality, and (iii) the higher environmental user charges and penalties. While
market incentives for energy efficiency are increasing, many serious institutional barriers and market
failures need to be overcome in order to permit tapping the huge end-use energy efficiency potential:
consumers must be aware; local banks are not familiar with end-use energy efficiency projects and are
reluctant to finance them; generally, building owners lack capital for any required investments and are not
sufficiently creditworthy to attract conmnercial financing at acceptable terms; scarce financial resources
force a focus on a minimum first cost and hence only rudimentary levels of energy efficiency are currently
considered; and there are few mechanisms currently in place to help consumers deal effectively with rising
energy prices and more stringent environmental standards. New approaches and financing mechanisms are
thus needed and they must be built on the incentive of building owners to undertake end-use energy
efficiency measures and on the incentive of local banks to finance these measures. The ESCO would
bridge the knowledge and financing gap between local banks and building owners.
The city of Krakow has about 750,000 inhabitants, of which about 100,000 are students. About 70% of
all residential and 50% of all business buildings in Krakow and in the adjacent city, Skawina, are connected
to district heating. In the 1990s, the city of Krakow made significant advances in reducing air pollution
from many small, inefficient low-stack emission sources burning coal or coke, largely by either converting
them to gas-firing or connecting them to the centralized district heating system supplied by more efficient
combined heat and power plants. The city has also made significant progress in improving energy
efficiency and environmental performance of the district heating system. These successes result from the
implementation of programs such as the Bank-funded Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project
in Krakow (Loan 3381-POL), the Bank/GEF-funded Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project (GET TF028665 and
NOR TF023647) and other supply and limited demand-side programs in Krakow (such as the
Polish-American Low Emission Sources Program). However, enormous potential for cost-effective
improvements in energy efficiency with associated environmental benefits remains untapped in the Krakow
region. The strategic importance of implementing further energy efficiency measures both on the supply as
well as the demand side is well documented in sector work completed by the Bank and in a wide range of
other studies.
Given the aging infrastructure in most buildings in the Krakow region, owners are more concerned about
finding funds to replace worn or outdated equipment, than they are about their environmental impact.
However, such high priority issues for the energy consumers can usefully be coordinated with energy
efficiency improvements by replacing old inefficient equipment with new more efficient models of boilers,
lights, motors, etc. The ESCO must use the need for such an infrastructure renewal to help sell the
consumer on energy efficiency.
-5 -



The project will also promote economic efficiency, facilitate the development of an environmentally sound
energy sector in the Krakow region, and help implement mechanisms to enhance participation of
commercial banks and possibly private investors for maximum sustainability. It strongly supports ti.e
implementation of the energy-environment agenda that fosters Poland's adoption of the EU Acquis
Communautaire in the energy and environment sector and that helps cities to develop and implement action
programs for compliance with the air pollution/urban air quality directives of the EU.
The project will also support the Government in meeting its intemational obligations. Poland ratifiec the
UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on July 28, 1994 and submitted the Nat onal
Communication in 1996, agreeing to limit greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions to the 1988 level in the year
2000 through measures aimed at encouraging economic efficiency and rational use of energy. As the
potential for reducing energy consumption (and in turn C02 emissions) in space heating is largely re ated
to the enhancing of heating devices and the quality of building insulation, priority was accorded to th
public and residential sectors.
The proposed ESCO approach serves all of these objectives plus that of infrastructure renewal. Othter
municipalities and regional governments (voivodships) in Poland represent additional potential markets for
energy efficiency retrofits in the buildings sector. The energy efficiency financing model under the
proposed project may be replicated in other regions in Poland.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1 District Heating Sector Issues - Deteriorating Financial Performance of the District Heating
Enterprises.
Until the end of 1997, as part of the Government's efforts to control inflation, limits were set by the
Ministry of Finance (MoF) on the amount of tariff increases the district heating enterprises (DHEs) c zuld
make. While this control played an important role in pressuring the DHEs to increase efficiency, it
substantially reduced their gross margins, which adversely affected their profitability and cash flow levels.
This delayed the implementation of the modernization programs as the level of internal cash generated by
most DHEs was inadequate to meet their resource requirements. During this period, the sector's financial
difficulties were exacerbated by increasing accounts receivable and bad debts of industrial enterprises.
Current ratios fell to low levels, and the resulting liquidity problems caused some DHEs to utilize
short-term loans to finance fixed assets.
While major improvements in efficiency were achieved during the last decade, most of the benefits, in
addition to a substantial part of the DHE's existing profits, were transferred to customers in the form of
lower tariffs. These transfers, together with improved efficiency of the heat supply sources and end-user
conservation measures, resulted in a 55% reduction in real terms of the cost of domestic heating during the
nine years period 1991-99. This resulted in a very low level of profitability. A review of the results cf five
major DHEs, representing more than 20% of the Polish DH market, shows a rate of return on average net
fixed assets in recent years ranging from about 0.5% to 5.0%. These figures, however, overstate the level
of profitability, as the DHEs' fixed assets, in common with most other public sector enterprises in Poland,
have not been revalued since January 1, 1995. If appropriate revaluation had taken place, the resulting
increase in the depreciation charge would have resulted in a negative rate of return for most DHEs. F r the
five major DHEs, the lack of an adequate return on equity and undercharging of depreciation is estimated
to be equivalent to an across the board subsidy from the DHEs to consumers ranging from 15% to 201/o.
This low rate of return on equity makes it difficult for DHEs to borrow on the open market to finance their
modernization investment programns.
-6 -



The level of debt within the sector is still reasonable, particularly in view of the under-valuation of fixed
assets. If the DHEs could improve their cash flow, they would be in a position to borrow long-term to
continue their modernization programs. However, as the rate of return on net fixed assets is usually lower
than the interest rate, it is difficult to justify new investments from a financial point of view. Some of the
major DHEs have been transforned from production-oriented organizations into market-oriented
enterprises. However, the sector needs to improve its financial performance substantially in order to
provide an adequate return on capital to attract investments and make the DHEs suitable candidates for
privatization. It is therefore important that future tariff increases, combined with efficiency improvements,
be sufficient over time to enable the DHEs to generate adequate funds to meet their debt service, make a
contribution towards investments, and pay an equitable dividend to their municipal shareholders. If the
municipalities wished, they could use part of their dividends to finance a more selective heat assistance
program to lower income customers.
The transfer of tariff regulation to the independent Energy Regulatory Authority (Urzad Regulacji
Energetyki - URE) in beginning of 1998 and the first years of URE's experience in regulating network
tariffs show that the new regulatory regime will not change the sector's financial situation, at least not
during the three-year transition period (until end of 2001) set by the Government during which tariffs
would, in principle, be increased to full cost recovery. Serious problems developed in the early
implementation stage of the new tariff regime and were caused by the following: (i) a freeze on tariff
increases for over one year while URE was issuing licenses to energy enterprises and preparations were
made to introduce the decree for new tariff regulation; (ii) URE is authorized to approve only one tariff
adjustment per annurn, resulting in bunching of tariff applications; (iii) excessively detailed requirements on
the new tariff structure, far too complex for district heating customers to comprehend; and (iv) the decrees
restricted tariff increase to initially a maximum of 15% per annum and a maximum profit margin of 110%.
The financial position of many DHEs, which was already marginal, deteriorated further during 1999-2000.
The main reason for this is that DHEs, when making an application for a tariff increase, were required to
use the actual increases in costs incurred in the previous year ("justified costs") as the basis for their
application with no provision for inflation during the current year. This requirement combined with, inter
alia, the way the methodology for calculating heat tariffs was interpreted and applied during the first year,
the complexity of the new tariff structure and DHEs' difficulties in preparing elaborate tariff applications,
caused long delays in completing the accounts. In addition, there is provision under the Energy Law for
substantial fines on DHEs and their managers for overstating costs in their tariff applications. This
resulted in a conservative interpretation of the regulations, which understated the firm's costs.
Furthernore, the 15% limitation on tariff increases during a period when inflation was running at about
10% per annum ensured that the tariffs approved were insufficient to meet DHEs' rising costs and did not
allow the companies to build up the working capital to a level that gives acceptable liquidity and repay
loans or self-finance the modernization program.
The Ministry of Economy (MoE), responsible for sector policy, and URE have recognized the serious
shortcomings of the present regulations and a number of positive changes have been introduced. These
changes will allow for example: (i) companies to use the anticipated costs instead of the historical costs in
the tariff calculation; and (ii) URE to take the various companies' unique situations into consideration when
approving tariffs including the planned costs of the company's three-year development program. However,
in the short term, URE's ability to increase tariffs will continue to be restricted by a new proposed price cap
of 1.25 times the inflation rate. With this limitation, and if other tariff adjustment requirements are not
simplified, URE is unlikely to be in a position to approve tariff increases that would enable DHEs to
establish a viable financial position in the immediate future.
-7 -



In light of the above, the Bank's involvement in the sector would be vital:
*  From the sector perspective: by continuing, at reasonable cost, its policy dialogue with the
Government to support sector policy development including accounting and audit improverm nts
and tariff regulations that are conducive to private sector participation and that meet the
Government's social objectives in the energy sector. The review of the heat tariff regulation and
proposals for modifications are being addressed in the context of the Bank/ESMAP technica.
assistance support program to URE (see Section C.2).
*  From the project perspective: by helping MPEC finance its modernization program during the
transition period during which real tariff increases are unlikely, as well as improve its financ 'al
performance to a level sufficient for private or commercial financing.
3.2 Energy Efficiency Sector Issues - Overcoming Barriers in Energy Efficiency
The technical, economic, and environmental benefits to Poland of improving the energy efficiency of
buildings and their energy sources are well substantiated. The technologies for effecting substantial
improvements in energy efficiency in buildings are well-defined and standard with proven effectivene is.
Despite these benefits, many energy efficiency projects for housing and commercial properties remair
unimplemented in the Krakow region and throughout Poland. Energy efficiency investments can make new
buildings more efficient from the start of their life or help older buildings to improve their efficiency
through retrofits. This project focuses on the large untapped energy efficiency potential of existing
buildings in the Malopolskie Voivodship. Most buildings have a number of energy saving opportunil es to
be undertaken. While the energy savings of each retrofit may be fairly small, there is much potential for
aggregating several measures to make a package that is attractive to the owner, the financier and the
ESCO. These packages must provide immediate cash or facility renewal benefits to owners if they are to
gain wide market acceptance.
Rates of return for end-use energy efficiency projects must exceed the local cost of money (currently 20%)
to be sustainable. Much retrofit work remains to be done that suits this criterion. However the penetration
of ESCO-type methods requires careful training in financing and contracting methods that are unfami iar in
Poland, especially in the buildings sector. By demonstrating the ESCO method with a utility capable of
multiplying activities rapidly through its customer base, one goal of the project is to inspire widespread
acceptance of the approach.
Detailed case studies of energy efficiency retrofits of typical large residential buildings in the region have
shown that, in addition to their economic and environmental benefits, many energy efficiency projects could
yield attractive financial returns if they were not burdened with risk premiums and the absence of
longer-term financing in local capital markets. As a result of these "financing gap" barriers, many suc.h
projects for housing and commercial properties remain unimplemented in the Krakow region and
throughout Poland. Barriers related to the lack of financing from commercial channels are compounded by
market factors such as low awareness, relative profitability, convenience, regulation and risk perceptic n,
which affect the attractiveness and the feasibility of these projects and mitigate against a more rapid
acceptance and implementation.
Polish case studies have identified the following barriers to energy efficiency project development in tho
building sector. They are identifiable barriers and risks that will be addressed by the project and whos-
elimination will be monitored during project implementation:
- 8 -



(a) Difficulties in Arranging Financing. Many Polish building owners have insufficient access to
project financing for up-front investment costs for energy efficiency retrofit projects that would
reduce the energy bills. In 1998, an informal survey via interviews with senior managers of several
major Krakow area banks resulted in three key observations:
*   Everyone expressed interest in energy efficiency loans but only a few projects (for street
lighting) were financed.
*   While loan maturities are increasing, the typical current commercial loan term is about 2-3
years, which is too short for repaying the loan from the energy savings, except in the case of
the most highly cost-effective energy efficiency measures. Such a short payback horizon '
skims the cream' and puts further deep cuts in energy use out of range. Longer maturities are
needed to allow more comprehensive initial projects which can both renew building equipment
and achieve significant energy savings and emission reductions.
*   Domestic banks have not yet initiated comprehensive or long-term lending programs for energy
efficiency projects. Moreover, the domestic financial institutions are generally not familiar or
adept at analyzing the financial aspects of energy efficiency projects, and hence even less
willing to extend credit for these projects.
The ESCO will demonstrate the feasibility of arranging financing for its clients. At the same time,
the energy efficiency projects will begin to demonstrate to commercial banks the viability of relying
on guaranteed savings in operating costs to pay back the ESCO's own investments and/or
investments of its partner banks. With the initial utility ESCO model and "on-ESCO" balance sheet
financing from commercial banks, the client makes no initial investment but receives structural
improvement as well as benefits from a more energy efficient and comfortable building. Thus, the
ESCO will be a commercial company engaged in self-sustaining energy efficiency investments.
It is expected that as the credibility of the ESCO and the energy performance contracting principle
increases, some clients will also use money they happen to have to finance projects. This may be
total project financing or only partial. Often projects involving energy system renovation can
incorporate other owner objectives such as equipment renewal at minimal extra cost, which may be
financed directly from the owner's capital budget. As experience is gained with energy
performance contracting, it is anticipated that banks would be able to finance creditworthy owners
directly. Ultimately this financing may extend to pure project funding where project cash flow is
the only security needed by the bank.
(b) Inadequate Information. While the energy conservation commnunity in Poland is well aware of
energy efficient technologies and renovation measures, the building owners, the occupants and the
local banks lack informnation about the financing aspects of energy-saving investments, the
implementation experiences of others, and the ability to use energy savings to finance some
building renewal.
The project therefore also seeks to achieve increases in energy efficiency in the Krakow region by
creating awareness of energy-saving opportunities. This may assist other contractors to become
more active in implementing energy efficiency projects and lead to the creation of other ESCOs.
Measures will also be taken to infonn the public and to engage key stakeholders in the Krakow
region.
At the project's outset, the ESCO and any independent ESCO businesses working with it will
become a major source of information to building owners, occupants and local banks in the region
- 9-



about successful energy efficiency measures. After the initial projects have perforned enough to
serve as a model for corrmercial banks, other eligible entities are expected to respond to finanicing
opportunities by packaging innovative retrofit measures to enable both deeper energy consumption
cuts and renewal of more aging equipment.
(c) Commitment Risk. Disbelief in the possibility of savings and fear of disruption to building
occupants stall energy management actions that might otherwise be fundable. Basically,
conmmercial banks and building owners perceive too much risk to enter into financing arrangements
based on energy management programs from ESCOs. Building owners and commercial banks
have never benefited from this type of mutual commitment before and assuming new risks and
endeavors by definition threatens their conventional methods of operation and risk sharing.
The ESCO will demonstrate the viability of the activity through actual project implementation and
success. The ESCO will bring together the experience of all players in energy efficiency and
assume the implementation risks and financing risks for the client in the initial projects. Late-
replications will seek to move from this model to one in which: (i) commercial banks carry the
primary client-credit risk for purposes of their own lending programs in the building retrofit e 1ergy
efficiency business; and (ii) the ESCO focuses on technical and performance risk. The commercial
banks' ability to enter into this arena on a sustainable basis will be based on good working
relations with and understanding of the ESCOs' ability to guarantee technical performance of the
project activities. An ESCO can confidently bear such a risk through early successes in specific
projects, its experience of having done similar work for many clients, and the confidence is shired
with conmnercial banks participating in the activity. Without an ESCO assembling all skills under
its control, there is no agent prepared to absorb what the owner sees as the technical and financial
risks of energy efficiency.
(d) High Transactions Costs. Energy efficiency projects are relatively small and can carry high
transaction costs, especially when using new and unfamiliar procedures such as energy
performance contracting, with a number of steps involved -- obtaining and checking information;
planning and design; arranging financing; implementation scheduling; establishing a baseline;
implementing and monitoring perfornance, and making necessary adjustments, etc. Especially
where the benefits are considered small, building owners are reluctant to incur these costs.
The demonstration of real ESCO project successes will help to lower these costs. Some ESC(O)'s
will be able to aggregate a number of sites together for one owner under one financing agreement,
opening opportunities that otherwise would have remained locked up in uneconomic small sites.
This scenario is particularly relevant to multiple small facilities such as schools, where MPEC 's
role as a city agent gives its subsidiary ESCO an opportunity to penetrate city facilities that mlght
otherwise have been ignored. To the extent possible, assessments of the impact of the project ,:,n
transaction costs will be made during the project life to test this expectation.
(e) Institutionil Constraints. While Poland has considerable technical expertise relative to energy
efficiency in buildings, an adequate institutional structure is not yet in place to help building
owners overcome many of the barriers listed above. Also, in new markets, clients are usually
anxious about the absence of serious competition for proponents. This institutional problem is
especially real with ESCO services which are often seen to be "too good to be true."
An active ESCO market will help to reorient resources to the opportunities buried within the
energy bills of building facilities.
- 10-



The proposed project seeks to alleviate the above constraints through the introduction of
ESCO-type financing arrangements and by having the utility-based ESCO become: (i) a major source of
information about energy performance contracting for private and public energy users; and (ii) the
aggregator of demand for capital for projects. An active ESCO market will help to reorient resources to
the opportunities concealed within the energy use reports of building facilities. This project will guide the
ESCO in sales techniques needed to maximize the uptake of energy efficiency opportunities in an
increasingly market driven environment.
The Malopolskie Voivodship and the City of Krakow are highly supportive of the utility-based
ESCO approach as a financing mechanism to promote the energy and environment agenda in the region.
3.3 Strategic Choices
The Borrower. MPEC is a joint-stock company, operating in accordance with the Polish commercial code.
It is fully owned by the City of Krakow. It is headed by a Management Board appointed by the City and
comprising the President and two Vice-Presidents. The company has a Supervisory Board comprising six
members, four of which are appointed by the City and two elected from MPEC employees.
MPEC's Experience. MPEC is a Bank borrower and has completed successfully the Bank-financed Heat
Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loan 3381-POL; closed in November 30, 1998). On the
investment side, this project met or exceeded most of its objectives with particular reference to: (i)
increased energy efficiency, resulting in 25% energy savings equivalent to 215,000 tons of coal valued at
US$11 million per year coal savings; and (ii) the environmental goal of improved air quality, resulting from
the reduction in various air pollution emissions from coal-fired boilers by 27% for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen
oxide and carbon dioxide and by 53% for particulates. Thanks to its boiler elimination and conversion
program, MPEC was officially dropped from the regional list of heavy polluters. The efficiency gains
resulting from the energy pricing policy pursued by the Government since 1991 as well as those achieved
by both MPEC and the two combined heat and power plants (CHPs) have greatly benefited MPEC's
customers through a 53% reduction in the price of heating one square meter (m ) of floor area. During the
project period, the average price per energy unit (GJ) sold decreased substantially, by 41% in real terms.
On the institutional side, since the project started, MPEC was transformed from production-oriented
organizations into market-oriented enterprises. Strategic, marketing and public relations departments were
established; in-house expertise in intemational competitive procurement and trade was developed; collection
departments were reinforced and receivables reduced; accounts were computerized; management and cost
accounting systems were developed; and quality assurance programs are being implemented and
international certification being considered. Details on the investment measures and the project results are
in Annex 4.
District Heating Modernization. MPEC's investment plan aims at: (i) continuing the rehabilitation of the
existing district heating system in Krakow; (ii) increasing the reliability of heat delivery; (iii) improving
load dispatch between the two CHP plants, EC Krakow and EC Skawina, by increasing the share of
cogenerated heat and leaving heat-only-boilers for peaking purpose, as well as enhancing competition
between these sources; and (iv) expanding MPEC's heat market by connecting new customers to either
district heating or cleaner fuel heat sources and by supplying domestic hot water (DHW) to consumers
from its existing DH system, thereby improving overall system efficiency. Specifically, the plan consists of
the following four investment components: (i) Strategic investments to connect new DH and DHW
customers in high density areas where district heating is least-cost, and to create loops within the heating
- 11 -



network; (ii) Environmental investments to support the replacement of small, polluting coal-fired
heat-only-boilers in Krakow area with either a connection to district heating or a conversion to
gas/oil-firing, based on technical and economic justification; (iii) Modernization investments to improve
network efficiency and maintain network assets, thereby enhancing the reliability and quality of heat
delivery; and (iv) Efficiency improvement investments to equip existing substations with modem heat
exchangers and weather regulators as well as replace the remaining outdated hydroelevators with automatic
compact substations, all of which will improve heat consumption efficiency at the end-user level.
The above measures are consistent with the recosmmendations of the long-term district heating master plan
for Krakow and are a continuation of the Bank-financed optimization program under the Heat Supplyr
Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loan 3381 -POL) implemented during the period 1991-1999.
Thanks to this completed project, the modemization of the Krakow DH system is on the right track but still
far from completed, as shown in the Table 3.1 below:
Table 3.1
Past             Projected
Modernization rate                         Units        1991      1999     2007      2020
The system
Efficiency from heat purchased to end-use  %         68%       80%       89%      93%
Water volume replacement               times/a        9.5      5 0       2.7       1.1
Network
Pipelines replaced                    out of total   0%        18%      26%       65%
Thermal transmission losses        of heat produced   18 5%   10.8%     9 0%      7.0%
Consumers
Floor area connected to DH            million m2     12 0      13 3      14 7     16.0
Consumers metered                   of total number    0%     100%      100%      100%
DHW market share                    of total number    3%      7%        14%      47%
Consumer substations modermized     of total number    0%      60%       80%      100%
Hydroelevators remaining               number         2,200    983        0        0
Note: The values for year 2020 in bold indicate realistic targets, which are typical for modern district heating systems in the Northern EU contries
Energy Efficiency. Energy efficiency investments can make new buildings more efficient from the start or
help older buildings to improve their efficiency through retrofits. This project focuses on the large
untapped energy efficiency potential of existing buildings in the Malopolskie Voivodship. A Business Plan
was prepared for the ESCO in which the potential market for ESCO services in the Malopolskie
Voivodship was assessed. Each sector was evaluated in terms of its building area, number of buildinE:s and
concentration of ownership. Also for each sector, key factors influencing the customer's ability to buy
ESCO services were qualitatively assessed. These are shown in Table 3.2 below.
- 12 -



Table 3.2: Market Characteristics
............*       .                                   .** *..    ,* .     .    . ..    ~** .  *.   ~       .   *
#    Ownership           ~~~~~Ease of   Onrs  Onr Ne  o
Ownership           Energy  Purchase     er E     
Buildings Owners Concentratioo .    Inengt  Desion   Ease of    Credit
_______                    ~~~~~~~~Making  Purchasing Worthiness Rnvto
Municipal    1,413    I       High       0%      Med      High      Low       High      Med
Schools &    52648   (S)       6 H69h    0%      Med      Med    Low-Med  Med-High    Med
Hospitals &   125     49       Med       0%       Med   Med-High    Med       High      Med
Medical Care   (40)    (5)      (32)
CHousing     2,243    103      High      70%   Low-Med Med-High   High         Med    Med-High
Cooperative   (1,571)  (30)    (70%)
Businesses   974     454       Low      100%     Med   Med-High   High    Low-Med    Med
Note: Figures in brackets indicate degree of ownership concentration For example, IS owners in schools and universities own 364
buildings, representing 64% of the total number of buildings in that market
Many of the factors constraining ESCO penetration are dependent upon the ESCO finding ways for
potential customers to overcome internal barriers to purchasing this new type of service which does not
easily fit traditional budgeting and contracting methods. However a key constraint that is beyond the
expertise of the ESCO to assess is the credit worthiness of the client, which is a banker's specialty. The
credit worthiness for the privately owned facilities in the housing and business sectors is low, and as result,
this creates a significant constraint on the potential for self-financed energy efficiency projects. By
contrast, institutional clients with high credit worthiness are attractive to the ESCO because they can
allocate a part of their current operating budgets to pay for the savings as well as they have the potential to
raise funds themselves based on the strengths of their receivables, without needing the ESCO to carry debt
on its balance sheet.
In the Business Plan, the fraction of each market segment that is likely to be eligible for ESCO services was
estimated in light of the evaluations shown in Table 3.2 above. Combining these eligibility fractions with
the amount of space in each sector, and the likely investment per square meter of space, a potential ESCO
investment was derived for each sector. The assumed ESCO sales in each sector are then shown in Table
3.3. With US$24 million of sales over 6 years, it can be seen that market penetration is low in the sectors
that are dominated by private owners (Housing and Businesses). This sales level reflects about 22% of the
ESCO eligible business, so it is not excessively dominant in the Voivodship. However most sales, certainly
all sales in the early years, are in the public sector. The public sector offers both solid credit and high
concentration of ownership. This concentration will allow sales to focus on a few but large groups of
buildings held by one owner. As a municipally owned utility, MPEC's ESCO is well placed to serve public
sector buildings. However it will find it difficult to finance private owners, even though they are currently
utility customers. The current commercial bank reluctance to undertake private owner credits effectively
constrains sales in the housing and business sectors.
- 13-



Table 3.3: ESCO Market Size Estimate
Assumed  Potential ESCO  6 Year   Fraction of
Eligbiit   Investment DSale    Potential irL
Municipal Buildings   20%   14         9        61%
Schools &     50%        24         8        33%
Universities
Hospitals & Medical   56%   10         6        58%
Housing      20%         36        I         3%
Cooperatives
Businesses    20%        23         0         1%
TOTAL                    107       24       22%
Choice ofMPECfor the First Utility-Based ESCO. The credibility of the ESCO (and of MPEC) lies in
the fact that it pre-finances the investments and guarantees the energy savings. Furthermore, MPEC has
already established a strong image as being a utility that sees its long-term interest in helping consumers to
reduce their utility bills, rather than just trying to push heat consumption. Therefore, the direct involvement
of MPEC is critical for initial demonstration of the commercial sustainability of energy efficiency financing
and how stakeholders and beneficiaries can overcome technical and financial barriers to implementation.
Individual projects would be able to show successes early in the project by building on MPEC's technical
expertise and customer base. Early successes in turn contribute to a greater likelihood of replicability of
energy efficiency building retrofits because the initial successes begin building capacity in the form of
financial and technical skills and know-how among the stakeholders.
With the goal of achieving early successes, the following summarize the reasons why MPEC has been
chosen for the initial phase of the energy efficiency component:
* MPEC already pioneered several ESCO-type operations during the past few years in several
residential buildings and in small, isolated district heating networks in Krakow;
* MPEC was a key participant in about half of the projects conducted since 1990 as part of the
Polish-American Low Emission Sources Program;
* MPEC knows its market very well and already has a strong relationship of trust with many
building owners;
* MPEC is familiar with Bank processes and procedures and successful in project implementation;
* Building owners perceive MPEC as being involved for "the long haul," extending well beyond the
payback period of the ESCO financing;
* MPEC's marketing costs should be low, and its marketing success rate high; and
* MPEC's financial security provides a comfort level to commercial banks in a path-breaking
endeavor.
The combination of MPEC's past experience, its track records of success as a utility with end-user energy
saving and environmental protection perspectives, its knowledge of the market and its relationship of trust
with customers have given MPEC a good foundation for forming an ESCO to improve the energy
- 14 -



efficiency of buildings and to demonstrate the energy performance contracting and risk sharing potential.
Without early and specific project successes, disbursement of the IBRD loan will be slower due to more
transactions requiring more screening before any experience can be recorded with the model. An ESCO as
a subsidiary of MPEC would have a better chance of being successful than a brand-new ESCO
independent of MPEC. The primary purpose of the ESCO component is to start doing this innovative and
important demand-side work, to build a viable business and to adapt to opportunities as they come along,
including attracting private partners or outright privatization over the medium-term.
Inclusion of ESCO Client Invoices on MPEC's Energy Bills. The ESCO will use customer payment
records to help select clients with good payment habits. It may be possible to also include the ESCO's
savings amounts on MPEC's heat invoices. Suchjoint invoicing, available to the ESCO for a fee, would
enable some clients to more easily pay for ESCO savings from their utility account, and may also motivate
some clients to make payments on time, out of fear of having the heat cut off by MPEC. Such procedures
may be difficult to implement due to regulatory and VAT considerations, and may attract criticism from
other potential or new ESCOs jealous of this special advantage of MPEC-ESCO relationship. Such joint
invoicing will only be helpful for some clients. Therefore, inclusion of ESCO savings on MPEC's invoices
would be considered on a client by client basis, if it can be found acceptable on a regulatory and tax basis.
However, MPEC would make the same service available, for the same fee, to other emerging ESCOs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The IBRD project consists of three components, as described below: (i) the district heating modernization;
(ii) the ESCO financing; and (iii) technical assistance. They will be implemented during the period
2001-2007.
For the district heating modernization component (US$50.7 million with a Bank loan of US$6.63
million): The DH modemization component of the project would build upon the achievements of the
completed project (Loan 3381 -POL) by continuing the implementation of the rehabilitation optimization
program with the aim of making district heating more efficient, affordable and enviromnentally friendly.
The Bank loan will help finance the highest priority measures of this program during the early years
2001-2002, during which real tariff increases are unlikely. These measures consist of: (i) installation of
network loops (3.5 km in total) between the main heat sources, CHP Krakow and CHP Skawina; (ii)
installation of 365 out of the 600 modem compact substations to be installed under the six-year program in
order to replace about 1,000 old hydroelevator substations; and (iii) the replacement of 17 km out of the 68
km of network pipelines to be replaced under the program.
For the ESCOfinancing component (US$27 million with a Bank loan of US$7.92 million): The
US$8.0 million IBRD loan proceeds for the ESCO component will be used to finance energy saving capital
investments (principally goods, materials and installation works). The ESCO will implement these
investments in the premises of a client under an Energy Performance Service Contract (EPSC) to be
entered between the ESCO and the client. The costs of other ESCO's services including project
development and preparation activities, overhead and profit margins, will be financed by local banks and
the ESCO's operating funds. All project financing costs incurred by the ESCO will be repaid by the client
from the guaranteed savings. The ESCO will assume full responsibility for the technical performance and
credit risks of projects financed from the IBRD loan.
Examples of existing building energy efficiency retrofits, eligible for Bank financing, would include: (i)
reduction of building heat losses through weatherization and/or insulation as well as new windows; (ii)
- 15 -



improved control of the heat supplied through installation of thermostatic control valves, reflective streens
behind radiators and temperature controls in customers facilities; (iii) improved efficiency of site boilers or
heat exchange efficiency with the heating network; (iv) reduction of electrical loads through high efficiency
lighting, motors, fans and pumps; and (v) reduced electrical consumption through control of operating
periods and/or matching power draw to variable loads. Based on a market assessment, about 100 projects
ranging in size from US$50,000 to $1,000,000 and worth about US$24 million could be implemented over
the next 6 years. In addition, about US$3 million is invested by MPEC in ESCO capitalization, bringing
the total component cost to US$27 million. A typical cost structure for an individual ESCO project would
comprise 55% for equipment and materials, 25% for installation, and 20% for ESCO overheads and
margins.
The extent of the ESCO sales activity as well as the amount of financing from the Bank and from M?PEC's
equity will depend on getting commercial banks to lend directly to the ESCO's clients. The base case
assumes that the ESCO carries on its balance sheet the cost of 100% of the ESCO projects in years I and
2, then declining to a lower limit of 40% by year 5 and thereafter. Under this assumption, and depending
on the market penetration in the private sector buildings, the ESCO's estimated sales over the project
implementation period could be US$24 million and a return on equity in year six of 5%. This level of
profitability is manageable for a new firm in a new economy. In light of the uncertainty about off-balance
financing sheet from commercial banks and market penetration, it has been assumed that the Polish banks
would finance up to US$16 million, with two thirds being financed off the ESCO's balance sheet. The
World Bank's loan would finance the remainder up to a maximum of US$8 million.
For the technical assistance component (US$0.3 million from the Bank loan): It will involve external
consulting services, as and when needed, to support MPEC and ESCO in the areas of development of
business strategy, energy auditing, measurement and verification of savings, and legal aspects of
performance contracting.
......   ..   ...
. . ..   m...
District Heating Modemization      Other Power &       50.67       64.9      6.63       44.2
Program                            Energy
Conversion
ESCO Financing                      Other Power &      26.92       34.5       7.92      52.8
Energy
Conversion
Technical Assistance               Institutional        0.30        0.4      0.30        2.0
Development
Total Project Costs                  77.89       99.8      14.85      99.0
Front-end fee                     fi.15      0.2       0.15        1.0
Total Financing Required                    78.04      100.0      15.00     100.0
Financing Plan. The project will be financed with an IBRD loan of US$15 million, including: (i)
US$6.63 million to help MPEC bridge the financing gap for the district heating modernization during the
next 2-3 years; (ii) up to US$7.92 million for the ESCO financing; and (iii) US$0.3 million for technical
assistance. The front-end fee of US$0.15 million will be capitalized. If sufficient commercial financing for
the ESCO component with direct lending to the ESCO's clients is forthcoming and if the ESCO is
exceeding its sales targets, the Bank would review the progress with project implementation at that time.
- 16 -



Based on such a review, the Bank would then consider re-allocating unused loan funds from the ESCO
component to the district heating modernization component. Such a re-allocation would be subject to
satisfactory implementation of the project and of the ESCO component in particular. However, a minimum
of 10% of IBRD loan funds will not be subject to re-allocation and will remain earmarked to energy
efficiency projects in the private residential building sector.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project-
The Bank's policy dialogue in the energy sector has concentrated on supporting the Government's efforts to
restructure the sector from a controlled market to a deregulated, competitive market. This support is
currently being provided, inter alia, with an on-going Bank/ESMAP technical assistance program to help
get the regulatory framework completed and strengthen the operational capacity of the Energy Regulatory
Authority (URE). URE was established in December 1997 under the new Energy Law and plays a key role
in regulating tariffs for network fuels (district heating, electricity and gas). Building on earlier
ESMAP-funded support to draft the Energy Law and help with the initial establishment of URE, the
follow-up ESMAP program will help URE deal with the implementation of the fundamentals of the
regulatory and sector reforms and advise on necessary changes to the legislation in light of experience.
Specifically, the objectives of this program are to, inter alia,: (i) ensure that URE can develop adequate
rules and procedures for regulating tariffs for district heating, electricity and gas; (ii) allow the URE to
create its own internal capability to study, approve and regulate tariffs, and monitor compliance with tariff
regulations; and (iii) build up the capacity and expertise through training of URE staff on international
experience in economic regulation of the electricity and district heating sectors in all dimensions relevant to
the situation in Poland.
The project will build upon: (i) the existing pricing policy framework (phase-out of consumer price
subsidies, full cost recovery of heating and hot water services, metering of all customers, and adequate
fmancial viability of energy enterprises) to provide further incentives for energy efficiency and
conservation; and (ii) the ongoing environmental policy reforms required for Poland's compliance with its
international obligations and for EU accession.
The City Management is currently exploring opportunities for private sector participation in municipal
infrastructure services, including district heating. Only the Municipality of Krakow has the authority to
develop and implement the privatization strategy for its municipally-owned enterprises. With respect to
ESCO, it was established as an initially fully owned subsidiary of MPEC. This legal separation allows
management flexibility for the ESCO to respond to a new and untapped market and to establish strategic
alliances and seek private sector financing independently from the parent company. While an initial search
for suitable know-how and private financing in the ESCO within and beyond Poland was explored during
project preparation and funded from a Japanese PHRD grant, the nature of the business is such that only
when it has become a successful and profitable enterprise will private investors be willing to come forward.
Agreement was reached on thefollowing: (i) by June 30, 2002, MPEC to exchange views with the
Bank on the steps to be taken towards optimizing MPEC's and ESCO's efficiency and improving the
delivery of their services to their respective customers; r i) by June 30, 2003, MPEC to complete under
terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank, andfurnish to the Bankfor its review and comments a
study on MPECs strategy towards optimizing said services; and (iii) based on the findings of said
study and the Bank's comments thereon, and subject to approval of said study by the relevant
authorities of MPEC, MPEC to commence by January 1, 2004, implementation of said strategy in
accordance with a time schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank.
- 17 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project benefits within the Malopoiskie Voivodship include a more efficient and cost-effective supply
of heat and renewal of energy-using systems, creation of a performing ESCO, demonstration of the riarket
opportunity for energy efficiency businesses and commercial banks, lower and more affordable energ y
bills, comfort enhancement in residential, commercial and public buildings, substantial improvement of
local air quality (from reduced emissions of dust, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides), and reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions (carbon dioxide).
The direct project beneficiaries of the IBRD loan are MPEC's existing clients who will benefit from being
connected to a more efficient district heating network with lower operating costs, providing better service
and controllable heat use. However, all Krakow residents will benefit as the environment improves and as
the economy expands, since new customers can be added to the distribution network without the need to
raise funds to invest in additional supply and transmission capacity.
The two large combined heat and power plants (CHP Krakow and CHP Skawina) will benefit from the
improved efficiency of the district heating system as MPEC expands its market for domestic hot water and
connects new customers to the CHP-supplied DH system. Specifically, the expansion of MPEC's doinestic
hot water market will lead to: (i) a better utilization of the cogenerated heat throughout the year; and ii) a
lower temperature of the hot water in the system returning to the CHP sources, which in turn increase s the
operational efficiency of the cogeneration units.
All owners and occupants of existing residential, commercial and public buildings in the Krakow region
will also enjoy these benefits, starting from the first year the energy efficiency retrofit investment is rrade,
at no risk or up front investment. Then, once the investment has been repaid, they will also benefit from
lower energy bills.
The State and Municipal authorities will also benefit from the project, since: (i) the quality and delive:y of
district heating (a municipal service) will improve; and (ii) the utility ESCO financing mechanisms would
relieve the already constrained state and municipal budgets from the up-front capital investment requi ed
for the energy efficiency measures in public buildings, and would lower the future operating budgets
through reduced energy bills.
All residents of the region will benefit from the reduced environmental impacts of more efficient energy
services to buildings in the region and from the reduction in low emission sources as more coal-fired boilers
are either eliminated or converted to gas. As a result of the increased efficiency at the CHP plants (see
above), the environmental emissions from the CHP sources, including transboundary pollutants, will be
reduced. The Polish society will also benefit, as Poland's contribution to greenhouse gases emissions are
reduced.
The ESCO activity would develop energy management retrofit skills of local engineers and contractor.. It
also draws new energy technologies into the marketplace where they can be seen for other applications.
Furthermore, if the ESCO process is successful, an important benefit of the project will be the potential
dissemination throughout Poland of ESCO procedures, coupled with local commercial bank financing of
new energy conservation investments, through joint ventures.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1 Implementation Period: 2001-2007
- 18-



4.2 Implementation Arrangements
MPEC will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the overall project and will
directly implement the district heating modernization component. The ESCO will be responsible for the
implementation of the ESCO component and, as and when needed, will be assisted by extemal consultants.
Both MPEC and the ESCO have qualified staff to fulfill their functions and responsibilities. MPEC and
ESCO will use the Project Implementation Plan to coordinate and guide the implementation efforts. In
addition, a Project Implementation Agreement between MPEC and the ESCO will specify the various tasks
and responsibilities:
(a) For the ESCO: (i) to market its business activities, to identify, appraise and implement
selected "paid-out-of-savings" projects, (ii) to administer all relationships with the ESCO
clients (including legal, financial, billing and collection, monitoring, measurement and
verification) and with the cofinanciers, and (iii) to monitor and report on its business and
project performance activities; and
(b) For MPEC: (i) to monitor the ESCO's performance; (ii) to disburse project funds for eligible
expenditures under the ESCO component following the Bank's procurement procedures (see
Annex 6), and (iii) to receive reimbursements for these expenditures from the ESCO's
revenues.
The ESCO was established in Krakow on April 4, 2000 and five key staff, consisting of a
President, a Technical DirectorNVice-President, a Chief Accountant, and two other junior staff, were
appointed. The ESCO staff is expected to evolve to a core team of 8 people maximum by end of 2001,
with specialized functions and activities being outsourced to either MPEC (such as procurement and
disbursement) or to external firms (such as energy auditing and supervision of contract implementation).
The ESCO will retain the functions related to finance, accounting, sales, marketing and consumers'
relations, portfolio management, legal, billing and collections, and monitoring and reporting (including
Project Management Reporting for the ESCO component).
4.3 Lending Arrangements
The IBRD loan covering both components will be provided directly to MPEC with the sovereign
guarantee of Poland. MPEC will assume full responsibility for the repayment of the total loan. MPEC will
bear the foreign exchange risk on the total amount of the IBRD loan.
The IBRD loan of US$ I5 million will be equally divided in two currencies, EUR9.0 million and
US$7.5 million. The loan terms will be at six-month LIBOR for Euro and US Dollars plus fixed spread
for Fixed Spread Loans denominated in Euro and US Dollars, in which each disbursed amount (being the
cumulative disbursements in a semester) is payable in 11.5 years, including 4 years of grace, based level
principal repayment. The front-end fee will be capitalized. To facilitate prudent debt management, MPEC
may at any time request the Bank to execute a currency or interest rate conversions or to establish interest
caps or collars. For caps and collars, MPEC may also request to allocate a portion of the loan funds to
cover the cost of the corresponding hedge prevailing at the time of trade execution.
4.4 Financing Arrangement Under the ESCO Component
4.4.1 Financing Arrangement between MPEC and the ESCO
The financial arrangement between MPEC and the ESCO, including terms and conditions, for
relaying the IBRD loan funds to finance energy saving capital investments (principally goods, materials and
installation works) under specific energy performance service contracts are detailed in the Project
- 19-



Implementation Agreement. Under this agreement, MPEC will use the IBRD loan funds to procure zapital
investments as requested by the ESCO to enable it perform its obligations under an energy perforna ace
service contract. MPEC will pass on the goods, materials and installation works to the ESCO, and the
ESCO will make those available to eligible clients under energy performance service contracts. The ESCO
will have to repay MPEC for the costs of the goods, materials and installation works that would cover the
underlying cost of the IBRD financing to MPEC. The ESCO in tum will be paid the cost of these
investments from the clients on a back-to-back basis, with the clients repaying the ESCO with essenlially
the same repayment term and schedule as the ESCO's underlying repayment to MPEC. There will he a
time lag of six months for repayments from the ESCO to MPEC to rninimize the impact on the ESCO)
liquidity in case of delayed repaymnent by the clients. As the average maturity of the ESCO financing to its
clients would be about 7 years, MPEC would effectively create a revolving fund for the continuous
provision of term finance to the clients through the ESCO.
4.4.2 Terms and Conditions of Financing Arrangement between MPEC and the ESCO
The cost of MPEC's financing to the ESCO and of the ESCO's to its clients will be in local
currency. The repayment terms and conditions will be flexible to meet each project and client situation (see
below). The cost of MPEC's financing will be revised every six months and will be based on the cos' of
funds in the domestic market with a floating rate linked to a suitable domestic benchmark (such as VW arsaw
Interbank Offered Rate -- WIBOR) plus a fixed spread. The WIBOR, a widely used reference for floating
rate instruments in Poland, is generally considered to reflect both exchange rate differential and foreign
exchange risk premium. The spread over WIBOR would reflect the IBRD fixed spread over LIBOR
Repayment maturities of MPEC's financing to the ESCO would not exceed 10 years, including a
grace period of less than I year. Other costs on the IBRD loan (front-end fee and commitment fee) and the
guarantee fee, paid by MPEC to, respectively, IBRD and the Ministry of Finance, shall be passed on to the
ESCO. The proposed financing arrangement (formula and its impact) will be reviewed regularly and
adjusted as market conditions evolve and relevant experience and parameters on specific project
transactions become available. This flexibility and periodic re-evaluation of the financing arrangement will
be crucial to guarantee that: (i) MPEC covers the full costs of its IBRD borrowing under the ESCO
component; and (ii) the proposed mechanism does not become a source of distortion to emerging market
conditions and opportunities in energy efficiency financing in the building sector, nor preclude the
competitive participation of conmnercial banks in cofinancing the ESCO component.
4.4.3 Terms and Conditions of Energy Performance Service Contracts.
The ESCO will be allowed mnaximum flexibility to determnine the terms and conditions (incluling
profitability) of different projects, to best balance differences in risks, the needs to develop different mrarket
segments, the many different sources of legitimate profit-taking in this business, and other coimmercia.
issues. Therefore, terms and conditions of the ESCO's financing and the client's repayment under
individual energy performance service contracts will be flexible to meet each project and client situation.
4.4.4 Eligibility criteria of ESCO Client
The ESCO clients will be building owners in the Malopolskie Voivodship that: (i) are creditworthy
with a good record of payments of utility bills, (ii) have no previous defaults on debt service, (iii) will be
able to pay for the investments out of the savings in utility costs, and (iv) would be eligible to apply for
ESCO services and financing under the ESCO component as well as follow World Bank procurement
procedures. There will be no restrictions as to the size or ownership form of the building owners. The
proposed energy saving capital investment projects will need to be technically, cornmercially and
- 20 -



financially viable, will have a "paid-out of savings" payback period of not more than 10 years, shall not
result in negative cash flow for the client, and will have capital investment costs (excl. ESCO overhead and
margin) of not less than US$50,000. For those few projects that might exceptionally have a payback
period in excess of IO years, building owners will need to finance from their own resources the incremental
capital cost required to bring the payback period to below 10 years. Sub-projects must be designed in
accordance with appropriate health, safety and environmental standards (see Environmental Management
Plan). IBRD loan funds will finlance goods, materials and installation works net of taxes and duties. Each
ESCO client will enter into an Energy Perfonnance Service Contract with the ESCO.
Eligibility Criteria                                    Terms and Conditions of Energy
Performance Service Contracts
* Building owners in the Malopolskie Voivodship         * For residential building, annual "paid-out of
* Good track records of payments of utility bills over the last  savings" repayments shall not exceed 60% of
three years                                             the annual value of the renovation funds
* No previous defaults on debt service                  * Grace period for "paid-out of saving"
* Cost of capital investments under one EPC contract not less  repayment less than I year
than USS50,000                                        * Repayment matunty, incI grace penod, not
* "Paid-out of savings" payback period not exceeding 10 years    exceeding 10 years
* "Paid-out of saving" projects, with payback period of less  * "Paid-out of saving" repayment at least
than 10 years, should not result in negative cash flow for the  bimonthly
client                                                * Interest payments at least quarterly
* For "Paid-out of saving" projects, having payback period  * All loans to be secured (either collaterized or
equal to or above 10 years, owner cofinancing will be   personal guarantees for sole proprietorships)
required in an amount equivalent to bring the payback period
to below 10 years
4.4. 5 Prior Review.
The ESCO will submit its first five energy performance service contract proposals to the Bank for
its review, regardless of the size of the proposed financing. After the first five projects, the Bank will
determine the extent of any continuing prior review requirements. For all projects, the ESCO will submit a
summary description of the proposed project, in an agreed format, to obtain the Bank's authorization to
withdraw from the loan proceeds. The cut-off date for the ESCO to submit proposed projects for Bank
financing is six months prior to the project's expected closing date. The eligibility criteria for ESCO
projects as well as the prior review arrangements will be reviewed regularly against performance during
implementation.
4.5 Involvement of Local Banks
Local banks view the involvement of the World Bank as critical in alleviating the level of risk
involved in individual ESCO projects. It is expected that involving local commercial banks early on in this
project will allow them to gain experience with such projects and with this new type of financing
arrangement, so that they will eventually offer financing for such projects without the added comfort of
World Bank financing.
Of the 16 local commnercial banks interviewed, none related any significant experience with
"pay-out-of-savings" perforrmance contract financing in the building sector. The foreign banks interviewed
were reluctant to consider lending on a case-by-case basis to individual small projects (within typical size
of US$50,000-US$200,000), and they were consistently more interested in creating an aggregate credit
facility (min. US$5-1O million) to the ESCO with World Bank financial support. In contrast, those banks
with strong local presence (e.g. retail branches), even if majority foreign-owned, expressed great interest in
- 21 -



the opportunity to cofinance smaller transactions with flexible terms commensurate with building energy
efficiency projects and with ESCO clients. Besides the collateral usually required by any local bank. the
banks' lending to the ESCO would require MPEC guaranteeing these bank loans. Local banks' over-ill
cofinancing terms are expected to stretch beyond their common 2-3 year term, to up to 7-10 years, as they
realize the viability of energy efficiency projects. Interest rates will be variable (generally negotiable on
case-by-case basis), with a cofinancing amount of up to 70% of individual project costs.
4.6 Management of ESCO's Balance Sheet.
Managing the ESCO's balance sheet is essential for long-tenn sustainable growth. Currently Focal
commercial banks are unwilling to finance projects without a lien on the owner's or the ESCO's assets.
The ESCO cannot expand significantly if it must carry customer debt on its books, without carrying an
unsustainable financial structure. If the funding for projects is on the ESCO's balance sheet, then the
ESCO will likely need to invest roughly 20% from its equity to match 80% funding from a combination of
local banks and the Bank. This is not a problem for the ESCO in the beginning of its operation when :here
are relatively few projects. But, having sizable amounts of equity tied up in projects will eventually
severely constrain the ESCO's ability to grow and increase project payback hurdle rates. In turn, this will
limit the impact of the ESCO on regional energy savings and associated environmental benefits. Therefore,
special attention is needed to help MPEC, the ESCO, the local banks and the clients to develop
non-recourse financing arrangements as well as other financing methods (such as operating leases or
factoring the ESCO's receivables to local banks), which will keep projects off the ESCO balance sheet. To
avoid the requirements for significant equity, this funding must also be for 100% of project costs.
Especially at the outset of such "off balance sheet" arrangements, it is expected that MPEC may need to
provide local banks and customers with "comfort" letters to reassure them of the quality of the utility's
support of the ESCO' s guarantees of savings.
Given the lack of precedents for off-balance sheet financing, the ESCO will effectively retain both
credit risk and performance risk in its initial service contracts. However, it must move as quickly as
possible to a model where: (i) the credit risk is transferred to commercial banks through an assignment of
the receivable created under the service agreement; and (ii) ultimately, the ESCO retains only the techaical
performance risk, which is within its core competency. This will require commercial banks to become
convinced that the receivables they have assumed are reliable and that the ESCO has suitable technical 
expertise to guarantee the savings. In order for the ESCO to prove its perforrmance risk attenuation
capability in terms that are easily understood by the commercial banks, early successes on a few projects
carried out on-ESCO balance sheets is, therefore, essential. The ESCO has successfully prepared anc
implemented two pilot projects, with extensive IBRD technical assistance (see Section 4.11).
4.7 Procurement Capacity Assessment
MPEC has successfully completed the US$25 million Krakow Heat Supply Restructuring ancl
Conservation Project (Loan 3381-POL) and therefore has considerable experience with the Bank's
procurement procedures and guidelines. In addition, MPEC is procuring goods and works following
IBRD-type procurement procedures even under its own financing. MPEC is not required to follow Polish
Public Procurement Rules when using MPEC's funds. The Procurement Capacity Assessment has
concluded that MPEC had sufficient qualified and motivated procurement staff highly familiar with Bank
procurement procedures and experienced in handling all stages and types of procurement. Although NIPEC
is a low procurement-risk borrower, procurement risk under the project has been categorized as "average"
in the capacity assessment, and prior review thresholds consistent with the "average" rating have been
adopted. The reason for this rating is that the Country Procurement Assessment Report rated Poland, from
the procurement point of view, as an "average" risk country. The only procurement support to be provided
under the project would be sending newly appointed procurement staff of MPEC to the procurement
- 22 -



training organized by ILO and the Bank in Turin. Given the Jack of experience on the part of the ESCO
subsidiary, this entity will contract with MPEC, on a fee for service basis, to manage its procurement until
the ESCO has developed sufficient internal capacity.
4.8 Procurement Arrangements
The procurement arrangements and the procurement plan are summarized in Annex 6, Tables
A-C. All Bank-financed procurement will be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the latest
editions of the Bank's Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.
Under the DH modemization component, World Bank-financed procurement during 2001-2003
will comprise the supply and installation of additional network rings and heating system automation, and
the supply and delivery of equipment and materials for network replacement and modernization of heat
exchanger nodes. Given the similarity of the equipment, supply contracts containing index-based price
adjustment clauses will be signed for multi-year equipment delivery to ensure equipment standardization
and to avoid keeping excessive stock levels. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to MPEC
and ESCO under consultant contracts.
Under the ESCO component, World Bank financing will be used for the modernization of
customers' heating systems. The procurement arrangements were developed to address multiple, small
projects for separate building owners and the uncertainty about the pipeline of subprojects that the ESCO
will develop each year. The ESCO will implement these many small subprojects based on market demand
and commercial criteria. The ESCO operates on commercial basis and must be profitable. Therefore, it
must be able to respond very quickly to market demands or lose the business. On this basis, the
procurement arrangements for Bank financing will follow: (i) commercial practices acceptable to the Bank
for the procurement of equipment, materials and installation works, for up to US$350,000 equivalent per
contract. Such practices shall consist in obtaining at least three quotations, when possible from suppliers
located in at least two eligible countries; and (ii) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures for
procurement of equipment, materials and installation works in excess of US$350,000 equivalent per
contract.
The ESCO will act as general contractor for the building owner in order to ensure quality of
implementation and guarantee the savings. As a result, the ESCO may procure equipment, materials and
installation works separately. Neither MPEC, nor the ESCO or any other MPEC/ESCO affiliated
companies will supply equipment or materials or provide installation works and other ESCO-related
services under Bank-financing. A typical cost structure for an individual ESCO project would comprise
80% for equipment, materials and installation work, and 20% for ESCO margins and overheads. The
ESCO will finance the cost of equipment, materials and installation works from the Bank loan and other
financing sources. The ESCO will finance its margin and overheads from local bank loans. The World
Bank funds will not be used for the ESCO's margin and overheads. The loans will be serviced by client
payments from their cost savings over the payback period of the investment.
4.9 Disbursement Arrangements.
Although MPEC's financial management system with some modifications has the potential for
PMR-based disbursement, MPEC has stated a clear preference to start with traditional direct
disbursements as this had worked satisfactorily during the previous loan, and the staff is well acquainted
with this method of disbursement.
- 23 -



4.10 Status of the Financial Management System of the Project
General: The financial management systems of MPEC and the ESCO satisfy the Bank's requirements for
project reporting. The two companies have adjusted their accounting software to automatically prodi ice the
three financial reports (Sources and Uses of Funds (1-A), Uses of Funds by Project Activity (1-B), anid
Project Balance Sheet (I-C)) required for the total project as well as for the part financed by the World
Bank. The ESCO has adjusted its accounting software to produce financial statements in accordanc: with
IAS.
Project and Entity Accounting: MPEC's relatively new accounting software ASSIM is adequate fcr both
project and entity accounting and has been adjusted to produce the above-mentioned reports automatically.
ASSIM is able to integrate project accounting with company accounting and to produce project financial
management reports in accordance with the Bank's requirements as well as financial statements in
accordance with Polish Accounting Law. Financial statements in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS) will be produced separately. MPEC currently carries out multi-currency
transactions using a separate currency program.
ESCO's brand new accounting software CDN has been amended to produce project financial management
reports in accordance with the Bank's requirements, and financial statements in accordance with IAS
Since both MPEC's financing to ESCO and the ESCO's repayment to MPEC will be in PLN (see sect ion
C.4.4), multi-currency capability is not required.
Accounting Procedures: MPEC's and the ESCO's accounting policies and procedures, as well as internal
control are satisfactory. Both companies have already developed "Project Accounting Procedures" showing
that effective segregation of duties in the project will be applied by keeping preparation, review, and
authorization responsibilities separate from each other. These procedures are documented in the Financial
Management Assessment Report. These responsibilities have also been documented in the companies' job
descriptions for individual employees.
Flow of Funds: The total project cost is US$78 million, of which (a) 40% will be financed by loans from
the World Bank and Polish commercial banks; and (b) 60% by MPEC using internally generated funds.
The World Bank will be financing 19% of the total cost. These funds will flow from the Bank either as
direct disbursements to suppliers or to Special Accounts administrated by MPEC. This means that the part
of the loan allocated for the ESCO component, and for which ESCO will be made responsible through an
implementation agreement, will also be administrated through MPEC, and that ESCO will not at any stage
of the product cycle come in contact with World Bank funds.
Staffing: The staffing level of the Financial and Economic Department at MPEC is adequate. The
professional training and experience of the financial staff is satisfactory. There are 31 employees including
5 supervisors. The latter have university degrees or diplomas in accounting, while the others are
high-school graduates. The ESCO is still in an early phase of establishment and has employed one ch ief
accountant who will recruit more accounting employees as the company expands.
Reporting requirements: MPEC will be responsible for all reporting requirements to the Bank. MPFGC
and the ESCO will prepare annual entity financial statements in accordance with International Accounting
Standard as well as Polish Accounting Law. The IAS financial statements for both the companies consist
of (i) balance sheet; (ii) income statement; (iii) a statement showing all changes in equity; (iv) cash flcw
statement; and (v) notes and supplementary schedules containing other disclosures required under LAS.
- 24 -



The quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) reflect the organization of the project and the
implementation arrangements between MPEC and the ESCO. These reports will be submitted to the Bank
within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. Project financial statements for the two project
components as well as the Special Account Statement will be prepared in accordance with the format
provided by the World Bank and consolidated to one project financial statement. The PMR will cover the
following areas:
1. Financial Reports:
* Project Sources and Uses of Funds [MPEC and ESCO, and consolidated]
* Uses of Funds by Project Activity [MPEC, ESCO, and consolidated]
* Project Balance Sheet [MPEC, ESCO, and consolidated]
* Project Cash Withdrawals [for the whole project]
*   Special Account Statement [for the whole project]
2. Project Progress Report:
*   Output Monitoring Report (Output by project activity) [MPEC, ESCO]
3. Procurement Management Report:
* Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works) [MPEC]
* Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works) [MPEC, ESCO]
Previous Audit Arrangements: Deloitte & Touche was MPEC's auditor during the implementation of the
first loan. The audit opinions were unqualified, except for 1998, which stated that the company was
operating in a hyper-inflationary economy and should have used inflation accounting in accordance with
IAS 29. The auditor for 1999 was Kancelaria Bieglyych Rewidentow "Konto" Sp. z.o.o. and the opinion
was also qualified with the reference to IAS 29.
Future Audit Arrangements: During project implementation, both MPEC's and the ESCO's entity IAS
financial statements (see above) will be audited annually in accordance with Intemational Standard of
Auditing (ISA) by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Polish audit companies can be considered
even if they are not affiliated to the Intemational Federation of Accountants. However, companies without
affiliation would need to be approved by the Bank on a case-by-case basis. The annual financial
statements and the project statements with accompanying audit reports shall be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the end of the fiscal year. The audit shall include a separate opinion on the project
financial account (including statements of expenditures) and the Special Account.
Disbursement arrangements: Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of
traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Accounts on the
basis of SOEs and full documentation). As MPEG gains experience with PMR reporting, it will, in
consultation with the Bank, decide on the timing and transition of the use of the quarterly PMRs for
disbursement purposes. Agreement was reached that MPEC and the ESCO will prepare thefirst PMRs
no later than June 1, 2001. MPEC will open two Special Accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank for disbursement of Loan funds. One Special Account will be denominated in US Dollars and the
other in Euro. MPEC will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Special Accounts.
Detailed disbursement and financial arrangements are outlined in Annex 6.
- 25 -



4.11 Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting
Readiness for Project Implementation. MPEC is fully prepared to implement the district heat
modernization component. The latter is a fairly straightforward continuation of the Bank-financed lieat
Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loan 3381-POL). For the ESCO component, substantial
technical assistance was provided to MPEC and ESCO staff from a team of Canadian and US advisors
with experience in North American ESCOs and has covered the areas of ESCO development and
management, marketing, sales, legal, energy audit and architectural engineering, and measurement a-id
verification. This assistance was funded from the Bank's Consultant Trust Fund from Canada and the US
Trade and Development Agency. An additional PHRD grant was approved to assist the staff of the rnew
ESCO in the areas of management, finance, sales, marketing, project development and public information.
The aim was to ensure that, before Board approval, MPEC has a fully functional ESCO subsidiary in
place that is prepared to grow the business while marketing and implementing multiple ESCO projects with
commercial cofinancing.
Project Implementation. Step-by-step monitoring, verification and evaluation are critical in this project,
and will be conducted by MPEC and the ESCO. The format, contents and frequency of implementadion
progress reports were agreed upon and are included in the Project Implementation Plan. They will formn an
integral part of the project financial and management reports (PMR). The latter is specifically tailored to
the proposed project and includes, inter alia, performance indicator data, specified monitoring data and
evaluations as a basis for mid-course correction and for definition of key implementation issues requiring
management attention. The ESCO component in particular introduces new concept and market
mechanisms that should be supported. During project preparation, many of the issues were addressed,
plans to deal with the critical ones were prepared, and practical lessons learned in Bank/IFC support of
ESCOs in China and elsewhere were incorporated (see Section F). However, when introducing these new
concepts and market mechanisms, there will be unforeseen issues and problems for example in the fields of
economic regulation, taxation, accounting convention, market shifts, etc. which have not been fully
anticipated. Hence, close supervision, maintenance of strong political support with local authorities, and
flexibility to make adjustments are important during project implementation. A mid-term review of t.-le
project shall be carried out at the beginning of the third year to evaluate achievement of project
development objectives and implementation progress and, if needed, take corrective measures to ensure
efficient completion of the project. Other reporting and monitoring requirements (such as the
Implementation Completion Report) were also agreed upon. Agreement was reached that MPEC siWall
prepare andfurnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports on project implementation, not later ithan
45 days after the end of each quarter. These reports shall include adequate information on all
measures necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan (see Section E. 5).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
For the district heating modernization component, the altemative project design would have been a
decentralized system with gas or oil-fired small boilers in buildings. Master plan studies rejected suc i an
altemative for the high-population density areas of Krakow that are currently connected to the main cListrict
heating network and that are mostly supplied by the two large energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly
combined heat and power plants. Investment measures financed under the first loan were aimed at
rehabilitating district heating as the least-cost long-run option in these areas. Analyses will be made, on a
case-by-case basis, for other areas in Krakow that are still isolated from the main network and that are
currently supplied by small, coal-fired boilers in the buildings or individual coal-fired stoves in the
- 26 -



apartments, and for which a decentralized solution is technically and economically feasible.
For the ESCO component, the concept of promoting conservation by utilities through consumer rebates or
subsidies, as used to be practiced in North American demand-side management (DSM) programs, was
considered. However, it was rejected in order to avoid consumer subsidies. The approach of strengthening
market mechanisms is proposed instead, as discussed below.
The development of a line-of-credit operation to support energy efficiency investments was also considered.
Although such an operation might have been simpler to develop and implement, given the mediocre
experience of past Bank projects in Poland and elsewhere involving lines of credit, including for energy
conservation, a more promising approach was adopted.
Given the above experience and observations, plus the lack of commercial lending for building energy
efficiency projects, described in section B.2, a two-pronged approach to the current lack of domestic
financing for energy efficiency is proposed. First, the proposed utility-based ESCO approach should help
reduce perceived risk by local commercial banks by having the ESCO underwrite the technical performance
of the financing, if needed with MPEC backing. This situation is simpler for the local bank than
evaluating risks for many loans to many building owners. Second, the Bank should co-finance each
individual ESCO project with the local banks, as a further means of reducing their perceived risks and
allowing them to gain experience and eventually offer financing for such projects without the added comfort
of the Bank financing.
Utility-based ESCO. Given the current situation, the establishment of a utility-based ESCO appears to
have significant advantages and only a few minor disadvantages. These are listed below.
Advantages:
*   As the long term provider of heating service, MPEC already has a strong relationship of trust with
many building owners. This relationship is an essential ingredient for establishing multi-year
collaborations in which the ESCO installs, owns, and sometimes operates equipment within the
building owner's facility until the payback and performance guarantee period is completed.
Building upon this strong foundation, the new ESCO will develop a market position that
emphasizes its differences from potential new, non-utility related ESCOs that are often suspected
of "cream-skimrning" and of not being in for the long haul.
*   Because of its existing long-term relationship with its customer base, MPEC is perceived as being
involved for "the long haul," extending well beyond the typical 4-7 year payback period of ESCO
financing. This situation enables long term contracts which can fund infrastructure renewal and/or
greater energy reductions that are not possible with shorter term contracts.
*   Because MPEC knows its market and customers very well, its marketing costs should be less than
a typical start-up ESCO operation, and its marketing success rate should be high.
*   MPEC has both the incentive and the proven ability to adopt an integrated resource planning
approach to integrate supply and demand-side actions within the project. This can be done most
cost effectively by: (i) first reducing a building's thermal losses; and (ii) then by improving the
efficiency and control of the building internal energy systems, the connection to the heat transfer
stations, the related heat distribution network and the heat sources.
*   MPEC can invest in reduced demand instead of additional supply capacity, and it can
accommodate new customers by reducing the demand from existing customers.
*   Many energy efficiency opportunities are within smaller projects, and smaller projects are more
feasible by local utilities such as MPEC, through its subsidiary ESCO, because of smaller
transaction costs and existing client relationships.
*   For local banks: the utility-based approach reduces the perceived risks by the local banks and the
need for them to evaluate these risks for many loans to many building owners -- as the ESCO
- 27 -



underwrites the technical perfornance of the financing and the utility stands behind its new and
unknown ESCO subsidiary.
Possible Disadvantages:
* MPEC lacks experience in ESCO-type marketing, financing, and management.
* It may be difficult (and not desirable) to geographically expand the ESCO market and, in g;-neral,
MPEC's marketing advantage is expected to decline with distance.
* It is not usual for utilities to use the ESCO subsidiary to absorb excess utility staff of the parent
company, not necessarily having the skills required for the ESCO business.
* As ESCO staff increase their knowledge and expertise, it may be difficult for the ESCO to retain
them.
The advantages listed above are quite strong, while the disadvantages from a lack of experience can be
overcome by participation in a series of pilot projects that are supplemented by technical assistance 3nd
training. The possibly limited capability for geographical expansion is offset by the fact that there i, a
substantial market for ESCO services within MPEC's current service area and the boundaries of the new
Krakow Voivodship.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
1. Environmental management        1. Environment Management         HS            HS
Project (Ln 3190; completed)
2. Improved efficiency of district  2.1 Heat Supply Restructuring    HS             HS
heating systems, reduction of air  & Conservation Project (Lns.
pollution emissions from small district 3378/79/81/82-POL;
heating plants                     completed)
2.2 Katowice Heat Supply and       S             S
Conservation Project (Ln.
3809-POL; completed)
3. Reduction of greenhouse gases   3. GEF Coal-to-Gas                 S             S
(GHG) from small HOBs              Conversion Project (TF 028665
& TF023647) (ongoing)
4. Modernization of power transmission 4. Power Transmission Project  S             S
infrastructure                     (Ln. 3959-POL) (ongoing)
5. Hard Coal Sector Restructuring  SECAL I (completed)                S             S
6. Use of renewable energy resources,  6. Geothermal & Environment    S             S
reduction of air pollution & GHG   Project (Ln 7015 & TF023679)
emissions from small HOBs          (ongoing)
Other development agencies
lP/DO Ratings. HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
There are other energy and district heating related projects financed by other development agencies in Europe and
Central Asia Region, but only the Polish projects financed by the Bank are shown in the above table.
- 28 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design and implementation draw extensively on the completed Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project in Krakow (Loan 3381-POL) and on similar Bank projects in other cities. Actual DH
investment costs and implementation performance data are now available and have been used to confinn
that the proposed rehabilitation investments are economic and that the associated implementation and
procurement arrangements are efficient.
The project design also benefits from lessons learned from previous demand-side energy efficiency efforts
in the Krakow region. Starting in 1990, the Polish-American Low Emission Sources Program has
accomplished a number of energy efficiency projects in the region, from an integrated supply and
demand-side perspective. MPEC participated in about half of the projects. Since the success of individual
projects within that program varied considerably, MPEC staff have gained valuable insight into the
technical, management, and business factors that contribute to successfil energy efficiency projects.
MPEC has participated in "semi-ESCO" type projects on several residential buildings and on small,
isolated district heating networks in Krakow. The experience gained in these various projects are reflected
in the design of the ESCO component.
The project design and the ESCO has benefitted from lessons leamed by public utilities in North America,
which are actively and successfully using the ESCO approach through fully-owned subsidiaries to both
achieve substantial energy savings and provide valuable services that involve long-tenn collaboration with
customers. Based on North American experience, an ESCO in the Krakow region with its origin in the
existing MPEC utility was established. During project preparation, MPEC and the ESCO benefited from
this North American experience through US and Canadian technical assistance. The latter focused on two
critical areas: (i) the development of a detailed ESCO business plan; and (ii) the identification and
implementation of two pilot projects that use ESCO financing and procedures.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
MPEC is a Bank borrower, familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines, and has already successfully
completed the US$25 million Bank-financed Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loan
3381 -POL). MPEC has requested Bank support for this follow-up project and has shown high commitment
and strong ownership throughout the project preparation. The involvement of MPEC's senior corporate
management has been intense and sustained. MPEC Management and Supervisory Board, its General
Assembly of Shareholders and the City of Krakow all have endorsed the project and the Bank loan.
The new ESCO subsidiary is established and is now operational. Its capability and expertise to enter into
performance contracting will have to grow quickly after the development phase is completed this year. The
ESCO has undertaken two pilot projects, one at the university and one at a primary school, and is using the
technical results to demonstrate how recorded savings may be linked to performance based financing. In
addition, Finnish consultants financed from bilateral funds have produced a database of some 150
individual projects and the data collection and analysis will be used to prioritize individual projects.
The City Authority has issued a resolution to have the ESCO develop and implement a six-year program
for energy efficiency investments in municipal buildings following energy performance contracting
principles and using World Bank loan funds. The ESCO entered into a Framework Agreement with the
City of Krakow that lays out its role in project development and implementation and the responsibilities of
the relevant municipal departments regarding cooperation and budgeting.
- 29 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement is regarded as essential for: (i) continuing the policy dialogue, including tihough
ongoing ESMAP assistance to URE, in support of sector policy development and tariff regulations that are
conducive to private sector participation; (ii) helping MPEC finance its minimum DH investment programs
that would improve the quality, affordability and delivery of district heating and hot water services n
Krakow; and (iii) helping MPEC improve its financial performance to a level sufficient for private or
commercial financing.
Given the 5-9 year payback period of most energy efficiency projects, the availability of loan financing will
determine the scale and pace of the ESCO's business development, if the ESCO wants to achieve
reasonable retums on its equity. The key is thus for the ESCO to move as quickly as possible from
"on-balance sheet financing" of its clients' projects to "off-balance sheet financing", whereby fundiing is
provided by banks lending directly to the ESCO's clients. However the experience in North Americ a
shows that it often takes a number of years of proven operations for ESCOs to persuade banks to fin-ance
them and even more to undertake off-balance sheet financing on a significant scale. At the same tinme it is
not reasonable to expect that the ESCO's shareholders will continue to pitch additional equity in the ESCO
to finance its expansion, with limited support from banks. Given that ESCOs are a novelty in Poland and
that the Polish commercial banks are generally lukewarm about providing long term financing for new
business, especially for energy efficiency in the building sector, it is likely that the project will -- even with
strong efforts from its inception -- encounter difficulties in getting commercial bank financing, parti zularly
off-balance sheet. The World Bank loan will therefore be critical to provide financing during the start-up
years of the ESCO. As the ESCO establishes its credibility through successful energy efficiency projects
(with clients complying with the repayment termns), commercial banks would be expected to gradually start
to participate in financing this type of business.
Similarly, given the difficulties of starting an ESCO business in a new market -- and the low profita 3ility of
this kind on business in its early years, it is unlikely that private investors will venture to invest equicy
up-front in such activities. While the World Bank loan will be essential in providing part of the initial
financing for the project, the general support of the Bank to the project will help build-up the credibility of
the ESCO. Gradually, this would help attract commercial bank financing and, after a few years, pos,sibly
even private investment.
The technical, economic, and environmental benefits to Poland of improving the energy efficiency ofX
buildings and their energy sources are well substantiated. The technologies for effecting substantial
improvements in energy efficiency in buildings are well-defined and standard with proven effectiven,ss.
However, several barriers to improved energy efficiency have prevented the widespread implementation of
projects that would capture these benefits. The Bank's support in this project seeks to overcome three
major barriers to improved energy efficiency in the Krakow region: (i) financing mechanisms are nol in
place; (ii) building decision-makers lack information; and (iii) risks are perceived to be high. The Bank's
involvement in this project would facilitate the widespread use of ESCO financing arrangements as wvell as
mechanisms in which technical risks from energy efficiency measures are assumed by a single entity -- the
ESCO that has the expertise in selecting, installing and operating the key energy efficiency measures.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$24.6 million; ERR = 22.9 %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
- 30 -



Competitiveness. The competitiveness of district heating in MPEC's operating areas was analyzed from
the customer's point of view (see Annex 4). The analysis of the long term comparative cost and relative
merits of heating dwellings by centralized DH with cogeneration-based supply systems versus decentralized
gas systems was carried out: (i) taking into account both capital costs and running costs (including actual
technical performance of MPEC's DH system) and the efficiency of both systems in delivering specified
heat levels to dwellings; and (ii) using current and economic prices for gas. For the bulk of MPEC
consumers, i.e. building-level substations, the gas heating alternative was 15-17% more expensive at the
October 2000 gas tariff level and is 20-29% more expensive at economic price for gas. DH's
competitiveness is expected to improve in 2001 and thereafter, when the gas price will be liberalized and
raised towards a cost covering level. DH in MPEC's operating areas is also the least-cost heating option
due to the relatively high heat load density of 3.7 GWh/km (compared, for instance, with an average value
of 3.3 GWh/km for all Finnish DH systems). In addition, MPEC is in a unique position since the two CHP
plants of different owners are competing vigorously to supply the DH market in Krakow.
For the DH modernization component, the economic and financial analysis focused on MPEC's entire
district heating modernization program, a portion of which is financed from the Bank loan. The net present
value (NPV) and the economic rate of return (ERR) were, therefore, calculated on the basis of the
incremental benefit and cost streams connected with the 2001-2006 time-slice of the total investment
program. The Bank financing covers the highest priority components in this program and is crucial for the
undertaking of the remaining part of the program. The calculation, as detailed in Annex 4, shows an ERR
of 22.9% and an NPV of US$24.6 million. The expected economic benefits of the DH modernization
program come from: (1) incremental revenues from new customers to be connected to the district heating
system; (2) coal savings in the entire DHICHP system; (3) increased productivity; (4) reduced water
consumption; (5) down-sizing benefits; and (6) reduced environmental pollution emissions. The first two
benefits account for two thirds of the total economic benefits of the DH modernization component and all
the others combined account for the remaining third.
For the ESCO component, payback periods for individual energy efficiency measures can range from less
than 3 years (heat automation and control) to above 13-17 years (new windows). The ESCO, the
commercial banks and the clients will agree on a set of energy efficiency measures with an acceptable
payback period. Payback periods will be set to maximize energy savings, and typically will average 7-9
years. The upgrading of energy systems for energy efficiency purposes also contributes directly to
infrastructure renewal, but cannot be separated.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 6.2 million, FRR = 12.7 % (see Annex 4)
2.1 Financial Rate of Return
MPEC's incremental cash flows related to the DH modernization component will be generated from the
increased system efficiency resulting from energy savings and the incremental net revenues from new and
existing customers, and were calculated on the basis of "with" and "without" the project. The calculation,
as detailed in Annex 4, shows an NPV of US$6.2 million and a financial rate of return (FRR) of 12.7%.
These figures are lower than the economic ones mostly because of the higher damage costs for emission
pollutions as well as the substantial benefits that accrue directly to the customers and the CHPs but not to
MPEC.
A sensitivity analysis carried out on key variables (investment costs and overall benefits) indicates that the
proposed investment is attractive and robust. Only with a 24% increase in investment cost, or with a 16%
decrease in overall benefits, or with a 9% increase in investment cost together with a 9% decrease in overall
- 31 -



benefits would the FRR fall below the cost of capital of about 10%. The risks of such variations arc
considered low because the investment cost and benefit estimates are based on MPEC's recent experences
with intemational procurement of similar equipment, and on actual energy saving results from the rezently
completed project (Loan 3381-POL).
2.2 Financial Analysis of MPEC (the Borrower)
Details of MPEC's financial performance during 1997 - 1999 (actual), for 2000 (estimate), and dunrng
2001-2010 (projected) are in Annex 5. A sumrnary follows.
Pastfinancialperformance: MPEC's financial performance through 1997 was satisfactory but has since
gradually deteriorated (see Table below). The operating ratio increased and the rate of return on invested
capital decreased, to levels where the company's ability to generate own funds for investment has been
noticeably affected. This was mainly due to the Government's counter-inflationary measures: MPEC and all
other Polish energy enterprises were not allowed to raise tariffs to the level needed to cover costs. A
substantial decline in heat sales due to energy conservation measures and mild winters also played
significant roles.
Indicators                      1997       1998      1999      2000
Operating Ratio                 91.5%     96.6%     98.1%      98.0%
Rate of Return on Invested Capital   7.39%  3.02%    1.61%     1.84%
Current Ratio                    2.35      1.54      0.90       1.02
Average Price (PLN/GJ)           21.8      26.2      27.9       28.9
Heat Sales (TJ)                 12,310    11,211    10,551     11,013
Change of Heat Sales          _-8.9%                -5.9%      4 4%
Present financial performance - TariffPolicy and Regulation: MPEC (like other district heating
companies in Poland) experienced a further deterioration in its financial performance in 2000. The new
tariff regime, as described in Section B.c.1, requires companies, among other things, to use (i)"justified"
costs when calculating tariff increase proposals, and (ii) the year 1998 as the base year for the calculations.
The interpretation of "justified" costs as applied during the first year of the regime, and the complexity of
the new tariff structure have had adverse effects on the sector. Thus, the tariffs approved by URE (the
Regulator) for did not allow companies to build up working capital to a level that gives acceptable liquidity
and the capacity to repay loans or self-finance the modernization program. The Ministry of Economy and
URE have recognized the shortcomings of the current tariff regulations, and a number of positive changes
have introduced (see Section B.3. 1). The heat tariff regulations and proposals for modifications are being
addressed in the context of the Bank/ESMAP technical assistance support program to URE (see Section
C.2).
Financial projections for 2001 - 2010: The main focus of the financial analysis has been to examine
MPEC's capacity to (i) finance the counterpart share of the financing during the project period and (ii)
service its loans with internally generated funds. Furthermore, the company's low liquidity has made it
important to ensure that some of the intemally generated funds would be used to increase working capital
to an acceptable level.
The projections are based on the assumption that: (i) tariffs calculated on the basis of the old ordinance,
would be raised by 7.5% in real terms on or about January 1, 2001: and (ii) each year thereafter, tari ffs
calculated on the basis of the new ordinance follow inflation. As MPEC wishes to limit external borrowing
to a two-year bridge financing of US$7 million, there would need to be a gross internal cash generation of
approximately US$72 million. The table below gives details.
- 32 -



US$ Million        2001   2002  2003   2004  2005   2006   Total
Internal Sources         10.3   10.8   11.7   12.3  13.1   13.9   72.2
IBRD                     5.3    1.7   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    7.0
Other Sources            0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
Equity Investments                                                 _
Total Sources        15.6   12.5   11.7   12 3   13.1   13.9   79.2
Capital Expenditures      9.6    8.6   7.4    8.0   10.5   9.9    54.0
Working Capital Increase  2.8    0.7    1.1    1.3   -0.3    0.5    6.0
Debt Service            3.2    3.3    3.2    3.1     2.9    3 5    19.2
Dividends
Total Applications   15.6   12.5   11.7   123   13.1   13.9   79.2
Based on the projections, MPEC's financial performance for the period 2001 - 2006 is expected to be
approximately as shown in the following table:
Indicators                                 2001   2002    2003   2004   2005   2006
Operating Ratio                           96.7%  95.1%   93.3%  92.4%  93.3%  91.7%
Rate of Return on Invested Capital         3.2%   5.1%    7.2%   8.4%   7.5%   9 6%
Current Ratio                                1.2    1.3     1.4    1.5    1.4    1.4
Number of Days' Sale in Net Accounts Receivable    59  54    55     55     55     55
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                  3.2    3.3     3.7    4.0    4.5    4.0
% of Total CapEx Financed by Internal Sources   6.2%1 83.2%   85.1% 101.3% 103.2% 102.5%
In conclusion, the financial analysis shows that for the proposed investment program to be financed in the
way MPEC currently intends (i.e., with minimum borrowing), profitability must be greatly improved. This
is possible if MPEC is granted a nominal tariff increase of 15% (i.e., 7.5% in real terms) on or about
January 1, 2001 and is thereafter able to compensate for future inflation. If the tariff increases would be
less than this, the company would either need additional external financing to cover the financing gap
created or reduce the investment program. Both these options have been thoroughly analyzed and are fully
realistic both from the viewpoints of function and financial and economic rate of return.
Financial Covenants: It is important for MPEC to restore its liquidity to an acceptable level as soon as
possible to ensure timely availability of counterpart funds and satisfactory financial performance.
Agreement was reached that MPEC shall maintain: (a) a current ratio of at least 1.1 in 2001 and 1.3
for the remainder of the project period; and (b) a debt service ratio of at least 1.3 during the whole
project period. Agreement was also reached that MPEC shall, before November 15 of each year,
submit financial projections showing how it intends to finance its investment program for the coming
year as well as a financing plan showing that the available financing sources are adequate
2.3 Financial Analysis of the ESCO
Based on the ESCO business plan, a financial model of the ESCO operations was developed to analyze and
confirn the business strategies of the ESCO. The model generates a profit and loss statement, a cash flow
statement, and a balance sheet for a ten-year time horizon. The results of the financial analysis are
summarized in Annex 5 and detailed in the Project Implementation Plan. The key accounting principle
- 33 -



used in the model is recognition of revenue upon construction completion. To protect owner's equity from
the technical risks associated with savings and cost prediction errors, a reserve is taken from after tax profit
to match the expected loss rate. A critical assumption is that initially all project work will be financcd
through the ESCO's balance sheet. This reflects an early focus on the public sector and the ease wit i
which the ESCO's balance sheet can undertake these initial projects. However to control the need for new
equity contributions from MPEC as the ESCO grows, it is assumed that by year 5 the ESCO is only
financing 40% of the project costs on its balance-sheet. The balance would be financed by clients paying
cash or borrowing themselves.
Revenue is assumed to grow rapidly over 6 years, and to remain constant thereafter at 26 million PLN/year
(US$6 million) as a time of consolidation. Over the ten year period, sales are forecasted to accumulate to
196 million PLN (US$48 million). Though more than this amount of market is available within the
Vovoidship of Malopolskie, depending on the sectors pursued and the likely actions of competitors, h e
ESCO may service clients beyond its immediate region. The resultant 1.6% average return on invested
capital (or 6% return on equity) is considered attractive for the Polish economy.
Project monitoring will focus on: (i) technical and credit risk management of the ESCO; and (ii)
involvement of local commercial banks in co-financing early projects with the World Bank. Since this is a
new industry, the actual rate of sales growth cannot be accurately forecasted. Therefore future busir.ess
projections will be reviewed annually so that expectations of all parties may be updated in light of emerging
market trends. The financial health of the ESCO will also be monitored closely to ensure it is not out of
line with private market realities which could limit its ability to sell, raise funds or set up strategic al .iances
with equipment or service suppliers, or private ESCO(s).
Fiscal Impact:
Apart from the contingent liability associated with guaranteeing the loan, there will be no negative fiscal
impact for the Government. MPEC, the borrowing entity, is a commercial enterprise and will generate
adequate cash flow from its operations to repay the loan and pay income and other taxes.
3. Technical:
Use of Technologies. This project will not employ unproven energy technologies. Initial retrofits will be
familiar to the engineering and construction trades in Krakow. The ESCO will be encouraged to focus on
proven methods for maximizing savings to be generated for each client, without trying leading edge
technologies. Since MPEC's core skill is the supply of heat, the ESCO must hire skills in other
technologies such as lighting, motors and ventilation. Such skills exist in Krakow, but must be integrated
with heat supply skills. Such integration of skills will capitalize on the opportunity of working through a
municipal utility with a wide customer base. Successful integration will be judged by successful payback
of the first few comprehensive projects dealing with all conventional technologies. Following succes.sful
integration of conventional technology skills, the ESCO can undertake application of new technologies
proven elsewhere but not widely distributed in Poland.
Energy Savings Versus Building Retrofit Measures. A further issue is whether a specific technology is
being used because of its energy savings or as part of general building renewal, or both. During
implementation, attention will be given to developing projects which suit each client's balance between a
desire for cash savings and facility renewal. This will maximize the uptake of energy efficiency
opportunities. Potential customers must also be educated about the value of comprehensive retrofit projects
which cut deeply into energy consumption. Both information programs and direct sales techniques Bill
carry this message as appropriate through available communication channels, using local expertise as much
- 34 -



as possible.
ESCO Services. The ESCO will provide energy services on a tum-key and performance basis and will
offer customers a guarantee of the projected energy cost reductions. In providing these services the ESCO
will generate revenue from: (i) internal labor for management and engineering and (ii) a mark-up on
purchased labor and materials. The ESCO will deliver these services through hiring and training staff, and
through the formation of strategic alliances with engineering and contracting firms. Critical technical skills
to be developed at this level include monitoring and verification recording and reporting, baseline review
and adjustment, and savings recording according to contractual obligations, among others.
As the ESCO grows, it will eventually offer a broad and diverse package of services covering heat,
electricity and water. By building trade alliances with expertise in electricity and water management, the
ESCO will be better able to meet customers' requests for comprehensive solutions as well as realize
economies of scale that are more attractive to lenders. However, for the start-up phase of the company, the
ESCO will base its service on improving the efficiency with which heat is used at the customer level.
Energy audits undertaken or commissioned by MPEC to date, as well as the current portfolio of projects,
provide an important indication of the feasibility of providing this energy management service.
Specifically, the service is expected to include the following measures directed to buildings: (i) coal boiler
elimination and connection of customer to the MPEC heating network; (ii) replacement of coal boilers with
gas boilers; (iii) installation of new heat substations; (iv) installation of thermostatic control valves,
reflective screens behind radiators and temperature controls in customer facilities; and (v) improvement of
the thermal performance of the building shell through air sealing, insulation and new windows.
4. Institutional:
4 1 Executing agencies:
MPEC will be the executing agency and borrower of the IBRD loan. It will be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of the overall project and will directly implement the district heating modernization
component. The ESCO will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the ESCO component.
Both MPEC and the ESCO has qualified staff to fulfill their functions and responsibilities.
4.2 Project management:
Overall Project Management. Similar to the arrangement under the previous loan, the Foreign
Cooperation Department at MPEC will be responsible for all activities related to the IBRD loan, including
procurement, disbursement and loan accounting. The staff of this department are qualified and conversant
on Bank's operations and procedures, and have cooperated with various World Bank departrnents and staff
since 1991.
The ESCO Subsidiary. The definition of ESCO staffing requirements, company structure, company
management and operational procedures, and risk management in an unregulated environment are issues
which were addressed during project preparation as part of the technical assistance, on-the-job training, and
development of the detailed ESCO business plan. Further refinement of some of these issues will occur
during project implementation. The legal, taxation and inter-institutional framework for ESCO contracting
operations was also worked out during project preparation and tested during the pilot projects, and will be
adjusted where necessary during implementation.
- 35 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
There is no immediate procurement issue. Because of the innovative ESCO program, an intensive
supervision effort will be required in the early years of implementation, with special focus on monitoring
the use of commercial practices procedure for the procurement under the ESCO component.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Assessment. The financial management assessment for the Krakow Energy
Efficiency Project in Poland, as summarized in Item 4.10 of Section C and detailed in the Project
Implementation Plan, confirmns that both MPEC's and the ESCO's financial management systems sa-:isfy
the Bankes requirements.
Project Risk: The main risk is that the energy regulator, URE, will not allow MPEC to increase its t3riffs
to a level that gives an adequate rate of return. The overall project risk is medium, which is demonstrated
by the following table:
Risk Assessment Table
Risk Area                        High   Medium      Low
I  Organizational Structure/Institutional Arrangements   XESCO              XMPEC
2  Project Structure and Costing                                   XESCO    XMPEC
3  Intemal Control Structure                                                  X
4  Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting        XESCO    XMPEC
5  Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation               X
6  Staffing and Training                                             _        X
7  Audit Arrangements                                                         x
8  Budgeting and Monitoring                                                   x
I    Project Risk -                                                   X
Notes:
1 Due to the novelty of the environment in which ESCO will operate, the overall risk is "medium" for the
ESCO Component of the Project
5. Environmental:                     Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging fiom this analys.s.
In accordance with World Bank policy on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), the project has
been rated Category B. There are no adverse major environmental issues associated with this project. The
district heating modernization component will yield greater efficiencies in energy use and switching to
cleaner fuels (from coal to oil/gas), and the ESCO component is specifically targeted to improve energy
efficiency. Both components will reduce fuel consumption and/or encourage less polluting fuel use vihich in
turn will improve local air quality (dust, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides) and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions (carbon dioxide).
Replacement of materials and equipment may lead to dust and noise. Replacement of old insulation nay
involve asbestos, and assurances were provided that any new insulation materials are acceptable under
Poland's commitments to the Montreal Protocol.
- 36 -



5 2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A Envirornmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by MPEC, a copy of which is in the Project
Implementation Plan. The EMP contains two elements for each of the major project components. For the
District Heat Modernization component (direct investment) the EMP follows the traditional format as
presented in OP 4.01 Annex C. For the ESCO component (intermediary credit arrangements) the EMP
focuses on the institutional arrangements and institutional capacity for environmental screening,
environmental analysis, and the environmental regulatory framework which is in place or will be
strengthened to ensure that ESCO sub-projects receive a level of scrutiny that is: (a) in compliance with
Polish environmental policies, procedures and regulations, and (b) consistent with World Bank
environmental policies and procedures.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: EMP received on March 2, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment manlagement plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Two-way consultative sessions with public interest groups and stakeholders were undertaken and focused
on project-related environmental issues (consistent with the EMP requirements). MPEC used an extemal
environmental communications expert to conduct these sessions, financed from the PHRD grant. The
results of these sessions are recorded in the minutes and form an integral part of the EMP. MPEC will
incorporate any relevant recommendations in the project design and implementation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environrment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Krakow has in place an air quality monitoring network. Summary air quality data (winter average and
annual average) on dust and sulfur dioxide will be reviewed to see if the long-term trends on the overall air
quality improvement in Krakow are consistent with the improvement in fuel consumption mix realized over
the project implementation period.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no critical social issues related to the project. As described below, MPEC sells heat to
cooperatives and not to individual tenants, and there are no "poor" tenants that are directly connected to
MPEC's DH system. A municipal social support program is in place that provides financial support to the
poor for, inter alia, heat services. The project will make district heat and hot water services competitive
and more affordable in the areas targeted by the project, and therefore no social hardships are anticipated
as a result of the project. The ESCO services (i.e., the energy efficiency measures) can be adapted to suit
the need of each group of consumers, including the poor.
DHEs in Poland deal directly with housing cooperatives and not with individual building tenants. DHEs
deliver heating at the building substation level, and cooperatives are responsible for delivering the heat to
the individual tenants through the building internal heat installations. The role of the Polish housing
cooperatives in contracting directly with DHEs has been a significant factor in creating a mechanism for
DHEs to ensure the adequate collection of domestic heating accounts. The cooperatives collect, on a
- 37 -



monthly basis, the rent and other utility and building expenses (including heating, domestic hot wateT, water
and sewage, building management, and building maintenance and renovation) directly from the tenants and
any non-payments by individual tenants are first covered by the cooperatives' reserves and then reco-ered
from the tenants through specific repayment arrangements.
In Krakow, most of the poor live in blocks of flats and therefore are not direct MPEC clients. Individual
houses connected to MPEC's DH system represent only 3% of the MPEC's DH market and a very few of
them are inhabited by retirees who may have payment problems. A municipal social support program is
already in place in Krakow for those consumers living in flats or individual houses that can be categorized
as "poor" based on such minimum criteria as "per capita income" and "per capita square meter of living
space." The municipality makes payments for the rent (including utility and other building expenses X or the
heating expenses of these poor consumers, directly to the housing cooperatives or MPEC, respectively.
Since ESCO services will be available to all building owners, there is no inherent bias, and thus no
significant social issues. Energy efficiency measures have payback periods ranging from a few mon :hs to a
typical average of 7 years. The ESCO will work directly with the management of the housing cooperatives
to develop the package of energy efficiency measures, including payback periods, that will suit the need of
the consumers, the ESCO and the banks. Consultative meetings with building occupants are being
envisaged at each individual project level. However, the ESCO operates on a commercial basis and aannot
afford to sign contracts regardless of size, due to the fixed costs associated with any contract. Therefore, to
ensure that social objectives are met through this project, such as supporting energy efficiency
improvements for small low income housing, the ESCO will cooperate with public bodies such as the City
of Krakow or the Maloposkie Voivodship to deliver energy efficiency projects in low-income housing they
wish to aggregate or subsidize, should that be necessary.
Social Monitoring and Project Evaluation Impacts. As part of its marketing and consumer relations
activity, MPEC conducts a consumer satisfaction survey each year. During project implementation, the
Bank will review the terms of reference of such a survey and agree with MPEC on any additional suwvey
activity that will be required to assess the project impacts as well as the mechanisms that will be used to
incorporate the survey results into implementation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Proposed Activities. A strong participatory program is being prepared to inform the public and to engage
key stakeholders. The public participation program will include: (i) information sharing activities; aid (ii)
consultative participation activities at two levels, at the program level or a class of potential customers, and
at the individual project level. The intention is to reach out to the various stakeholder groups to prov; de
them with adequate information about the project and how it will affect them. The public participation
program will listen to stakeholder concems, and incorporate them as appropriate into the design and
implementation of the overall ESCO program and the individual projects. Key stakeholder groups are:
*   Direct beneficiaries: these include the owners and occupants of buildings of different types (e.g.
housing cooperatives, businesses, and public service facilities such as schools, hospitals, andt
governments).
*   Other affected groups. these include building industry associations, building design profess onals,
manufacturers of building equipment and materials, building retrofit contractors, financial
organizations serving the building industry (banks, mortgage companies, etc), and building t ode
officials and inspectors.
*   Other stakeholders: these include local advocacy groups (buildings, housing, energy, and
environrental issues), students of all ages from primary school through university levels, officials
- 38 -



and key staff of the city and voivod (regional) governments, and members of the architectural and
engineenng community.
The Mayor of Krakow has expressed support for the ESCO program and a desire to play an active role in
public information activities. The City of Krakow issued a resolution to have the ESCO develop and
implement energy efficiency projects in municipal buildings (primarily in the education and health sector).
Progress Achieved To Date. MPEC has made considerable progress to date in sharing information about
the project. Several mechanisms were used to reach a variety of audiences. These include: (i) large articles
in the main national newspaper and in the official Voivodship and city publications; (ii) advertisements in a
daily, widely distributed newspaper in the Krakow region as well in a customer magazine distributed
free-of-charge to all Krakow residents; (iii) official meetings with the city authorities; (iv) preparation of
training for potential ESCO beneficiaries and building owners; and (v) preparation of a web-site for the
ESCO. As a result of these efforts and related marketing: three small municipalities near Krakow and the
Academy of Sport in Krakow have already expressed interest in an ESCO project; actual projects have
been identified; and a energy survey of all 700 municipal buildings in Krakow was completed and energy
audits on priority buildings are underway.
Remaining Activities. Further public participation activities will continue during project implementation
and will include: (i) brochures specific to each customer group, explaining the nature of the services to be
supplied by the ESCO and including a simple overview explanation of the ESCO process and benefits; (ii)
a general project website; and (ii) selected client specific websites showing the economic, energy and
enviromnental benefits and any improvements in comfort for the consumers.
6 3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See Section 5.4.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As part of the key performance indicators to be used to justify the development objectives ratings during
supervision, a consumer satisfaction survey will be conducted regularly (at least once every two years).
6.5 How will the project monitor performnance in terms of social developmiient outcomes?
Project performance in terms of social development outcomes will be monitored using the results of the
consumer satisfaction survey.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7 1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the ?roject?
i 4  ................................~~~~~~~~~~.. .. . . . .   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........   .. ..........    ., r.  ,  . , , . . .   .. . . .. ,,
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)               * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                       0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                      0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                       0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                 0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)       0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)             0 Yes * No
- 39 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policie..
The EMP prepared by MPEC is satisfactory and is included in the Project Implementation Plan.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will not only dramatically increase the energy efficiency and quality of service to a majox
metropolitan district in an economy in transition, but also has the potential to establish a number of
important models and benchmarks for public and private energy service providers globally. It will
contribute to the sustainability of district heating and hot water services in Krakow by improving the
quality, competitiveness, affordability and delivery of heat energy services. Rising energy prices and
affordability of energy services, combined with environmental concems to comply with EU standards,
provide incentives to promote and implement energy efficiency investments and enhance project
sustainability. The project promotes a structure that maximizes local private participation (including local
banks) to help put commercially sustainable ESCO deals together. Energy efficiency and ESCO-typ,
activities will be customized according to the national and local circumstances, and structure as well as
financing arrangements will be flexible to meet these circumstances. The details of this project should
result in a successful long-term transition of the energy infrastructure in Malopolskie Voivodship (thc
Krakow region).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex l):
Risk                      isRain                  RSk M t:t-it-Ri*iotgatiori Measur
From Outputs to Objective
Prices (level and structure) of other          N          1. Tariff Regulation Ordinance under the Energy
competitive fuels (coal, gas and oil) for                 law provides for tariffs of network fiuels to
heating are not at economic levels.                       reflect costs of delivery and for URE to regulate
tariffs accordingly.
2. Compliance with EU accession requirements
for the energy sector provides for market.
competition and liberalization and for
elimination of price distorsions.
Projected savings are not achieved.            M          1. During project preparation, extensive
IBRD-funded technical assistance/ori-the-job
training was given to ESCO staff.
2. During implementation: (i) the ESCO to hire
qualified engineering consultants to help in -
ESCO project design and implementation; and
(ii) the Bank to review the first five ESCO
projects regardless of size, thereby setting the
standard for quality at entry of project design,
and to monitor savings results and 1ake
corrective actions.
2. Comparison of saving predictioni against
benchmarks before ESCO projects are
committed.
-40 -



Price signals discourage customer interest  N          Adapt retrofit project designs and scope, sales
and do not motivate a full of range of                 techniques, and target market to fit the economic
energy saving measures.                                situation. Current tariff regulation combined
with EU accession provides for elimination of
price distorsion.
Interest rates impose payback periods that   M         1. Same as above.
are unacceptable to the ESCO clients.                  2. MPEC to consider increasing its equity
contribution during the period of high interest
rates.
From Components to Outputs
MPEC' s internal cash generation is not      N         1. Limit the investrnent program to the priority
sufficient to implement the proposed                   measures.
investment program.                                    2. Ensure multi-year procurement commitments
to avoid drastic cuts in the investment budget
during MPEC's annual investment review.
Local banks are unwilling to lend to the     H         1. Introducing ESCO concept to the banking
ESCO client starting in year 3.                       industry through workshops.
2. Assisting local banks in developing
sustainable financing arrangements for the
ESCO and for the ESCO clients.
3. Fostering competition among local banks
based on a pipeline of viable ESCO projects
4. Encouraging early involvement of one bank in
the pilot projects.
5. MPEC to consider temporarily increasing
equity commitment to penetrate the market.
ESCO is unable to carry on its balance       S         Same as above.
sheet the cost of 100% of the ESCO
projects in years I and 2, then declining to
a lower limit of 40% by year 5 and
thereafter.
Public institutions view the ESCO            S         1. Resolution of the City of Krakow provides
contracts as debt instruments but not as               framework agreement for the ESCO to prepare
payments of savings from the operating                 and implement energy efficiency projects in all
budgets.                                               municipal buildings, following energy
performance contracting and using IBRD
financing.
2. Working with public institutions to adopt
policies supporting ESCO financing
arrangements.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The district heating modemization program is fairly straightforward. The only risk it entails is related to
MPEC's possible shortfall in counterpart financing. This risk is manageable and therefore low as: (i)
-41 -



MPEC could limit its investment program to the highest priority measures (network loop, connection of
new customers, substation automation and control) and defer other measures (network replacement) ro later
years; and (ii) the energy law provides for the new regulatory authority to approve tariffs that reflect
justified costs of services and that protect consumers while ensuring the energy enterprise remains via ble
and has an incentive to operate efficiently.
The ESCO portion of this project introduces a new form of business to Poland and the utility sector.
Therefore it pushes a number of frontiers. The core challenge is to demonstrate that customized energy
efficiency retrofits are marketable to energy users and local banks. The targeted total ESCO sales over six
years is US$24 million. This represents only 22% of the total building energy efficiency market pote atial
in the Malopolskie Voivodship. Even if new techniques such as attaining recognition of "off balance sheet
financing" are not successfully introduced, the business could still break even with sales only reaching
about US$19 million in the sixth year. In fact the scenario of the ESCO financing all projects through its
balance sheet will be more easily marketable to clients. However it would require a doubling of the ownler's
equity input which MPEC might not be able to recover if it sold the business. Hence, the greatest challenge
faced by the ESCO is to develop customer financing methods that will not require the ESCO to undeitake
credit risk for the financier. Polish versions of "off-balance sheet" financing shall be developed and,
whenever possible, used for the early projects of the firm (see Section E.2).
The interest and ability of Polish energy users to buy ESCO service packages has still to be proven.
However the barriers to ESCO services identified to date are very similar to those originally found in
countries which now have an ESCO industry. Since many of Poland's institutions are being redeveloped,
with many young persons moving into key positions, and since economic pricing combined with tighter
enforcement of environmental standards is providing incentives to promote and implement energy effi ziency
measures, the prospects are excellent for being able to introduce new concepts.
Currently Polish public entities, which make up a large part of the target market, see a commitment to
payment of savings as a debt needing approval at the political level. Such approvals cannot be granted for
the relatively small size of each ESCO project. To clear this hurdle, the administration of public fina Icing
will be examined to help public bodies recognize payments to an ESCO as simply a portion of the uti ity
budget. North American experiences with these same problems will be used to assist in these matters.
The success of the ESCO in meeting its objectives depends on its ability to develop flexible services a.s
macro-economic conditions change. Energy prices must remain high enough in real terms to encourage
energy users to look for solutions, and to provide reasonable payback periods for projects. Also interest
rates must remain low enough to control the portion of a project's savings which must be spent on int,rest.
While interest rates or energy prices may go up or down, the ESCO's challenge is to identify the marlcet
sub-sectors interested in energy efficiency and then to develop and sell packages of services with acceptable
payback terms for each potential client. The ESCO may also consider using some of its own equity to
finance projects in periods of temporary high interest rates.
The success of the ESCO also depends on its capacity to guarantee predicted energy savings. This v .11 be
ensured by careful selection and training of staff in the engineering of energy savings. Since these staff will
be valuable assets, staffing policies will be developed to attract and retain excellent staff. Manageme -it will
focus on controlling energy savings by comparing engineering savings predictions with benchmarks, before
projects are committed. Also routine monitoring of savings will be used to ensure that actual savings
variances are acted upon quickly.
Because of its pioneering aspects related to ESCO business planning and performance contracting, th
project has benefitted from an extensive IBRD technical assistance to adapt these aspects to Polish
conditions. Without such an assistance during preparation, the proposed Bank loan would clearly have
been too risky. However, these risks are now modest/minor.
- 42 -



The lessons learned from the preparation and implementation of this project and of the ESCO component in
particular will provide a learning ground and valuable inputs for others that may want to design and
implement similar IBRD-funded projects. Information provided in project performance reports will serve
as a vehicle for dissemination of lessons learned on a regular basis throughout the supervision stage.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement:
(a) The Project Implementation Agreement between MPEC and the ESCO satisfactory to the Bank has
been executed.
(b) The Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by MPEC.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Agreement was reached on the following items:
(a) Key outcome-level performance indicators to be used for rating the project's Development
Objectives and Implementation Progress (see Section A.2).
(b) (i) by June 30, 2002, MPEC to exchange views with the Bank on the steps to be taken towards
optimizing MPEC' s and ESCO' s efficiency and improving the delivery of their services to their
respective customers; (ii) by June 30, 2003, MPEC to complete under terrns of reference agreed
upon with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a study on MPEC's
strategy towards optimizing said services; and (iii) based on the findings of said study and the
Bank's comments thereon, and subject to approval of said study by the relevant authorities of
MPEC, MPEC to commence by January 1, 2004, implementation of said strategy in accordance
with a time schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank (see Section C.2).
(c) MPEC and the ESCO to: (i) prepare financial statements in accordance with International
Accounting Standard (IAS); and (ii) have the entity and project financial statements, including
Special Account and Statements of Expenditures, audited annually in accordance with International
Standard of Auditing (ISA) by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (see Section C.4. 10).
(d) MPEC and the ESCO to prepare the first set of Project Management Reports (PMRs) not later
than June 1, 2001. MPEC and the ESCO to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days
after the end of each calendar quarter a PMR for such a period (see Section C.4. 10).
(e) MPEC to prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports on project implementation,
not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter. These reports shall include adequate
information on all measures necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan
(see Section C.4.1 1).
(f) MPEC to maintain: (i) a current ratio of at least 1.1 in 2001 and 1.3 for the remainder of the
project period; and (ii) a debt service ratio of at least 1.3 during the whole project period (see
Section E.2.2).
-43 -



(g) MPEC to submit, before November 15 of each year, financial projections to show how it Intends to
finance its investment program for the coming year as well as a financing plan showing that the
available financing sources are adequate (see Section E.2.2).
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
II 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfa:tory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E_ 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rachid Benmessaoud                Henk Busz                          Michael F. Carier
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Managjer
-44 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
.. .............   ...
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieving environmental     *  Reduction in local air   *  National and Local    Provision of energy services
sustainability.                pollution emissions         Environmental Reports  without significant negative
*  Reduction in greenhouse   *  Emission Reduction  environmental impact.
gases                      Monitoring Reports
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Macroeconomic conditions
To irnprove energy efficiency                                                    Mcocnmccniin
and to  redeny eicien                                Implementation progress,    and environmental policies do
antmospruce emltnssion of  See below                  evaluation and completion    not discourage energy
atmospheric pollutants in the
Krakow region by:                                    reports                     efficiency
I. Improving the quality and  Consumer assessment survey  Consumer assessment survey  Same as above
delivery of district heating    indicates satisfactory results
and hot water services in
Krakow.
2. Helping consumers
decrease the energy
dcnasumptio by ipro        Quantified energy savings    Saving Verification Reports  Same as above
consumption by improving
the energy efficiency of their
buildings.
3. Developing in Krakow the
knowledge and mechanisms                                                         Energy efficiency gains in
necessary for financiers to    ESCO sales and level of                           Krakow are sustained and
fund energy retrofit projects  cofinancing                                       grow from proliferation of
so that the energy market's                                                      performance contracting
price signals can motivate                                                       principle.
energy efficiency.
-45 -



Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
More efficient and reliable   *  Competitiveness and                                Prices of other comnpetitive
supply of district heat and hot  affordability of district                          fuels (coal, gas and oil) for
water services.                  heating and hot water   Progress, evaluation and   heating are at economic
services.              completion reports          levels.
*  Increased efficiency of
MPEC district heating
system
Demonstration, development                                                            o  Psojected savings aTe
and acceptance of           Market penetration in public  Implementation Reports          achieved.
performance contracting in   and private building sectors                             *  Energy pric- signals
the Malopolskie Voivodship.                                                               encourage customer
interest and motivate a
full range ol energy
saving meas ures.
*  Interest rates enable
payback periods
acceptable to the ESCO
clients.
- 46 -



*                  .  ~~~~~~~~~~(ey~~~~    ...    ... 
Project Components I       Innputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
District Heating           US$50.74 million             *  Implementation         MPEC cofinances up to 87%
Modernization                                              Progress reports       of the component cost.
*  Supervision reports
*  Project management
report (PMR)
ESCO Financing             US$24 million, equivalent to  Same as above              *  Local banks are willing
sales volume of the ESCO                                   to lend to the ESCO
over the next 6 years.                                     client starting in year 3
*  ESCO carries on its
balance sheet the cost of
100% of the ESCO
projects in years I and
2, then declining to a
lower limit of 40% by
year 5 and thereafter.
o  Public institutions do
not view the ESCO
contracts as debt
instruments but rather
as payments of savings
from the operating
budget.
Technical Assistance       US$0.3 million              Same as above              None
-47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
A. Overview. The Investment Plan of MPEC during the period 2001-2006 consists of four components, as
described below: (i) Strategic and Development Investments, (ii) Ecological Investments; (iii) Modernizatioii and
Retrofit Investments; and (iv) Heat Efficiency Investments. Total investment expenditures including physical and
price contingencies amount to US$50.67 million, including US$44.95 million base cost and US$5 72 million
contingencies. The ESCO financing component will be implemented during the period 2001-2007.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$16.29 million
L. Strategic and Development Investments
1.1 Connection of New Consumers
MPEC's strategic plan envisages the connection of new district heating (DH) and domestic hot water
(DHW) customers. Based on previous years' experience, MPEC is expected to connect around 160 MW of
new heat load during the next six years, at a rate of 15-30 MW a year. This would comprise (i) space
heating load of about 90 MW, (ii) and expansion of its market share for the supply of DHW by 70 MWV
District heating is the most relevant alternative to gas for both space heating and DHW. Currently, th e total
DHW market is about 960MW of which 93% is supplied by natural gas, 1% by electricity and 6% by
MPEC's district heating. Over the next five years, MPEC expects to increase its DHW load to 133 MWV,
equivalent to 14% of the DHW market. DHW load is very profitable for district heating since it does not
require investment in the heat production and transmission capacity and, during the summer period, there
are no additional fuel costs for that load since the CHP plants are obliged to ventilate the excess heat to the
atmosphere, in the absence of heat load.
Cumulative base investment expenditures allocated to new connections over the next six years amounr to
US$7.79 million (PLN35.06 million) and are a high priority.
L2 Network Loops
Connecting the southeast network branch to the Skawina branch with a 3.5 km pipeline and a booster pump
station will increase the transmission capacity by 100 MW. Therefore, the load dispatch capacity betw een
the CHP plants (CHP Krakow and CHP Skawina) will increase by 100 MW, from the current 120 to 220
MW. MPEC will be able to purchase and dispatch heat from the cheaper source, CHP Skawina, thereby
reducing overall supply costs to the consumers. Additionally, the loop will improve heat supply reliability to
the southeast region. As a result, the proposed investment for this loop is considered as high priority. Total
expenditures for network looping will reach about US$6.14 million (PLN27.61 million) by end of 2002.
1.3 Feasibility Studies
Before investment decisions, feasibility studies must be done about various alternatives. Total base cost
estimate over the implementation period is US$0.53 million (PLN2.38 million).
-48 -



Project Component 2 - US$1.67 million
II Ecological Investments
ILI Connection to Municipal Heating System
In the early nineties, there were about 1,000 coal-fired heat-only-boilers (HOBs) in Krakow. MPEC has
rehabilitated most of its own HOBs and about 100 privately-owned HOBs by either connecting customers
supplied from these boilers to its DH system or converting these boilers to gas-firing. In total, about 200
coal fired HOBs are left including two HOB's belonging to MPEC. MPEC plans to continue its boiler
elimination program by eliminating part of its own Prandnicka (8.9 MW) in 2001 and about 30 private
HOBs (2.1 MW) by 2006 and by connecting their customers to the district heating system. MPEC's base
expenditures will total about US$0.84 million (PLN3.77 million) by the end of 2006.
IL2 Conversion of BOB 'sfor gas/oilfired HOB's
About 14 private coal-fired HOBs of some 1.7 MW load and located far from the DH system cannot be
completely eliminated and therefore they will be converted to gas or oil-firing. Investment expenditures are
estimated at US$0.55 million (PLN2.46 million) by the end of 2006.
The other part of the Prandnicka boiler plant (see above) with a capacity of 4.3 MW will be converted to
gas firing in 2001, using grant-cofinancing from GEF.
Only one MPEC owned coal fired boiler plant, Balicka, will remain in operation and sponsorship to finance
its conversion to gas firing is sought from external sources.
11.3 Elimination of Coal Stoves
Currently, there are about 200,000 coal stoves in Krakow in about 75,000 flats located in some 7,500
buildings. These stoves represent a heat load equivalent to about 400 MW, as presented in heat production
capacity balance of Krakow, Table 2.1. In recent years, a municipal program aimed at replacing these
stoves by either district or gas heating failed because of the following barriers: (i) on the institutional side,
all flat owners in a building failed to agree collectively on the proposed measures; and (ii) on the
economical/technical side, existing buildings are not equipped with water circulation for heating - flat
owners (mostly retired people) were not able to afford the relatively high investments. Because of its
commitment to protect the environment, MPEC plans to continue exploring opportunities to overcome these
barriers and has budgeted investments of up to US$0. 10 million (PLNO.44 million) per year till the end of
2006, which represents the maximum annual budget expected to be spent for this purpose.
-49 -



Sources                                        Distribution by Components              1999   2006  I 2010   Units
External heat sources of DH
EC Krakow, ordered capacity                                                           1,160    1,220   1,279   MW
EC Skawina, ordered capacity                                                            322     422      430   MW
HTS, ordered capacity                                                                    34      34      34   MW
Total                                                                                 1,515    1,675   1,742   MW
HoB's of MPEC
Balicka (coal)                                                                         23 2     23 2    23 2   MW
Plaszow (coal)                                                                         12 7                    MW
Prandnicka (coal)                                                                      13 2                    MW
Local gas boilers                                                                      24 8     30 8    30 8   MW
Total                                                                                  73.9    54.0    54.0  MW
Other heat sources not owned by MPEC    Coal       Gas      Oil     Coal    Electric
HoB's   HoB's  HoB's   Stoves   Heaters
Old Town (inner circle)                    10      129     -        2,647     8,419                            units
Old town (between Ist and 2nd circles)     88      270       5     77,227     5,606                           units
Remaining city of Krakow                  102      256       8    120,128     4,520                            units
Number of units                           200      655      13    200,002    18,545                            units
Average unit capacity                   70       70       70        2         2                              kW/unit
Total capacity in 1999                    14 0    45 9     0 9      400 0      37 1   497.9                    MW
Change from 2000 to 2006                  (5 0)   (23 0)   (0 5)      (2 0)    (5 0)
Total capacity in 2007                    9.0    22.9      0.4      398.0     32.1             462.4   462.4   MW
Total heating capacity balance in Krakow                                                    7    2,192   2,259   MW
Table 2 1 Heat Balance of the City of Krakow
Project Component 3 - US$ 22.81 million
III Modernization and Retrofit Investment
IIlJ Modernization of Heat Exchanger Stations
In the district heating system, 7,355 building nodes exist, from which 1,700 building level substations and
228 groups substations, each connecting several buildings (nodes), as presented in the substation
break-down, Table 2.2 below. 67 group substations are automated already. MPEC plans comprise the
installation of plate heat exchangers and weather regulators in 9 group substations. Cumulative base
investment expenditures are about US$2.56 million (PLNI 1.54 million) by the end of 2006.
Type of substation   Number  MW   % owned
by MPEC
Group substations             228        437     100%
Individual substations      2,503       799       90%
Mixing pumping statior         15          2     100%
Direct nodes, type A          162         92      00/n
Direct nodes, type B          156         21      0/0
Hydroelevators                983        164      00/n
Low parameter nodes         3,308        -        500/o
Total                       7,355      1,515
Table 2.2 Break-down of Substations in Krakow District Heating System
- 50 -



111.2 Replacement of Heating Networks
From the existing 840 km of pipelines, 114 km (15%) were replaced by preinsulated pipes and 16 km (2%)
by concrete ducts during the last seven years. However, some pipeline sections are still obsolete (45 years
old). In order to keep network performance at the minimum current level, 20-30 km of network need to be
replaced every year. At this rate, it would take nearly 30 years to replace the remaining 710 km. The
replacement program will focus on the pipelines of 15-20 years of age, for which the steel used for
manufacturing the pipes and the flap valves procured at that time were of poor quality. During the
implementation period, about 68 km of pipelines (8% of the total) will be replaced with preinsulated pipe
technology. Total base expenditures for the network replacement are estimated at US$17.67 million
(PLN79.50 million) by end 2006.
Project Component 4 - US$9.90 million
IV Heat Efficiency Investment
IV . Maintenance Tools and Vehicles
MPEC plans to procure tools, welders, emptying pumps and some maintenance vehicles and materials in
order to properly maintain the district heating investments as well as enhance operation Total related base
investment expenditures amount to about US$0.99 million (PLN4.48 million) till end 2006.
IV.2 MPEC Computerization System
MPEC needs to regularly update the computerization of its offices in order to improve labor productivity.
About US$0.95 million (PLN4.25 million) is budgeted till 2006 for continuing computerization of MPEC.
IV.3a Automation of Krakow System
About 983 hydroelevator systems still exist and need to be replaced by about 600 modern and efficient
compact substations during the next few years. The total base investment expenditures are about US$4.40
million (PLN 19.80 million) by end 2006.
V.3b Installation of Heat Meters
To maintain the heat metering capacity a number of heat meters must be replaced every year, requiring total
base expenditures of about US$1.85 million (PLN8 32 million) by end 2006.
IV.4 Site Facility Rentals
In order to speed up network investments, MPEC has started to negotiate and rent pennits to access private
land, one or two years in advance, in those privately owned areas where pipeline investments are likely to
take place. Related total base expenditures amount to about US$0.59 million (PLN2.66 million) till end
2006.
IV.5 ESCO Program - Capitalization
In addition to the DH modernization program described above, MPEC's investment plan comprises funding for the
capitalization of the ESCO MPEC has allocated US$0.7 million (PLN3.2 million) in the plan and will contribute
to the balance as the ESCO business develops.
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
A. DH Modernization Component
Strategic Development
I Connection of New Customers          300-400 units, 160 MW     3 02       4.78       7.79
2 Network Loops                        3.5 kmn pipelines & pump    2.45     3.68       6,14
3 Feasibility Studies                                            0.53       0.00      (0.53
Ecology
I Connection to Community Heating         30 units, 11 MW        0.33       0.50       0 84
2 Conversion to Gas/Oil HOB's             15 boilers, 6 MW       0.22       0.33       0.55
3 Elimination of Stoves                    10-20 locations       0 04       0.06       0 10
Modernization and Retrofits
I Modemization of Group Substations         9 substations        1.04       1.52       2 56
2 Replacement of Heating Networks          68 km pipelines       7.95       9.72       I'7.67
Heat Efficiency
I Procurement of Tools and Vehicles                              0.00       0.99       0 99
2 MPEC Computerization                                           0.28       0.66       0 95
3a DH Automation: heat exchangers       600 compact substations    1.76      2.64       4 40
3b DH Automation: heat meters               50-500 meters/a        0.57       1.28       1 85
4 Site Facility Rentals                                          0.59       0.00       0 59
Investments, Base Costs                                           18.79      26.16      4L..95
Physical Contingencies                                         0.94       1.29       2 23
Price Escalation                                                1.66      1.83       3 49
Subtotal, DH Modernization Costs                                  21.39      29.28      50.67
B. ESCO-Component                                                    12.19      14.73      26.92
C. Technical Assistance                                               0.30                  0.30
Total Project Costs                                                  33.88      44.01      77.89
Front-end Fee of WB Loan                                                      0.15       0 15
Total Financing required                                             33.88      44.16      78.04
Goods                                             _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44.01  44 01
Wrs                                                         2.626 76
Services'                                                      6.82       0.30       7.12
Total                                                                33.58      44.31      77.89
Front-end Fee of WB Loan                                                  0.15       0.15
Total Financing required                                             33.58      44A6       78.04
XIncludes services ($1 Omin), ESCO overheads & profit margin ($5 4mln) and the Site facility rentals (O 6mln)
- 52 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
A. Overview. District Heating in Krakow has benefited from the recently completed Heat Supply
Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loan 338 1-POL) in terms of energy savings and environmental
benefits. Optimization programs developed in the context of city master plans identified investment
measures needed to sustain the least-cost heating solutions with significant environmental benefits. The
Bank loan financed a time-slice of the optimization program corresponding to the investment period
1992-1998. The results from the measures implemented, as outlined below, are highly satisfactory and
have exceeded early expectations.
On the Investment Side:
* 25% energy savings equivalent to 215,000 tons of coal valued at US$11 million per year;
* An extension of the weighted average remaining lifetime from 15 years in 1992 to 19 years in 1999
for the networks and from 10 to 16 years for the substations;
*   A reduction of heat losses from 19.1% to 10.8%, measured as percent of produced heat energy;
*  A reduction of water losses by 52%, measured in terms of the annual replacement of the DH
system water, from 8.8 to 4.2 times the total volume (76,115 m );
3 A reduction in network damages by 42%, from 8 to 5 damages/100 km/year;
3 Significant improvement in network water quality, improved network maintenance, and metering of
all heat purchases and sales;
3   Space heating energy, measured in Gigajoule/m2, delivered at the building level and excluding
thermal transmission, was reduced by 22%, to 0.73 GJ/m2.
v  The environmental objectives of the project were substantially achieved, as a result of the increased
energy efficiency and conservation measures and the small-boiler elimination and conversion
program. Emissions from all heat sources were reduced by 27% for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide
and carbon dioxide and by 53% for particulates, resulting in significant improvement in air quality.
Thanks to this, MPEC was officially dropped from the regional list of heavy polluters.
* Based on comparisons of heat tariff with inflation rate and with fuel prices, the competitiveness of
district heating has improved and MPEC's product has become more attractive on the market.
* In addition, the project created competition between the two combined heat and power plants in
Krakow, CHP Krakow and the more distant (15 kn) CHP Skawina, by connecting CHP Skawina's
excess heat capacity to the district heating network supplied by CHP Krakow. The creation of
competition between the two major heat sources as a result of the Bank-financed project was a
success story for two reasons: (i) MPEC was able to negotiate lower heat purchase prices from the
CHPs; (ii) MPEC improved its load dispatching by increasing the share of the cheapest CHP
source (EC Skawina) from 7% to 21%, both in terms of total purchased heat energy and ordered
capacity; and (iii) the investments originally planned to take place at the CHP Krakow and which
included the construction of one additional cogeneration and one large heat-only-boiler units (for
some US$300 million) were no longer necessary. In addition, MPEC has fully modernized the area
supplied by CHP Skawina, with the aim to turn this pilot area into an example of what a good
district heating system should be like. As part of the proposed project, this concept would be
gradually extended to other areas of the city.
*   As a result of energy efficiency and conservation achieved, new customers were connected to the
existing systems, at no additional capital costs in heat production and transmission capacity.
- 53 -



On the Institutional Side: Since the project started, MPEC was transformed from production-oriented
organizations into market-oriented enterprises. Strategic, marketing and public relations departments were
established; in house expertise in international competitive procurement and trade was developed; collection
departments were reinforced and receivables reduced; accounts were computerized; management and cost
accounting systems were developed; and quality assurance programs are being implemented and
international certification being considered. MPEC management has developed a long-term vision o: its
heat market within the energy systems in Krakow and a good knowledge of its customers in order to
properly respond to their needs, provide a competitive product that would ensure comfort and better .ervice
for existing and new customers, and promote end-user awareness for energy efficiency and conservation.
During this period, MPEC has shown commitment to enhance labor productivity and provide reliable and
environmentally-friendly heat services to its customers. It also started to implement its management
information systems by installing PC-based local area networks for personnel management, billing and
accounting and by starting to install a basic Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system for plant and
network operation. The latter will be expanded as part of the proposed project.
Sharing of Project Economic Benefit: 63% of the economic benefits of the completed investment projects
have accrued to the DH customers (through reduced heat price); 6% to the CHP plants (through incrvased
efficiency of the DH system); and 31% to the Krakow inhabitants (through improved air quality) and the
Polish economy (through reduced greenhouse gas emissions, from carbon dioxide mainly).
Benefits of the DH Modernization Component: Continuation of the district heating system rehabilitation
and modernization would have significant economic benefits to Krakow, as follows: (i) reduction of e nergy
losses reduces heating costs and emissions; (ii) reduction of flue gas emissions due to elimination of coal
fired boilers and energy savings improves air quality; (iii) improving the competitiveness of district heating
continues attracting new customers on high-density areas to connect to the district heating system at nio
additional capital cost on the heat generation side, thus improving the overall energy economy; (iv)
improving tightness of the district heating system reduces water losses of the system and improve water
quality, thereby reducing internal corrosion and maintaining the life of the DH assets; (v) strengtheni:.ig
transmission network with loops will increase competition among the heat sources and probably reduce the
average heat purchase price; and finally, (vi) elimination of man-power intensive small boilers releases
human resources to other more productive tasks.
B. Affordability. The efficiency gains resulting from the energy pricing policy pursued by the Government
since 1991 as well as those achieved by both MPEC and the two CHPs, have greatly benefited MPEC's
customers through a 53% reduction in the price of heating one square meter (m2) of floor area. This price,
as illustrated in Figure 4. 1, decreased from 46.3 PLN/ m2 in 1991 to 21.9 PLN/ m2 in 1999, both
expressed in 1999 prices. During the project period, the average price per energy unit (GJ) sold decreased
substantially, by 41% in real terms, thereby improving the affordability of DH. The domestic consumners,
however, may not have noticed this reduction as the Government gradually phased in a 22% VAT on
energy prices and phased out consumer heat subsidies from a nationwide average of 78% of the heating bill
in 1991 to zero in 1998. Since 1992, district heating has become more attractive on the market. about 1.3
million additional square meters of heated area has been connected to district heating in Krakow,
representing about 11% from the total existing area heated by DH.
- 54 -



50    - _   -
45 -                       -- ---                       
40
G)35
30
-25
20
10
0   -
1992     1993    1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999
Fig. 4.1. Costs of District Heating in Krakow in Real Terms, PLN/m2 of Heated Floor Area.
C. Competitiveness. In Krakow, a customer is free to choose the heating method. As a result, serious
competition on the heating market exists between centralized DH systems and decentralized gas heating
systems. The competitiveness of district heating in MPEC 's operating areas was analyzed from the
customers' point of view (see Figure 4.2 below). An analysis of the long term comparative cost and relative
merits of heating dwellings by centralized DH versus decentralized gas systems was carried out: (i) taking
into account both capital costs and running costs (including actual technical performance of MPEC's DH
system) and the efficiency of both systems in delivering specified heat levels to dwellings; and (ii) using
current and economic prices for gas. Details of the analysis are in Appendix 10 of the Project
Implementation Plan.
Because of the energy efficiency and conservation gains achieved under the Bank-financed project (Loan
3381-POL), centralized DH with cogeneration-based heat supply systems, at current market price levels
and no subsidies, has become competitive in all consumer sizes above 100 kW, even though the gas price is
still 4 to 15% below economic level. As a result, MPEC succeeded in connecting new customers over the
past years, at a rate of about 20 MW per year. The bulk of consumers, i.e. building-level substations, have
heat capacities ranging from 100 to 400 kW, where the gas heating alternative was 15-17% more expensive
at the October 2000 gas tariff level and is 20-29% more expensive at the economic price for gas. Even
with the anticipated net increase of retail tariff by 6.5% in the real terms on January 1, 2001, district
heating remains 14-23% cheaper than the gas alternative. In addition, if competitiveness of DH should be
further enhanced, should CHP plants introduce new bulk heat prices that fairly allocate production cost of
power and heat.
Based on the recent history of newly connected customers (26 MW) from 1997 to 1998, and on improved
affordability and competitiveness, MPEC's target for new customers (15-30 MW/year) to join the DH
system is realistic. This is supported within MPEC's operating area by: (i) new buildings that are being
constructed; (ii) existing privately-owned small HOBs to be eliminated; and (iii) existing potential for
connecting DHW load from gas systems to DH. Recently, new regulations have come into force that
- 55 -



prohibit new gas installations in high flat buildings in order to avoid gas system explosions, thus
strengthening the market position of district heating.
Competitiveness: District Heating vs Gas Heating
October 2000 price level
4,5    -                             -   -  --   ~            
40 -
4, 35 -
. 30 
20 -
0  15 -                   
5 20                      _- _-                                        ___ ____     __
lo,,
0 
0.1                         0.3                          0.5
Consumer Heat Capacity (MW)
-DH (Oct. 2000) - - - -Gas (Oct. 2000) - - Gas (economic)
Fig. 4.2  Competitiveness of District Heating versus Gas Heating, Price Level, Oct, 2000.
Note:
I   The centralized DH option covets the costs of consumed energy, ordered production and transmission capacity, and the cost of installation of the
consumer substation and the pipeline that connects the customer to the network
2   The gas heating option contains the operation and maintenance costs of the existing gas boiler, where pernanent staffing is tequired at 1 MW
capacity and higher The gas price levels correspond to Oct 2000 level and the economic level that is 4-15% higher than the Oct 2000 level;
4% higher at 'I00 kW and 1't5% on the larger consumer sizes Coenpetitiveness of district heating increases as consomeis' heat capacity increases
D. Least Cost Solution. District heating in MPEC's operating areas is the least-cost heating option, as
demonstrated by: (i) the market pricing of district heating (no subsidies); (ii) the achieved competitiveness
of centralized DHICHP-based heating systems compared to the decentralized gas heating systems; (iii) the
reasonable financial performance of MPEC under competitive market conditions; and (iv) the relatively
high heat load density 3.7 GWh/km (compared, for instance, with an average value of 3.3 GWh/km for all
Finnish DH systems). In addition, MPEC is in a unique position where the two CHP plants of different
owners are competing vigorously to supply the DH market in Krakow.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The detailed cost-benefit summary of the economic and financial analysis is presented in the Project
Implementation Plan, Annex 9. The main assumptions, the methodology and the results are summarized
below.
- 56 -



Present Value of Flows    Fiscal Impact
Economic  Financial  Taxes  Subsidies
Analysis   Analysis
Benefits (US$ mn):    X       59.6      41.4      _       ___
Costs (US$ min):              35.0      35.2
Net Benefits (US$ mln):       24.6       6.2        _
IRR:                          22.9      12.7
Table 4 3 Summary Analysis
Note: The value of financial benefits is less than that of economic benefits because (i) economic costs of pollution aie high compated with the
financial ones, and (ii) substation rehabilitation economically benefits the entire region of Krakow but, due to the current heat tariff system, financial
benefits to MPEC ate considerably smaller
Main Assumptions:
E. Input Parameters of Economic and Financial Analysis of the Investment program. Detailed tables
showing the input parameters, the cost/benefit streams and economic and financial analyses are presented
in Annex 9 of the Project Implementation Plan. The values in the Table below were used in the project
analysis.
Parameters:                       Unit    Economic                  Financial
Exchange rate                 PLN/USD:       4.50                      4.50
Price contingency                                                     2.1%/o/a
Physical contingency                                                    5%
Unit Prices:
Coal of CHP                       $/GJ           2.4
Coal of HoBs                      $/GJ           2.7
Gas                               $/GJ           4.3                       3.7
Purchased heat energy             $/GJ                                     3.1
Ordered production capacity      $/MW,a                                  8,941
Heat retail on average            $/GJ                                     7.5
Man power                      $/man year    2,889                       2,889
Treated water                     $/m3           1.1                       1.1
Sold electricity                 $/MWh
Low      High             MPEC's
Costs of emissions                         stack:   stack:            stacks:
S02                               $/ton       325     265               76
Nox                               $/ton       400      180              76
C02                               $/ ton      5.5      5.5             0.04
Dust and particulates             $/ton      2,160     60               51
Table 4 4 Input Parameters of Economnic and Financial Analysis of DH Modernization Pr ogrami
F. Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project. The focus of the economic and financial analysis is
on the entire DH modemrization program of MPEC, a portion of which is financed from the Bank loan.
This is mainly because the benefits associated with the investment components and financed by the Bank
cannot be quantitatively measured in isolation from other components of the program, unless arbitrary
assumptions on allocating the benefits to each component are made. The Net Present Value (NPV) and the
internal rates of return (ERR and FRR) are, therefore, calculated on the basis of the incremental benefit and
cost streams connected with the 2001-2006 time-slice of the total investment program. The Bank financing
covers the highest priority components of this program which are crucial for the remaining part of the
- 57 -



program. MPEC's contribution to ESCO capitalization is excluded from the DH modernization program.
G. Economic Analysis. For the purpose of the NPV and ERR calculation, MPEC's incremental revenue
from new customers is used as a proxy for the quantifiable economic benefits of the corresponding
investment component and operations. It is an estimate of the consumers' willingness to pay. MPEC
revenue is regarded only as the minimum measure of the actual benefits, since this revenue reflects 3nly a
portion of the total benefits of MPEC's investment program. In particular, this revenue-based measurement
does not capture the incremental consumer surplus.
The costs associated with MPEC's DH modernization program and used for the ERR calculation comprise
the total costs of the investment program over the period of 2001-2006, excluding price contingencies,
custom duties and taxes, and interests during construction, and assuming no corresponding annual
incremental O&M and overhead costs. Estimates of the local and foreign costs are in October 2000
prices. Local costs are converted to US dollars using the average 2000 exchange rate.
The economic cost-benefit analysis uses current prices for equipment delivery, installation works and labor,
economic prices for coal and network fuels, and minimum environmental damage costs for the additional
benefits from air pollution emissions, and excludes financial and fiscal transfers. On this basis, the project
yields an NPV of US$24.6 million and an ERR of 22.9% as presented in Table below. The NPV ani
ERR reflects the implementation of the investment program during 2001-2006. Program benefits build up
in proportion to the progress of project implementation, from almost 0% in 2001 to the full value in 2007,
and remain constant thereafter for 13 years, the assumed remaining economic life. However, the technical
lifetime of the investments may be much longer (40-50 years for the preinsulated pipes and 20-25 years for
substations, for instance). The analysis was performed on a "with" and "without the project" basis, trius
yielding the difference as the benefit of the planned investments.
PV's(A10%
Economic Costs                                  34,967
Investments                                34,967
Net Benefits                                    59,540
Incremental reveues from new customers      16,256
Coal savings of existing customers         25,304
Human resources' reduction                   5,328
Environmental benefits                       9,264
Other benefits                               3,387
Net Economic Benefit (10%)                      24,573
ERR                                            22.9%
Ta/le 4.5 EealonlAla/za1.r Sxt'tiia mmay (1hoJ/xauza USI ey#zzalnI).
The expected economic benefits of the DH modemization program, as described below, come from: (i)
incremental revenues from new customers to be connected to the district heating system; (ii) coal savings in
the entire DH/CHP system; (iii) increased productivity; (iv) reduced water consumption; (v) down-si7ing
benefits; and (vi) reduced environmental pollution emissions. Other benefits related to network and
substation life extension were calculated and found to be minor, and thus were omitted from the anal)ysis.
(1)    New Customers: In recent years, MPEC has been able to connect new customers from the market
at a pace of 15-30 MW per year. Therefore, 160 MW of new customer base is expected to be connecizd by
- 58 -



the end of 2006. The economic benefits of new customers are measured in terms of incremental revenues
for MPEC reduced by the corresponding fuel and maintenance costs, as well as increased efficiency of the
regional CHP system through incremental cogenerated electricity sales. The latter substitutes for electricity
generated in condensing power mode elsewhere in Poland.
(2)    Coal Savings: The expected fuel savings are equivalent to 73 th. tons of coal per year,
corresponding to 10% of total fuel consumption in 2000. These savings for heating existing customers
result from: (i) replacement of old substations with modem, compact prefabricated substations equipped
with heat exchangers and weather controllers; (ii) replacement of worn-out, poorly insulated pipelines with
preinsulated pipes; (iii) replacement of coal-fired HOBs with DH substations or conversion to higher
efficiency gas-fired boilers; and (iv) substituting electricity produced in condensing mode with electricity
produced more efficiently in co-generation mode. Each of these factors are described below and presented
in Figure 4.6:
(i) Substation Modernization. In practice, energy savings resulting from substation
rehabilitation/modernization originate from: avoided heat losses from opening the windows during
Spring and Autumn in buildings, as a result of better heat control by the consumers; lower heat
transmission losses (better insulation, lower supply and return water temperatures); savings in
heating the reduced make-up water at the CHP plant; replacing heat produced from small
coal-fired HoBs with either co-generated heat or heat produced in gas fired boilers. Replacing the
remaining 983 hydroelevators with compact substations with weather regulators and equipping the
remaining group substations with weather regulators will reduce the substation losses from 8%
(1999) to 2% (2007) from the delivered heat (values indicated as Ewl and Ew2 in Figure 4.6,
respectively).
(ii) Heat transmission losses. Based on replacing the old pipelines of up to 6 times higher thennal
losses than the preinsulated pipes, heat transmission losses would decline from 10.8% (1999) to
9% (2006) of the supplied heat (Ec -- see Figure 4.6).
(iii) HOB Elimination. Based on replacing 43 small coal-fired HOBs operating at low efficiency
with connection to DH or with gas boilers, both at considerably higher efficiency, the weighted heat
production efficiency of the DH system rises from 79.4% (1999) to 79.5% (2007) of fuel
consumption (Ep -- see Figure 4.6).
Based on the above, the total efficiency of Krakow district heating will increase from 64% (1999)
to 71% (2007) in calculated from the fuel energy, as presented in Figure 4.6 below.
- 59 -



Individual
Heat production                                          consumer substation (ICS)
Group
Ep       CHP-                              substation   [        Eo
10    plant      Heat transmission                    _ ___
Fuel                                       IGS|         IIS                   MPEC Krakow
Ec                            Ewl      EwZ                   2000  2007
0  Real heat demand     Eo       Heat sales based on meter readings             10,312 10,312  TJ
I  Substation efficiency    Eo/Ew2   Modem substation reducing open window losses  92 0%  98 0%
2  Distribution efficiency   Ew2/Ewl Modem secondary piping reducing DHW and SH losses  98 0% 100 0%o
3  Transmission efficiency  Ewl/Ec   Preinsulated pipelines reducing transmission losses  89 2%  91 0%)Q
4  Production efficiency   Ec/Ep    Elimination of low-efficiency HOB's         79 4%  79 5%,'
5  Total system efficiency  Eo/Ep                                               63 8%  70 9%:i
6  Fuel consumption                                                             16,158 14,553  TJ
7  Fuel Energy Savings                                                                  1,605  TJ
Coal equivalent                                                                  22 0   GJlton
8  Fuel savings in coal equivalents                                                     73 0   th tons
Fig. 4 6. Energy Balance of MPEC's DH System in 2000 and 2007 at a constant consumer base.
(3)    Increased Productivity. The staff reduction is based on lower need of staffing in operation And
maintenance of consumer substations and modernized network parts. It is expected that the number of
MPEC staff will decline from 1005 (1999) to 900 (2007). Simultaneously, replacement of HOBs not
owned by MPEC will reduce O&M staff from 156 (1999) to only 12 (2006) outside MPEC. Based on the
staffing cost of US$2,889 per man year, the economic savings in 2006 are about $0.8 million per year.
(4)    Reduced water consumption. Consumption of make-up water is expected to decline from the
current 370,000 to 200,000 m /a, since new pipelines and substations will be installed. Reduced flo w of
make-up water needs less heating energy.
(5)    Down-sizing benefit. Heat transmission losses in the DH system are expected to decline from 10.8
to 9.0%, resulting in a reduction of the ordered heat purchase capacity by 0.6%, equal to 1 OMW.
(6)    Reduced environmental pollution. As a result of coal savings and the boiler
elimination/conversion program, flue gas emissions of SO2, NO, CO2 and dust will decline, thus prcviding
environmental benefits in terms of improved air quality for the city and of reduced greenhouse gases
emissions for the country.
The remaining lifetime of the network in 2007 remains the same as it is in 2000, since the pipeline
investments of 68 km, 8% out of the total network length, only maintain the value of the network assets but
do not extend it, whereas the remaining lifetime of the substations will increase by half a year.
The highest benefit is achieved from the expected increase in overall systems efficiency from 64% to 71%.
This results in annual energy savings equivalent to 73 thousand tons of coal used in the supply of heat to
existing customers. The second highest benefit is achieved by expanding the customer base to existing and
new buildings, which can be economically and technically connected to the existing network at no
incremental capital investments in both heat generation and transmission capacity. The human resource
- 60 -



reduction is based on the elimination of coal boilers owned by either MPEC or others and on office
automation improvements.
H. Financial Analysis of the Project. MPEC's investment program comprises four sub-components: (i)
strategic development investments, (ii) environmental improvement investments, (iii) modernization and
retrofit investments; and (iv) efficiency improvements. The financial analysis was carried out separately
for each investment item of the sub-component. Expected financial benefits were calculated in terms of
coal savings, improved load dispatch, reduced staff and incremental revenues from new DH and DHW
customers. The financial analysis of the overall project and of each investment component was carried out
in constant 2000 unit prices, using net cash flows (excluding VAT and customs duties but including price
contingency of 2.1% per year in US$ based investment costs) generated by the project or the component
during a 20-year life.
PV's@10%
Financial Costs                                   35,206
Investments                                    35,206
Net Benefits                                      41,445
Incremental reveues from new customers         13,515
Energy savings                                 25,118
Environmental benefits                          1,093
Other benefits                                  1,719
Net Financial Benefit (10%)                        6,239
FRR                                            12.7%
Table 4.7 Financial Analysis Summary of DH Modernization Program (th. US$ equivalent).
(1)    Strategic Development Investments focus on: (i) connecting new customers to the DH system, (ii)
increasing share of DHW market supplied from the MPEC's DH system; and (ii) building network loops to
the branched network.
(i! Connection of new customers to the DH system: the incremental costs resulting from new
connections (90 MW) comprise the incremental costs of heat purchased from the CHP plans
(capacity and energy charges), the connection costs (new pipeline and consumer substation) and
MPEC's mark-up fee of 20%. The FRR of the new connections is expected to be 24% on
average for the years to come, whereas the FRR was 27% for the customers connected in 1999.
(ii) Increased Share of DHW Market: The potential for connecting new DHW load to MPEC's
DH system is significant. In 1991, the connected DHW load was 25 MW in 1991 and has
increased to 63 MW in 1999. The plan is to connect 70 MW more by 2006, thereby reaching the
market share of 14% out of the total potential of 960 MW DHW market in Krakow. This
connection is justified economically and financially since: (i) it does not require incremental
capacity investments at the heat sources and transmission networks; and (ii) during the summer,
there are no incremental fuel costs for that load since the CHP plants are required to ventilate the
excess heat through the cooling towers to the atmosphere, in absence of sufficient heat load.
(iii) Network Loops: Closing the loop between the southeast network branch of the MPEC
- 61 -



system and the CHP Skawina branch, consisting of a 2.0 km pipeline of large diameter (DN600)
and a 1.5 km (DN 400) and a supply side booster pump, will increase the transmission capacity
by 100 MW and improve the economic load dispatch. The load dispatch capacity prevailing
between CHP Krakow and Skawina will increase by 100 MW from 120 to 220 MW, thereby
enabling MPEC to dispatch the maximum allowable level of heat energy from the cheaper
source, CHP Skawina. With the bulk of substations operating in variable temperature / variable
flow mode by 2006, full economic dispatching will become possible. Therefore, heat production
of CHP Skawina will increase from the current 700 GWh to 1,700 GWh and heat supply .rom
CHP Krakow will decline almost accordingly. Additionally the loop will improve heat supply
reliability to the southeast region. The proposed network loop closing is considered as high
priority even though direct financial benefits to MPEC remain low as reflected by an FRR for
network loop of 3. 1%.
(2)    Environmental Improvement Investments: The environmental improvement investments co-isist of
replacing small boilers and individual stoves using coal or coke with either DH or converting the
boilers/stoves to gas-firing. The expected FRR ranges from 11% to 25% depending on the type and case.
(3)    Modernization and RetrofitInvestments: The modernization and retrofit investments, comrrising
the installation of modem compact plate heat exchangers in group substations with weather controllers and
the replacement of the worst pipeline sections of the DH system, will have FRRs ranging from 11 to 19%.
The benefits of modemizing the group substations can be measured in terms of reduced water losses,
reduced maintenance and reduced site area for the substations. The benefits of the pipeline replacements
can be measured in temns of lower thermal loss, reduced maintenance costs, and deferred capital
investments. The planned replacement of about 11.3 km per year, 68 krn in total, of pipelines during
2001-2006 represents less than 2% of the total network length (860 km) being replaced each year. "'his
replacement rate is the minimum level required to maintain operating capacity of the current network
assets, but is below the level sufficient to extend the remaining lifetime of the overall network system. In
the long run, the replacement rate should be higher, ranging from 2.5% to 3% a year, in order to reliably
maintain the value of the fixed assets, because a large share of the existing pipelines in Krakow still are old
and of concrete channel type.
(4)    Efficiency Improvement Investments: These investments focus on new operating and maintenance
equipment (such as cranes, trucks, and maintenance vehicles), computers and software for new financial
management system, and on the replacement of 983 hydroelevator substations with modem, compact
substations. The estimated FRRs range from 14 to 25%, with the substation rehabilitation being the
highest and the informnation system the lowest. The benefits of these investments can be measured in terms
of reduced maintenance costs, energy savings and incremental revenues from the existing customers
equipped with compact substations, owned by MPEC.
The FRR for the overall project would be 12.7% and the corresponding NPV is US$6.2 million equivalent,
as summarized in Table 4.7. Both values are lower than those in the economic analysis because, based on
the current tariff and metering systems, a number of financial benefits of the investment program will go to
other parties as follows:
*   Savings in the modernized consumer substations reduce heating costs for the consumer but do not
directly benefit MPEC, because heat metering takes place upstream the substation;
*   The increased sales from new DH and DHW customers increase sales of electric power generated
in co-generation mode that benefit the CHP sources directly; and
*   Current environmental charges are far below the minimum damage costs, thus yielding lower
financial benefits from the investments.
- 62 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The financial risks of the proposed DH modernization program are considered low because: (i) the project
cost estimates were calculated based on MPEC's recent experience with international procurement of
similar equipment; (ii) the project benefits were evaluated based on actual results from the recently
completed Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project in Krakow; (iii) the ratio of the heat price
from the CHP plants to gas price is not expected to increase, thus keeping the competitiveness of district
heating at least at the prevailing level; and (iv) changes in fuel prices have very little influence on MPEC's
costs since the share of heat produced by MPEC's own sources is rather insignificant.
The FRR is not dependent on the costs of the bulk-heat (energy and capacity) from the various heat sources
(CHPs and HOBs) as the current heat tariff system in Poland allows such costs to reflect market price of
fuels and to be passed through directly onto the customers. Therefore, the major risks to the financial
return would come from an increase in the overall investment cost and/or a lower than expected level of
benefits, especially those associated with heat transmission losses. A sensitivity of the FRR to match the
value of 10% caused by increased investment costs and reduced benefits was carried out and is summarized
in Table 4.8 below:
FRR=10.0% if:                       Separately    Simultaneously
Investment cost increase              24%            9%
Benefits at lower level              -160/o          -9%
Transnission loss benefit         -88%
Table 4 8 Sensitivity of Financial Rate of Return
These risks have been mitigated as follows:
(1) Risk of investment cost overrun is rather low since: (i) MPEC has an extensive experience with
international procurement of practically all equipment under the proposed project; and (ii) data on
equipment and installation costs from recently completed investments were used in developing the
project costs;
(2) Risk of lower-than-expected benefits is modest because the saving and efficiency estimates are
based on actual results achieved under the completed Poland Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project.
(3) Risk of losing competitiveness on the market is low since gas price reductions of 4-15% in real
terms compared to coal price are unlikely in the long term. Even if a gas price reduction
materialized, shifting of CHP cost allocation to reduce costs of heat by 8-20% is possible without
violating fair cost allocation between power and heat, thereby compensating the possible risk.
Based on the energy efficiency improvements of the planned investments, the competitiveness of
DH on the market is expected to improve.
Without any new customers, the FRR would drop from 12.7% to 11.8%. Therefore, the overall financial
risks of the DH modernization program are considered low.
- 63 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PART I - FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MPEC
Past and Present Financial Performance. MPEC's financial performance for the period 1997 - 2000
is summarized in the following table. The figures for 1997 - 1999 are actual (in accordance with Polish
Accounting Standards - see Endnote 1) while those for 2000 are based on actual and forecasted
figures.
Indicators                     7             1997     1998      1999      2000
Operating Ratio                              91.5%     96.6%     98.1%     98.0%
Rate of Return on Invested Capital             7.4%      3.0%      1.6%      1.8%
Current Ratio                                    2 3       1.5      0 9        1.0
Number of Days' Sale in Net Accounts Receivable   55       74        64        72
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                      5.8       4.9      4.1        3.6
% of Total CapEx Financed by Internal Sources  114.0%  71.3%    130.6%     75.8%
Average Price (PLN/GJ)                         21.8      26.2      27.9     28.9
Change of Average Price                       _         19.9%      6.5%      3.5%
Heat Sales (TJ)   _12,310    11,211   10,551                                11,013
Change of Heat Sales                                             -5.9%      4.4%
Past financial performance: MPEC's financial performance through 1997 was satisfactory but has
since gradually deteriorated (see Table below). The operating ratio increased and the rate of return on
invested capital decreased, to levels where the company's ability to generate own funds for investment
has been noticeably affected. This was mainly due to inadequate tariff increases over an extended
period. MPEC and all other Polish district heating enterprises were not allowed to raise tariffs to the
extent needed to cover costs and provide a reasonable return on capital. The Ministry of Finance and
URE (the Regulator) gave higher priority to counter-inflationary measures than to the financial
performance of the utilities. As the heat utility bill constitutes a significant part of the average
household budget, the control of heat tariffs is an important socio-economic consideration on the
political agenda. A substantial decline in heat sales due to energy conservation measures and mil J
winters also played significant roles.
In 1999 this inability to generate funds forced MPEC to delay payments to heat suppliers with the
result that Accounts Payable increased by PLN 20 million. In total, working capital decreased by PLN
32.7 million and there was a subsequent reduction in the current ratio from 1.5 in 1998 to 0.9 in 1999.
Accounts Receivable during the period 1997-1999 have ranged from 55 to 72 days, which is more than
the 50 days used as the target figure for previous Bank-financed projects in the heating sector in
Poland, and are mainly related to delayed payments from industrial customers. Provisions for doabtful
accounts have been approximately 7% per annum.
Present financialperformance - Tariff Policy and Regulation: The introduction of a new regulatory
regime further contributed to the deteriorating financial performance in the sector. First, the regulator,
URE, in the fiTst year after its establishment, concentrated on issuing licenses to some 2,000 energy
enterprises rather than on reviewing proposals for tariff increases. Second, the new tariff regime as
stipulated in the 1997 Energy Law, and detailed in the Ordinance from the Ministry of Economy dated
- 64 -



October 6th, 1998, resulted in inadequate tariff increases, mainly due to the way tariffs are calculated.
This has had an adverse effect on the sector.
According to the Ordinance from the MoE, tariffs are calculated as "justified" costs plus a maximum
10% profit margin, with the restriction that no tariff may be increased by more than 15% in any given
year. The justified costs are defined as the costs of the economic activity being carried out, including
the costs of modernization, development and environmental protection and, according to URE, these
costs should be interpreted as operating costs (including depreciations but excluding heat purchases
from extemal heat sources) and interest. The first major shortcoming was that the calculations for
2000 had to be based on the 1998 costs and thus two years' inflation was not included in the "justified
costs." The second shortcoming was that only 90% of the heat losses were allowed as justified costs,
even though the regulations stated that all costs incurred by purchasing heat from external heat sources
should be passed on to the end-users. In addition, the lack of clarity and precision in the law itself
appears to have been a problem in itself. For example, MPEC (and it seems the local branch of URE)
has interpreted "justified" costs to mean operating costs but not interest costs and calculated its tariffs
accordingly, while the Warsaw center of URE states that interest costs can be included. This
misunderstanding has now been corrected and the calculations for next year's tariffs contain both
interest costs and foreign exchange losses.
For MPEC this situation has led to the following expected outcome for 2000:
1. Negative Profit margin: Operating expenses as a percentage of operating revenues, i.e. the
operating ratio, are expected to be 98%, i.e. the profit margin is -2%. This is to be compared to
120% in 1997, 106% in 1998, and 101% in 1999.
2. Return on Average Invested Capital: The return on average invested capital amounts to 1.8%.
As with the operating ratio, this figure overstates the level of profitability, as the fixed assets
have not been revalued since January 1, 1995. As Poland had hyperinflation during the period
January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1996 as defined in IAS29, intemational auditors currently give
a qualified opinion to all utilities that use IAS.
Expected Policy Changes for 2001: The Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for energy sector
policy, as well as the regulator, have recognized the shortcomings of the current Ordinance for heat
tariffs, as described above. This Ordinance has been revised and a number of positive changes as
described below have been introduced:
1. Justified costs will be based on anticipated costs for the upcoming tariff period and not on
historical costs and would be amended to include the planned costs for a company's three-year
development program. Justified costs might also include a reasonable return on invested capital,
but this will be the subject of negotiations with URE.
2. The present allowed profit margin of a maximum of 10% will abolished. The allowed profit
margin will instead be regulated by URE.
The changes described above will allow URE to take the various companies' unique situations into
consideration when approving tariffs. In the short tertn, however, URE's ability to increase tariffs will
be restricted by a price cap: the figure being envisaged is 1.25 times the inflation rate, which would
mean that the allowed future tariff increases in real terms would be minimal.
Financialprojections for 2001 - 2010: The financial projections for the period 2001 - 2010 are based
on the input data taken from Scenario III in MPEC's Strategic Plan, dated May 2000. The capital
expenditure for the project period 2001 - 2006 amounts to approx. US$54.0 million in nominal terms
- 65 -



and would be financed with US$7 million from IBRD, the remainder coming from own funds. T he
projections are based on the assumption that: (i) tariffs calculated on the basis of the old ordinance,
would be raised by 7.5% in real terms on or about January 1, 2001 (see Endnote 2); and (ii) each year
thereafter, tariffs calculated on the basis of the new ordinance follow inflation. As MPEC wishe s to
limit extemal borrowing to a two-year bridge financing of US$7 million, the company would need to
have a gross internal cash generation of approximately US$72 million.
The projections are based on the following assumptions:
1. The overall demand for heat will grow by 1.9% per year. (According to MPEC's Strategic Plan,
dated May 2000, demand for heat per consumer will gradually decrease because of improved
energy efficiency in consumer premises, but this decrease will be compensated by the demand
from new subscribers.)
2. The effect of ESCO's activities in energy saving is included in MPEC's Strategic Plan (se e
above).
3. Increases of energy and power purchase prices would be passed on to the end consumers.
4. Network losses would be reduced from approximately 10% in 2000 to 8% in 2006 and
thereafter,
5. Water losses would decrease from 370 to 200 thousand ton/year.
6. Existing assets would depreciate in line with MPEC's present depreciation policy, while
depreciation of new assets would be based on the following guidelines: boilers 6% per anium,
pipes 4% per annum, and substations 17% per annum.
7. Accounts receivable would be reduced from 72 days sale in 2000 to 55 days after 2003.
8. Accounts payable would be reduced from 50.5 million PLN in 2000 to 26.4 million in 2003.
9. No companies in the holding company group would be paying state taxes. Instead, half o1 the
amount that would have been paid in state taxes would be a deficit contribution to the transport
company of the group and in these projections are treated as dividends to the owner.
10. Bank financing would be made available to MPEC with a 15-year maturity, a 5-year grace
period on repayment of principal.
MPEC's total expenditure for the period 2001 - 2006 amounts to US$79.2 million and consists of (a)
debt service $19.2 million, (b) working capital increase $6 million and (c) capital expenditures $54.0
million. Of these three items, debt service and working capital increases are necessary expenditares to
stop the company ending up in a liquidity crisis. The capital expenditures can be temporarily reduced
without causing a corresponding reduction in profitability. The table below gives further details.
[US$ Million               2001    2002   2003   2004  2005   2006   Total
Internal Sources            10.3   10.8   11.7   12.3  13.1    13.9   72.2
IBRD                        5.3    1 7    0.0    0.0   0.0       0.0    7.0
Other Sources               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0
Equity Investments
Total Souirces          15.6   12.5   11.7  12.3  13.1    13.9   79.2
Capital Expenditures         9.6    8.6    7.4    8.0  10.5       9.9   54.0
Working Capital Increase     2.8    0.7    1.1    1.3  -0.3       0.5    6 0
Debt Service               3.2    3.3    3.2   3.1    2.9       3.5   19.2
Dividends
Total Applications      15.6   12.5   11.7   12.3  13.1  1 13.9   79.2
Based on the projections, MPEC's financial performance for the period 2001 - 2006 is expected to be
- 66 -



approximately as shown in the following table:
Indicators                                  2001   2002   2003    2004 X  2005   2006
Operating Ratio                             96.7%  95.1%   93.3%  92.4%   93.3%   91.7%
Rate of Return on Invested Capital           3.2%   5 1%    7.2%    8.4%    7.5%    9.6%
Current Ratio                                  1.2    1.3      1.4    1.5     1A4    1.4
Number of Days' Sale in Net Accounts Receivable    59  54      55      55      55     55
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                    3.2    3.3      3.7    4.0    4.5    4.0
% of Total CapEx Financed by Internal Sources   56.2%  83.2%   85.1%  101.3%  103.2%  102.5%
Average Price (PLN/GJ)                        32.4   34.3    36.0   37.5    38.9   40.5
Change of Average Price                     12.4%   5.9%    4.9%    3.9%    3.9%    3.9%
Heat Sales (TJ)                             11,120 11,325   11,536  11,751  11,971  12,196
Change of Heat Sales                         1.0%    1.8%    1.9%    1.9%    1.9%  I .9%
In conclusion, the financial analysis shows that for the proposed investment program to be successfully
financed MPEC would have to improve profitability. To make this possible, the trend in recent years of
falling heat tariffs would have to be broken. The new guidelines for URE give a strong indication that the
trend will be broken. If the tariff increase were to be less than projected, the company would either need
additional external financing to cover the financing gap created or reduce its investment program. Both
these options have been thoroughly analyzed and are fully realistic both from the viewpoints of function
and financial and economic rate of retum.
Endnotes - Part 1:
1. MPEC has presented annual financial statements in accordance with both Polish and International Accounting
Standards. Polish Accounting Standards are now regarded as a standard acceptable to the Bank, and have
therefore been chosen as the basis for the financial analysis for two practical reasons:
(a) All periodical financial reporting is done in PAS, and all key ratios (including the financial covenants of
the first World Bank Loan) are based on these financial statements.
(b) The financial key ratios in the ICR for the first Loan are based on the PAS financial statements.
2. MPEC's proposal for tariff increases for 2001 amounts to 19% and is based on the Ordinance from the
Ministry of Economy, dated October 6th, 1998. URE has already reviewed MPEC's request and has reduced it
to 15%.
- 67 -



POLAND - KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Financial Summary of MPEC
Years Ending December 31, 2000 through 2010
PLN Million
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006   2007  2008  2009  201( Average Arage
Actual Actual Actual Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj  Annual Annual
Growth Growth
1997   2000
Income Statement Items
Revenues                      2907  3123  3099  3327  3581  3858  4320  4551  4795  5053  5262  5480  5707  5933   56%    60%
Operatirnglncome               14 8   10 7    5 8    6 7    2 9   10 4   3S9   429   3S7   46 S   465   47 1   499   39 )   3 5%   19 2%
NetIncome                      167    49    02    -1 1   -60    12   309   365   331   422   430   445   478   372   63%
Funds Statement Items
InternalSources                492   403   388   473   394   442   667   700   738   774   787   805   844   82 !   40%    57%
Borrowings:
IBRD                           133    67    00    0 0 264    70    00    00    00    00    00    00    00    0)    00                    00
Other Sources                                               00    00    00    00    00    00    00    00    00    01    00               00
Equity Investnients
Total Sou.ces               625   47(0   388   473   658   512   667   700   738   774   787   805   844   82.   21%    57%
Capital Expenditures           49 7   54 2   59 6   25 0   36 1   33 4   42 2   46 0   59 7   57 9   47 2   56 1   64 8   65 i
WorkingCapitallncrease          37  -165  -318    89   145    16    83    81   -13    10   137   126   141   11)   88%    21%
DebtService                     91    92   121   133   151   162   162   158   154   185   178   118    56   51  -40%   -86%/o
Dividends
TotalApplictions            625   470   399   472   658   512   667   700   738   774   787   805   844   82-  21%    57%
Balance Sheet Items
CurrentAssets                  719   707   618   834   781   763   818   920   930   963  1118  1263  1424  1554   61%    64%
Less Current Liabilities    -31 2   461  -69 3  -82 1  -63 3  -60 3  -57 8  -60 1  -62 5  -68 8  -70 8  -67 5  -63 7  -65    5 9%   -2 2%
NetFixedAssets                3096  333 9  365 8  357 8  357 4  3569  3666  3801  3997  4207  4292  445 2  4683  485    3 5%    31%
TotalAssets                3503  3584  3583  3591  3722  3729  3906  4120  4301  4482  4702  5040  5470  5741   39%    48%
Debt                           556   594   613   632   824   820   734   637   538   360   215   174   198   16]  -91%  -12 8%
Equity                        2947  2990  2969  2959  2899  2909  3172  3482  3763  4122  4487  4866  5272  558    5 0%    66%
Total Liabilities and Equity    350.3  3584  3583  3591  3722  3729  3906  4120  4301  4482  4702  504 0  5470  5749   3 9%    48%
Financial Ratio
Operating Expenses as a
%ofRevenue                   915%  96 6%  981%  98 0%  992%  973%  910%  90 6%  919%  90 7%. 912%  91 4%  91 3%  93 4%    02%   -0 5%
Net Incone asa %oj Revenue      58%   16%   01%  -03%  -17%   03%   72%   8 0%   69%   83%   82%   81%   84%   633%    07%
Return on Average Invested Capital   74%   30%   16%   18%   0 8%   27%   99%  104%   90%  104%   98%   93%   92%  104/'  00%  6625%
DebtService Coverage              58    49    41    36    26    27    41    44    48    42    44    68   152   152                  01      02
Per cent of Total Capital Expend
financed by internal Sources    114%   71%  131%   81%   33%    76%  105%   98%  104%  103%  108%  119%  123%  112%
CurrentRatio                      2 3    15    0 9    1 0    12    13    14    15    15    14    16    19    2 2    2 4   01%    8 9%
Debt as % of Total Capitalization    15 9%  166%  171%  176%  221%  22 0%  188%  15 5%  125%   8 0%   4 6%   3 5%   3 6%   2 8%  -125%  -16 8%
- 68 -



PART II - FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE ESCO
A financial spreadsheet model of MPEC-ESCO operations was used to analyze and confirm the business
strategies of the ESCO. The model generates a profit and loss statement, a cash flow statement, and a
balance sheet for a ten-year time horizon. It uses input assumptions of:
*   labor hours to obtain a sale and to implement a project
*   a sales forecast
*   labour hours available per employee and payroll costs
*   costs of outside services and materials for typically sized projects
*   margins charged to clients on ESCO labour, outside services and financing
*   administrative costs
*   interest rates for World Bank and Commercial bank loans
*   loss rates for bad debt and for savings shortfalls
*   capital expenditures for office equipment and vehicles
*   tax and depreciation rates
*   owner equity injection needed to keep total Debt below 75% of total capitalization and the Current
Ratio above 1.3.
The model provides insight on the manpower and financial resources needed to achieve target sales
volumes.
The key accounting principle used in the model is recognition of revenue upon construction completion. To
protect owner's equity from the technical risks associated with savings and cost prediction errors, a reserve
is taken from after tax profit to match the expected loss rate.
A critical assumption is that initially all project work will be financed through the ESCO's balance sheet.
This reflects an early focus on the public sector and the ease with which the ESCO's balance sheet can
undertake these initial projects. However to control the need for new equity contributions from MPEC as
the ESCO grows, it is assumed that by year 5 the ESCO is only financing 40% of the project costs. The
balance would be financed by clients paying cash or borrowing themselves.
The financial analysis over a ten year period is sununarized below and detailed in the Project
Implementation Plan. Revenue is assumed to grow rapidly over 6 years, and to remain constant thereafter
at PLN 26 million per year (US$6 million) as a time of consolidation. Over the ten year period, sales are
forecasted to accumulate to PLN 196 million (US$48 million). Though more than this amount of market is
available within the Vovoidship of Malopolskie, depending on the sectors pursued and the actions of
competitors which are likely to arise, the ESCO may service clients beyond its immediate region. The
resultant 1.6% average return on invested capital (or 6% return on equity) is considered attractive for the
Polish economy.
Project monitoring will focus on: (i) technical and credit risk management of the ESCO; and (ii)
involvement of local commercial banks in co-financing early projects with the World Bank. Since this is a
new industry, the actual rate of sales growth cannot be accurately forecasted. Therefore future business
projections will be reviewed annually so that expectations of all parties may be updated in light of emerging
market trends. The financial health of the ESCO will also be monitored closely to ensure it is not out of
line with private market realities which could limit its ability to sell, raise funds or set up strategic alliances
with equipment or service suppliers, or private ESCO(s).
- 69 -



POLAND - KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Financial Summary of the ESCO Operations Only
Years Ending December 31, 2001 through 2010
PLN Million
2001    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010  Average
Proj.   Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Annual
1       2      3       4       5      6       7       8       9      10   Growth
2001
Income Statement Items
Revenues                                 4 1     9 7    15 0    19 8    22 9   25 5    26 0    26 4    26 6    26 7    23%
Income Before Tax and Provision for     -0 4     0 2     0 4    0.6     0 7     0 8    0 7     0 8    0 8    0 8
Savings Losses                                                                                                        16%
Net Income After Tax and Provision for   -04     02      03     05      06      06      06     07      07      07
Savings Losses                                                                                                        15%
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources (from projects)      -0.4    0 2     0 3     0 5    0 6     0 6     0 6    0 5     0 4     0 3    11%
Borrowings:
IBRD                                 26     61      74      64     42      4 7     4.8     00     00      00   -100%
Commercial Banks                     0 6     1 5    1 9     2 8    2 8     3 i    3 2      7 9    7 9     7 9    32%
Equity Investments                   1 6     2 3    2 4     1 8     0 4    0 1    0 0      0 0    0.0     0 0   -100%
Total Souuces                      4 4    10 1    12 0    11 5    8 0     8 5    8 5     8S      8 3     8 2     7%
Non-project Capital Expenditures      0 0     0 0     00      0 0    0 0     0 I    0 0     00      0 0     01
WorkingCapitalIncrease                44      96    105       86     37      32      22      1 0    02      00   -158%
DebtService                           00      05      16      29     42      53      64     74      81      82
Dividends                             00      00      00      00     00      00      00     00      00      00
TotalApplications                  44    101    120    11 5       80      85     85      8 5     83     82       7%
Balance Sheet Items
CurrentAssets                          09     28      48      68     81      91      99    103    104    104    31%
Less Current Liabilities           -0 3    -0 6    -10    -13    -1 5    -17    -17    -17    -17    -17        22%
Long Term Accounts Receivable         3 7    11 9    20.6   27 5   30 2    32 5    33 9    34 5    34.7   34 7    28%
NetFixedAssets                         01     01      01      01     01      01      01      1     01       02      13%
Total Assets                       4 4    14 0    24 5    33 1   36 8   401    42 3    43 3    43 5   43 5      29%
Debt                                  32    104    181    24.4   272    298    313    318    317    314            29%
Equity                                 12     37      64      87     96    103    109    114    118    121         30%
Total Liabilities and Equity       44    14 0    24 5    331    368    401    42 3    43 3    43 5    43 5      29%
Financial Ratio:
Operating Expenses as a
%ofRevenue                        1108%   978%   970%   969%   969%   970%   972%   970%   970%   970%              -1%
Net Income as a % of Revenue         -10 8%    2 2%    2 2%    2 4%    2 4%   2 4%    2 2%    2 7%    2 6%    2 6%     9%
Return on Average Invested Capital
After Tax & Provisionfor Savings               1 5%    1 4%    1 5%    1 5%    1 5%O    1 4%    1 6%    1.6%
Losses
Debt Service Covetage                          20 7     9 6     6 8    5 4     4 9     41     3 5     3 3     3 3
Percent of Total Project Investments  -11 0%    2 3%    2 3%    2 5%    2 6%   2 5%    2 4%    21%    16%    1 1%
financed by Internal Sources
Current Ratio                            33     43      49      53      54     55      59      62      62     62
Debt as % of Total Capitalization       74%    74%    74%    74%    74%    74%    74%    74%    73%    72%
- 70 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Procurement
The procurement of goods, works and services of the Bank-financed components will be in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995,
revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and the Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, and
January 1999. The project components, their estimated cost, and procurement methods are summarized in
Annex 6, Table A. A Procurement Plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major
procurement actions is presented in Annex 6, Table C. All other procurement information, including the
capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review
process, is presented in Annex 6, Table B.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs and Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method                 Total Cost
ICB          Other          N.B.F.
1. OH Modernization
1.1 Supply & Installation                                8 87                                        8 87
(4 42)                                     (4 42)
1.2 Goods {                                              4.11           0.30          19 55          23 96
(1.92)        (0 30)        (0 00)         (2.22)
1.3 Works                                                                             17 84          17.84
(0.00)        (O 00)
2. Energy Performance Service Contracts (b)                                11.24          15.68         26 92
(7 92)        (0 00)        (7 92)
3. Consulting Services (C)                                                 0.30                          0 30
(0 30)                       (0 30)
Total                                                       12.98          11.84          53.08         77.89
of which: Bank                                               (6.33)        (8.52)         (0.00)        (14.85)
Figues may not match due to rounding
N B F = Not bank-finance
Figures in the parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
(a) International Shopping for substation equipment items (heat exchangers, pumps, valves, automation control devices and expansion
vessels) for an aggregate of US$300,000
(b) Commercial Practices consisting of obtaining at least three quotations, when possible from suppliers located in at keast two eligible
countries
(c) Consulting Services for MPEC and the ESCO under Fixed Budget Method (US$250,000) and Individual Selection Method (US$50,000)
- 71 -



Annex 6, Table Al: Procurement Arrangement and Time Schedule
NumrPcae  Bedr Category of Estimated Cost (US$ Procureet  Tendr   Invitation  Bid  Contract G:ntract Contract
rrmt         Mil.)         Method   Preparation  to Bid  Openi   Awrd  S~ Ining Completion
Years ofPadmetasonP     Tdal  | WBFin.                 Date     Date   Date   Date   ')ate      Date
A Supply & Installalion
Al Building of ings to networks: preinsulated pipe and fitting
Year 2001 (3.5 lkn)          1 _      S&     1  6.14  J 2.97_      ICB        Sep-     Oct-00  Dec-(  Feb01  Mar-01   Nov-02
A.2 Automation of healing systern: compact consumer subslations with plate heat exchangers
Year2002 198unit)           1                    148     0.80       CB        Sep01   Oct-01  Der;01  Feb-2 |        [7j
Year203 167units  1                   S&i        1.25    0.65      ICB        Sep02    Oct-02  De02  Feb-3| Mar-.I Nov-03
B. Supply of Goods
B.1 Replacement of netwo_               _
Year 2002(9.7ki              1         G         2.12    1.05      [CB        AupQ1  I Sep-01 Nov-01  Jan-02            Oct202
Year 23 (7.2 In)             1         G     1  1.99     0.87      [CB        kqj}02  I Sep-02 Nov-02  Jan03 IF l-   O03I
Total - [CB Procurement     5                1 12.98     6.33
Major pret Pad<esNumrber of             Esegy   f  rrmated Got(U   Procuremrnet ITender I nvitationj Rid   Contradc| Cctntract  Contract
&Years ofl=mpletmentaton   Padoge  Procurenient   Tr.   |  BFi               Date    tDated   Date IDate |')ate9    Date
Automation of heating syt  :substatiU  equipnient itrs(for: 35 units in ter2002 ane 35 units in year 2003'  
Heat exchangers|
Year 20o2             .                G         0.04    0.04                                  During Year 2002
Year 2003                    1         G         0.04    0.04        IS                       During Year 2003
Valves                                        ___I
Year 2002     _I1                      G         0.03    0.03  |     IS                       During Year 2002
Year 2003                    I_        G         0.03    0.03        IS                       During Year 2003
ValvesII
Year 2002                    2         G         0.02    0.02  |    IS                        During Year 2002
Year 2003                   2          G ._   0.02       0.02 _IS _                           During Year 2003
Autornation co~ntrol revices       _I
Year 2002                   2          G         0.04    0.04  |     IS                        During Year 2002
Year 2003               | 1            G         0.04    0.04  |     IS                       Dunring Year 2D03
Expansion vessels                                              I _
Year 2002       _            _ 1       G         0.02    0.02    i___s                         During Year 2002
Year 2003               j 1  _         G         0.02    0no2        IS                        During Year 2003
Total - IS Procurement   _13                    0.30     0.30
Maorp oremert           NberofCatg B CEstieatedyCostf(US$P                   Tender  invitation  Bid  Contract Cc iract  C;ontract
I &Year's oflImplementation  Bd    Prrr otl        Mil.)      |  Metiod  IPreparalin  to Bid Opening Awrd  Sogning Completon
Years of Imeme on                          | Tdaln  | WBFin.P|esDate                 Date   Date   Date   C)ate       Date
ESCO'
Year 2001                   9                    0.87    0.70       GP                         During Year 2001
9         W         0.30    0.24       OP                         Dur Year 2001
Year 2002                   11         G         1.88    1.50       CP                         Dunring Year 2002
______________ | 11                 W         0.59     0.47      CP                         Dunring Year 2002
Year 2003                   11         G         2.20    1.76       CP                         During Year 2003
|   ___        1   11         W         0.68    0.55       CP                        DDuring Year 2003
Year 2004                    7         G         1.93    1.54       GP                         During Year 2004
|   7          W        0.59     0.47       OP                        DuringYear2004
Year 2005                    2         G         1.60  1 0.53       OP                         During Year 2005
I          I _  2         W         0.60    0.16       CP                        DurngqYear2005
Total-CPProcurement         78                  11.24  | 7.92
- 72 -



Annex 6, Table Al: Procurement Arrangement and Time Schedule
(continued)
.~~~~~~~~ubro                             Esbimated Coat (US$                   IFP        LOI            Contract Contrac   Contract
Major procuremrent Packages    bid     Category of                       Procurement          on issuance           Award   Signin  Comprtio
& Years of Implementation   Packages Prcu     t Totali  WB Fin.    Method             Date      Date   penig   Date        Date      Date
Year2002
District Heating Modemrizabn Component         _    _____
Development of business      I          TA         0 030    0 030         SFB        Mar-02    Apr-02  May-02  Jun-02   Jun-02    Aug-02
strategy__ _ _ _                                            __ _ _ __ _ _ _
Technical assistance         1           TA        0.030     0.030        SFB        Feb-02    Mar-02  Apr-02  Mav-02  MavZ2    Jul-02
Development of business      I          TA         0.007     0 007         Si        May-02    Jun-02  Jul-02  Aug-02  Aug-02    Oct-02
strategy                                           _,_ _ _                                                 _
Legal aspects for energy     1          TA         0 007     0 007         Si        Sep-02    Oct-02  Nov-02  Dec-02  Dec-02    Jan-03
savings                                                                                         __  ____
ESCO Component                    .__                                                      _
Energy audit                 1          TA         0.042     0.042        SFB        Feb-02    Mar-02  Apr-02  May-02  May-02    Jun-02
Energy audit                 1          TA         0.043     0.043        SFB        Jan-02    Feb-02  Mar-02  Apr-02   Apr-02    Jun-02
Legal aspects                1          TA         0.007     0.007         Si        Sep-02    Oct-02  Nov-02  Dec-02   Dec-02    Jan-03
Measurement of energy        1           TA        0008      0 008         Si        Aug-02    Sep-02  Oct-02  Nov-02  Nov-02    Dec-02
savings                  ._____                                                                                  _
Year 2003
Distiict Heating Modemi t ion ComP. *ent                                ___          .       _ _ _
Technical assistance         1           TA        0.030     0.030        SFB        Feb-03    Mar-03  Apr-03  Mav-03  Mav-03   Ax>03
Developrnent of business     1          TA         0030      0 030        SFB        Mar-03    Apr-03  May-03  May-03  May-03    Jul-03
strategy                 ______                                                                 ____                                ______
Lialas                       1           TA        0.007     0.007         Si        Mav-03    Jun-03   Jul-03   Auca-03  Aug-03    Oct-03
Legal aspects                1          TA         0.007    0.007          Si        Aug-03    Sep-03  Oct-03  Nov-03  Nov-03    Dec-03
ESCO Component         r              _            _
Energy audit              i1            TA         0.045    _0.045        SFB        Jan-03    Feb-03  Mar-03  Apr-03   Apr-03    Jun-03
Energy audit              1              TA        0.007     0.007         Si        Mar-03        r-03  Apr-03  May-03  Mav-03    Jul03
ITotal - CS Procurement          14                     0.30      0.30
ICe - Intern Comp Bd                  'Volumes areb ased on average unit costsofrsmali, medu nand iarge size projects Due to small padage szes proceernent
Is - Intemabonal Shopong               wilil be done acconring to Commercal Pratres unless attempt to compile larger packages using IcB is not sucressful
CP - Comrnmercial Pracces             2Goodse Wii indude gas boilers, consumer substabons, preinsulated pipes, energy efficency equiprnent and mateiials for Intemal and extemal
SFB - Selecton under Fined Budget     instalilaions (induding insulaton and wndows) of buildings
Si - SeleclJon of Individual Consuftants
- 73 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods, Supply                  DH Modernization C mponent                             ESCO Component only
& Installation
and Works                      ICB                             IS                      Commercial Pract ces
Thresholds:     Goods  > US$100,000                  Goods  < US$100,000    Goods  < US$350,000
Individual      Suppl] & Installation > US$100,000                            Works  < US$350,000
&
Aggregate       Aeer&eate: US$6,330,000              Aeereaate: US$300.000   Ak2re t. US$7,920,000
I  All procurement package for the first
five Energy Performance Service
Prior Review    All                                  The first contract,         Contracts (EPCs), irrespe tive of their
irrespective of its value   individual values
2 All procurement package,, estimated to
cost more than USS200,C )0 equivalent
per package
Consulting                                              Technical Assistance
Services                             SFB                                                  Si
Procurement
method          Firms                                            Individuals
available to
&
Aggregate       Aggreeate: US$250,000                            Aeereeate: US$50,000
I The first contract, irrespective of its val.e
I The first contract, irrespective of its value  2  Qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
Prior review    2 All contracts above US$100,000                    terms of employment for contracts to cc-;t more than
3 Terms of reference with respect to each contract  US$15,000
irrespective of its value                    3  Terms of reference with respect to each zontract
-____________                        =irrespective of its value.
The capacity of the implementation agency (MPEC) to conduct procurement has been assessed and wasfound to be ;iatis]actory
As a result a remedial action plan is not needed Until the ESCO develops adequate procurement capacity, the proc rement for
this component will be managed by MPEC  Selected procurement staff of MPEC should attend Bank sponsored trainiing courses in
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country    Are the bidding documents for the procurement action of I he first year
Procurement Strategy Pa, r status: CPAR was updated  ready by negotiations?
.in June 2000.                                       Yes
~~~~~~~~~~~~'tt .w. .... . ... .....  t ir e i   ~             5t               ~   .. ~   .. ... --X:
Estiniated date of    Actual date of publication    Indicate if there is    Domestic Preference   Domestic
Project Launch        of General Procurement     procurement subject to     for Goods:            Prefetence for
Workshop: JuL 2001   Notice                      mandatory SPN in           Yes                   Work i, if
Issue No. 543 dated 30     Development Business:                            appli:ation: NIA
September 2000             No
Retroactive financing: Yes --- US$1,500,000
S&l of network pipes and compact consumer substations following ICB         Advance procurement: No --- Explain:
procurement procedures
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement nmonitoring system exists within the PMO which will collect
and keep up to date all procurement data.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: Not applicable for commel cial ban ks.
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name:
Snezana Mitrovic, PAS, Ext. 32182
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Limited liaison role only.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; IS: International Shopping; CP: Commercial Practices;
SFB: Selection under Fixed Budget; SI: Individual Consultants
- 74 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Amount of the USD   Amount of the EUR
Tranche of the Loan  Tranche of the Loan   % of Expenditures
Expenditure Category            Allocated             Allocated         to be Financed
(Expressed in USD) (Expressed in EUR)
100% of foreign
cxpenditures, 100% of
Goods under District Heating          755,000               900,000        local expenditures (ex-
Modernization Component                                                    factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
Supply a-nd Installation of Equipmnent  ,8002260085
under District Heating Modernization  1,885,000            2,260,000       85%
Component
Energy Performnance Service3210038500                                        %
Contracts under ESCO Component       3,210,000             3,850,000       80%
Consultants' Services under           150,000               180,000        1(0%
Technical Assistance Component           ,                     ,
^   _                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Amount due under
Front-end Fee                          75,000               90,000         Section 2.04(d) of the
Loan Agreement
Premia for Interest Rate Caps and        0Amon  d) unde
Interest Rate Collars
LJoan Agreernent
Unallocated                           1,425,000            1,720,000
TOTAL                                7,500,000             9,000,000
Retroactive Financing
To facilitate the prompt execution of the project, retroactive financing for an amount not exceeding
US$750,000 for the US Dollar Tranche and EUR900,000 for the Euro Tranche will be allowed. It will
apply to payments for expenditures made within 12 months before the expected date of loan signing but
after December 1, 2000. The following conditions apply to retroactive financing: (a) payments must be for
expenditures (goods, materials and installation works) that are eligible under the Loan Agreement.
Procedures for procurement, and processing and clearances are subject to the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines; and (b) documentation requirements for expenditures claimed under retroactive financing are
the same as those for disbursement against payments made after the Loan Agreement is signed.
Disbursement
The proceeds of the Loan (see Table C for disbursement categories, amounts and percentages to be
financed under each category) will be disbursed in accordance to hank procedures. Disbursements for
Energy Performance Service Contracts will finance the underlying goods, materials, and installation works
of individual Service Contracts. Funds from the Loan will be made as the underlying goods, materials and
installations are provided and are due, and based on the termns of the Service Contract. Disbursement
- 75 -



arrangements under the project will conimence on the basis of traditional disbursement methods (e.g , direct
payments, replenishments of the Special Accounts on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs: and
full documentation). Once MPEC's capacity and experience has improved with regard to internal ccntrols,
implementation, budgeting and forecasting, MPEC, in consultation with the Bank, will decide on the timing
and transition of the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes. The project has been de.z igned
to be carried out over a period of 6 years.
To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements against eligible expenditures, two
Special Accounts (SAs) denominated in US dollars and in Euro respectively will be established by IIPEC
in a commnercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The bank selected should be capable of providing effiient
payment and clearing facilities both locally and internationally. MPEC will maintain the SAs. MPIE C will
submit replenishment application for the SAs on a monthly basis or when one third of the funds of a SA
have been withdrawn, whichever occurs first. The authorized allocation of the two SAs is US$750,100 and
EUR900,000 respectively. At the outset of the project, the initial deposit into the two SAs will be limited
to US$375,000 for the USD account and EUR450,000 for the EUTRO account, until the aggregate a-nount
withdrawn from the USD Tranche and the EllR Tranche, respectively, plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments from that account entered into by the Bank shall equal or exceed the
equivalent of US$1,500,000 million with respect to the US Dollar Tranche and EURI ,760,000 with respect
to the EUR Tranche. Replenishment applications will be accompanied by full documentation, including
bank statement and reconciliation, for all items except those eligible for disbursement on the basis of SOEs
All replenishment applications will be fully documented except for: (a) contracts for supply md
installation costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for goods costing less than
US$100,000 each; (c) contracts for goods, materials and installation works under Energy Performan ze
Service Contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first five 1 nergy
Performance Service Contracts, for which withdrawals may be made on the basis of SOEs only after they
have been reviewed by the Bank; and (d) services under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
each for consulting firms and US$15,000 equivalent each for individual consultants. All supporting
documentation for SOEs will be retained by MPEC for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and
the extemal auditor. MPEC will retain supporting documentation for at least one year after the receipt by
the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
:---------- --=----------------A                                                     a
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        14                            30
First Bank mission (identification)               11/30/98                      11/30/98
Appraisal mission departure                       09/20/99                      10/16/2000
Negotiations                                                                    12/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/31/2001
Prepared by:
Rachid Bemnessaoud
Preparation assistance:
Canadian, US and Japanese Trust Funds. Areas of assistance to the Bank and MPEC include ESCO
business planning and development, on-the-job training, sales and marketing, legal aspects of ESCO
performance contracting, measurement and verification, and taxation.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
N--~                                     blame  :p y           -__-__-__=__=
Rachid Benmessaoud                 Task Leader
Karl Enar Wennerstrom              Financial Management and Financial Analysis
Arto Nuorkivi                      District Heating Engineer and Economic Analysis
Bernard Baratz                     Environment Management
Snezana Mitrovic                   Procurement
Jose F. Molina                     Financial Products and Services
Zoe Kolovou                        Counsel
Joseph Paul Formoso                Disbursement
Rozena Serrano                     Project Assistant
Other Team Members (Consultants):
John Cowan                         ESCO Development and Management, and Business Planning
Frederick T. Day                   ESCO Sales and Marketing
Martin Adelaar                     Market Analysis and Business Planning
Thomas Brett                       ESCO Client Contracts and Financing Arrangements
Joseph Deringer                    Energy Auditing and Architectural Engineering
Steve Schiller                     Measurement and Verification of Energy Saving Contracts
- 77 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, Dec. 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis of DH Modernization Program*
Financial Analysis of DH Modemization Program*
Competitiveness Analysis of DH versus Gas Heating*
C. Other
Draft Business Plan of MPEC/ESCO*
ESCO Business Tools*
*Including electronic files
- 78 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
POLAND: KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Odginaj Amount In US$ MiliIons                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Ong   Frm Revd
P008615       2001 SEAWYRPORT MOD                                   38 50       0 00                 0 00       0 00     3819        0 00      0 00
P037339       2000 GEOTHERMAL AND ENVIRONMENT (PODHALE)             38 20       0 00                 0 00       0 00     30 49       1 82      0 00
P050660       2000 RURAL ENV PROTECTION                              250        0 00                 0 00       000       1 66       0 79      000
P057993       2000 GEOTHERMAL & ENV (PODHALE) (GEF)                  0 00       0 00                 5 40       0 00      478        2 33      0 00
P058202       2000 RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                120 00      0 D0                 0 00       0 00    10S 39      19 93      0 00
P059613       2000 RURAL ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (GEF)                0 00       000                  3 00       0 00      2 80       1 00      0 00
P053796       1998 FLOOD EMERGENCY                                 20000        000                  000        000      7774       7584      5788
P0350B2       1098 MUNICIPALFINANCE                                  2200       000                  000       1330       365       1792       000
P008593       1998 ROADS II                                        300 00       0 00                 0 00       0 00    165 57      83 79      0 00
P036061       1997 PORTACCESS&MGMT                                   6700       000                  000        000      2608       1226       000
P008595       1996 BIELSKO-BIALA WATER                               21 50      000                  000        000       644        858       000
P008604       1996 POWER TRANSMISSION                               160 00      0 00                 0 00       000      65 75      89 33      0 00
P008563       1995 COAL TO GAS CONV (GEF)                             0 00      0 00                25 00       0 00     10 80      1415      -0 56
P008587       1992 HEALTH                                           130 00      0 00                 00 0      35 00     3161      68 61       8 79
P008571       1991 PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT                             280 00      0 00                 0 00      67 28     30 58      97 86     41 22
Total:    137970        000                3340       11558      60131      49220     10733
- 79 -



POLAND
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disburs ed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                 BWPSA                            0 00     1.75     0 00     0 00     0 00      1 75    0 00     0.00
1996                 Baltic Malt                      3.24     000       1 93    000      3 24     0.00      1 87    000
1997                 CPF                              0 00     1 60     0 00     0 00     0 00     1 38     0 00     0 00
0                  ESCO Polska                       0 00     0 21     0 00     0 00     0 00     0 21     0 00     0 00
1996/97              Gaspol                           0 00     0 98     0 00     0 00     0 00     0 98     0.00     0.00
1998                 Global Hotels                    2 98     3 60     3 72      0 00     0 00    3 20     2 05     0 00
1993                 Huta Warszawa                    7.52     0 00     3 75     0 00     7 52     0.00     3 75     0 00
1995/97/98           Intercell                        0 00     3 79     0 00     0 00     0 00     3 79     0.00     0 00
1995                 Nesky                            1 87     0 50     000      0 00      1.87    0 50     0 00     0 00
1997                 Norgips                          8 70     0.00     0 00    16 01      8 70    0 00     0.00    16 01
1993                 PEF-Poland                       0 00     1 92     0 00     0 00     0 00     1.92     0 00     0.00
1998                 Paroc Polska                     6 90     2 13     0.00     0 00     6 90     1 93     0 00     0 00
1994                 Peters                           5 58     0 00      1 00    0 00     5 58     0 00     0 88     0 00
1993                 Sandoglass                       8 73     0 00     000       1 47     8 73    0 00     0.00      1 47
Total Portfolio:          45 52    16 48    10 40    17.48    42 54    15 66      8.55    17.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                              Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
1997                AmerBank                             8 00       0 00       7 00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            8 00      0 00       7.00       0 00
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Poland at a glance
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle-
Poland      Asia  income
1999                                                                                Development diamond'
Population, mid-year (millions)                       38 7       475       573
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   4,070      2,150     4,900 |               Lifeexpectancy
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       157      1,022     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                        T
Population ()                                         01         01        14
Laborforce(%)                                          04         06        21      GNP           / l   \            Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               per      C-     1   -           primary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   24                          capita                       enrollment
Urban population (% of total population)                65        67        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73        69        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                10        22        27
Child malnutrition (%/. of children under 5)                       8         7
Access to improved water source (% of populaiion)       81                  78                Access to safe water
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      0         3        10
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    96       100       109
Male                                                  97       101                     -Poland
Female                                               96         99                        Upper-middle-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios~
GDP (USs billions)                                              1526      1582
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                    26 4                               Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP /a                             28 4
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                       21 1
Gross national savings/GDP                                       21 6
Current account balance/GDP                                      -4 5      -7 3    ,   estic
Interest paymentslGDP                                             09        1 2          Stic                   Investment
Total debtlGDP                                                   31 3               Savings
Total debt servicelexports                                       124
Present value of debtvGDP                                        289 9
Present value of debt/exports                                   120 8
|         ~~~Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03   1
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           47       48         41        52            -Poland
GNP per capita                                5 6      4 8        3 3       51                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                11 6     14 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                  38     30
Agriculture                                                       48        38
f ndustry                                                        361       365     20t
Manufacturing                                                  216       213      10
Services                                                         591       59 7
Private consumption                                              63 3      633             94   95   96   97   98   99
General government consumption                                   156                               GO      --*,GOP
Imports of goods and services /a                                 33 6
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           -02         61       -2 0    30
Industry                                               6 3        4 3       4 6
Manufacturing                                                                    20
Services                                               4 1        51        73
Private consumption                                    5 6        4 7       51
General government consumption                         2 3        1 6               0
Gross domestic investment                             11 9       138        63             94   95   96   97   98   99
Imports of goods and services                         17 7       18 5                            Exports    e  Imports
Gross national product                                 5 8        4 8       3 4
Note. 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 81 -



Po1and
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic pnices
(% chan~qe)                                                                        4 
Consumer prices                                                  11 8       73     30
Implicit GDP deflator                                            117       79      20
Govemment finance                                                                  10
I% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0 -                       0 -i------_
Current revenue                                                  23.0      20 4            94   95   96   97   95    9
Current budget balance                                           -0 7      -0 8            -GDP detator  -eCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -2 4      -2 0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill )
Total exports (fob)                                            28,229    27,407    so,ooo
Coal, coke, and briquettes                                    1,232               400
Meat and meat preparations                                      566
Manufactures                                                 22,905               30,00
Total imports (cif)                                            47,054    45,911    20000
Food                                                          2,968    2,537
Fuel and enerqy                                               2,964     3,281     10,000
Capital goods 
93  94  95  96  97  98  39
Export price Index (1995=100)                                    130       141
Import price index (1995-100)                                    129       139                 1 Exports     a imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                        101       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US5 milions)                                1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services /b                               33,799    29,657     6.
Imports of goods and services /b                              48,028    45,661
Resource balance                                              -14,229   -16,004     3-
Net income                                                       -567     -804
Net current transfers                                           1,942     1,604      9            9S
Current account balance                                        -6,858   -11,569
Financing items (net)                                          12,566    11,349
Changes in net reserves                                        -5,708      220
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)                          27,382    25,494
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)                                  3 6       3 9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 oebt (US$ mill)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                43,096    47,708
IBRD                                                   0      2,156    2,185               G: 6,191    A:2.156
IDA                                                    0         0
Total debt service                                   1,542      4,534
IBRD                                                   0       306       322
IDA                                                    0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                        0       549                   1   .        1 11 9
Official creditors                                  -253       -487
Private creditors                                   -149      2,319
Foreign direct investment                             11      6,365
Portfolio equity                                       0       969
World Bank program                                                                 |
Commitments                                            0        20       303      A - IBRD                    E - Bilatero
Disbursements                                          0       153       247      C - IDA M  - Other muitilateral  F- Privaterm
Principal repayments                                   0       175       188         - 1F                     C-Short-lurm
Net flows                                              0        -23       59
Interest payments                                      0       131       134
Net transfers                                          0       -'153     -75
Development Economics
- 82 -



IBRD 31349
POLAND
o--; sa                                                   KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
MUNICIPAL DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISE OF KRAKOW (MPEC KRAKOW S.A.)
DISTRICT HEATING (DH) SYSTEM OF KRAKOW
t2\5\ * , r,, t + r<_, ^/ / \/          Z ,1TT, }                                                                       ,                
f'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E    KRKO                                                        S.'*SZ@I  'IA * E     '    h_  F
-           s                                                         DISTRICY PRAOJEN
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPNN I,)~ -i i  0-t                                                                                DI LITHUANIA
I: ~~~~~~~~ /                                        lb ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'ft                                  PR~~~~~~~~~~OJBECT AREAS SUPUD  BY-
p  I                II                       EC KRAKOW S.A ~~KRKOW 
! w -                 w**a     ,                                                                       . . J J t s t: X . t ! ESCO (ENERGY SERVTCE
! r-1i    :i'F COMPONENT (see iNset(  G ; ai0 S    S *IToUANIAG.
INHABITED ARECOMEINE  HEAT A51ND PIPELINES                                                         5
KILO.ETERiS                                                                              DIST rIBUTI* CO ONL-   PIPEL EARUS
.   1: ' 4.i:   ]                  -T                               '  .~~~ PLANTS, OWNED EY MPEC                                                Z   f 
~; *  '4 - \ t i @ LOW STACK, COAL-FIRED                                                                 z E        OdR          S       RPUBLIC
TOWN BOONDALER HOUSES NT OE 
3,                                    X s lix ) \ i MPEC KRAKOW, CONVERTED                                   2 I
o        1 9\//i0                                         fUTUKECl  i 2f 5  4               -' MA eN   I N T RANSMiISSI O N PIP ELINES 5' |-      



