Report No. PID8502
Project Name                     POLAND-KRAKOW ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           District heating and energy efficiency
services (100%)
Project ID                       P065059
Supplemental Project             P070246
Borrower(s)                      MUNICIPAL DISTRICT HEATING CO. OF KRAKOW
Implementing Agency
Address MUNICIPAL DISTRICT HEATING
(MPEC) CO. OF KRAKOW
Address: Al. Jana Pawla II 188
30-969 Krakow, POLAND
Contact Person: Janusz Miechowicz,
Head of Foreign Cooperation Department
Tel: 48(12)6445326
Fax: 48(12)6445326
Email: Janusz.Miechowicz@mpec.krakow.pl
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 4, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              October 12, 2000 (P065059)
March 3, 2003 (P070246)
Bank Approval Date               June 7, 2001 (P065059)
May 29, 2003 (P070246)
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government's Energy Policy and Strategy calls for energy security
through cost-effective supply of energy, at socially acceptable prices and
in an environmentally sustainable manner. This is in line with the EU
strategy for the energy sector. Economic pricing combined with
environmental measures provides incentives to promote and implement the
energy efficiency agenda. While energy efficiency will help bring costs
down, the need to improve energy efficiency and to safeguard the
environment has been a cornerstone of Poland's energy and environmental
policy since 1990. Although substantial success in supply-side energy
efficiency programs has already been achieved nationwide, it is widely
recognized that substantial additional improvements in end-use energy
efficiency and in air quality can be achieved.
The Government also supports the development of market-based energy
efficiency initiatives. A utility-based ESCO, subsidiary of MPEC Krakow,
was established under the IBRD-financed project to bridge the knowledge
and financing gap between local banks and building owners. It would
overcome the many serious institutional barriers and market failures in
order to permit the tapping of the huge end-use energy efficiency
potential. It would use new approaches and financing mechanisms and would
built these mechanisms on the interest of building owners to undertake
end-use energy efficiency measures and on the interest of local banks to



finance these measures.
2. Objectives
Framework Program. The World Bank is proposing a framework program (the
program) to improve energy efficiency of the heating systems and overcome
barriers to energy efficiency and energy perforrnance contracting in the
building sector in Poland. The implementation of the program started with
an IBRD financing for the Krakow Energy Efficiency Project (the IBRD
project) and complemented with the proposed GEF fnancing for an associated
project (the GEF project). Though these have not been fully blended into
one project because of differing processing schedules, both the IBRD and
GEF-financed projects are presented in this section to provide a full
understanding of the cohesive design of the program. The Bank is preparing
the associated GEF project to secure the total financing required for the
program. The program is designed in such a way that the approval of the
GEF financing wil. not affect the overall achievement of the IBRD project.
The Project   The objective of the IBRDfinancing is to improve energy
efficiency of the heating systems in the Malopolskie Voivodship (the
Krakow region). This will be achieved by: (a) continuing the modernization
program for the city's district heating systems; (b) helping consumers
decrease their heat energy consumption by improving the energy efficiency
at the end-user level; and (c) developing in K rakow the knowledge and
mechanisms necessary for financiers to fund end-user energy efficiency
projects.
The Associated GEF Project. The objective of the GE financing is to remove
barriers to market-oriented transactions and increase public and private
sector investments in energy efficiency in buildings. The proposed GEF
contribution will comprise GEF guarantee and grant facilities.
The objective of the GEF guarantee is to demonstrate the technical and
commercial viability of building retrofit energy efficiency projects for
utilities, end-users, and commercial financial institutions in Poland.
This will be achieved by addressing the specific risks of commercial
banks' participation in energy efficiency project financing under the IBRD
project, utilizing a GEF funded limited loan and partial risk guarantee
facility. Specifically, the GEF guarantee will address: (a) the risks of
the timing of payments between clients (end-users) and the ESCO; and (b)
the risks of client default in the obligations between clients and the
ESCOs and/or the banks.
The objective of the GEFgrant is to cover the direct incremental costs of
higher-cost energy efficiency measures (windows and insulation). This
would enable the ESCO to offer these materials in the context of a package
of services with acceptable levels of financial risks. The grant will be
available for the competitive bulk purchase of equipment components, which
will enable the ESCO to pass on lower costs to the end user.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's involvement is regarded as essential in supporting investment
programs that would improve the quality, delivery and affordability of
district heating and hot water services in Krakow. The technical,
economic, and environmental benefits to Poland of improving the energy
efficiency of buildings and their energy sources are well substantiated.
- 2 -



However, several barriers to improved energy efficiency have prevented the
widespread implementation of projects that would capture these benefits.
The Bank's support in this project seeks to overcome three major barriers
to improved energy efficiency in the Krakow region: (i) financing
mechanisms are not in place; (ii) building decision-makers lack
information; and (iii) risks are perceived to be high. It would
facilitate the widespread use of ESCO financing arrangements as well as
mechanisms in which technical risks from energy efficiency measures are
assumed by a single entity -- the ESCO that has the expertise in
selecting, installing and operating the key energy efficiency measures.
Given the difficulties of starting an ESCO business in a new market and
given the fact that the utility-based ESCOs are a novelty in Poland, it is
unlikely that private investors will venture to invest equity up-front in
such activities. Similarly, commercial banks are generally lukewarm to
provide long term financing for new business. While the World Bank loan
will be essential in providing part of the initial financing for the
project, the general support of the World Bank to the project will help
build-up the credibility of the ESCO. Gradually, this would help attract
commercial bank financing and, after a few years, possibly even private
investment.
4. Description
For building retrofit energy efficiency project financing demonstration (a
GEF partial risk guarantee of US$8 million): A partial risk guarantee
facility will be established with GEF funds to demonstrate the viability
of energy efficiency retrofits in buildings, based on a utility ESCO model
that includes energy performance contracting. The costs of contracting
and monitoring the individual guarantees taken on by the guarantee
facility are included in the overall facility costs, and are estimated at
US$1.0 million. The initial projects will be drawn from MPEC's pipeline
and based on MPEC's experience in energy efficiency project design and
implementation. Significant incremental risks now deter commercial banks
from financing building energy efficiency retrofits of any kind which
depend on energy savings for revenue. The guarantee facility will ensure
that the structures for assessing risk and assigning risk mitigation are
proved viable among project participants (MPEC, ESCO, commercial banks,
and end-users). In particular, the guarantee facility will establish how
performance and technical risk (ESCO risk) can be distinguished from
end-user credit-worthiness (client-credit risk) in project financings.
For the first three years of implementation, the GEF guarantee facility
will guarantee the participation of commercial banks in the MPEC ESCO
project activity. This period will establish the credibility of energy
savings and delineate technical risks from client credit-worthiness
risks. In the transition, the guarantee facility will become available to
commercial banks lending directly to other utilities, ESCOs and end-users,
with well-defined provisions for refinancing of ongoing projects to an
off-ESCO-balance sheet structures, as well as guaranteeing the exposure of
commercial banks' lending directly to clients on the basis of clients'
credit-worthiness. The rate and timing of this transition from MPEC
projects to other entities engaging in energy performance contracting will
be determined by project monitoring in the second and third year of
implementation. Success of the model depends on the cooperation of ESCOs
and commercial banks in the finance structure.
- 3 -



For the GEF Technical Assistance (a GEF grant of US$1.0 million): GEF
technical assistance will be available for the following purposes:
1. To Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (BGK, the executing agency of the GEF
guarantee facility) for: (a) developing the project financing mechanism
which requires no recourse to the ESCO or owner; (b) promoting the new
financing modality to the rest of the Polish financial community; (c)
promoting to other energy efficiency agents able to undertake the
technical performance risk, the benefits of using energy savings to
co-fund building renewal projects; (d) monitoring, evaluation and
reporting on GEF benefits under the guarantee facility (baseline
establishment, savings monitoring, leakage, et al); (e) monitoring,
evaluation and reporting on replication of an off-balance sheet financing
structure; (f) investigating market creation effect of the grant financing
of windows and insulation retrofit packages, e.g. replicable financing
models in the absence of the grant; and (g) assessing a suitable exit
strategy for the GEF guarantee facility, in light of experience during the
first three to four years of implementation;
2. To MPEC's ESCO in applying for GEF grant funds for bulk purchase of
windows and insulation. This work will primarily consist of engineering
analyses of proposed building retrofits to verify the cost effectiveness
of weatherization options vis-a-vis windows/insulation.
3. To an appropriate Polish non-profit or consumer group to promote the
concept and benefits of building retrofit activities and studies on the
ESCO or other "best practices" in Poland for replication in other regions
and to implement information sharing and ESCO training during the initial
stages of the GEF project, in light of implementation experience with the
MPEC ESCO.
For the reduction of long-term costs of energy efficiency technology (a
GEF grant of US$2.0 million): Many building upgrade measures would
benefit from adding wall insulation and replacing windows. However, these
measures typically result in very long paybacks, as long as 17 and 20
years, respectively, for attic insulation and window replacement. The
proposed GEF grant will enable the ESCO to offer these materials in the
context of a package of services with acceptable levels of technical and
financial risks. By looking at all energy saving opportunities with
varying payback periods, including higher cost options: (i) ESCO clients
can decide on the attractiveness of the package, the specific measures to
implement, and how much to co-invest for building retrofits; and (ii) the
project becomes economically and financially viable and self sustaining
and would realize all economic opportunities that benefit the
environment.   To ensure that the benefits of the grant are passed on to
end-users and to minimize any potential market distorting effects,
specific restrictions on eligibility will apply. During implementation,
the market transformation effect of the grant will also be assessed, in
particular the impact of lower costs through bulk purchases together with
packaged sales, on supply and demand.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $47.04
IBRD                     $15.00
IDA
FOREIGN PRIVATE
-4-



COMMERCIAL SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)          $31.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                 $11.00
Total Project Cost       $104.04
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Economy, Labor and Social Policy will be the Recipient of
the GEF Grant and BGK the Executing Agency.
7. Sustainability
The GEF guarantee facility will augment commercial lending, through risk
sharing among project sponsors, host building owners and companies, and
equipment and other service providers. The projects would demonstrate
real and accountable ownership by private sector actors who have a vested
interest in the project's success. In addition, the GEF guarantee
facility is expected to have a market transformation effect by lowering
the perceptions of risk on the part of commercial banks and end-users
regarding energy performance contracting and end-user financing models.
The GEF grant modality will help demonstrate that shorter-paybacks,
financial sustainability, and replication while including higher cost
efficiency measures can be achieved through the ESCO model and, in
particular, that market aggregation for the bulk-purchase of these
measures as an integral part of a package of efficiency services will lead
to economy and efficiency.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design and implementation will draw extensively on the completed
Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project in Krakow (Loan
3381-POL) and on similar Bank projects in other cities as well as from
other GEF-supported projects in Poland (Coal-to-Gas, PELP and Geothermal
projects). The proposed utility-based ESCO component will be promoted for
the first time in Poland. It will involve transferring international
experience from North America and adapting it to the Polish condition.
The project design also benefits from lessons learned from previous energy
efficiency programs and ESCO-type activities implemented by MPEC in the
Krakow region. Since the success of individual projects within that
program varied considerably, MPEC staff have gained valuable insight into
the technical, management, and business factors that contribute to
successful energy efficiency projects. These various projects have given
MPEC a good foundation for forming an ESCO with Bank assistance.
The project design benefits from lessons learned by public utilities in
North America, which are actively and successfully using the ESCO approach
through fully-owned subsidiaries to achieve substantial energy savings and
to provide valuable services that involve long-term collaboration with
customers. A key element of the North American successes is the
participation of third party financing in ESCO activity on the basis of
shared savings and/or energy service performance contracts. The GEF
guarantee facility will address the barriers to this kind of participation
by commercial banks in the buildings energy services sector in Poland.
The applicability and utility of this approach, and the impact of the GEF
guarantee facility in particular, will be monitored throughout the project.
For the GEF Partial Credit Guarantee Facility, several programs currently
or recently in operation under International Finance Corporation (IFC)
- 5-



demonstrate an innovative approach to incremental risk and the leveraging
of GEF funds. The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) program and the
Hungary Energy Efficiency Co-Financing Program (HEECP) administered by the
IFC are useful examples of what can be achieved with non-grant
mechanisms. HEECP has accumulated significant experience in the operation
of a guarantee facility in that country, including identification and
engagement of intermediaries, management of risk exposure, innovative
portfolio management such as co-financing arrangements, and leveraging.
Lessons learned from the HEECP and other programs will be incorporated in
the proposed Polish project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  In accordance with World Bank policy on
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), the project has been rated
Category B. There are no adverse major environmental issues associated
with this project. The district heating modernization component will yield
greater efficiencies in energy use and switching to cleaner fuels (from
coal to oil/gas), and the ESCO component is specifically targeted to
improve energy efficiency. Both components will reduce fuel consumption
and/or encourage less polluting fuel use which in turn will improve local
air quality (dust, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides) and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions (carbon dioxide).
Replacement of materials and equipment may lead to dust and noise.
Replacement of old insulation may involve asbestos, and assurances were
provided that any new insulation materials are acceptable under Poland's
commitments to the Montreal Protocol.
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by MPEC. The EMP
contains two elements for each of the major project components. For the
District Heat Modernization component (direct investment) the EMP follows
the traditional format as presented in OP 4.01 Annex C. For the ESCO
component (intermediary credit arrangements) the EMP focuses on the
institutional arrangements and institutional capacity for environmental
screening, environmental analysis, and the environmental regulatory
framework which is in place or will be strengthened to ensure that ESCO
sub-projects receive a level of scrutiny that is: (a) in compliance with
Polish environmental policies, procedures and regulations, and (b)
consistent with World Bank environmental policies and procedures.
Two-way consultative sessions with public interest groups and stakeholders
were undertaken and focused on project-related environmental issues
(consistent with the EMP requirements). The results of these sessions are
recorded in the minutes and form an integral part of the EMP. MPEC will
incorporate any relevant recommendations in the project design and
implementation.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rachid Benmessaoud
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 202 473 2696
-6-



Fax: 1 202 477 7977
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 14, 2003.
-7 -



