Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-27 71-PA
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 16, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              0 126
¢ 1.00               US$0.008
¢ 1,000              US$7.94
¢ 1,000,000          US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
BNF     -  National Development Bank
COMDESA -  Banco de Desarrollo del Paraguay S.A.
FED     -  Special Development Fund
KfW     -  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
IDB     -  Inter-American Development Bank
ILO     -  International Labor Organization
SNPP    -  National Vocational Training Service
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER               Republic of Paraguay
BENEFICIARIES          Government would on-lend the Bank Loan proceeds to
(a) National Development Bank (BNF); and (b) Central
Bank (through its Special Development Fund-FED).
Central Bank would relend their part of the Loan
proceeds to financial intermediaries--commercial banks
and a private development finance company. The ultimate
beneficiaries would be productive industrial, agro-
industrial, tourism and industrial estate subprojects.
AMOUNT                 US$31.0 million equivalent.
TERMS                  Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at 8.25% per annum.
RELENDING TERMS        Government would relend at an annual interest rate of
6 percentage points for BNF and 7 percentage points for
FED below the final rate for 17 years including four
years of grace. The Central Bank, through commercial
banks and a private development finance company, and BNF
in turn, would relend the Loan proceeds to sub-borrowers
at an effective rate of interest of at least 18% per
annum, yielding a final cost to sub-borrowers of 19%
and with terms of up to 12 years, including a grace
period of up to three years.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The main objectives of the project would be to promote
the efficient and regionally balanced growth of industry
in Paraguay, alleviate the scarcity of long-term funds
to finance such growth, and improve financial interme-
diation for industrial investment by: (i) assisting in
the development of productive industrial, agroindus-
trial, industrial estate and tourism subprojects,
particularly of small and medium-scale enterprises;
(ii) continuing the efforts initiated under the First
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1419-PA) to strengthen
BNF and expand financial intermediation in support of
industry by lending to the commercial banking system and
a privately-owned development finance company through FED;
(iii) supporting the Government's attempt to foster the
regional growth of industry and tourism development in the
eastern part of the country through a more effective role
of BNF and FED, and the establisment of an industrial estate
in Encarnacion; (iv) providing key extension services to
small-scale entrepreneurs through the National Vocational
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Training Service (SNPP); and (v) supporting the
Government's actions leading to improvements in the
interest rate structure and controls of financial
intermediaries.
BENEFITS                The project is expected to have a significant develop-
ment impact, through industrial growth, regional
development, foreign exchange earnings and savings,
employment generation and institutional improvements.
RISK                 : The project does not involve any unusual risks.  How-
ever, because uncertainty does exist about the degree
to which BNF can rapidly upgrade its performance; and
because some of the institutional arrangements estab-
lished under the project would be both new and untried,
some initial delays in sub-loan processing may occur.
To minimize delays in project implementation, Bank
supervision of the project would be more intensive
during the first year.
ESTIMATED COST          Components            Local      Foreign      Total
------- US$ Million -------
BNF subprojects         8.5        20.0        28.5
FED subprojects         5.8        13.0        18.8
Unallocated             2.8         6.7         9.5
Technical Assist-
ance to BNF          0.0          0.3         0.3
Technical Assist-
ance to SNPP         0.0          0.7         0.7
TOTAL             17.1        40.5         57.6
FINANCING PLAN                                Local      Foreign      Total
Bank                    0.0        31.0        31.0
Project Sponsors       12.1         0.0        12.1
BNF                     2.0         4.0         6.0
FED                     0.0         2.0         2.0
Banks                   2.0         2.0         4.0
Unallocated             1.0         1.5         2.5
TOTAL             17.1        40.5        57.6
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT                          1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual           2.5      7.0      9.0      7.0     5.5
Cumulative       2.5      9.5    18.5    25.5    31.0
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN             Not applicable.
APPRAISAL REPORT        Report No. 2888a-PA, May 16, 1980



INTERNATIONAIL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$31.0 million to
assist in financing the Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project.
The Loan would be repaid on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule of
equal installments and have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, at
an annual interest rate of 8.25%. Part of the proceeds of the Loan would be
relent to the Central Bank and the National Development Bank (BNF), at an
interest rate plus a commission which would fluctuate according to the final
rate to the sub-borrowers. The Central Bank (through commercial banks and a
private development finance company) and BNF, in turn, would relend the loan
proceeds to sub-borrowers at an effective rate of interest of 18% per annum
(which, on the basis of advance payments of commissions, taxes and interests,
would entail a cost to the final sub-borrower of 19%), and with terms of up
to 12 years, including a grace period of up to 3 years. The Central Bank
would retain a spread of 2%, the commercial banks and the development finance
company 5%, and BNF 6%. The adequacy of the final interest rate to the sub-
borrowers would be reviewed semi-annually in order to ensure that it remains
positive during the life of the sub-loans. The remainder of the Loan proceeds
would help finance technical assistance to the National Vocational Training
Service. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and cover
the commitment fee.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in October 1978 and the up-
dating economic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, has
been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum on Paraguay"
(2461-PA), in May 1979). A summary of Country Basic Data is attached as
Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport network. For many decades, per
capita income and employment grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet
for unemployed and underemployed manpower. More recently, however, the
economy has been growing rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to
neighboring countries have returned, responding to the expanded employment
opportunities associated with the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore,
1/   Except for some updating on economic developments in 1979-80, paragraphs
3-13 are substantially the same as the ones contained in the President's
Report for the Second Preinvestment Studies Project (Report P-2612-PA of
November 20, 1979).



-2-
the expansion of the agricultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of
farmers from abroad. Nevertheless, the country's population density remains
very low in relation to agricultural land (2.8 ha of cultivable land per
capita).
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully realized
during the 1970's. With the rapid expansion of land under cultivation, and
the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil and Argentina,
Paraguay's economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation.  A rise in
external demand and favorable prices were instrumental in accelerating agri-
cultural growth, while exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has
been facilitated by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two
binational authorities for the construction and operation of two or more
hydroelectric plants aggregating at least 17,000 MW. Construction of the
Itaipu dam with Brazil, the largest ever built, is on schedule, and the
Yacyreta dam with Argentina, supported by Bank financing, is about to begin.
The rapid growth of agriculture continued unabated in 1977-78 in spite of
unfavorable weather that affected successively soybeans and cotton production,
and, together with the reactivation of agroindustrial activity, has resulted
in acceleration of the GDP growth rate to over 9%. in 1977-79 (as compared to
6% in 1975-76). These developments have been accompanied by increased foreign
capital inflows and a notable expansion of investment.
5.        The effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture has been
assisted by improvements in transport and implementation of a comprehensive
set of programs designed to increase and diversify agricultural exports. The
agricultural growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the
real incomes of the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of
the total. A significant share of production of tobacco, cotton, and soybeans,
which account for most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers who
have received land under Government and privately sponsored colonization
programs. Roughly 25% of agricultural workers have benefitted from these land
settlemetit efforts. Moreover, recently, rural wages have increased sharply in
sume areas where demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the
benefits of agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. Per capita
income grew at 5.3% per annum during 1972-79 compared to the 1.2% averaged
during the previous 30 years. Growth in per capita incomes has been accompanied
by other improvements in the standard of living, as life expectancy and literacy
have increased, and child mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are
comparable to those found in countries with higher per capita incomes. Further-
more, in recent years, the Government has started to carry out a series of
programs aimed at extending social and other back-up services, financial
support, and technical assistance to existing and new land settlements. These
programs should help in spreading the benefits of growth even more effectively
among the poorer segments of the population.



- 3 -
6.        The high level of aggregate demand has affected the relative price
stability that long characterized the economy. Since 1976, the rapid increase
in the money supply generated by the large capital inflows associated with
construction of the Itaipu dam and the buoyant domestic demand had resulted in
the inflation rate increasing moderately from 4.6% in 1976 to 10.6% in 1978.
In 1979, however, inflation accelerated to 35.7%. Contributing to this result
were the increases in oil prices, delayed readjustments in some prices such as
urban transport tariffs, unfavorable weather that affected food crops, increases
in beef prices (which weigh heavily in the price index) and the inflationary
situation in neighboring Brazil and Argentina. The acceleration of inflation
has occurred in spite of contractionary fiscal policies, whose impact was
limited by the relatively small role of the Government in the economy. This
year the Central Bank also has intensified its contractionary monetary policies
by extending control over previously unregulated financial intermediaries and
by reducing distortions in interest rates that were affecting the functioning
of the financial system. Although some of the factors that contributed to the
results in 1978 are not likely to recur with equal intensity, and thus infla-
tion is expected to slow down, it is unlike!y that it will be reduced to the
pre-1978 levels, given the magnitude of the external factors and the economy's
greater integration with the rest of the world. In the first quarter of 1980
prices rose by 2.3% over the preceding quarter, as against 8.1% in the first
quarter of 1979.
7.        The buoyant economy and measures introduced to improve the effi-
ciency of tax administration have reversed the declining trend in the ratio
of Central Government revenues to GDP during 1974-76, raising the ratio from
9.0% in 1976 to over 10% in 1979. The Government continued to maintain a
tight rein on current expenditures, which have remained at about 7% of GDP
during the last five years. Thus, Central Government savings increased during
1977/79. Several large projects initiated during 1974-76 were completed so
that public sector investment declined from its peak of 6.4% of GDP in 1976 to
about 5% in 1979. Net external financing exceeded the reduced total financing
requirements allowing the Government to reduce its debt outstanding to the
monetary authorities.
8.        High rates of economic growth in Paraguay have resulted in regis-
tered imports in current prices increasing at an average annual rate of 25%
between 1975 and 1978. Thus despite exports growing at an average annual rate
of 16.8% during 1975-78, the current account deficit has tended to widen.
Although trading partner data suggest that these registered figures may be
underestimated on the average by as much as 50%, there is no question that
increased public and private capital inflows, mainly associated with the
construction of the hydroelectric project, have more than offset the current
account deficit. Foreign exchange reserves have thus increased from US$163
million at the end of 1976 to about US$605 million by December 1979.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.



-4-
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization
schemes and the establishment of additional ones. Through foreign private
investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage the concurrent
development of industries, particularly those with high value-added based on
domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the on-going boom in private invest-
ment and the prospect of continued high rates of GDP growth will call for
greater public investment in supporting infrastructure as well as increased
expenditure for education, health, rural development and other development-
related services. The needed acceleration of public capital formation will
require new tax measures, pending substantial transfers from power export
earnings to the Central Government, to ensure the generation of the necessary
additional internal resources. At the same time, higher current expenditures
in the public sector will be required to improve effectiveness and broaden
the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large number
of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the
technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for devotinag
increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector
institutions. A broader investment effort will require streamlining and
decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover, salaries of scarce
professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively with
the increased demands of the private sector and the binational power companies
for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and the urgent need
for greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed to bolster
the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 8% during 1980-85. This rate is lower than the
average 10% of 1977-79 and is justified by the decline of construction activity
on Itaipu after 1981, restrictive policies to avoid acceleration of inflation
and the higher costs of imports. Because of agricultural growth and favorable
international prospects for cotton and soybeans, real exports are projected to
grow at 11% a year during this period. Imports are projected to grow at a
slower rate than in the past. The above trade projections combined with
steadily increasing net factor payments on public and private account would



- 5 -
result in a widening of the current account deficit from an average of US$300
million during 1977-79 to an annual average of US$430 million in 1980-83.
Private sector borrowing and capital inflow related to construction of the
hydroelectric projects are expected to provide a substantial part of the
gross capital requirements and the rest would be borrowed by the public
sector. Bilateral and multilateral agencies are projected to supply a
smaller share of external capital requirements than they have historically.
Private financial institutions and suppliers' credits can be expected to
provide the rest. As Itaipu related capital inflows decrease, public sector
borrowing is projected to rise from an average of US$100 million during
1979-81 to US$200 million in 1982-84. Given the projected export performance,
Paraguay is expected to maintain its current low debt service ratio and its
creditworthiness for the amounts of external capital required to achieve the
projected output growth rates.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$248.1 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$198.3 million has been in the
form of 17 Bank loans, anid US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As of
February 29, 1980, the Bank and IDA held US$236.7 million, including US$139.7
million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of February 29,
1980, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of
about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted to 12.6% of
total debt service in 1978 or about 1.2% of exports of goods and non-factor
services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay has been
42% for transportation, 39% for agriculture, 9% for education, 4% for industry,
3% for water supply, and 3% for preinvestment studies in various sectors.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had one operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of
US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of
US$0.4 million. The project has experienced critical financial and managerial
problems, and efforts to restructure it have not succeeded. IFC is in the
process of divesting itself from FINAP. Legal proceedings have been initiated
against FINAP by the National Development Bank. Annex II contains a summary
of Bank loans, IDA credits and the IFC investment as of February 29, 1980, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY80 consisted of the US$5.0 mil-
lion loan for a Second Preinvestment Studies Project. The proposed project
is the last operation envisioned for this fiscal year. Preparation work is
underway on projects in: ports and inland waterways, rural development, area
development (including watershed protection and rural development), highways,
and rural primary and vocational education.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely



- 6 -
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector to increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of
the Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its
composition. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends
listed and may, moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus,
Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural water supply
is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the living
standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. Similarly, Bank
Group lending for industry, agricultural development and livestock is aimed at
increasing value added and exports of agricultural products, and at expanding
marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers. Lastly, loans in the
transport sector are designed to help improve institutional structures and
policies of the sector, which play a vital role In supporting the production
activities of the agricultural and industrial sectors. As agriculture consti-
tutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy, these operations are designed
to support either directly or indirectly the development of that sector, by
underpinning in particular the Government's efforts aimed at extending social
and other backup services, financial support and technical assistance to
existing and new agricultural settlements. Furthermore, in view of the
increasing development potential of the eastern region (as a result of
the expanding agricultural frontier and the impact of the construction of
the large hydroelectric projects)--and the need to assure maximum possible
results, the Bank lending program for Paraguay is to place increased emphasis
on projects in that region. Preinvestment projects are aimed at supporting
programs that help overcome institutional constraints, in particular in
planning, economic management, and project preparation and execution. The
proposed project, aside from providing financing for industry, agro-industry,
and tourism; fits the Bank's special emphasis on strengthening public insti-
tutions and financial intermediaries such as BNF and the FED and in the
development efforts in the eastern region of the country referred to above.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Recent Trends and Prospects
19.       The industrial sector accounts for about 16% of GDP and employs 14%
of the labor force. The sector is marked by the predominance of small enter-
prises, most of which employ less than ten workers. Between 1971-78 industrial
value added grew at an average annual rate of 7.7%, initially due to production
oriented towards the external markets, and later to the construction of



-7 -
the Itaipu dam and the growth of local demand resulting from increased
disposable income.  However, industrial exports (mainly processed beef, wood
products and vegetable oils), which had accounted for three fourths of the
total value of exports at the beginning of the decade dropped to about to a
third in 1978, due to a virtual tenfold increase in agricultural exports, and
the closure of the EEC market to processed beef exports and of the Argentine
market to sawn wood exports. The emergence of processing activities for crops
whose production has grown responding to rapidly increasing external prices
(i.e. soybeans and cotton) has counteracted part of the fall in the traditional
industrial exports.
20.       In line with recent trends, the subsectors with the greatest prospects
for future expansion are those that are linked to (i) large-scale development
projects within Paraguay associated with construction activities; (ii) rising
consumer demand resulting from larger disposable income, such as beverages and
textiles; and (iii) processing of products associated with the rapid expansion
of agricultural production (vegetable oil and cake) and growing export demand.
Industrial Policy
21.       The Government's 1977-1981 Development Plan establishes as the sector's
central objectives: (i) the acceleration of industrial output and employment
growth; (ii) increasing the productivity of industry; (iii) improving the
regional distribution of enterprises; (iv) promotion of export-oriented
industry, particularly of agroindustry; and (v) development of new industries
based on utilization of local raw materials. The Government aims at achieving
these objectives largely through the granting of fiscal incentives, credit,
and the provision of infrastructure and public services. Special Industrial
Promotion Laws enacted in 1970 and 1976 established the means to provide fiscal
incentives to industries that export or are based on local raw materials, and
those that substitute for imports. These criteria have been applied in such a
manner that most investments have qualified for some benefits under the law.
Accordingly, following the enactment of the 1970 Industrial Promotion Law, the
investment climate for private investors showed a marked improvement. This
resulted in an annual average increase in fixed industrial investment of about
15% in real terms during 1971-73, compared to the 4% during 1965-71.
22.       Although Paraguay's nominal tariffs appear high, actual protection
is low for most products, in particular consumer items, since there is sub-
stantial nonregistered trade across Paraguay's long borders. Effective
protection may be negative for many Paraguayan industries, which have to pay
duties on imported inputs, without enjoying any effective tariff protection on
their finished products. This de facto openness has discouraged the creation
of inefficient import-substitution industries, favoring the establishment of
relatively efficient industries based on the country's comparative advantages.



-8-
Regional Development Policy
23.       In Eastern Paraguay, the emergence of substantial economic oppor-
tunities--due to the rapid expansion of the agricultural frontier and the
construction of the large Itaipu and Yacyreta hydroelectric projects on the
Parana River--has intensified previously existing flows of internal and
external migration, broadened the regional economy's resource base, and
brought about a closer integration of the area with the rest of Paraguay, as
well as with neighboring Brazil and Argentina. The Government is attempting,
with Bank assistance, to establish a development strategy for the region,
which calls for an integrated approach through investments that are complemen-
tary in nature. Bank assistance to the area involves rural development
projects, education and training projects, a major highway project linking the
two main towns, Encarnacion and Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, and providing a
comprehensive network of feeder roads to the area.
24.       The comparative advantage for each of the above-mentioned towns is
quite different. In Ciudad Presidente Stroessner substantial industrial invest-
ment has already taken place, in part in connection with the Itaipu construction
activities. Although investments associated with the hydroelectric project are
expected to decline, since the construction phase is now well advanced, other
industries are likely to take advantage of the strategic location of the city
near the Brazilian market, the fertile agricultural hinterland in Paraguay,
the relatively ample infrastructure and the growing market in the town itself.
No major physical constraints are apparent to prevent further expansion of the
industrial base in Ciudad Presidente Stroessner. In contrast, Encarnacion is
located in the crossroads between the sites of two major dams to be developed
in the future: Yacyreta whose construction is now starting, and the proposed
Corpus hydroelectric project. In addition to industrial activity associated
with these works, industrial investment in this area is expected to take place
as a consequence of the development of the city as a major port, once the
Yacyreta dam is erected. Furthermore, because part of the city will be
flooded, 68 industrial plants will have to be relocated in an industrial zone,
in which an industrial estate is planned. Industrialists whose sites are
being flooded have the choice either to be relocated free of charge or to
obtain compensation for their present assets. Feasibility studies are being
carried out with a view to establish sound planning, building and management
for the estate. If project financing is also offered, many firms should find
the estate more attractive and economical than alternate locations. Additional
demand will assuredly appear as existing enterprises expand or new enterprises
decide to locate there.
25.       Both cities are located at important points of contact with neighbor-
ing countries, where there is, or will be, easy access across international
frontiers, and where considerable potential for the development of tourism
industry exists. Iguazu Falls is an important international tourism desti-
nation, and with the completion of construction of the Itaipu dam, the tourism
potential of this area will increase considerably. In addition, much regional
tourism involves purchases of Paraguayan consumer goods (such as textiles,
clothing, shoes, leather goods, and artisan wood products), and therefore the
development of local tourism is linked with local production of consumer
goods--much of it in small-scale enterprises--in Ciudad Presidente Stroessner
and Encarnacion.



- 9-
The Industrial Financial System
26.       A number of institutions provide financing to industry in Paraguay.
The Central Bank, through a two-tier system involving the Special Development
Fund (FED) and the commercial banking system as financial intermediaries,
has executed two USAID-supported programs (involving loan rediscount and
guarantee facilities, respectively), which together cover the provision of
credit and technical assistance for rural and small-scale productive enterprises.
There are 17 privately owned commercial banks (mostly foreign owned); their
credit operations are financed mainly from deposits from the public and
to some extent by rediscounting with the Central Bank. As of December 31,
1979, they accounted for one-half of total industrial lending. The National
Development Bank (BNF), a state-owned development bank established in 1961,
consists of three operating departments--Agricultural, Development, and
Commercial--each with independent sources of funds and specific operating
guidelines, and an extensive branch network. BNF is the single largest
financial intermediary in Paraguay, holding one-fourth of total industrial
lending. There is, in addition, COMDESA, a small private development finance
company, whose impact has been limited.
27.       Industrial investment in the 1970s was financed by equity and
retained earnings (55%) and credit (45%). Suppliers' credits account for a
growing portion of the latter, reaching almost one-fourth of total industrial
credit in recent years as commercial banks' liquidity tightened. Until 1976-77,
when the Bank's First Industrial Credit Project was approved and the FED was
established, long-term financing for industry in Plaraguay had been provided
only by IDB and KfW, through BNF.
28.       Interest rates and commissions for savers and borrowers are regulated
by the Government. Commercial banks have been required to allocate 50% of
their loan portfolio to productive purposes (i.e. industrial and agricultural
ventures), for which ceilings on interest rates and commissions were set. The
remaining half of the commercial banks' portfolio may be lent to sectors and
at effective rates reflecting market conditions. Up until late 1978, the
country's interest rate structure was, by and large, consistent with efficient
resource allocation. Interest rates to savers have kept up with inflation,
and effective rates to borrowers have been positive in real terms. As a
result, banking system liabilities to the private sector increased from a
level of 19% of GDP in 1970 to 25% in 1978.
29.       The situation changed markedly as a result of the rapid surge of
inflation in late 1978 and throughout 1979. Savings started to shift to un-
regulated financial intermediaries, savings and loan associations and small,
general purpose, financing entities. Participation of finance companies and
savings and loan associations in credit to the private sector increased from
12% of total credit in 1976 to 18% in 1979. As a result, commercial banks
have been unable to tap additional savings and a growing portion of lending
has gone to consumer durables and residential construction for medium- and
high-income earners. To overcome the problem, the Central Bank issued new
directives in late March 1980 to raise interest rates on deposits by 4 points
to 11% and rates to borrowers for productive purposes that imply an effective



- 10 -
cost between 18.9 and 20% to borrowers (including advanced collection of
interest, commission and taxes). In addition, the Central Bank has extended
its control towards the hitherto unregulated financial intermediaries through
marginal reserve requirements. The adequacy of the new measures will be
monitored through targets of savings mobilization of the Central Bank's
monetary program. Assurances have been obtained that interest rates and other
charges for productive purposes will be in line with rates charged under the
proposed project (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Investment and Financing Requirements
30.       Based upon evidence of strong demand for long-term industrial
financing from firms and commercial banks, it is expected that the industrial
sector will grow by at least 8% per year over 1980-83, and that the demand for
industrial investment could well range above US$100 million annually. About
one-fourth of these investments would involve large-scale projects that would
be individually financed and would involve foreign investors, in particular
from Brazil or Argentina. Consequently, of a total of US$400 million in
investment financing required during 1980-83, about US$300 million would
represent the total cost of projects which would need to be partially financed
through lines of credit. It is expected that about one half of this amount
would be financed by investors' own funds, and that loan financing would be
sought for the balance. On this basis, it seems reasonable to expect that
additional resources of, say, US$140 million for industrial investment will
be required during 1980-83. To finance this level of investment, however,
it will be necessary to mobilize a larger flow of internal and external
resources, a difficult task in a country where the capital market is not
yet well developed and where the main source of development credit, the
BNF, still faces operational constraints. Meeting this need would thus
require strong support from external lenders, such as the Bank, IDB (a US$10
million IDB loan to BNF is expected to become effective by mid-1980) and KfW,
and the strengthening of the system for financial intermediation. The proposed
Bank loan would, over the 1980-83 disbursement period, finance about 20% of
sector's investment requirements. The remainder would be financed through
medium- and long-term foreign loans (provided by agencies such as IDB and
KfW), and by renewal of short- and medium-term loan made by commercial banks
and suppliers' credits.
The First Industrial Credit Project
31.       The First Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1419-PA, 1977), had a two-
fold purpose: (i) supporting industrial growth by providing industrial financing
for investment purposes; and (ii) pursuing an institutional rehabilitation
strategy for BNF. To date of the US$10 million loan, US$5.5 million have been
disbursed and US$8.5 million committed. The remaining US$1.5 million are
expected to be committed prior to the effectiveness of the proposed loan.  The
institutional rehabilitation strategy for BNF had two overlapping phases: the
first one consisted of ensuring the financial viability of BNF through improv-
ing its decision-making and financial structure. This involved creation of a
new financial department, establishment of a committee to oversee portfolio
quality, setting up a loan collection office and the establishing of perfor-
mance criteria that BNF had to meet to improve its equity base, arrears,
financial spread, administrative costs, and liquidity. The second phase,



- 11 -
which is still underway, is focusing on improvements of BNF's data base and
its planning and decision-making processes. Major components of this program
include upgrading accounting procedures and electronic data processing
systems, setting up a telecommunications network linking the branch system,
establishing a planning and budgeting capability and reviewing staffing and
personnel management policies.
32.       Under the first project, BNF was successful in substantially im-
proving its financial condition, systematizing its procedures for loan
supervision and collection, particularly of loans in arrears, and upgrading
its institutional capability to handle the many programs for which it is
responsible. By reducing staff by almost about 20%, increasing share capital
by 50%, and by revising its lending rates in accordance with policies agreed
upon under the project, BNF was able to cut costs significantly, reduce its
extremely high debt/equity ratio and thus improve its leverage, its liquidity,
its profitability (recording a profit in 1977 after 12 consecutive years of
losses) and reduce its operating costs from 6.4% in 1976 to 5.5% of its out-
standing portfolio in 1978, which was in line with the target set under the
project.
33.       Nevertheless, BNF was not able to sustain collection efforts to
maintain arrears below the 22% of total portfolio achieved in 1976, as against
a target of 10% agreed for 1979 onwards. These figures, however, do not
adequately reflect what was achieved under the first loan since: (i) the
effect of actual reductions in arrears was largely cancelled by improved
reporting, which resulted in increased arrears being listed in BNF's accounts;
(ii) agricultural arrears are closely tied to the effect of changes in environ-
mental factors on crop production, thus exposing the institution to the
effects of recent crop failures due to recent unfavorable climatic conditions;
(iii) the new system for debt collection adopted by BNF under the first
operation is not yet fully implemented; and (iv) further work is required to
better understand and manage agricultural arrears.
34.       In all, the industrial development objectives have largely been met
although the institution-building goals have been only partially successful to
date. Improvements are still needed in the quality of BNF's portfolio, staff
quality, the large and costly branch network, and the difficulty it continues
to experience in carrying out its multiple roles in financing agriculture,
livestock, industry, tourism and commerce. These problems are dealt with
under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled:  "Staff Appraisal Report for an Industrial Credit
and Regional Development Project" (No. 2888a-PA, May 16, 1980) is being
distributed separately. A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of
this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III.
The project was prepared between August and September, 1979, and was appraised
in November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in May, 1980; the
Paraguayan delegation was led by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, President of the
Central Bank of Paraguay.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and General Description
36.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be to promote the
efficient and regionally balanced growth of industry in Paraguay, alleviate
the scarcity of suitable financing for such growth, and improve financial
intermediation for industrial investment. These objectives would be achieved
by: (i) assisting in the development of productive industrial, agroindustrial
and industrial estate and tourism subprojects, particularly of small and medium-
scale enterprises; (ii) continuing to strengthen BNF and expanding financial
intermediation in support of industry by lending through the comnercial banking
system and a privately-owned development finance company, as well as supporting
the Government's actions leading to improve the interest rate structure and
controls of financial intermediaries; (iii) supporting the Government's
attempt to foster the growth of industry and tourism development in the
eastern area of the country through specific programs in BNF and FED, and the
establishment of an industrial estate in Encarnacion; and (iv) providing key
technical assistance to small scale entrepreneurs through the expansion of the
activities of the Government's National Vocational Training Service (SNPP).
To this end, the proposed project would consist of: (a) an industrial credit
component to help finance small and medium-sized industrial, agroindustrial
and tourism subprojects; and (b) technical assistance to help BNF to continue
implement a comprehensive rehabilitation program and SNPP's industrial develop-
ment program.
37.       BNF.  BNF would receive a US$15 million initial allocation, of which
US$10 million for industrial projects in general, and US$5 million for sub-
projects which would be located in the Ciudad Presidente Stroessner-Encarna-
cion zone. BNF would include in its budget a specific allocation for US$2
million equivalent per year during 1980-82 to complement the sub-borrowers'
own contribution to cover costs related to subprojects financed by the Bank
(Section 2.01(b) of the Project Agreement with BNF). Individual sub-loans
would be limited to US$1,000,000 or less. The same limit would apply to the
private development finance company, if it were found eligible for full
participation by the Bank (paragraph 48).
38.       FED.  US$10 million would be allocated to the FED for the financing of
medium- and small-scale enterprises (i.e. enterprises whose total assets, exclud-
ing land and buildings, are less than US$500,000 equivalent and US$100,000
equivalent, respectively), of which US$2 million would be reserved for sub-
projects located in the Ciudad Presidente Stroessner-Encarnacion zone. The
FED would act as a second-tier intermediary by rediscounting loans and pro-
viding a guarantee fund (with its own resources) to participating financial
intermediaries which meet the FED's conditions for participation. The Central
Bank would contribute US$2 million (US$1 million from new resources and US$1
million from existing FED resources) equivalent of its own funds to an account
to be set up within the FED. The first contribution of US$1 million from the
Central Bank would be paid in as a condition of disbursement for the FED
component in order to ensure adequate funds for initial disbursements (Section
2.02(b) (v)(c) of the Loan Agreement), and the remainder would be paid-in
within 12 months from the date of the Loan Agreement (Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement with Central Bank). The participating intermediaries would
provide an estimated additional US$4 million equivalent to cover short-term



- 13 -
working capital under this component. It is expected that most if not all of
Paraguay's 17 commercial banks, as well as the private development finance
company will participate. These financial intermediaries would be required to
contribute at least 10% of the total cost of each subproject from their own
funds (such costs would include working capital needs of the enterprise to be
financed). With the possible exception of the private development finance company,
no single intermediary would be allowed to commit more than US$2 million under
this initial allocation. Individual sub-loans would be limited to US$500,000
or less, to medium-scale firms with total assets (excluding land and buildings)
of US$500,000 or less prior to receiving subloans; however, these limits would
not apply for sub-loans to enterprises located in the Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner-Encarnacion zone, in line with the Government's priority for the
area, and since the investments are expected to entail primarily new plants
with related infrastructure, rather than expansion of existing capacity of
plants.
39.       Technical Assistance.  The aim of this component would be to assist
BNF in upgrading its capabilities: in project promotion, appraisal and super-
vision; industrial marketing; industrial engineering (particularly agro-
industry); commercial banking services; accounting procedures, organization
and methods, and in providing effective banking activities in the Encarnacion
and Ciudad Presidente Stroessner branches. This component would complement
the UNDP-financed technical assistance provided in the context of the first
project, and entails 60 man-months of technical assistance (US$360,000). In
addition, Paraguay's National Vocational Training Service (SNPP) would be the
recipient under the project of a technical assistance program which would aim
at assisting small-scale enterprises to prepare subprojects, and organize an
extension service for small-scale entrepreneurs. This component would
require 96 man-months of consulting services and 20 man-months of fellowships
with a total cost of US$640,000. The ILO would be the executing agency,
following similar arrangements under the Bank's Vocational Training Project
(Loan 1252-PA, 1976); this proposed component would be the continuation
of this assistance to SNPP. As a condition of disbursement for the SNPP
component a Project Document for this assistance would be signed by the
Government and ILO (Section 2.02(b)(vii) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Execution
40.       The proposed loan would be made to the Government for:  (i) onlending
for industrial development through BNF and FED. FED would act as a second-tier
financial institution and onlend to qualifying commercial banks and a private
development finance company; and (ii) providing technical assistance on a
non-reimbursable basis to BNF and SNPP. The proposed loan of US$31 million,
in addition to an allocation of US$1 million for technical assistance, would
include specific allocations of US$15 million for BNF and US$10 million for
FED; US$5.0 million would remain unallocated. The adequacy of these allocations
would be reviewed by the Bank not later than March 1, 1982 (Section 3.02(b) of
the Loan Agreement) in the light of: (i) the record of commitment of a recent
IDB loan to BNF and the proposed Bank loan; (ii) the experience of the new
system for the channelling of Bank funds under the FED component; (iii) the
progress of BNF in upgrading its performance; (iv) the extent of partici-
pation of the private development finance company; and (v) the actual amount
of financing required for industrial estate and tourism development. The



- 14 -
US$5.0 million unallocated portion would allow a flexible use by participating
institutions that have exhausted their respective allocations and have met
their performance targets prior to that date, and should also act as an in-
centive to both BNF, to make greater efforts to improve its overall performance
and its capability to channel increasing amounts of Bank financing for produc-
tive projects, and to commercial banks and the private development finance
company to demonstrate their interest in participating in a program aimed
principally at assisting medium- and small-scale enterprises. Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between the Government and BNF (for the BNF component) and between
the Government and the Central Bank (for the FED component) would be signed as
conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Sections 6.01(a) and (b) of
the Loan Agreement).
41.       BNF.  This project component would be executed by BNF's Development
Department which is responsible for industrial, agro-industrial and tourism
development banking functions. Prior to July 31, 1980, BNF would adopt
revised procedures acceptable to the Bank for collecting loans with arrears
over ¢2 million (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement with BNF). The
US$10 million allocation would be made available in two portions of US$5
million each, and prior to obtaining access to the first US$5 million portion,
BNF would need to: (i) reduce by one-third the total amount (¢2.2 billion) of
all loans with arrears over 02 million as of October 31, 1979, excluding the
FINAP operation (paragraph 42) (Section 2.02(b) (iii)(A) of the Loan Agreement);
and (ii) agree with the Bank on the content of a second debt recovery program
which would include specific performance targets for (a) reducing existing
arrears; (b) improving ollection procedures; (c) closer monitoring and super-
vision of portfolio to -,revent new arrears from occurring; and (d) sending of
quarterly reports to the Bank, audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank on
the status of debt recovery under (i) and (ii) above and compliance with the
new procedures (Section 2.02(b)(iii)(B) of the Loan Agreement and Section 2.06
of the Project Agreement with BNF). ¢375 million would be recovered in three
equal quarterly installments between March 31, 1981 and September 30, 1981
(Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement). BNF would be eligible to utilize the
second portion of US$5 million after it has put the debt recovery program into
effect and has met the targets, for the time when the second portion is
released, to be established under that program (Section 2.04 of the Loan
Agreement). The debt recovery program would focus on recovery of agricultural
arrears, based on the recommendations of a study sponsored by the Bank, of the
agricultural arrears problem (particularly as they relate to small-scale
farmers).
42.       The quality of BNF's portfolio is significantly affected by a large
operation in support of FINAP, a wood-processing firm (paragraph 15), which
had loans (capital and interest) overdue more than 90 days to BNF of ¢952.0
million as of February 15, 1980 and total obligations with BNF (including
guarantees and accrued interest) as of that date of ¢1,581.0 million.  Current-
ly, legal proceedings to solve the FINAP case in the courts have been initiated.
As part of an undertaking under Loan 1419-PA by the Government to reimburse
BNF all amounts (capital plus interest) overdue for more than 90 days, from
any loans that exceeded (loans plus guarantees) 30% of BNF's unimpaired equity
at the time of their granting by BNF, the Government would capitalize into BNF
a portion of Loan 1419-PA equivalent to BNF's total exposure with FINAP, less



- 15 -
the 30% of BNF's equity at the end of 1975 (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Such capitalization would be additional to on-going capitalizations into BNF
of recent IDB and IFAD loans and of funds provided on a yearly basis by the
Ministry of Finance to BNF.
43.       Traditionally, BNF has found it difficult to maintain adequate
liquidity throughout each operating year as a result of its agricultural
lending which is seasonal in nature: from September through March, during the
main planting season, the Agricultural Department faces a large outflow of its
short-term resources, and from April to August, during the main harvest time,
BNF experiences a reversal in the flow of such funds. The result of this
situation is that BNF has found itself with idle cash in hand during the
periods of greatest inflows and strained for resources during the planting
season. The Central Bank has been providing BNF with short-term lending on
an ad hoc basis but there is a need to establish a permanent and predictable
arrangement for such financing. Thus there is a need for the Central Bank to
establish a short-term, self-liquidating, rediscount facility or line of
credit of at least US$8 million equivalent to enable BNF to resort to Central
Bank financing during the period of peak demand. This flexibility would be
designed to complement resources which the Government is required to provide
under the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA, 1979),
and would enable BNF to utilize part of its large cash balances for long-term
production lending. The establishment of this facility would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.05(a) of
the Project Agreement with the Central Bank).
44.       BNF has also undertaken to keep its administrative costs within
well-defined boundaries. The target of 5.5% of the outstanding portfolio
(paragraph 32) for BNF's operating costs has been important for establishing
cost discipline in BNF. If BNF is to continue to grow, new costs levels must
be established taking into account the rising structure of costs and the
difficulty of increasing income from operations at the same rate over the
medium term. Based upon an analysis of projected increases in operating
costs and outstanding portfolio, maximum targets of 7.1% in 1980, and 6.7% in
1981 have been set, but thereafter BNF would be expected to maintain costs at
or below the 6.5% level (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement with BNF).
In this context, BNF has undertaken to implement the recommendations of a
personnel management study currently underway within the framework of the
first Loan (Section 3.12 of the Project Agreement with BNF).
45.       FED.  The FED is part of a department of the Central Bank whose
director reports directly to the President of the Central Bank. Coordination
on policy issues between the FED and private banks is usually handled through
the Association of Private Banks, although a coordinating committee for FED
activities, composed of representatives of various ministries and the private
sector, is formally responsible for its function. The FED has a core of seven
professional staff members specialized in economics, finance and accounting
and relies on a pool of outside consultants for technical advice. FED's over-
all organization and structure are appropriate to execute the program; there
is, however, a need to add an industrial engineer to FED's staff; this would
be done prior to Loan disbursement for the FED component (Section 2.02(b)(v)(a)
of the Loan Agreement). The Central Bank has agreed to design a training
seminar satisfactory to the Bank for commercial bank staff concerned with the



- 16 -
FED program. The FED would offer such seminars at least annually to train new
analysts and improve existing skills (Section 2.01(b)(vi) of the Project
Agreement with the Central Bank).
46.        In order to encourage lending to smaller enterprises, the FED would
offer partial guarantees which would cover up to 75% of the amount loaned by
the commercial bank, to a maximum guarantee of US$40,000 per enterprise, for
a one-time charge to the entrepreneur of 5% of the amount of the subloan
guaranteed by the scheme. As is the case in the existing program, the FED,
using its own funds, would also finance the guarantee fee, thus spreading its
cost to the entrepreneur over the life of the loan. The proposed scheme would
permit banks to lower their loan coverage by real guarantees from the typical
150-200% of loan amount to about 100%, thus opening bank lending to a wider
variety of smaller firms that would not otherwise have had access to the
banking system. Any FED losses under the program would be covered first by
the 5% guarantee fee and, in the unlikely case that the amount should prove
insufficient, by the Central Bank. This guarantee scheme would be established
not later than July 31, 1980 (Section 2.01(b)(iii) of the Project Agreement
with the Central Bank)
47.       To properly take into account the requirements of the new FED
program, the Central Bank would approve, prior to Loan effectiveness a new
Policy Statement (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). A new Credit Manual
would also be approved as a condition of disbursement of the FED component
(Section 2.02(b)(v)(b) of the Loan Agreement). The signing of a participation
agreement between the FED and a commercial bank or a development finance
company would be a precondition for disbursing against any specific FED
subproject; a minimum of five such participation agreements would be required
prior to starting disbursements for the FED component (Section 2.02(b)(v)(d)
of the Loan Agreement). However, since the FED has practically completed a
first stage in its operations--through the execution of the first two USAID-
supported programs--the Central Bank will undertake by not later than
September 30, 1981, an evaluation of the past FED programs which may lead to
organizational and administrative changes in the FED component. These changes
would be agreed with the Bank (Section 2.01(c) of the Project Agreement with
the Central Bank). The expectation is that the FED would be granted greater
autonomy.
48.       A feasibility study is expected to be completed shortly regarding
the restructuring of an existing (COMDESA) or establishing a new development
finance company. The potential shareholders of the new company are expected
to be COMDESA, Banco Union (a locally-owned commercial bank), members of the
the industrialist association and possibly IFC. The study would subsequently
be evaluated and form an important input for a decision to be taken as to
whether IFC would pursue the possibility of investing in the company. COMDESA
in its present form or the new development finance company would be eligible
to participate under the FED component like any other participating intermediary.
However, as a restructured or new company specializing in development credit,
it would have the same limits as BNF and thus would not be subject to the US$2
million limitation on the use of Bank funds, or to the US$500,000 limit on
sub-loan amounts and on asset size of clients. For the new development finance
company or any financial intermediary to be eligible for these exceptions, the



- 17 -
Bank would have to be satisfied that during the loan commitment period it had
met the following criteria: (i) good management; (ii) capacity to appraise
and supervise projects; (iii) sound financial condition; (iv) capability of
handling procurement and disbursement under a bank Loan; and (v) predominant
orientation towards development banking activities.
Relending Terms and Conditions
49.       Sub-loans to final borrowers would initially carry an effective
annual interest rate of 18%, which on the basis of advance payments of
commissions, taxes and interests, would entail a cost to the final sub-borrower
of 19%. During the twelve-month period ending in December 1979, prices
increased by 35.7%. Of this amount, close to half took place between June and
August, largely as a result of domestic retail price increases of petroleum
derivatives, which had remained fixed since January 1974, and meat products
(which weigh heavily in the consumer price index), due to a sharp increase in
cattle sales to Brazil. During the following six months, inflation dropped to
9%, largely reflecting the non-recurring character of the above factors. The
Government expects to reduce inflation substantially during the commitment
period of the Bank loan. Nevertheless, as estimates of future inflation are
inevitably conjectural, and in line with BNF's policy statement calling for
loans being made at positive rates, agreement has been reached to maintain
interest rates on this type of sub-loan under review throughout the commitment
period of the loan. This review would be undertaken twice a year by the
Central Bank, in consultation with the Government and the Bank. Should these
consultations fail to produce an agreement within the following sixty days,
the Bank would be entitled to stop approving or authorizing investment sub-
projects submitted until such agreement is reached (Section 3.05 of Loan
Agreement). To assist in such consultation process, the Government and the
Bank have established the inflation targets during the commitment period of
the Loan that would justify maintaining the agreed 18% rate (see supplemental
letter). As noted above (paragraph 6), inflation in the first quarter of 1980
was well below the agreed targets on an annual basis.
50.       As BNF would be responsible for appraising and supervising its
subprojects, it would receive a spread of 6%, as would the development finance
company, if it were to participate on the same basis.  Commercial banks, which
would share part of these functions with the FED, would receive a spread of
5% and the FED a fee of 2%. The Government would assume the foreign exchange
risk and cover the commitment fee for a charge representing the difference
between the Bank's lending rate and the Government's relending rate. Sub-loans
would be granted for up to 12 years with up to 3 years of grace. Repayments,
over 17 years with 4 years of grace, would be made according to a fixed
amortization schedule in view of the expected large amount of sub-loans and
financial intermediaries involved.
51.       Based on the intensive technical assistance which BNF is to receive
under the proposed project, BNF's free-limit of US$150,000 under the first
project would be raised to US$250,000 and as a result the FED's good perfor-
mance under its existing program the same limit would be applied to its
sub-loans. This is expected to result in a review by the Bank of a sample of
some 30-40 sub-loans covering about two-thirds of the loan amount. The economic
rate of return would be calculated for all subprojects requiring financing of
US$250,000 or more.



- 18 -
Project Cost and Financing
52.        Total project cost is estimated at US$57.6 million (including taxes
and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$40.5 million. The BNF
subproject component represents 49% of total cost, the FED subproject component
33%, the unallocated portion 16%, and the technical assistance 2% of total
costs. The Bank loan would finance 54% of total cost (or 77% of foreign
exchange cost), BNF 10%, commercial banks 7%, FED 3%, and project sponsors
22%; with 4% remaining unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       The loan funds would finance foreign exchange costs of imported
and locally procured equipment, materials, including part of the foreign
exchange component of construction contracts. Consulting services for tech-
nical assistance to BNF and SNPP would be fully financed by the loan and would
be open to international recruitment. Participating intermediaries would
satisfy themselves that procurement items were suitable for the respective
investment projects and reasonably priced, and that the beneficiaries had
canvassed the main sources of supply and were purchasing from the most advan-
tageous source. Whenever justified, items would be procured on the basis of
several quotations, in accordance with standard practice for IDF-type projects.
The final date for the submission of subproject proposals would be December 31,
1983 and the closing date for disbursement December 31, 1985 Bank funds would
be disbursed on the following basis: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported inputs, machinery and equipment; (ii) 70% of local expenditures for
imported machinery and equipment purchased locally where the foreign exchange
cost cannot be determined; (iii) 35% of construction expenditures for indus-
trial buildings and related civil works, and 45% of civil works expenditures
for hotel projects; and (iv) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The project is expected to have a significant development impact.
Institutional improvements would be particularly important, since in addition
to what was achieved under the first project, the proposed project would (i)
devote a great deal of effort to strengthening further BNF's financial condi-
tion, project appraisal and supervision capability, its promotional efforts
and its operational systems; (ii) support and greatly expand the activities
and scope of the FED; and (iii) establish a system which would substantially
improve the capacity of commercial banks to base their lending activities upon
detailed project preparation and evaluation as well as introducing economic
appraisal into the project appraisal cycle.
55.       The proposed loan would contribute to filling a major gap in term
financing of industrial projects in Paraguay and is expected to help finance,
through BNF and the FED, about 170 subprojects with a total cost of US$57.6
million equivalent. This number of subprojects is substantially more than
under the first loan (46 approvals of present) and would represent the result
of a wider distribution of Bank funds through increased intermediation to a
greater number of end-users. Total financing under the industrial credit



- 19 -
project, Including the Bank loan, the contributions of the Central Bank, and
the mandatory financing by participating institutions, would provide about
80% of the financing required by subprojects financed under the project
during 1980-83, and thus would make an important contribution to the growth
of industry, and support a concerted effort to develop the country's develop-
ment potential on the eastern region. Also, Bank financing would support
mainly small and medium-scale enterprises, whose lack of long-term investment
credit has hindered their development. The direct employment generation
related to the project is expected to exceed 2,750 jobs with the average
investment per job like)y to be US$20,000 (in 1979 prices). In addition, a
substantial indirect employment effect is expected from the project due to
backward linkages in the agricultural and forestry sectors, since about half
of the proposed loanr would finance agroindustrial projects. The impact of
subprojects on Paraguay's balance of payments should be substantial. About
60% of the loan proceeds is expected to finance industrial export enterprises,
and the remainder import-substitution and tourism industries.
56.       The proposed project, as conceived, does not involve any unusual
risks. However, because uncertainly does exist about the degree to which BNF
can rapidly upgrade its performance; and because some of the institutional
arrangements established under the project would be both new and untried, some
initial delays in subloan processing may occur. To minimize delays in project
implementation, Bank supervision of, and assistance to the project would be
more intensive during the first year.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, draft Projects Agreements between the Bank and the Central Bank (for
FED) and between the Bank and BNF respectively, and the Report and Recommen-
dations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
58.       Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The following are the special conditions of effectiveness: (i) signing
of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and the Central Bank and
with BNF, respectively; (ii) establishing a short-term rediscount facility or
line of credit of at least US$8 million equivalent in the Central Bank for
BNF, to finance BNF's cyclical shortages of funds for agricultural lending;
(iii) approval by the Central Bank of a new FED Policy Statment. In addition,
there would be the following conditions of disbursement; (i) for the BNF
component: (a) BNF would collect loans in arrears over 02 million totalling
¢725 million, and (b) BNF would agree with the Bank on the content of a debt
recovery program; (ii) for the FED component: (a) the Central Bank would
contribute US$1 million to the FED component, (b) the Central Bank would issue
a new FED Credit Manual, (c) Participatory agreements would be signed between
the FED and at least five commercial banks, and (d) FED would hire an indus-
trial engineer; and (iii) for the SNPP component; a Project Document for this
assistance would be signed between the Government and ILO. BNF would be
eligible to utilize the second portion of US$5 million once the initial stages
of the debt recovery program have been satisfactorily implemented.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 16, 1980
Attachments



- 21-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1
PA UAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REEttENCE CROUPS (       IUSD AnRACES
LAID AREA (STOUSAhN  SO. W.)                   PARAGUAY                      - NDST RENT ESTlMATE) -
TOTAL            406.8                                                   SAME         SAME     9EXT KICHER
80RICULTUL       161.4                                  DS.T RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCONE        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION 7c   GROUP /4   GCOU? /i
CGP PER CAPITA (US$)                 230.0        360.0     850.0           1124.4     1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUxPTION PER CAPITA
(RILD hS OF CD0AL QUlVALff)         87.0        140.0     1S9.0           943.1       730.7      1646.7
POrPLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.  TLEAR (MILLIONS)         1.8         2.3       2.8
UN  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6           37.1      37.9            59.3        49.0        51.2
POPJUATION PUOJECTIONS
POPlATION IN TM  2000 (MIUIONS)                           5.0
STATIONARY POPLATION (MXLLIONS)                           9.0
TE   STATIONARY POPULATION IS  EACED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PEl SQ. 1N.                        4.0         6.0        7.0            23.5       4 .6         28.2
PEX SQ. EN. AUCULTURAL LAND       12.0         15.0      17.0            80.5       140.7       1O0.5
POPULATION ACG STUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                         46.0         46.1      44.6            40.9       41.3         35.4
15-." YES.                         31.0        50.7       52.0            54.4       55.3         56.3
65 YES. AltD aO                     3.0          3.2       3.4             3.9         3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROITI RATI (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6 /h       2.6 /b    2.9             2.4        2.4          1.7
BAN                                2.7          3.0       3.3             3.7        4.5          3.0
CRUDE  It=  RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0         41.0      39.0            32.8        31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PtR THOUSAND)      13.0         9.0       9.0             8.5         9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATI               ..          3.2       2.8             2.4        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUSANDS)        ..         ..       26.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HAIED WOMEN)    ..             .       16.0            17.7       34.7.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF Fo0D PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.1        103.0     110.0            99.4      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA sUPPtY oF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
EQUIRMNTS)                     112.0       121.0      118.0           107.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEtNS (CGAMS PER DAY)          76.0        74.0       74.5            60.4       6A.4        80.9
oF WHlCS ANImAl AND PULS        40.0 /1     41.0       38.9            28.3       23.5         31.3
CRnI.0 (ACES 1-4) HORTALITY EATE    16.0        10.0        8.0             6.7         6.6         5.1
WEALTH
IFE EXPECTANCY Ar SIRH (EARS)    54.4           61.0       63.0            63.6       60.2         65.6
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        64.0        .             76.1       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAJt WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIONI
TOTAL                              6.0         11.0      13.0            63.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                               ..        22.0       25.0            79.S       75.7        85.1
WURAL                               ..          5.0       5.0            38.6       40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCIETA DISPOSAL (PtRCNT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       10.0            58.8       46.0         70.1
URBAN                               ..        16.0       28.0            77.8       46.0         88.3
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..            24.5       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PE'R PHYSICIAN         2300.0      2340.0(L  1190.0           1841.9    2262.4        1343.2
POPULATION PER  UI1SING PERSON        ..      2310.0    1250.0            933.7     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            430.0       620.0      610.0            63 .4     453 .4       197 .6
URBN                                 ..      240.0         ..           279.4      253.1        260.2
tUIIRL                             ..      5830.0         ..          1140.9     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..         ..         ..            2'.7        22.1        17.3
[OUS IYC
AVERACE SIZE Of ROUSEHOLD
WTAL                               5.5/f         ..       5.5j/          530          5.3         4.7
URBAN                               .37f         ..       5.114           4.8        5.2          4.
RUtAL                              5.77          ..       5.83 53                    5.4          5.1
AVERACE IMMER  OF P'RSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6/f         ..       2.4             1.3         1.9         1.t
URBAN                              2.67          ..       1.7             1.3         i.6         1 .2
StUAL                                ..         ..        3.1             1.5        2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO _L_C`RICTTY 'PEtCZSNT
Of DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                             13.0/1         ..      17 5/i          54.3       5030 0          0
URJBAN                            33.21          ..      *1.380.1                   71.7         a  1
RUSAS.                             L.ZTT        ..        i.t            t4.2       17.3



22 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2
E'ARAGUAY- SOCIAL INDICA-ORS OATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                  REFERENC£ GROUPS (ADJUSTED A£ELGES
- MOST RECENT FSTILATE) -a
SAFI        SAKE     NEXT HIGOER
MtOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   iNCOHE        INCOME
1960 /b    )I70 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0       109.0      106.0           107.3       102.5       101.7
MAALE                105.0       115.0     110.0            109.1      108.6        110.0
FEMALE               90.0        104.0     102.0            107.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        170       2C.0            40.3        33.5        51.2
MALE                  11.0        17.0      20.0             40.4       38.4         56.4
IEMALE               11.0         17.0      20.0             39.0       30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL EIROL. (I OF SQCONDARY)   7.0          6.0        5.0            18.5        11.5        18.3
PUPtL-TEACUER RATIO
PRDIARY                            28.0        32.0       28.0            37.1        35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                           8.0         9.0       10.0            17.9        22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        75.0/f      79.0       80.0             77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         7.0        7.0            29.1        13.5        53.4
RAD1O RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         83.0        71.0      68.0            172.1       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..        20.0       20.0            67.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GCNENAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIO1  PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        44.0       37.0            76.1        40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..             4.2         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)       590.0       700.0      644.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.7        21.4       22.5            21.5       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTUJRE (PERCENT)             56.0        53.0       51.0            30.2       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0        19.2      19.0             23.8       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5        31.7       31.9            30.9        33.5        33.8
MALE                                 51.7        50.0       49.6            47.3        48.0        51.3
FEMALE                               13.9        13.5       14.3            13.3        16.8        16.3
ECONcMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.6        1.5             1.5         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIMATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        30.0         *-            23.7        20.8
'HIGHEST 20 PERCNT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         62.0         ..            58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         4.0         *-             2.9        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..             9.9       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET =GOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVFRTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .          ..          .           265.6      270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..           185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     230.0            396.3      282.5        550.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     230.0            308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIIIATED POPULATION BgLOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LSVEL (PERCENT)
UR3AS                                .           ..         ..            35.2       20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            86.6       35.3
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mcane, excluding the extreme
*alues of che indicator and the most populated councry in esch group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is noo voiforM.
'b   Unless ocher,,ise noted, data for 1960 :efer to any gear between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
-n :971; and for Yost Recent Istimace, betveen 1974 and 1977.
'c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Mliddle Income (5351-1135 per capita, 1976);  'e  Upper
.I'-Udie ;ncoce ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  If  1962;  /S  1972;  /h  Due to emigraclon of Paragua)ans to
neighboring -ountries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth rate is lower chan rate of nacural inicrease;
'   1961-63;   /i Coverage of data unknown.
Mosc Recent Estimate of GDV per capica Is *or 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
ppKIIM   1 exA   MIA                                                                  Page    3
Note.:  Although the data ar  dra   fr-  sore  gnrlly judged the act ethorittiee sad reliable, it shoold aa  he atsd that they ap st be later.-
tionily.coqAyable_because of thetlack of at-ndlxdloed defiaition   eed concets uced by diffemt cootie   in ollstie  the data. The data  r,cateee
usful to descibe order       8.ofsgItde, todiose treds, and  hb-steetee eetlAn aJor differ-ece  beient-               ntis
it ajute  grceavrae,for eah.i odiostor r;       ppltboa-eiabted geusetelo  -a   e-c.udiag tie ear-n  -alues of the  adicator and the fat pepolated
coutrytoachgrop.    toe tolc   f dta, gru vrges of all indicators for Capitel SuIos Oil ftpoeters end of idioatoes of Acces   o Cater and t-crto
Iteosl,Orcle,  ucrn  Distributin and Povety fcr other c-atey g-cps ar  pcpolation-ieghted ge-trir  -an   itbhut e--uson of the  otr-   -eI.e. and
the -at popaited coutry.  Sic  h   ovrg   fconre                       theI isdntesdned  o   n,bllablto  fdi  n  catcafcr.cuins    be eneeised
in relating enrage  of on  Indctrt   ete.Thes  avree                 trenis  Isfla   nreabso   eeee'vle   ha  oreIngthe Vausoye
l-dicator At a tin sang inn oetry an   serneseee
they dAiA (thoossd *q.k                                                                  A-res  to KMet  linvR      i  ercn ofpeuain: oa,wnsd riaal 
-il   Tota  sufac  area . crrisig land ure  an  inland eaters                         Noirofpol  (oa,  ra,sa-                aca]sredb   nceadspsla
A&ricult-ral -  Most revet etiate  of agriculturl are  used terncraily                   percetages of their repective ppalation. Encrta disposal as  tisud
etperasectly for crps, pastures, sacht and bitohed gnrd.n  or to                     the  _clletion an  disposal  nub ositbot t-et-et, of hsesa   eurte
lie fao-                                                                               aod nets-eaterb.     ai-on   sctas orhubee. of yit pici-s sads.iaiis
bll~~~~~~ IA                               t                       i..W~~~~~~~~~totlathoos.
GNP  c"  liU kWhjaw   -o-nsio  actoto ast  orl-d Cub kAtlas.t (197kT6-78'bhuts);          a.lfdf             n dical school at univerity 1eve.
i960,I1970, and 1978 data.                                                             pnlto   e NrigPec                 Popolation dicided by outer of praticig sale
EXERGY CdiPSU5TI0N PilR CAPITA  A-Idca  --olPsuti-  of  oeriloe-ee                         an   el rdaenre,Pratical sore,ad uoictantcuss
(coal sad ligoitc, petrelue, atura  gao and hydur-, aclar d g.                         Poltio  pe   cpit  Bd   total, urban, end rural -  epolnotoc (total. urban,
thev-a  eleotrl-it ) Ic khigran  of coal eqojenicot Pee capita; 1960,                    and _rra)divided by their repective cuter of hosptal bed  availble  it
1970, and 1971 lt.                                                                       public ad pri-nc general ed apeci  Ied 'hootpital an   ehabi1itati-o  -erto-
Oo-pital  ae esoablitchasnn peraently etaffed by solat I..   .ee  ptyac-is
vtOui,ATIOe AJID VITAL STATISTICS                                                          pEtebliah-eto p-oidice principally custodial cae ar  tot inclded  uRa-l
Ttotli'eiaio    Ii-er(lli-)o  - As of J,1y 1; (960, 1970, and                            hoopitnls, honecee, ilaode health and  edlaI cen ters oct peeranetly otnffvd
1977 dnto,                                                                             by a physician  (but by a adi-ca.. asistat, cr,aidnif,, etc,.) such offer
Urban ~Phsolaioo l-eot of totnil - Rstio of urac to total popleti-o                      ic-patient  a-sdaiccd proide a licuied rage  fai,    f                aites
uifrc   etloloo.  ofuraaronpaffect cosarbi ity of data                        Adsiceioos pe  Hosoital Bed - Ttota ul n er of adiusloo. to  or uloh- eevtin
s_ng --ote:e;16 iP, 1970, sal 1975 data                                                hoyitala divided by the oute  of bedo.
Ptsliio  in Bear 19-Clret populato  projetlcc   r  bued  on                      ifl(pdx
i975 total IupLatc  by age n-       nad their  _otnlity and fertility             Avrg-oro   oshl  ercsprhoeoo     oa.uba   and rura   -
rae.Pojo:opaseee  o   otality rates copivob                       hs                 A hou-hod conist  of a groupof-individualls     har  oigqatr   n
leo_    nouito   fe noecoant_yatbrh Ioa  legnu   -cutr  a                            their salt nall       boarder or lodger say o   a o be  t             iuod   the
per calp' h  nca  i1e,adfni   ife ecysot-ny  tabiliolag at                           hc-eho1d foe statitical prpose..
7-7    yas TheaateoIeftii 'tp  rate al   have three levels                         Aveagm uebro   esn   e   o             oa   ur,Iba, and rual -Arege  -uibec
ansudiep decli-e i  fertiii;acoii  to  ncslve  and put                               ofperoo   pe   osi   l urba,edralocpdcov,in,dlioo
fnlciobgper--ne-       otocoo      te    esgr   n   fOee                    -ep-ctiely.  Mlurlinge ecclode no-persanet otrutur-  .sdotc. pid.a.
oboe corilinaties of nrtality  nd ferttity trode frp-oleticekoss Al~.toit  lebtr1icity (pe-rts of ~de.l.llng           io(    tlti urba so  rural     Co
onirpuses -                                                  veohionn~~i.delig  o~ith eletriit ir lIvigqat                oper-etago cc
Stat .nary popvIatioc - 1o a ett,it--y populcto- th-reieogroeth                        Oca,ura,ad rura  d-ellince-Pecticsiy.
,itcr theb-irt-h-rte in equal to the -ath rate, and also the age
stucur  rec c:ieat  Thin ,s acti-ed  niy after fertility  e-tee                 EBXATION5
ccietthe  vyoenect l.eie  of ocit -rt rrp-rolution rate * hec               AdJocted isEtiant Ratica
oneS coenreOlocof necec replacs  toelfeosotly    tiesninr   op-        Pie  oot    ca,sl   ndfcl       ra  total, sale and conic  -coi-
inl0ieesvt  atdc  h   ai   fteprojected Iharate-isties,                                na    falae   ttepiaylvls   ucnae   f r-pectice priaey
ofthe Ppoplnetot in the ye-  d000, nod the rate ofdelite of  frIlt                    -otl-age  pplal -nIoraly leietdes oldten agd 6-il ye-r  but
rte to rei:co   ee                                                                    uutcd for dJffertiegbofrcayduao;fr.otrsit
cesrttinr poithoIa rewchee - The Yea  ce  stnti-cay pupl.tti-                            urosi eoucatOoenriltt say eaceed,1lOu poroect  1reo   popil
oior hau hero cehe.-                                                                   ar      .c or above the offi-i1 school age
,1.oition De...ity                                                                     Secodar  -ci.    oa,sle nod feale - Cunuie Icn-c  o.or
Pee t. in. - Mid-year pepusti-  per squ-aro    ... oet- (illS  -t-otc) of                cdctio_eie   nt leant fou  Year  of aepocd- riur    I  trcI. .0;
total area                                                      ~~~~~~~~~pr-ildes genieatl  -oot-oa,ortahr traiting J-nt-iti-o: focpuoh
Psen    n arclurlln   Coepoted en  bcc- for agricultura  land                            usualy of 12 to 17 yearo of age;tcorrespondence  -cr-c  ar  s-nraiy
only.                                                                                  e-liudnd.
Pop- to   o  Srcuecreo.-Childen  (0.i4 yean,ocho-ago                                     -cticolnrliet( ertraunoooy       caotlOoictc                                    o
1i-btean)   ndrtiredl (h  years and ce      p:n pecetge   f ai-rear             icecl  idi              or ottrp     Iea   b  hopersto i-dcpeod-tly p-ra
'poplatioc; 1960, 1970, and 197) dato.                                                   Siprntarta of necnd.ry iunttuttiona.
Pon r.tinSeeh tate (rcn)  total  A-ldoa  o-th rates of tota1llad-                  Ppiuctl-hae ratio - Prir. nodseodar   -Toa  ntudotn reroliod 
rear populaloon for i9d.hu, i~il-t, and 197-77.                             prar   n   eodr   eeeOededy teaerto  teaetro,tl,ce
Peociltii GIroth Pate (pretd ra      oul  rehrtso   ra                                      p-dieg lecele.
poplatiov  foe 1950-hO, 19b0-70, sod 1970-75.                                          Adult literacy rate (P-e-t( -literate adIlt  labtl  to rea,d nodvit)a
Crue iteth latioe  theusad)  A- bha  lice bitho  Per thoueard of ai-- octage of total  dadut populetioc  -gd 15 year  nd-                                 cr
yerpplto;10, 1970,Ian  1977 data.
Crude Death Sate (pe ihoosand) - bAcale Otho  -c th-u,an  .Ii si-yvnr                CONiSUMPTION
popuintic; lOul, i70, anO  977 data.                                                       I_nege   or    e  thoonad poaciatit)  P- . Paorgi- ca    -p-io    iror
ci bor noveo  reyrditi-e p-ic  if obeo.porerr--  pe.nct  gd-                          c-ho-l-o
oPecofoc Frtoli,ty eaten; unua1  foc-pie.  torgncdiog ic 1960,                       baldeHcr  eethuaocoluo)-All typ- of' r-eol-ro  be r.d,.
1970, Idl i975.                                                                        brono-ts ic general plic per thousadof Ppcioiiio;   -oloeocie-e
neposobIrth-control deci-r  ucdee  .ueP-e  of -ation.. IfciiY                  vfet;  ssfor reen  yearo  .Y Ot ,be .oP.e,r00r   lcuoc
Planing progro                                                                         abolished loecg
FeelSy P~l siong-&  eo(erntfeariden                   - Peroetag  of srrei.d           TV R-eeie- (Pee th-usad poanlt-o) - fTVe-n:co- foe br-nd nut C.ne
nuoco of  hild-benin  age  lt5-d,yas   b   n  bebcne         eie                puId   pe e thuad popui.sti c; -vWldee uliceoned TV reecrulooe ti-.
to eli carried  esen  o scar ag  group.                                        adiyernhecegieteatior of ft' .tet  n                effect.
ellIS u.n airrytoog                                        Neespapor irculatboo (Poethousad puo1ati2o)   S h..n tie ucerag  ci-rotioc
"it,  9-71 100)   rd..  fof"doly gcpra  intrestteaParr,   dfiled enp_r-lio1  ubli-otioc
mdcc  f feo  erouctio per apit (1959bt-SIio      oe  o   e   elderoted prisrl.0rcriggorl e.  10ict                                          eiderd 00 be "daily
anooa  pe-d-cti     I o  alife-      iisPoution encludes ned and                       if it appr  atil lat.  fordtise  aeroI.
feed and  o oncada  year banin.  Coselodit-,evcr  rsr -ooe                           io.. ssu- ktleodunc pee nptiore loe-bor-ckh  ocbr
* A. odosrean  icecead of sugar) o~h lot ar  odblb  nod  _otnie.otrot       clduin thye, icolodo  nuioos  oc;eiciro   nda
%..cffee cc  ct- are  -oolded)   A .ggrgto prod-ctioo of nebh conoey                                                                d-e             . , tO.    1
Inb.aed oc natio-n  a-rage produce  peice  -eghte.
Percait euel o cecrco(perceot of roqie-n-to) - Conputed fron              LABOP FORCEt
per ,day   hA-iable nupp1len ccp-en  dorettcpodcin  inp-ta ien                       fre   n  ur..yibteo.l ghoeaco   tdon  ecdfct.
ro- t, end ohlngeni-iouck.  Net -,ppli  e-volode anis1 feed, nerds                   i            -croscutrie- o.toapareble.
qoantit1,oouned ic food proc_coneg, and ion"en      disttrbuisoo. nequire-         PonF e(eret  -  el    bo oc  asieceocane of c.1th  labor Corer
etooctIated by FAO basd o- pk  lystoialnenfc   iro                             i_t,      F_- Ishe  oce.  fring, forcotry, toting nd
octircty nod heal.th ci-ider:o    oirnet te-pr-tu-, body e-gto,                      fishing an pecetage of total lobe force.
a _ ad no  o_tributiorc  X. popuict: u, ecd a11ic,n iS pe--ro  foe               Industr ipercen) - inb-   oc  S   iig cIctrotii,sonfaturinga
sau te at to-nhold iron.                                                                           --orol   ae  sod ga  no eprs-tgs of total labr  oci
Ce  cit suply..fprotit  eas pe ds) -Proilocnirt .  pe         Paticipation  Itat  (perocot) - total, ale  In        ae-Priiaino
ap,t1te  et uPp1plyof,  food Per ic.P Ioupl  of foou lodeiinod, no                   ntoyetetnee -puted en total  sae  and f-1i  ihe  ocea  per-
nbcoe. Fequococtto for nil --ttio- r-tahised hyuh reIc fo- etagen of total, nle and foesie puplaIct ofnloge,nriey
nileaiosno   ih  uras of  ot-I Pro tcie per  wSp ad 20 gessis-of                     1960, 19,70, and 1975 Oats.  Thes-e ac  Wt   acI.pt irtsrfeto
anical nd poise  roteic,  f ohich iS g-u  should he anial pro.tein,          ao-o  ntrutur of tho pcpulatio, adloon tIne trend.  A lee eaticatv
These standarun are beer ~than thoor of 75 grnoftotal_ pteit and              aefree  -ntional sou-c.
25 grass of aniani ~~proOoia  a  - 'eeag  Col the acrid, proposed by PAP     teoosl PeedorPto                 nictpplhu   ce  1ad1   n   0rt
sotifliOnedroOuoythlar fore iv ae grouP of15-h4 porn.
Per cait erteic, supeI  froa nie,1 and pul.r - P,cteic supply of food
icried   ro  anrnan ad plae  10geee p ordy.                          utilE DIPTRIWPICiI
chiiu (ngec I-u) Saortaiir hate (eor thousnad)- bo-cl deatba per thceand   Pecna    -o rvte Iaooa (both In cash sad kind) - Re-eiced be riohent
on  ge ocpil  er,C  ehlureni lo hisag rop  for act de-el-                            5p-rai  richest 20 pe-c-t, poorest 1 -percet, an  pooret hi percen.t
op  - utroen  sta deicd frelfe    bro                                              of boue.. ds
HEALTH                                                                                 POVERTY TAiRGE GBOUPS
Life bopcoancy  t Birth(ceara     Acerae nnber of year  of life                  Eticated Absolute Pheertc Incose lecel (PBS on  caita) -uba aou rura
enicin  t1 birth; 1I5,1970, an- 977. dsts.                                             Absolte p-rerty IsoelvlI. that monhve  e    ciiapiis
lofant Mrtality  ete leerthousad)   "'Ilrol  leat, of infants under ec             utr it iodaly adequate dirt Plu  essen..tial on-food requi esete isvt
pear of age per thousan~d hir  births,                                           afodable
Aprant,oisfe, Wster (ceret of ,oanbtlon    totalubn,sn rsa _eEstitdRlivPoeyIou cel(Bpr at)-ubnadrrl
safentee supply (inoledee treated surface  ater  or  ntreated hot                      percoa  moose of the  -ootry.  ranI-oe  is dericd fee  the rural lec-I
uoootnited ea-s -ac  ac tht fre  p-oteoeut        oeolsepdas                        cith asjust-.t foe higher cost of hens5 in urban srea
andsntar           I) asP-eretagec of their repective popolati.s.  In                eatited =onult1i2nHle A* bslulte Pnh  soiol(ecei- uYrba sad
anura    Are  a poblir fonutal  nor ataspot inated net acr  thes.                                cn   f  ouain(ra  adrrl   h   re"bouepo'
t00 -te   fec.a house ay be conidered as beig  itbike r-aable
aceaof that bou.e.  Is rura  areas reaonble acees wld i.4   ly
tha  the h--enfe or atera  of the household do not have to cpesd a                                                           Eisi  and  ocia1 lain  Dicision
dIceruportIo..ate part of the day in fetehirg the fasilyl. satar needs                                                  ilconosi Analysis and P-ojetdoen  Dpepat-t
buenset 19(9



- 24 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4
CNP Per Capita;:  US850.0 (1978;
Amount                        Average Annual Increase (-.)                Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
InditEtor                                             (umillion USS currant)                  (at constant 1978 prices)                         (at currant frite.)
1978                         1963-70   1970-75    1975-80                1965      1970       975       1980
Natiunal Accouuts
Acrns domerlt product                                       2,560                             4.4        6.1         9 6               100.0      100.0    100 .0     100.0
Agricultre                                                 9821                             1.6        5.4         6.9                36.7       32.1      36.9      30.9
Indusrry                                                    561                             6.0        6.8        12.9                18.1       19.6      19.6      22.7
S-rvi-rs                                                  1,178                             6.1        6.4        10.0                45.2       48.3     43.5       46.4
Cunur-ptio-                                                 2,134                             4.1        6.1         7.1                86.1       87.2      84,3       92.1
Guos s I-uru..c.                                              696                             6.0       18.0        18.0                15.1       14.7      24.1       25.6
Euports uf gaudu  und ITS                                     470                             3.8        7.0        14.1                16.1       15.1      17.4       19.4
Itportu of goads and NFS                                      740                             3.9       14.1        11.0                17.2       17.0      25.7      27.1
franc uati-al  -avings                                       402                              5.3       8.0          -                  13.3      11.2      14.6       15.8
Amount                        Average Annual  -n-reane (T)                Coapos-cion of Merch-ndise Trade (7.)
(rilllon 0S$ tarrent)                 (at to_nstot 1978 crite)                           (at ccurrent prices)
1978                         1965-70   1970-75    1975-80                19t5      1970      1975       1980
Merahninde Trado
M-rchundi-o exports                                         406                             3.6       10.3        14.4
M-rchtndisn  irpor-n                                        608                             5.3       16.0         9.8               100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0
Food                                                       15                            -1.7       -8.7        17.1                10.9        8.2       7.8       2.6
Pet-oleu-                                                  60                            11.0        1.8       12.1                  8.5        6.0      9.9       14.1
Machinery  -rd eqvipmet                                   107                            -0.5        9.3        13.2                26.7       23.9      18.9      18,.6
Oth-r                                                     426                             3.0       22.5         8.5                53.9       59.9     68.4       65.2
1975          1976            1977           1978           1979/
Priten and Terms af Trade
GOP deflatar  (1978=100                                                    79.9           86.2           90.2           100.0          129.1
Exchange rote (15/us)                                       126.0         126.0          126.0          126.0           126.0          126.0
luot  racIdon                                        100.0          86.4           88.8          116.5           100.0          110.9
Inport priac  idex                                         l100.0          75.1           85.8           92.0           100.0          116.8
Terms of rrade index                                        100.0         115.0          105.5          126.6           100.0           95.0
A, *b of GDP
(at aurreoc prices)
Flblia Fiaance (Central Adminitration)165 5    1970    1975
Current revenu                                                   10.4    11.7       9.4
Current enpendituro                                               8.4    10.2       7.6
9urpiu_ (+) or drficir (-)                                        1.9      1.5      1.8
Capital oxpenditur-                                               1.7      1.9      2.3
Financing (not)                                                    -       0.9      0.7
1962-70         1970-75         1975-80         1980-85
other Indicators
GNP grouth -ta  (5)                                             4.4             6.0             9.7             7.7
GNP per capita gro-th rate (51)                                 1.7             3.1              6,6            5.2
ICOR                                                            2.9             2.8             2.4            3.1
Ma-ginai tavings rotc                                          27.3            10.8             27.9           20.4
Impart ela-ticity                                               1.1             2.3             1.2            0.8
e Eutirtte.



- 215 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                ANNEX I
(million us$ at current prices)                                                       Page 5
Population: 2.9 (1978)
GNP Per Capita:  USS350 (1978)
Actual                                                         Projected
1975      1976       1977       1978       19791S               1980       1981       1982       19N3       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods and services                             -141       -188       -254      -294       -362                 -386       -420       -463       -478       -481
Exports of goods                                             270        296       437        488        601                  749        904      1,082      1,279      1,789
Inport of goods                                             411        484        711        782        963                1,135      1,324      1,545      1,757      2,270
Net transfers                                                   14          4          1          6          9                   7          8          9          9         11
Current account balance                                       -127      -184        -253      -288       -353                 -379       -412       -454       -469       -470
Direct private investment                                       14.2       20.6       15.1       24.4      27                   30         33         36         40         48
M&LT loans net                                                  39.5       52.5      105.7      147.5       89                  81        140        220        297        291
Official                                                      27.9      46.9        93.1     129.1       20                   50         90        120        160        190
Private                                                       11.6        5.6      12.6       18.4       69                   31         SO        108        137        101
Other capital                                                  105.1      161.8      238.6     285.1      403                  250        220        175        120        120
Change in reserves                                             -31.8      -50.9    -1'36.4    -169.0    -166                   +18        +19        +23        +12        +11
IDternational reservea                                         112.2      163.1      269.5     438.5      605                  576        557        534        522        511
Reserves as months of imports                                    3.3        4.0        4.5        6.7        7.5                 6           5         4.1        3.6        2.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                             60.8       74.0      135.4      177.3     175
Official grants
Concessional loan,s                                           15.7       30.7       26.91      38.5      22
DAC                                                          8.9      10.4        4.6       26.6        7
OPEC
IDA                                                         1.0        2.6        5.2        5.3        4
Other                                                        5.8      17.7       17.1        6.6       11
N.on-c.ncessional loans                                      45.0       80.8      108.5      138.8      153
Official export credits                                     4.3         8.5       7.7       10.4       40
IBRD                                                         3.2       4.6        6.9        7.8        4.5
Other saltilatecr1
Private                                                    37.5       67.7       93.9      120.6      108.5
External Debt                                                 458.4      495.6      592.8      794.5
Debt outatanding and disbursed                               213.2      267.0     377.6      532.5      686.3
Official                                                  174.5      222.5      318.1      446.7      466
Private                                                    38.7       44.5       59.5       85.8      220
Usdisbursed debt                                             245.2      228.6     215.2      262.0
Debt service
Total service payments                                        29.3       30.6      42.1       49.3      115.8
Itterest                                                    8.0        9.1       12.2       17.5       32
Payments as % exports                                         10.9       10.3       9.2       10.1       19
Average interest rate on new loans (7.)
Officia1                                                       4.6        6.5        6.9        8.4
Private
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                                      19.3       18.4       16.7      16.7
Private
As 7, of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1978)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                              61.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                             96.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest doe within first year                                                                              5.0
Estimate.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
ST'ATUS OF BANK GROTiP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (February 29, 1980)
-     (US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                      Amount: (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose                 Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Seven loans and five credits fully disbursed                    31.8   30.8 1/        -
509           1974    Paraguay   Small Farmer Credit and
Rural Development           -   11.0         2.0
1059           1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                   14.5      -        2.2
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies            -    4.0        3.4
1252           1976    Paraguay   Vocational Training           4.0       -        0.8
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education                8.0      -        8.0
667           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education                  -    4.0        0.4
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II         22.0       -       19.2
1419           1977    Paraguav   Industri4l Credit            10.0       -        4.5
1 502          1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply            6.0       -        4.9
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                   33.0       -       29.2
1674           1979    Paraguay   1,livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0       -       21.1
1736           1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                  39.0       -       39.0
1780 2/        1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0       -        5.0
Total (net of cancellations)                   198.3   49.8
of which has been repaid                       9.2    1.3
Total ]    outstanding                         189.1   48.5
Amount sold                         1.3
of which has been repaid          0.4          0.9
Total no-w held by Bank/IDA                    188.2   48.5
Total o.ndisbuirsed                                               139.7
1/   Inciudes exchange adjustment.
2/   Not effective



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - February 29, 1979
Type of                  (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor             Business                 Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FTNAP, S.A.      Wood Processing                4.4      1.0       5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          4.4      1.0      5.4
Total tndisbursed                                 -



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 509-PA Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
The project's original three-year implementation period was over in
April 1978. As of April 30, 1979, BNF had completed lending under the project
credit component. It had extended 2,368 medium- and long-term subloans for
a total of US$6,411,000 and an amount of US$1,539,000 for working capital
financing. Most medium- and long-term financing was for land clearing (31%),
storage construction and purchase of agricultural inputs and machinerys (31%),
while short-term lending was mainly for labor (75%). With regard to land
titling, as of December 31, 1979, 2,180 land titles had been issued represent-
ing about 95% of the revised target (2,300), which included 300 more than the
original estimate. The project infrastructural components have been completed
with the exception of 7 km of all-weather roads, and 16% of culverts and 50%
of wooden bridges along the earth roads. So far 278 km of new earth roads,
172 culverts and 140 meters of wooden bridges have been constructed and
installed.
Loan 1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978 or about ten months behind schedule; progress of works
on the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) is about 90% against the
scheduled 100%; completion is now scheduled for May 1980. The present closing
date of June 30, 1980 may have to be further extended. Delays were caused by
poor management and insufficient equipment; corrective measures were taken.
The consulting firm engaged for assisting in highway maintenance and for
preparing a study on maintenance needs has completed its task. The latter
study was the basis for the subsequent highway loan (Fifth Highway Project -
Loan 1529-PA).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980).
The entire amount of the credit is now committed. Substantial progress
on the institution building side has been accomplished on the basis of expe-
rience gained under this project, which has led to the preparation of a second
operation, recently approved.
Loan 1252-T-PA Vocational Training Project, US$4.0 million, May 13, 1976;
(Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
Project implementation is on schedule. Two vocational training
centers (Asunsion and Chore) are finished; three (San Lorenzo, Cnel. Oviedo
and Cnel. Bogado) expected to be completed in the next few weeks and one
(Hernandarias) should be ready by August. Concerning procurement, about 90%
of the goods has been received. Implementation of the technical assistance
program (for which ILO is the executing agency for UNDP) is satisfactory; the
program should be completed by December 1980. Cost estimates are within
appraisal estimates.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised implementation
schedule the project is expected to be completed by the present closing date
of June 30, 1981. About 25 associated rural primary schools, 27 community
learning centers, and 2 secondary schools are completed. Construction of 54
new rural primary schools as well as of five secondary schools was scheduled
to be completed by December 31, 1980. Satisfactory progress has been made in
contracting technical assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook
production and in-service teacher training programs. Total project cost is
expected to be amount 3% lower than originally estimated, due mainly to
reduction of rural schools construction specifications.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
As of January 31, 1980, the total number of subloans extended in
the project area was 1,590 or about 60% of appraisal estimates, and the
amount of lending totaled US$5,660,000, or about 77% of appraisal estimates.
Of this, US$1,132,000, or 20% of total lending was short term. Land titling,
with 1,166 titles distributed, is 80% of appraisal estimates.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, for the first time since 1972. This was achieved in
part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a
capital contribution of ¢ 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan.
BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been sufficiently effective
in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the institutional improve-
ments, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical assistance program has
been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural programming, portfolio
management and electronic data processing systems. Regarding the financing of
industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 46 sub-
projects with small-scale enterprises accounting for most of them. Disburse-
ments, however, were running somewhat behind schedule. Since BNF has already
met the conditions for releasing the pending amounts under the Loan's second
tranche (US$6.0 million), an additional US$4.0 million has been made available
.o finance subprojecLb.
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982). .
Project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. A six
month delay which had resulted from a late effectiveness may be reduced.
Up to date 36 projects for the same number of community (85% of total) have
been approved. Out of 36 communities have currently signed contract with
SENASA for the implementation of these projects. The first annual purchase
program (1979) has been satisfactory carried out. The second (1980) has
already been initiated. As of March 28, 1980 loan disbursements amounted to
US$1.15 million or 19% of the total loan amount.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
The civil works on the repaving of Route 1 (Paraguari-Encarnacion,
303 km) is 15% behind schedule. Construction and supervision contracts for
the Coronel Oviedo-San Estanislao road have been signed and work will be
initiated shortly.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
The Livestock Fund component was about 80% committed as of
February 29, 1980. There is an increasing involvement of this organization
with small, mixed (livestock crop) farms. The small farmer component with the
National Development Bank, National Extension Service and Ministry of Public
Works is behind schedule, but lending should start in mid 1980 and feeder road
construction in late 1980. The Asuncion wholesale market is progressing well.
Final design plans have been approved by the Bank and construction should
begin in June, 1980. The Agricultural Census component, for which FAO is the
executing agency, is behind schedule and the data collection has been deferred
for July 1980 to the same month in 1981.
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Bank has approved a short list of consultants to assist the
establishment of Feeder Roads Unit. The Government's Feeder Roads Coordinating
Committee is being established by Decree. Procedures for contracting the
design of feeder roads are under way. Prequalification of contractors for con-
struction of the first half of Route 6, (Pirapo-Ciudad Presidente Stroessner)
has been completed and approved by the Bank.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million, December
19, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
This Loan has not yet become effective.



- 32 -
PARAGUAY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to prepare project: About 9 months.
(b) Preparation by: Government and Bank staff
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: January 1979
(d) First Bank Mission: January 1979
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: November 1979
(f) Negotiations: May 1980
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
Financing of a feasibility study for the Encarnacion Industrial
Estate has been provided by KfW. A draft policy statement and credit manual
for FED have been approved at negotiations.   BNF has prepared revised
procedures for collecting loans with arrears over 02 million, which are
acceptable to the Bank. A study to review the BNF's agricultural arrears
problems has been initiated. A personnel study for BNF has been initiated.
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) signing of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and the Central
Bank, and with BNF, respectively (para. 40); (ii) establishing a
short-term rediscounting facility or line of credit of at least
US$8 million equivalent in the Central Bank for BNF to finance BNF's
cyclical shortages of funds for agricultural lending (para. 43); and
(iii) Approval by the Central Bank of a new FED Policy Statement
(para. 47);
(b) The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(i)  for the BNF component:  (a) BNF would collect loans with
arrears over 02 million totalling 0725 million (para. 41);
and (b) BNF would agree with the Bank on the content of
a debt recovery program (para. 41).



- 33 -
(ii)  for the FED component:  (a) the Central Bank would
contribute US$1 million to the FED component (para. 38);
(b) the Central Bank would issue a new FED Credit Manual
(para. 47); (c) participatory agreements would be signed
between the FED and at least five commercial banks (para.
47); (d) FED would hire an industrial engineer (para. 45).
(c) BNF would have access to the second portion of US$5 million
once the initial stages of the debt recovery program have been
satisfactorily implemented (para. 41).
(d) If the rate of inflation warrants it, the Government has undertaken
to modify in agreement with the Bank, the interest rate charged to
sub-borrowers under the project's BNF and FED credit components
(para. 49).
(e) In addition to the targets of the Debt Recovery Program, at least
¢375 million in loan arrears would be recovered by September 30,
1981 (para. 41).
(f) The Central Bank would undertake a review of past FED operations
which may lead to organizational and administrative changes to the
FED component (para. 47).






6                                       ? Lt r I A
~0LtVI0    r-~~\XX>,0;  AMA A                                                  /C
-                           'A           /                                                           A-Me RIACAT
t 0. _RRxAt EU vE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                              O                                                                 72G 6PeFrt' a lnG¢I              Q26>
/  Folltnnme.*e12Rsrs<,_         (PARAGUAY                               .t;          i           ;-;               ;  4   
i  f i \ / Psertolre; F dmAPAB<g0 ;.R~                      1                                                                            0     c      0 ;r  
E    AD           ~~~B O O U E R ON                                                                                   AAL                  ' '           ' 
I                                                           -                  COCCOCEPIO
i ; 0;:XA;, t:XTE I a; f t a:+   ;                                         <.,,0 1 0,,,< 0   :ff 0, ' ff:, n   f XC I''ffR  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2?                                                                                                                                    02'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'V                                                                                                     MI 10 $>u                  A   QAEtt;000.t,S Fr o    SNPDD t gt5
A  24 .2 - 22 62 tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tt- 
0   l;   0    0   0  2                                                 RII2NW              ->0  |   C 3                                                     22-0F o i n Gsduoe   0Seu   -
-2* m; .~22                  2                  20'               2 ?        F       ui2$O    5        t                                       -0' C0  22 i|'   ( m\.PRGAI   aUdCE



