aFF IIA    LOAN NUMBER 1866 PA
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1866 PA
P JECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, date             c       , 1980, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECO4;ZCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO (hereinafter called
BNF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million dollars
($31,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BNF agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be relent to BNF on the terms and conditions
set forth in a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BNF; and
(C) BNF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Project; Management and
Operations of BNF
Section 2.01. (a) BNF shall carry out Parts A and C of
the Project described in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and
conduct its operations with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, with qualified and experienced management and


﻿-2-
personnel, and in accordance with BNF Organic Law and BNF State-
ment of Policy.
(b) For the BNF fiscal years 1980 to 1982, BNF shall include
in its annual budget a specific allocation of not less than
$2,000,000 equivalent in order to provide for the necessary local
counterpart funds for the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNF shall
administer, through its Development Department, the proceeds
of the BNF Subsidiary Loan used to finance sub-loans.
(d) For purposes of (c) above, BNF shall strengthen its
Development Department with at least 2 additional experienced and
competent staff members who will be in charge of carrying out
in-plant supervision with and training of BNF's branch office
staff.
Section 2.02. BNF shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BNF shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Loan Agreement and paragraph (f) below, BNF shall
present Investment Projects to the Bank for approval or for
authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, BNF shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment
Project to be financed thereunder (including a description of the
expenditures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed
by BNF and an appraisal of the Investment Project and, when
required under the provisions of the Loan Agreement, its internal
economic rate of return) and the proposed terms and conditions of
the sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the
sub-loan and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by BNF for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enterprise


﻿-3-
and the Investment Project (including a description of the expend-
itures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan)
and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, includ-
ing the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace of up to
three years and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, (i) shall not extend beyond twelve years from the date of
approval by the Bank of such Investment Project or of authoriza--
tion by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal, or gradually increasing, semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal, or gradually increasing, semi-annual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
(d)   BNF shall charge Investment Enterprises such rates of
interest and other financial charges on sub-loans as shall be
required to obtain the effective annual interest rate set forth
in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement, as such interest rate may
be changed from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Section.
(e)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1983.
(f)  BNF shall not present to the Bank requests to approve
or authorize withdrawals from the Loan Account for any sub-loan
which, when added to all other amounts withdrawn or to be with-
drawn from the Loan Account in respect of sub-loans approved or
authorized by the Bank, exceeds $5,000,000 equivalent unless all
the action specified in Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement has
been carried out to the satisfaction of the Bank; provided,
however, that such $5,000,000 shall not include the amounts
withdrawn or to be withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
BNF sub-loans made for purposes of financing Investment Projects
in the Eastern Paraguay Area.
Section 2.04. BNF shall furnish to the Bank all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Loan for Parts A and C of the Project,
the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the
sub-loans.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) BNF undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms whereby
BNF shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enter-
prise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and BNF, includ-
ing, in the case of any sub-loan, the right of BNF to: (i) require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) require that: (A) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, be
suitable for the respective Investment Project and be purchased,
after canvassing the main sources of supply thereof, at a reason-
able price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods and
services be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that: (A) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (B) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Bank or BNF shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with BNF.
(b) BNF shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and BNF; (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and its Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of Parts A and C of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. (a) BNF shall carry out the Debt Recovery
Plan in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) BNF shall send to the Bank quarterly reports on the
status of the Debt Recovery Plan, each of such reports to be
audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.07. BNF shall take all such action as shall be
required to ensure that, its operating costs will not exceed
during 1980, 7.1%; during 1981, 6.7%; and thereafter, 6.5% of
of its outstanding loans at the end of the corresponding year.
Section 2.08. Not later than July 31, 1980, BNF shall adopt
new procedures, satisfactozy to the Bank, for collecting loans in
arrears over two million Guaranles.
Section 2.09. In order to improve its capacity for financing
Investment Projects in the Eastern Paraguay Area, BNF shall: (a)
strengthen its branch-offices in such area; and (b) improve its
sub-loan processing procedures in order to allow for a more active
and independent participation of such branch offices in activities
such as (i) routine supervision of Investment Projects, (ii)
sub-1oan collection, and (iii) the obtaining of financial data
from Investment Enterprises.
Section 2.10. BNF shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put
at the 'disposal of BNF by the Borrower or its agencies for relend-
ing, investment or management. BNF shall promptly inform the Bank
of any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of
amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of,
any such agreement.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNF: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer, encumber or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire and maintain all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.12. In order to assist BNF in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, BNF shall employ consultants whose qualif-
ications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 2.13. BNF shall take such action as shall be appro-
priate on its part to enable the Investment Enterprises to obtain
the fiscal incentives referred to in Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNF shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts A and C of the Project and of each Invest-
ment Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
its operations a,%d financial condition.
Section 3.02. BNF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BNF and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNF shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain at all times its debt/equity
ratio within the limits referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if the applicable limits shall, for reasons
beyone BNF's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.04. BNF shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BNF which, in
the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect BNF's ability to
meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and BNF, BNF shall not incur any debt if, after  ie


﻿-7-
incurring of such debt, the debt of BNF then incurred and out-
standing would be greater than eight times the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of BNF. For the purposes of
this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by BNF;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Guaranfes debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by BNF for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNF shall maintain a liquidity ratio of not less than 1.1:1. As
used in this Section, "liquidity ratio" means the ratio of assets
recoverable within twelve months to liabilities to be met within
such twelve months.
Section 3.07. Starting not later than September 1, 1980,
BNF shall charge such rates of interest and other financial
chairges on all its loans made for purposes of financing indus-
trial, agro-industrial and tourism projects, as shall be required
to obtain on each of such loans an average yield of not less than
the one set forth in Section 2.03 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. BNF shall not make or guarantee any loan if
the principal of such loan or guaranteed amount plus any other
loans to the same borrower or for the same project made or guaran-
teed by BNF shall exceed the amount specified in Section 3.04 of
the Loan Agreement, unless the Borrower shall undertake to pay to
BNF, if the event specified in such Section shall occur and shall
continue for the period therein set forth, the amounts specified
in such Section.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. BNF shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between Guaranfes
and any foreign currency, or between any two foreign currencies,
used in its operations.
Section 3.10. The Bank and BNF shall, from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of BNF, and BNF shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of BNF.
Section 3.11. BNF shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
Section 3.12. BNF, shall: (a) promptly upon its completion,
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a copy of the staff
survey currently being carried out as part of the Technical
Assistance Program provided for under Section 2.08 of the First
BNF Project Agreement.
(b) based on such survey and taking into account the Banks
comments thereon, prepare a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for
revising BNF's personnel policies and procedures in order to
attract and retain competent staff; and
(c) carry out such program according to a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.13. In addition to any amounts collected under
the Debt Recovery Plan, BNF shall collect the following amounts
with regard to loans over two million Guaranles (t2,000,000) in
arrears as of October 31, 1979: (a) not less than $725,000,000
prior to withdrawals from the Loan Account for the first BNF
sub-loan, as provided in Section 2.02 (b) (iii) (A) of the Loan
Agreement; and (b) in addition, not less than $375,000,000
by September 30, 1981; such additional amount to be collected
according to the following schedule: (i) by March 31, 1981, not
less than 0125,000,000; (ii) by June 30, 1981, not less than
0250,000,000; and the full amount by September 30, 1981.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BNF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For BNF:
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Independencia Nacional y Cerro Cord
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Cable address:                     Telex:
PYTYBO                           138 PY BANFO
Asunci6n
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BNF may be taken or executed by its Presi-
dent or such other person or persons as the President shall
designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BNF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BNF, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BNF pursuant to any provision of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/
By
Regional Vice President
Lati America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
/5/
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 4       day of --As  , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


