 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14634

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/15/2015

               Country: Mongolia
             Project ID: P092965                                                  Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Information And            Project Costs (US$M):                     11.85                 10.96
                         Communications
                         Infrastructure
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:            CH232                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                         8                 7.16
      Sector Board:      Global                     Cofinancing (US$M):                          2                    2
                         Information/Communi
                         cations Technology
          Cofinanciers: Japan: Ministry of          Board Approval Date :                                   06/08/2006
                         Finance - PHRD                      Closing Date:             03/31/2012           03/31/2013
                         Grants
         Sector(s):      Telecommunications (61%); Central government administration (34%); General information
                         and communications sector (5%)
        Theme(s):        Regulation and competition policy (29% - P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                         development (29% - P); Rural services and infrastructure (28% - P); Other financial and
                         private sector development (14% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Midori Makino             Christopher David      Christopher David          IEGPS1
                          Nelson                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 "To assist the Recipient in significantly increasing the coverage and use of relevant Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT) services among the rural population through an incentive program
designed to encourage the participation of private operators in the rural segment of the ICT market; and
increasing private sector participation in the delivery of e-government services, thereby improving public
sector utilization of ICT." (Financing agreement - FA Schedule 1 p.4: Project Appraisal Document - PAD
p.6).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 The project had four components.

(a) Provision of telephony and internet services in rural Mongolia (Original: $7 million, Actual: $6.33
million). Support for the implementation of the government's universal access strategy in order to
accelerate the provision of telephony and internet services in rural Mongolia. Investment support for the
deployment of infrastructure and public access to ICT services through the use of output based aid
(OBA). The project would award the "least cost" capital subsidies to the services providers who would be
responsible for installing, operating, and maintaining the new telecommunications systems on a
commercial basis. The sub-components included; (i) capital subsidy support to provide telephony services
at the bagh level (for herder communities); (ii) capital subsidy support to provide telephony and internet
services for soum (or district) centers; and (iii) technical assistance support for consultant services to
design the bidding documents for the OBA schemes and to manage the implementation of these
programs.

(b) Strengthening of the sector regulator (Original: $1.91 million, Actual: $2.72 million). Investment
support and technical assistance to strengthen the Communications Regulatory Commission (CRC), the
sector regulator. The sub-components included; (i) financing of a radio spectrum management and
monitoring system; (ii) preparation of bidding documents for the radio spectrum management and
monitoring system; (iii) technical assistance to CRC in licensing, spectrum policy, monitoring of the
implementation of the universal access program, and specialized regulatory advice; and (iv) training for
staff in regulation of competition, public consultative processes, and other areas.

(c) Public Private Partnerships (PPP) for E-Government (Original: $2.46 million, Actual: $1.36 million).
This component would address gaps in the enabling environment for use of PPPs for provision of
e-Government services and help roll-out e-Government applications using PPPs. The sub-components
included; (i) technical assistance for developing the policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks for PPPs in
e-Government; (ii) preparation of for potential PPP projects in e-Government; (iii), development of an
e-Government project; (iv) implementation of priority e-Government project(s) in partnership with the
private sector; (v) development of an information security framework; and (vi) training of ICT authority staff
and Chief Information Officers of government ministries, agencies, and districts.

(d) Project Management (Original: $0.32 million, Actual: $0.55 million). Support for meeting the operating
costs of the Project Implementation Unit that would manage the project.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost

The total project cost at closure was $10.96 million, corresponding to 92.49 percent of the appraisal
estimate which was $11.85 million. While the project components supporting information and
communication infrastructure development in rural areas (90 percent of appraisal estimate) and public
private partnerships for e-Government (55 percent of appraisal estimate) were underspent,
communications regulatory development component and project management spent 1.4 times the
appraisal estimate.

Financing and Borrower Contribution

Of the total project cost of $10.96 million, $7.16 million (89.5 percent of appraisal estimate) were IDA
grant, $2 million (same as the appraisal estimate) were PHRD grant from the Government of Japan, and
the remaining $1.8 million (97.3 percent of the appraisal estimate) were contributions from the Borrower.

Dates

The project was appraised on April 10, 2006, approved on June 8, 2006, and was made effective on July
26, 2006. Mid term review took place by June 24, 2009. In response to the letter dated April 6, 2011 from
the Government, IDA proceeds were reallocated from "unallocated" and from capital subsidies category,
to other categories that were overdrawn due to higher than estimated costs. These overdrawn categories
and related activities include spectrum monitoring and management systems, consultancy services, and
incremental operating costs.

On March 21, 2012, the project was restructured and the closing date for the IDA grant and PHRD trust
fund was extended by one year, from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to allow the completion of two
e-Government applications, namely, the Public Key Infrastructure, and Certification Authority and Portal
System. However, after the elections in mid-2012, the Government discontinued the implementation of
these two e-Government applications, and requested cancellation of the uncommitted funds. This
cancellation was effective on March 27, 2013.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of objective is Substantial. The objectives of the project, in particular, to increase the coverage
of ICT services for the rural population, fall under Pillar two of the World Bank Group's most recent
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), prepared for the period 2013 to 2017. The pillar is to build sustained
and diversified basis for economic growth and employment in urban and rural areas. This CPS pillar
includes a goal to intensively develop export-oriented, private sector-led, high technology- driven
manufacturing and services, with particular focus on information, communication development, among
other activities. The Government's E-Mongolia Strategy of 2005 also intended to establish the foundation
of a knowledge-based, information society in the country by enhancing extensive application of ICT in all
sectors. The contents of the two objectives were therefore relevant, and the focus on the rural population
was appropriate because they were the people lacking access to ICT services in the country. But the way
the objectives were stated in the financing agreement and in the Project Appraisal Document were
confusing because there were too many outputs and intermediate outcomes embedded in the two
overarching objectives.

b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of design is Substantial. The activities planned under the project were generally consistent
with the stated objectives. The capital subsidies would facilitate the investments by the private sector, and
output based aid was an appropriate instrument for enhancing competition and accountability to ensure
least cost and quality investments. These activities, along with the technical assistance would contribute
to increasing coverage and use of ICT services, Support to the sector regulator would lead to improved
regulatory environment in the ICT sector, and this is important with increasing private sector participation.
The components focusing on e-Government would translate into increased provision of related
applications by the public sector. While the project components were designed to benefit the whole
country, the project objective's focus on the rural population was addressed through targeting assistance
and subsidies to the rural soums and the rural herder communities at the bagh level outside of soum
centers that did not have access to ICT services. The rural focus on the regulatory environment was not
as clear, but it indirectly demonstrated that services can be provided sustainably in rural areas, and as a
result, promoted private sector investments in the rural areas. In addition, the linkage between the project
activities/outputs, intermediate outcomes, and final outcomes were sometimes unclear as the private
sector participation appeared both as outputs and outcomes.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  1. To significantly increase the coverage and use of relevant ICT services among the rural population
through an incentive program designed to encourage the participation of private operators in the rural
segment of the ICT market. Achievement of this objective was Substantial. According to project
documents, Mongolia's universal access program developed with World Bank assistance is perceived as
an international best case example of universal service development and funding in challenging
environments.

Outputs: The project used Output Based Aid to provide capital subsidies for herder communities in 152
baghs (the lowest administrative level in Mongolia) of 76 soums (districts). Four packages of contracts
totalling $5.3 million were completed, resulting in three universal access programs to the 152 baghs with v
ery small aperture terminal (VSAT) supported telecom services, 90 soums with mobile communications,
and 32 soum centers wit high-speed broadband internet services. In the area of institutional and policy
framework, the funding for Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) was approved in June 2007.

In order to encourage private sector participation, significant stakeholder consultation was done up front.
In addition, the regulatory framework was improved through 8 packages and one training, amounting to
$1.98 million. One of the packages, the spectrum monitoring and management system, was installed and
made operational, and technical assistance and capacity building activities were provided to the
Communications Regulation Commission (CRC). The spectrum monitoring and management system was
a convenient and practical tool for the CRC to monitor the activities of legal radio frequency users. Other
packages include different forms of technical assistance which were provided to CRC in the areas of
licensing, spectrum policy, monitoring of the universal access program, and specialized regulatory advice.
These packages which improved the regulatory framework helped promote private sector investments in
the rural areas.

Outcomes: While mobile voice services were available only in about 100 rural soums in 2006, such
services became available in all 330 soum centers in Mongolia exceeding the project target of 200 soums
already within the first three years of project implementation. While the actual number of rural people
served was not presented in the ICR, assuming that there are minimum 1,000 inhabitants in each soum,
access has increased from at least 100,000 people in 2006 to at least 330,000 people by project closure.

The number of telephony minutes originated in soum centers with about 1,000 or more inhabitants
increased from the 2006 baseline of 1.2 million annual minutes to 56.5 million annual minutes by
December 2012, surpassing the target of 2.7 million annual minutes by 21 times. The project's
investments in extending the digital telephony into 90 soum centers have contributed to this achievement.

The number of internet users in soum centers with about 1,000 or more inhabitants increased from the
2006 baseline of 300 to 12,000 users, exceeding the target of 11,000 users. Extension of mobile services
and broadband internet services to soums funded by the project contributed to this achievement.

The number of telephony minutes originated in rural areas outside of soum centers (herder network)
increased from zero in 2006 to about 530,000 annual minutes in 2012. It did not achieve the target of
1,200,000 annual minutes as estimated by the project, as it did not expect the superior mobile networks to
expand in time to cover the herders. But the herders actually benefited from superior mobile services
because the mobile networks were expanded more quickly than originally expected.

2. To encourage the participation of private sector participation in the delivery of e-Government services,
thereby improving public sector utilization of ICT. Achievement of this objective was Modest.

Outputs: Draft legislation and other activities were completed through consultancy on creating an
enabling environment for public private partnerships (PPPs). Such outputs were used by the
Parliamentary ad-hoc committee on PPPs and the National Development and Innovation Committee in
drafting the Concession Law of Mongolia. The policy on PPP was passed by Parliament in October 2009,
and the Concession and PPP Laws were approved in January 2010.

Six public private partnerships for e-Government contracts were carried out, of which 70 percent were
completed, amounting to $1.3 million. These were studies and draft documents on enabling PPP
environment for e-Government, demand study and identification of e-applications for Government
services suitable for implementation under PPP arrangements, draft policy papers for information security
and capacity building training for ICT and Postal Authority. These activities were essential for the
acceptance of the private sector as a partner for e-Government services by the Government, and thereby,
helped to increase the number of e-Government services provided in partnership with the private sector
and number of Government ministries and agencies willing to accept the PPP model for e-Government.

The implementation of e-Government applications was delayed because the PPP approach was new for
the Government and it took some time to finalize the PPP model or to develop the bidding documents.
Even if the two e-Government applications, namely, the Public Key Infrastructure, and Certification
Authority and Portal System, were contracted in the end, and the project was extended by one year to
complete the implementation, they were eventually cancelled by the new Government after the elections
in mid 2012.

Outcomes: Number of e-Government services provided in partnership with the private sector increased
from the baseline of one in 2006 to 3 in 2012, but failed to achieve the target of 4. Details of the three
e-Government services that were implemented as a result of project support were not documented in the
ICR. With regards to the Government ministries and agencies willing to accept the PPP model for
e-Government, the number increased from the baseline of one in 2006 to ten in 2012, achieving the target
of ten set at appraisal.
While there is an increase in the number of Government ministries and agencies that are willing to accept
PPP for e-Government, the achievement of the overarching objective of actually improving the "utilization"
of ICT by the public sector is not clear especially after the cancellation of the two e-Government
applications by the new Government. Due to insufficient evidence on the improved utilization of ICT by the
public sector, achievement of this objective is rated as Modest.

5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated as Substantial. The financial rate of return calculated at project completion was 34
percent, and that was higher than the 26 percent estimated at appraisal. This analysis covered the rural
access component which corresponded to about 60 percent of the project costs.

The financial model used a discounted cash flow methodology to calculate the internal rate of return over
ten years. The results showed 22 percent return (appraisal estimate was 28 percent) for the herder
network operators and 37 percent return (exceeding the appraisal estimate of 25 percent) for the soum
level mobile network operators. Weighing the percentage of costs covering the herder network (20
percent of the total costs, according to project documents) and the soum network (80 percent of the total
costs, according to project documents), the average financial rate of return was 34 percent at completion.

The average revenue per site was larger than expected due to the high growth rate of the users, and this
compensated the higher than estimated costs of the technologies. The establishment of the herder level
network and the expansion of the mobile network have reduced the distance to the nearest telephone of
any kind from an average of 25 to 39 km, to 14 to 16 km. As a result, both time and cost of communication
have been reduced for the rural population. The possible economic benefits include reduced costs of
communication, improved and strengthened family ties because of more frequent communication,
improved security and coordination associated with migration and response to harsh weather and other
situations. Other indirect benefits include increased economic activity, and more efficient governance and
social infrastructure activities, resulting from increased communication and creation of an enabling
environment for doing business. The soum level benefits also include improved access to education,
health, governance, and market based services which are in far away national capital and other locations
with expanded opportunities. The communication services also leveraged Mongolia's high literacy rate
and its traditional high priority for education by offering improved opportunities for children, adults, and
access to the benefits of information society.

The rest of the project was mostly technical assistance to promote increased use of ICT by the public
sector, and such benefits were judged by the ICR team to be difficult to quantify. However, as described
above, a large number of economic benefits can be derived from this project, and the project funds
leveraged private sector investments in Mongolia's ICT sector, and increased the funding and investment
level four to five fold from $37.6 million in 2005 to $140 million in 2012. On balance, there is sufficient
evidence to show that the project funds were used efficiently, even taking into account the one year
extension of the project implementation period.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      Yes                                      26%                                     60%

    ICR estimate                   Yes                                      34%                                     60%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives and that of design are both substantial. Efficacy in achieving the first objective
to increase coverage of ICT services among the rural population in Mongolia is substantial, while the
achievement of the second objective, to increase the utilization of ICT by public sector is modest.
Efficiency is rated as substantial and as a result, the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory, weighing
the relative importance of the first objective, based on the information provided in the PAD.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Financial/commercial Risks: The project was designed to provide a one time capital subsidy only for the
purpose of providing ICT connection for the rural population in Mongolia, and relies on the service
provider to continue serving its clients. In bidding for the rural access contracts, the operators themselves
carried out their own financial viability assessments of such a contract. This would indicate that the
operators are taking informed risks that are embedded in their contractual agreements, pointing to low
financial and commercial risks of these contracts to themselves, and consequently to the development
outcomes of the project. In addition, the establishment and operationalization of the universal service
obligation fund which was created as a mechanism for financing the major future telecommunications and
ICT infrastructure needs of rural Mongolia, and could also be used as a contingency as needed.

Political Risks: There were two e-Government applications that were experiencing implementation issues,
as the PPP approach was new for the Government and it took some time to finalize the PPP model and to
develop the bidding documents. These two e-Government applications were eventually cancelled by the
Government after the elections in mid-2012 even after the procurement process had been completed and
contracts had been awarded. This cancellation, due to political issues, indicates a high political risk for
Mongolia.

Institutional Risks: The project contributed to improving the government, regulator, and other
stakeholders' capacity and as a result the related institutional risks have been lowered.

Regulatory Risks: The project strengthened the regulatory framework through the introduction of
spectrum monitoring system and licensing policy and other interventions, which facilitated the
participation by the private sector in Mongolia's ICT sector, lowering the regulatory risks.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
    According to the ICR (page 18), the project objectives and components of the three partners (the
government, PHRD from Japan, and IDA) were dovetailed and well integrated into the design of the
project. The preparation team used the lessons learned from the three pilots financed by Global
Partnership for Output Based Aid approach where a one-time subsidy by the government was
awarded to the operator in return for a commitment to provide the ICT services to the population. One
of the key lessons incorporated in the project was the use of an appropriate incentive framework to
delineate the respective roles of the public and private sectors. The competitive bidding process used
for selecting the private service providers had helped minimize the subsidy for upfront capital
expenditures, making this approach feasible for serving the rural population in poor and remote areas.
The project design was kept simple and in accordance with the capacity of the government to
implement, and the timetable for implementation was realistic for the most part.

Appropriate risks related to the weak government and sector capacity were identified and the project
team incorporated the comprehensive program of capacity building to strengthen the implementing
agencies' capabilities. According to a review done by the Quality Assurance Group in 2010, technical,
financial, economic, institutional, and fiduciary aspects were adequately addressed by appraisal, and
the skill mix of the preparation team was good. However, the time it takes to prepare an enabling
environment for e-Government services was underestimated, and the political risks related to the
implementation of such services was not identified or mitigated in the PAD. Clear linkages were found
between the project objectives and the components for the most part. However, some indicators were
not justified as being directly linked to the envisaged objectives. One such indicator is the "continued
additional annual investment in the ICT sector" which was set as an indicator to assess the degree of
private sector participation in the ICT sector, but there was no explanation on its linkage with the ICT
coverage increase particularly among the rural population, the first objective of the project, or with
improved utilization of e-Government services by the public sector which was the second objective. As
described later under the section on M&E, some indicators were not sufficiently outcome focused or
defined clearly, especially in terms of the number of population coverage and the number of
government ministries and agencies willing to accept the PPP model for e-Government.

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                   Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   The Bank carried out supervision/implementation review missions regularly, twice a year, along
with several visits to towns and villages in the rural areas. These field visits were used to verify that
mobile and satellite services had been rolled out as planned, and to assess the service quality and the
reception of the users. The supervision teams consisted of professionals with the required skill sets,
including specialists in e-Government and e-applications. The team brought in additional experts in the
relevant fields when they foresaw risks or implementation delays. While difficulties were encountered
with procurement during the initial years, the Bank team quickly identified the problems and developed
responses. No major safeguard issues were experienced by the project and the supervision reports
noted no shortage or delay of funds hindering fund flow disbursement. In response to government's
requests, the Bank took corrective actions to reallocate resources from categories with savings to
others that had been overdrawn. When the two e-Government applications were cancelled after the
elections, the Bank could have been more proactive in assessing the achievement of the second
objective by providing more evidence for the "public sector utilization of ICT".


  Quality of Supervision Rating :            Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :          Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   The Government expressed its commitment to the project by co-financing $1.85 million or over 15
percent of the total project costs. This was an important gesture by a Government that rarely provided
counterpart funding for its projects. The Government had established the project implementation unit
(PIU) and fully staffed it prior to project initiation, and assigned the two agencies, Communications
Regulation Committee and Information, and Communications Technology and Post Authority, to
implement the project activities. This timely and appropriate allocation of roles and responsibilities
enabled a timely implementation of the project. An inter-agency/ministry steering committee was
established for the purpose of project oversight. The Government also used the private public
partnership (PPP) framework supported under the project to enact a law embodying this concept for all
sectors including ICT. The Government also took timely measures by requesting to reallocate
resources following changes in the costs of some categories of expenditures.

However, the Government cancelled the two important e-Government applications using the PPP
arrangement, after the elections in mid 2012 despite the fact that the associated contracts had already
been awarded through a competitive process. This action has undermined the achievement of the
second key project objective, to improve public sector utilization of ICT through increasing private
sector participation in the delivery of e-Government services.

  Government Performance Rating                             Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project implementation unit (PIU), consisting of a project director, procurement officer, financial
officer, and technical experts from the Communications Regulation Committee and Information,
Communications Technology and Post Authority was established before the launch of the project, and
it was responsible for overall project management, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting to the
steering committee, Government, and the World Bank. The PIU performed in accordance with the
plan, and displayed its commitment through its major efforts in executing the project efficiently. While
there were initial delays in the project start up, especially because the PIU staff were not familiar with
nor trained in Bank procedures. The PIU successfully accelerated project implementation by focusing
on capacity building in procurement, project management, and other relevant areas.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :              Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  The project implementation unit was responsible for monitoring and evaluation, and it reported to the
project steering committee of the government as well as the World Bank. Monitoring of project activities
and review of project performance was expected to be carried out every six months and be translated into
semi-annual report by no later than January 31 and July 31.

With regards to the outcome indicators, the ones related to the first objective, to increase in the coverage
and use of relevant ICT service were sufficiently outcome focused and relevant, although the coverage
indicator could also have specified the increase in the number of rural population with access rather than
just the number of soums with access . The indicators for the second objective were not sufficiently
outcome focused especially because private sector participation could be used as an input or output
rather than outcome. Willingness to accept the PPP model for e-Government was a weak indicator to
demonstrate increased private sector participation. Data on actual acceptances and rejections would
have been more persuasive evidence. The indicator on continued additional annual investment in the ICT
sector did not have a clear linkage with the project objectives.

b. M&E Implementation:
  There were delays in collecting some data due to difficulties in collecting information from the private
operators, and unavailability of the baseline, but according to the ICR page 8, the data collection
improved over time, and the designed M&E system was used in accordance with the agreement.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The M&E system was used as intended, and signaled issues and prompted the clients and the Bank to
make adjustments to enhance the project's ability to realize its objectives. For example, the M&E system
was used to divert funding from herder network to mobile network when the collected data showed the
growth of mobile networks.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project did not finance civil works, and no environmental assessment was required. The project was
classified as category C and no safeguard policy was triggered by the project. Therefore no major
safeguards issues were foreseen or experienced.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement was organized and carried out by the project implementation unit with oversight from the
steering committee. The Bank's procurement guidelines were followed and activities were in compliance
with the legal documents. Capacity constraints of the implementing agency were identified at inception,
and these were overcome through mitigating measures. These included comprehensive capacity building
program of the agencies, and various toolkits for preparing bidding documents. New regulatory policies
were also introduced. With all these changes, procedures were retained to ensure that bidding documents
still contained all the required technical specifications and evaluation criteria. International consultants
funded by PHRD grants were recruited to help the project deal with procurement related issues during
implementation.

With regards to financial management, the project implementation unit maintained dedicated accounts for
the project and prepared financial statements that were submitted on a regular basis. Annual audit reports
were submitted to the Bank on time without qualifications. They noted that project expenditures had
adequate documentations, were approved by the authorized persons and recorded into the project
accounts accurately and in a timely fashion.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        The Government cancelled two
                                                            Satisfactory      important e-Government applications
                                                                              towards the end of the project. This
                                                                              action has undermined the
                                                                              achievement of the second key project
                                                                              objective,
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
  The experience of this project highlights four key factors that contribute to the successful
implementation of private sector participation in the ICT sector:

(i) Credible stakeholder consultation prior to appraisal to gauge interest from potential operators and to
design a practical approach to providing access in rural areas;

(ii) World Bank's up front contribution of $5 million as ready seed money for the Universal Service
Obligation Fund, and the capital subsidies in an already proven output-based aid approach helped
attract the private sector;

(iii) The time it takes to introduce E-Government should not be underestimated. In the case of Mongolia,
identification of target services and beneficiary agencies should have been done up front to avoid
delays or eventual cancellations;

(iv) Standard bidding documents readily understood by potential private sector partners help speed up
procurement - these were not available for public private partnerships in e-Government, causing delays.

14. Assessment Recommended?              Yes   No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was candid, followed the required format, and presented relevant information about the
preparation and implementation of the project. It provided good evidence of project outcomes for the first
objective, as it correctly focused on presenting the outcomes achieved through the project activities, and
explained well how the project contributed to attaining such outcomes. However, evidence on the
achievement of the second objective was weak, as it is unclear whether the ICT utilization has improved
by the public sector, and details were lacking in the explanation of which e-Governance services were
implemented and how widely they were being utilized. The ICR provided well thought lessons based on
analysis of project implementation, and internal consistency was ensured throughout the report.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
