Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/31/2006 
Report No.:  AC2377
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Madagascar 
Project ID:  P095240 
Project Name:  Power/Water Sectors Recovery and Restructuring Project 
Task Team Leader:  Stephan Claude Frederic G 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 19, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: July 13, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTEG 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  General energy sector (100%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
10.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
1.00
1.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
2.1  The aim of the project is to restore an adequate public utility service for electricity 
and water in urban areas of Madagascar and to create the foundation for a sustainable 
expansion of a commercially-oriented service in the most cost-efficient way.   
 
3. Project Description 
3.1  To address immediate technical shortcomings in the utility, JIRAMA has identified a 
short term investment plan estimated to cost approximately US$100 million for 
electricity and US$100 million for water, to lower the cost and improve the performance 
of its generation plants, cut technical losses and improve commercial performance.  The 
Bank, in coordination with other donors would finance some of the most pressing and 
high-priority investments of this recovery plan.  This is the centerpiece of APL-1. 
Specifically, the program would assist with:  
 
(a) reduction of generation costs:  rehabilitation of existing hydroelectric and thermal 
units, as well as conversion of some diesel generators to heavy fuel oil;  
 
(b) reduction of technical losses in transmission and distribution:  upgrading of key 
sections of MV lines, replacement of overloaded transformers and undersized distribution 
lines and cables;  
Page  2
(c) improvements to metering, billing and revenue collection:  meter verification and 
replacement, high-value customer management, updating of customer records, 
introduction of prepayment meters and spot metering techniques in selected clusters.  
 
(d) modernization of JIRAMA's information systems and IT equipment:  installation of 
a
company-wide computer network and associated hardware and software.  
 
3.2 
Only the most pressing needs of the electricity sector would be covered by APL-
1, which is entirely focused on restoring JIRAMA to a minimum acceptable level of 
operational and financial performance, an essential precondition to attracting a private 
firm. The specific investments to be financed have been selected on the basis of their 
short payback periods and high impact on JIRAMA's earnings.  
 
3.3 
APL-1 would also support the long-term objectives of improving the electricity 
and water sectors'performance by assisting Madagascar in providing funds: (a) for 
complementary actions needed to accompany the transaction advisor (IFC) in the process 
of selecting and contracting a new private operator to take over JIRAMA; (b) for 
prolongation of the current management contract to avoid any hiatus before the takeover 
by the selected strategic partner; (c) TA to the Ministry of Energy (MEM) to steer the 
above process to a successful outcome and for capacity building within MEM; and (d) the 
technical and safeguard studies required for APL-2 as well as the due diligence 
requirements for private hydro generation investments to be eligible for IDA-backed 
guarantees in a subsequent PRG operation currently under preparation.  
 
"In light of the forthcoming selection and contracting of a new private operator to take 
over JIRAMA at the end of the current management contract, the Government will 
prepare an environmental audit to address environmental, social and safety issues and 
liabilities resulting from JIRAMA's operation. Also under this component, the 
preparation of relevant safeguard studies (ESIAs with EMPs and RAPs, as applicable) for 
the Phase 2 will be conducted and submitted to ASPEN for review and clearance."  
 
Phase II (or APL-2) of the Program  
 
3.4 
The funding needs for APL-2 (FY2009-2011) from IDA would tentatively be 
about US$30 million, covering investments in generation, transmission and distribution 
system expansion, as well as capacity building and consulting services for 
implementation of the institutional reform of the sector.  The second phase would be 
conditioned on satisfactory progress towards financial recovery of JIRAMA and a signed 
PPP agreement for the long-term management of the utility by a private firm.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project concerns the generation rehabilitation, the distribution reinforcement and 
rehabilitation of the existing lines in the various towns in Madagascar.  The project 
Page  3
therefore affects positive impacts on the urban populations, populations of secondary 
town.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Kristine Schwebach (AFTS1) 
Mr Amadou Konare (AFTS1) 
Mr Paul-Jean Feno (AFTS1) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
(a) Rehabilitation of thermal power station  
 
Rehabilitation of thermal power station of Ambohimanambola, Mahajanga, Toamasina, 
Toliary, Antsiranana consist of the replacements of group or spare parts, with 
rehabilitation of the circuits and auxiliaries and with a general revision of groups.  
 
The environmental examination of the projects related to the rehabilitation of power 
station reveals that the environmental impacts are generally neutral. However, their 
impacts cannot be considered independently from the whole installations and the current 
environmental situation in which they are.  The main impacts are the noise, the 
atmospheric emissions, the pollution of the ground and water because the management of 
the effluents is not efficient, and the danger and risk management: absence of emergency 
plan.  
 
(b) Rehabilitation of hydroelectric power station  
 
Rehabilitation of hydroelectric power station of Antelomita 1, Ankazobe, 
Tsiazompaniry, Vatomandry, Andekaleka and Volobe, consist of replacement of the used 
parts, of wheel of turbine, "hydrorefrigerants"; of general revision of group, alternator; 
and, of restoration of the equipment and the rehabilitation of the civil engineering works.  
 
Page  4
The analysis of the environmental impacts of the projects came up to the conclusion that 
impacts are non-significant and reversible except for the environmental impacts of the 
restoration of the civil engineering works planned for the hydroelectric power station in 
Vatomandry. In the meantime, a detailed attention is to be granted to the transformers in 
which the PCB (Polychlorinated Biphenyl) represents environmental risk. The Malagasy 
Environmental Administration with JIRAMA and the coordination committee of POP 
(Persistent Organic Pollutant) supported by the UNEP, elaborate the national action plan 
for the elimination of the POP. Now, JIRAMA ensures the storage in safety of the old 
transformers.  
 
Rehabilitation of power lines  
 
The projects of rehabilitation of power lines relate to the rehabilitation of the 
distribution networks MT and BT of the interconnected network of Antananarivo (RI 
Tana) and some centers, the rehabilitation of the line of transport of 63kV of RI Tana. 
These projects include the reinforcement of the networks, the replacement or the 
permutation of the transformers as well as the replacement of the faulty equipment. The 
current problems especially deal with acts of vandalism, the rust of the pylons of the line 
63kV and the outdatedness of the equipment. Generally, the probable environmental 
impacts are non significant for the line of transport 63kV.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no significant safeguards risks at the rehabilitation of power station, 
rehabilitation of power lines, and reinforcement of the drinkable water conveyances. The 
environmental impacts are generally neutral. However, projects like their impacts cannot 
be considered independently from the whole installations and the current environmental 
situation in which they are. With reinforcement of the drinkable water conveyances, the 
significant risk are the environmental impacts of the restoration of the civil engineering 
works planned for the hydroelectric power station in Vatomandry and the PCB 
(Polychlorinated Biphenyl) within the transformers.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
There are no project alternatives considered because the project concerns the 
rehabilitation, the reinforcement of the existing infrastructures and materiel.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Rehabilitation of hydroelectric power station  
 
For the hydroelectric power station in Vatomandry (192KW), JIRAMA must meet the 
requirements of the safeguard policy OP 4.37 on the Safety of Dams. This rehabilitation 
will be realized only after an expertise report on the dam safety, carried out by an 
independent expert, judged satisfactory to IDA.   
 
Page  5
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
In the context of the project, the Borrower prepared an ESMF, which has been approved 
by ASPEN and disclosed in-country and at Bank Infoshop on May 17, 2006;  The 
elaboration of ESMF followed a broad based public consultation involving all relevant 
stakeholders groups throughout project's preparation.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/26/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/16/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/17/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams 
 
Have dam safety plans been prepared? 
Yes 
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts 
(POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank? 
Yes 
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements 
been made for public awareness and training? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Page  6
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier 
05/30/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Paul-Jean Feno 
05/30/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Kristine Schwebach 
05/30/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Amadou Konare 
05/30/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Philippe Charles Benoit 
05/31/2006 
Comments:   
