                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR2923




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA – 42230)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 6.8 MILLION
                       (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                      FOR A

 POWER AND WATER SECTOR RECOVERY AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT



                               February 27, 2014




Energy Practice
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                Exchange Rate Effective October 28, 2013)

                  Currency Unit = Malagasy Ariary (MA)
                            2205 MA = US$1
                        US$ 1.3788= EURO 1.00
                          US$ 1.54724 = SDR 1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 - December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCT     Agence Comptable Centrale du Trésor (Treasury’s Central Accounting
         Agency)
ADER     Agence de Développement Rural (Rural Development Agency)
AFD      Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AfDB     African Development Bank
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
BADEA    Banque arabe pour le développement économique de l’Afrique (Arabic
         Bank for African Economic Development)
BP       Bank Procedure
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFL      Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CELCO    Cellule de Coordination (Implementing Unit)
DEEL     Direction de l’Equipement Electricité (Department of electrical
         equipment)
DFB      Directorate of Finance and Budget
EBITDA   Earning Before Interests, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization
EIB      European Investment Bank
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESMF     Environmental and Social Impact Management Framework
ESIA     Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FA       Financing Agreement
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FMRs     Financial Monitoring Reports
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIZ      Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Society for
         International Cooperation)
GOM      Government of Madagascar
HFO      Heavy Fuel Oil
IDA      International Development Association

                                    ii
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IG2P     Integrated Growth Poles Project
IPP      Independent Power Producer
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation Status Report
JIRAMA   Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy (Stated-owned water and electricity utility)
LSDP     Letter of Sector Development Policy
MAP      Madagascar Action Plan
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEM      Ministry of Energy and Mines
NPV      Net Present Value
OP       Operational Policy
ORE      Organisme Régulateur du Secteur de l’Electricité (Electricity sector
         Regulator)
PA   `   Project Agreement
PDO      Project Development Objective
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
TA       Technical Assistance




                        Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                      Country Director: Haleh Bridi
                       Sector Manager: Lucio Monari
                  Project Team Leader: Natalia Kulichenko
                     ICR Team Leader: Natalia Kulichenko




                                     iii
 
                                                       MADAGASCAR

    POWER/WATER SECTOR RECOVERY AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT

                                                     CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .................................................
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ..............................................................................................
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.............................................................
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................................
  6. Lessons Learned ...........................................................................................................
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..............
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..............................................................................
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .....................................................................................
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .....................................................................
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...............................................................................
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.......................................................
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .........................
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...........................
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..........................................................................
  MAP IBRD34815




                                                              iv
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          MAG – Power/Water
Country:                Madagascar              Project Name:             Sectors Recovery and
                                                                          Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P095240                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-42230
ICR Date:               09/10/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MADAGASCAR
Original Total
                        XDR 6.80M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 5.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 5.71M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 JIRAMA
 Ministry of Energy and Mines
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/28/2006     Effectiveness:            10/15/2006         11/30/2006
Appraisal:            05/19/2006     Restructuring(s):                            07/24/2012
Approval:             07/13/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                  04/30/2009         06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
                        Moderately                                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower          Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:              Unsatisfactory


                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      7                  21
General energy sector                                                 63                  57
Hydropower                                                            30                  22


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                67                  95
Regulation and competition policy                                     33
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                                    5

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Gobind Nankani
Country Director:          Haleh Bridi                          James Bond
Sector Manager:            Lucio Monari                         S. Vijay Iyer
Project Team Leader:       Natalia Kulichenko                   Stephan Garnier
ICR Team Leader:           Natalia Kulichenko
ICR Primary Author:        Nourredine Bouzaher

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from the Project Appraisal Document)
The aim of the program is to restore an adequate public utility service for electricity and
water in urban areas of Madagascar and to create the foundation for a sustainable
expansion of a commercially oriented service in the most cost-efficient way.




                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority):
The project development objective, revised in July 2012, was as follows:
The objective of the project is to improve the availability of electricity in the short-term
and prepare the ground for a sustainable long-term development of the sector.

Table F (a): PDO Indicators1
Indicators                                       1                       Restructured Project2
                           Original Project
PDO               Baseline   End of         Achieved               Baseline Target Achieved at      Comme
                  value      APL2           in March               Value               Completion   nt
                  2006       Target         2009                   2011                June 2013

                                                 Original Project
1. Restore an     improve        improve          generation
adequate          generation     generation       efficiency:
public utility    efficiency     efficiency       significant,
service for       (low) ,        (high) ,
electricity and
water in urban    reduce         reduce              electricity
areas             electricity    electricity         losses:
                  losses         losses (low)        moderate
                  (high)

                  improve        improve             revenue
                  revenue        revenue             management:
                  manageme       management          significant
                  nt (poor)      (good)-
2. Create the     JIRAMA         JIRAMA to:           Financial
foundation for    to:             increase            indicators
a sustainable      increase      return on            have
expansion of a    return on      assets               improved
commercially      assets         (sufficient);        and some
oriented          (insufficien                        were
service in the    t);                                 above the
most cost-                                            targets at
efficient way.                                        project
                                                      completio
                                                      n in CY
                                                      2009.

                  have           have                 Tariff
                  adequate       adequate             indexing
                  tariff         tariff               formula is
                  indexing       indexing             in place;
                  formula        formula (in
                  (none); &      place); &




1
  The PAD indicates that the Project Outcome (Key performance) Indicators are determined at end of the
APL-2. There are no specific PDO level indicators for APL-1.
2
  For the baseline, target and achievement at completion of the Restructured Project, see Table F (b).


                                                         vii
                   produce       produce         Regular
                   adequate      adequate        performanc
                   tech.,        tech.,          e reporting
                   comm., &      comm., &        is in place
                   finan.        finan.
                   reporting &   reporting &
                   communica     communicat
                   te to         e to
                   GoM/Regu      GoM/Regul
                   lator (not    ator
                   yet           (adequate)
                   adequate)
3. JIRAMA          launch date   launch date
under new         of             of
private           prequalifica   prequalificat
management        tion (not      ion ( Dec.
                  yet);          31, 2007);

                  launch date    launch date     Not
                  of bidding     of bidding      achieved
                  documents      documents
                  (not yet);     (April 1,
                                 2008);
                  contract        contract
                  signed (not    signed -3
                  yet)
                                                                  4
                                           Restructured Project
1. Improve the
availability of
electricity in
the short term

- Improve                                                       See       See    See Table F (b) Achieved
generation                                                     Table F   Table F
efficiency                                                       (b)       (b)

- Reduction of                                                  See       See    See Table F (b)  Partly
electricity                                                    Table F   Table F                 achieved
losses                                                           (b)       (b)

- Revenue                                                       See       See    See Table F (b)  Partly
Management                                                     Table F   Table F                 achieved
                                                                 (b)       (b)
                                                                                                   Not
- Financial                                                     See       See    See Table F (b) achieved



3
  A new private management contract, which was to replace the one separately funded by IDA prior to the
implementation of the original project (see paragraph 9 for details).
4
  The PDO indicators of the original project were for both APL-1 and APL-2. However, the APL-1
achievements were monitored through a set of Intermediate Outcome Indicators “Arrangement for results
monitoring APL-1, p.39-41 of the PAD). Some of these Intermediate Outcome Indicators were chosen as
the PDO level indicators in the restructured project.


                                                    viii
     outcomes                                                      Table F     Table F
                                                                     (b)         (b)

     2. Prepare the
     ground for a
     sustainable
     long term
     development of
     the sector:

     - Scoping and                                                  See         See    See Table F (b)  Partly
     analytical work                                               Table F     Table F                 achieved
     and technical                                                   (b)         (b)
     studies
     completed
     3. Direct         -              -               -            0            875,000    736,000         New
     Beneficiaries                                                              50.2%      55%             Indicator.
     (Number) of                                                                                           Substanti
     which females                                                                                         ally
         5                                                                                                 achieved.
     (%)


   Table F (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                           Original Project                      Restructured Project
Indicator        Baseline End of          Achieved         Baseline Target     Achieved at                        6
                                                                                                     Comments
                 value        APL1        March            Value               Completion
                 2006         Target      2009             2011                June 2013
Component A. Short Term Investments
Improve generation efficiency
Number of HFO
units            2            22          26               22           NA          NA               Dropped
% of diesel
generation over  31%          14%         14.8%            22%          NA          NA               Dropped
total generation

Specific oil       247          240           233          245          NA          NA               Dropped
consumption        g/kWh
Generation from
rehabilitated                                                                                        New
hydro under        -            -             -            0            2100        3385                      7
                                                                                                     Indicator
project (MWh)
Reduction of electricity losses
Energy             76.3%        77.6%         76.9%        70%          75.6%       67%              Continued8
billed/Energy
produced
Length of 5 kV


     5
       New indicator added at the project restructuring and chosen as a PDO level indicator for the restructured
     project.
     6
       “New” or “dropped” refers to indicators added or eliminated at project restructuring
     7
       Indicator chosen as a PDO level indicators in the restructured project
     8
       The same as in Footnote 7 above

                                                          ix
                            Original Project                Restructured Project
Indicator        Baseline     End of       Achieved   Baseline Target     Achieved at                       6
                                                                                            Comments
                 value        APL1         March      Value               Completion
                 2006         Target       2009       2011                June 2013
network
converted to 20  0            59          13.7        13.7         NA          NA           Dropped
kV
Number of
Compact                                   Data        Data
Fluorescent      0            660,000     Not         Not          500,000     920,000      Revised
Lamps                                     available   available
distributed
Revenue Management
Revenue
collected/Energy
billed:
For industrial   77%          82%         87%         75%          82%         80%                      9
                                                                                            Continued
clients
For Households   92%          93%         86%         80%          93%         76%          Continued
                                                                                                        10

Accounts
receivable
(months of        4         3             3           5            NA          NA           Dropped
billing)
Number of pre-
payment meters    6,897     14,200        8,640       8,640        10,000      10,000       Revised
installed
Financial outcomes
EBITDA margin -50%          0%            +47.2%      -35%         >0%         -23%                     11
                                                                                            Continued
Adequate
technical,
commercial and    No        Yes           Yes         Yes          Yes         Yes          Continued
financial
reporting in
place: yes/no
Component B: Technical Assistance
Scoping study of
6 potential sites                                     Scoping
and pre-          -         -             -           phase        Yes         Yes          New
feasibility study                                     only                                  indicator
of the selected
hydro site
completed
Analytical work
and technical
studies           -         -             -           No          Yes. final   Partly       New
completed                                                         reports              12   indicator
                                                                               achieved



    9
      The same as in Footnote 7 above
    10
       The same as in Footnote 7 above
    11
       The same as in Footnote 7 above
    12
       Subcomponent B1: Technical assistance and communication, and Subcomponents B5: Preparation of
    environmental studies for future investments were not implemented.

                                                      x
                           Original Project                  Restructured Project
Indicator       Baseline     End of       Achieved     Baseline Target     Achieved at                 6
                                                                                          Comments
                value        APL1         March        Value               Completion
                2006         Target       2009         2011                June 2013
                                                                submitted
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                         Actual
            Date ISR
     No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                     (USD millions)
       1    12/28/2006          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
       2    06/18/2007          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              1.43
       3    12/18/2007          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              1.99
       4    06/09/2008      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.41
       5    12/23/2008      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.93
       6    03/02/2009          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              4.68
       7    06/30/2010         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    4.83
       8    03/27/2011         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    5.17
                                 Moderately                     Moderately
       9    04/01/2013                                                                         5.68
                               Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory

    H. Restructuring (if any)

    Because of the political crisis in Madagascar, which triggered the application of OP 7.30
    to the entire country portfolio, Project disbursements were put on hold in March 2009,
    thus halting project implementation. In May 2010, the Bank introduced a number of
    changes in the application of OP/BP 7.30 in the Madagascar portfolio. As a result, the
    closing date was extended to April 30, 2011, as “an internal measure which does not
    require any resumption of disbursements”. The Project was authorized only to resume
    payments for settling contractual arrears for works, goods and services already delivered
    and related to the contracts, signed before the application of OP/BP 7.30. The project
    was not included in the selected number of projects with “a strong poverty focus”, which
    were authorized to resume disbursements for the ongoing or new activities. The
    authorization to resume disbursements on the entire portfolio was granted in May 2011,
    shortly after the closing date (April 30, 2011) had lapsed. The amount disbursed by April
    30, 2011 was US$5.17 million, representing about 50% of the signed loan amount of
    US$10,427,936.00.

    The project was formally restructured, with Board approval on July 24, 2012. The
    reasons that led to project restructuring, and the key changes made at restructuring, are
    described in detail in Section 1 below.




                                                      xi
I. Disbursement Profile13




13
    The historically disbursed amount is US$8.73 million, including the periods before and after
restructuring.

                                              xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      The Project was prepared in 2005/2006 in the context of a power sector crisis in
Madagascar, characterized by capacity shortages, widespread load-shedding and acute financial
distress of the national water and electricity utility, JIRAMA.
 The three key priorities set out in the Government of Madagascar’s (GOM) Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) of October 2003 were: (i) improving governance; (ii) promoting broad
based growth; and (iii) providing human and material security. Achieving rapid economic
growth required improved infrastructure, particularly the availability of a reliable electricity
supply. The absence of the latter was considered an additional cost to existing businesses and
an impediment to attracting inflows of new foreign investment.
2.      JIRAMA was in a severe financial situation. Tariffs remained frozen from 2001 to mid-
2005, even though this was a period of high inflation, sharp depreciation of the local currency
and rising world oil prices. Furthermore, because of the shortages of generation capacity, and
the fact that all additional demand had to be met by dispatching expensive diesel-powered units,
electricity production costs rose substantially. The inaction on the part of the Government of
Madagascar (GOM) to raise tariffs directly contributed to the financial insolvency of JIRAMA.
The latter built up large arrears to its fuel suppliers with the resulting inability to service its
debt. The failure on the part of JIRAMA to meet its contractual obligations for fuel payments
and to run its power plants resulted in power cuts (which lasted from May to September 2005
and later in 2006) and brought matters to a head in mid-2005. The GOM was obliged to
intervene and bail out JIRAMA with a cash injection to pay fuel suppliers to ease the power
shortages. It was, therefore, crucial to the success of the government’s PRSP that the electricity
supply problems experienced in 2005-2006 did not recur.
 These shortages badly hurt the manufacturing and export oriented industries, such as the
garment manufacturing and seafood processing where factories were unprepared to deal with
load shedding because they lacked standby generators. This crisis was a sharp warning to the
authorities of the vulnerability of the entire economy and posed risks to the economic growth
program.
3.      While electricity demand increased substantially as the economy recovered from the
political crisis of 2002, very limited new investments in new power took place in the years prior
to the crisis of 2009. In 2005, most of the electricity production of JIRAMA’s power plants and
distribution services were inadequate to meet the demand in their service areas. Over 6,000
requests for new connections in the capital (backed by down-payments) were on hold, due to the
lack of equipment needed to connect new customers and insufficient power supply to serve the
incremental load. Additional generation capacity was added on an ad hoc basis, through
expensive quasi-Independent Power Producer (IPP)/leasing contracts awarded on a non-
competitive basis. The World Bank assessed JIRAMA’s operational performance as
unsatisfactory, pointing out the problems of high losses and poor maintenance. Thermal plants
were generally in very poor condition. Billing, metering and revenue collection practices were
weak. Unpaid bills of large consumers, both public (like universities) and private (e.g.
numerous manufacturing enterprises), exceeded three months’ billings at the end of 2005.



                                                1
4.      In 2003, the government decided against the immediate privatization of JIRAMA. A
diagnostic study and management audit of JIRAMA, which an international consultancy firm
carried out at that time, revealed the severity of the problems faced by the utility. The study
recommended a two-year management contract as the first step towards improving the
JIRAMA’s performance to a level, at which the utility could provide satisfactory service of
delivering electricity and water to the consumers. Given the difficult international investment
climate in the early 2000s (related to the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s), and the lessons
from privatization of utilities in other developing countries, the Bank concurred with the
approach to delay the privatization of JIRAMA. The GOM further decided to have a short-term
management contract for JIRAMA, which would be succeeded by a longer-term solution, based
on a public-private partnership.
5.     Large electricity tariff increases were introduced in 2005 (though belatedly), amounting
to a cumulative rise of 75%. A further 10% increase in tariffs took place in April 2006,
consistent with the GOM sector reform program. The average tariff in 2006 was about
US$0.13/kWh. Average water tariffs were also raised by a third in 2005 and then by a further
20% in April 2006.
6.      As there is no national tariff policy for the electricity generation and distribution sub-
sectors (an exception for regulated utilities in less developed countries), tariff hikes in the areas
entirely supplied by thermal energy were substantially larger than in those areas that had access
to cheaper hydroelectricity. As a normal practice, JIRAMA also applied time of day pricing to
medium and high voltage customers.
7.       Restoring and improving electricity supply to acceptable levels required both substantial
new investment and major reforms to the power sector. The JIRAMA top management was
replaced in early 2005, and the utility was put under a two-year, IDA-funded management and
operation contract (this contract was funded separately and prior to the implementation of the
original project, approved in 2006). The management contract, which was part of a two-phase
reform process (Step 1: management contract; and Step 2: affermage and corporate restructuring
of the isolated grids) brought about some positive results. These included optimization of the
generation plant dispatch, optimization of plant operations, increased revenue collection and
cost control measures - all these measures contributed to the improved cash flow and reduced
financial losses. Financial recovery from a situation of near-bankruptcy seemed to be under
way. The JIRAMA’s balance sheet was also restructured through a mix of write-offs and debt-
equity conversions. However, the international consultancy firm, which was implementing the
IDA funded management contract, was debarred from World Bank business before the contract
renewal date (due to an unrelated case elsewhere in Africa). Because of this circumstance, it
was decided that a few individual management consultants, paid by the government, would
continue providing management services to JIRAMA, without the involvement of the debarred
consultancy firm. The objective of this decision was to give enough time to the government to
decide on the pace and direction of future utility reform. Later, with the civil unrest and
eventual overthrow of the then head of state, some of these individual contractors faced
allegations from the new leadership and had to abruptly terminate their services, and in one case
to flee the country to avoid arrest.




                                                 2
8.      At the time of the project preparation/appraisal, the GOM was preparing its “second-
generation” PRSP, called the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP) that was to set out the “roadmap”,
aiming to produce a quantum leap in the country’s development process. In parallel, the Bank
was also preparing a new CAS to support the implementation of the MAP. The CAS was to
reflect the GOM’s focus on infrastructure improvement and expansion to underpin growth and
private sector development. Therefore, the project was a core element in the Bank’s support to
the MAP, because it addressed a critical gap in infrastructure development and a key constraint
to private sector engagement into Madagascar’s economy.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
9.      According to the original project PDO, the aim of the program was to restore adequate
public utility service for electricity and water in urban areas of Madagascar and to create the
foundation for a sustainable expansion of commercially oriented service in the most cost-
efficient way.
10.    Key performance indicators of the APL program (APL-1 and APL-2) at approval were:
               (a) JIRAMA was to:
                    improve generation efficiency;
                    reduce electricity losses;
                    improve revenue management;
                    increase return on assets;
                    have a tariff indexing formula in place;
                    produce adequate technical, commercial and financial reporting of current
                       operations and to communicate this reporting to the authorities
                       (government and regulator); and
               (b) Contract signed for JIRAMA to be transferred to a private management firm
                   on a long-term basis.

11.     Only the APL-1 was implemented. The APL-2 was not initiated, mainly because the
triggers for it were not met (see para. 40 below for details). The complete list of key indicators
is presented in section F: Results Framework Analysis, above.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
12.    The original project objectives and the key indicators were revised in July 2012 as part
of adaptive restructuring of the project to address the 2009 political crisis and its aftermath,
which triggered the application of OP 7.30 entitled “Dealing with de facto governments”.
13.     The following revised PDO responds to narrower and more targeted goals: “to improve
the availability of electricity in the short-term and prepare the ground for a sustainable long
term development of the sector”. The rationale was to better align the Project with the strategy
outlined in the 2011-2012 Interim Strategy Note (ISN) by preparing technical and analytical
basis for future development of the sector, in support of a realistic economic development
strategy.




                                                3
14.     As shown in Section F above, the results indicators were revised to reflect the changed
priorities and realities. The revised monitoring framework documented significant progress
achieved during the project implementation before the 2009 crisis and then the backsliding after
2009, primarily because of the political crisis and the subsequent freeze in project
implementation. The indicators were adjusted to reflect the project’s revised PDO and planned
activities. The following PDO indicators were added: Direct Beneficiaries (of which
females %), Generation from rehabilitation of hydropower facilities, and Scoping and analytical
activities. Indicators related to the already completed or abandoned activities were dropped as
the PDO targets for the restructured project. The baselines for the indicators in the restructured
project were defined, based on the 2011 values of the relevant indicators, as 2011 was the year,
in which the Bank decided to resume disbursements on the entire Bank portfolio for
Madagascar.
1.4    Main Beneficiaries
15.    The primary target groups were the economy at large (industry, commerce and
households), the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) and JIRAMA, the national power and
water utility, as well as the private sector.
1.5    Original Components (as approved)
16.   The original APL-1 (of an APL program in two phases) had the following two
components:
       (a)     Component A: (implemented by JIRAMA): Short term Investments:
                   (i) Subcomponent A1a: Power generation reinforcement
                         Replacement of hydro-refrigerants system for the Andekaleka
                          hydropower plant (2 x 32 MW);
                         Rehabilitation of unit N° 3 of the Antelomita 1 hydropower plant (0.8
                          MW);
                         Renovation works in the Volobe hydropower plant (6.7 MW);
                         Rehabilitation of small hydropower plants of Ankazobe, and
                          Tsuazompaniry;
                         Rehabilitation of mechanical auxiliaries of the Ambohimanambola
                          thermal power plant (3 x 6 MW); and
                         Rehabilitation of thermal plants in Mahajanga (Unit 1303).

                   (ii) Subcomponent A1b: Retroactive financing
                         Rehabilitation of the Ambohimanambola thermal power plant (3 x 6
                           MW)
                         Rehabilitation of the Antsirabe thermal power plant
                           Rehabilitation of the Mahajanga thermal power plant
                         Rehabilitation of the Ambohimanambola thermal power plant (3 x 6
                           MW)
                         Rehabilitation of the Ambohimanambola thermal power plant (3 x 6
                           MW).


                                                4
                 (iii)   Subcomponent A2: Reduction of transmission and distribution
                         technical losses
                          Reduction of losses: rehabilitation of transmission networks
                          Reduction of losses: rehabilitation of distribution.

                 (iv)    SubcomponentA3:      Revenue Management and modernization of
                         information systems and acquisition of IT equipment.
                          Revenue management
                          Modernization of information systems and acquisition of IT
                             equipment

          (b)    Component B (implemented by the MEM): Technical Assistance and Capacity
                 Building:

                 (i)     Subcomponent B1: Technical assistance and communication –
                         Contracting a private operator to take over JIRAMA
                 (ii)    Subcomponent B2: Extension of the current management contract
                 (iii)   Subcomponent B3: Preparation of future generation projects in
                         coordination with IFC’s IPP mandate
                 (iv)    Subcomponent B4: Strengthening the Ministry of Energy and Mines
                 (v)     Subcomponent B5: Preparation           of     APL-2 feasibility and
                         environmental studies for APL-2 investments.
                 (vi)    Subcomponent B6: Program monitoring and evaluation; and
                 (vii)   Subcomponent B7: Assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines in
                         project implementation.

1.6       Background: The 2009 political crisis
19.     The effects of the political crisis of 2009 which took place two months before the initial
closing of the original project on Madagascar’s economic and social outcomes have been very
severe. The following dimensions of the results of the protracted political crisis are particularly
relevant:

         The economy has stalled: Overall economic growth has been flat over the period 2009-
          12. With high population growth (2.9%), income per capita in 2012 has returned to its
          2003 level.
         Poverty has sharply increased: Preliminary estimates suggest that, from 2008 to 2012,
          the proportion of the population living under the poverty line, a proportion which was
          already high before the crisis, may have increased by 10 percentage points, with the
          larger effects over 2011-12, as the crisis deepened. As a result, and combined with
          population growth, we estimate that there are now some four million more people in
          poverty than there were in 2008. Madagascar now has one of the highest rates of poverty
          in the world.
         Social outcomes have worsened: Despite crisis-related aid to social sectors, the number
          of out-of-school children has increased by more than 500,000. Acute child malnutrition
          remains a critical problem, having increased in some areas by more than 50%. These
          developments put the welfare of future generations at risk.

                                                  5
         The crisis has stalled progress on long-standing challenges of weak governance and
          rule of law: Increasing insecurity, poor governance in natural resource exploitation
          (such as illegal rosewood logging), limited progress on the anti-corruption front, and the
          longstanding issue of weak transparency in the management of public resources have
          only become more pressing in recent years.
         The ability to deal with exogenous shocks is severely curtailed: Current risks to the
          global economy, especially in Europe, make Madagascar’s economy even more
          vulnerable, given its connection to exports and tourism. The country is also highly
          vulnerable to natural disasters—including cyclones as in 2008 and 2012. The political
          crisis is a major impediment to confronting and mitigating all these exogenous shocks,
          external and internal.
         Infrastructure has deteriorated: In addition to damages from cyclones, severe budget
          cuts in investment and maintenance have resulted in increasingly deteriorated roads,
          power and water infrastructure, impairing the medium- and long-term development of
          the Malagasy economy.

1.7       Revised Components
20.     The restructured project had the same components and subcomponents as the original
project with the exception of the following which were dropped: Subcomponent B2: Extension
of the current management contract; and Subcomponent B6: Program monitoring and
evaluation. The changes within the remaining subcomponents are described below:
21.    Pursuant to the July 2012 restructuring, Components A and B were modified as
presented below. For Component A, all its four subcomponents were considered still relevant,
but changes of activities within the following two subcomponents were introduced:
22.     Under Subcomponent A1a: Power generation reinforcement, the following two activities
were abandoned after their cost increased significantly beyond the available budget, following a
revision of the required scope of work:
           Activity (c): Renovation works in the Volobe hydropower plant;
           Activity (d): Rehabilitation of small hydropower plants.
           Activity (e): “Rehabilitation of mechanical auxiliaries of the Ambohimanambola
          thermal plant” was also abandoned because the plant was irreparably damaged by fire.
23.     Under Subcomponent A3: Revenue management, activity (f): Investment in spot
metering equipment and systems was replaced by “Distribution of compact fluorescent lamps
(CFLs)”. This change was done because JIRAMA already financed some of the metering
equipment and, in the context of capacity shortages, the CFLs appeared to be the most cost
effective way to rapidly reduce peak demand without increasing the cost to customers already
affected by the social and economic crisis.
24.     The title of Component B was changed to “Technical Assistance”. Available resources
within this component were reallocated to analytical work and technical studies for which final
reports were to be submitted by the project closing date.
25.    Subcomponent B2: The extension of the management contract that was in place at time
of appraisal was no longer considered relevant and was abandoned (see paragraph 9 above for


                                                  6
details). However, a study of management options for JIRAMA, and the diagnostic of sector
institutions remained part of the analytical activities of the project (Subcomponent B3 below).
26.    Subcomponent B3: This activity was changed to the following: “Analytical work and
preparation of future investment projects”. The additional activities financed under this
component included the following studies: governance of power sector institutions and
management options for JIRAMA, review of the legal framework, tariff review, feasibility and
environmental studies for priority investments, and rapid diagnosis of the power system.
27.    Subcomponents B5 and B6 were eliminated. The required feasibility and environmental
studies for future priority investments and monitoring and evaluation were included in
Subcomponent B3.
1.8    Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)
28.     In a letter dated June 30, 2011, the GOM requested that the project be restructured and
the closing date of the project extended, retroactively, for 26 months, from April 30, 2011 to
June 30, 2013. The Bank had rated the overall implementation progress “unsatisfactory”, since
the time disbursements were frozen. For this reason, as well as due to the difficult country
context and its negative impact on the sector, the achievement of the development objective was
also rated unsatisfactory. In addition to the changes to the project’s components, described in
section 1.6 above, the restructuring included other elements, listed below.
29.     Project name and instrument. The name of the restructured project was changed to
“Power Sector Improvement and Recovery Project”, eliminating the reference to the water
sector. The original project indirectly covered the water sector, through the transfer of JIRAMA
(the power and water utility) to a private management company that would have carried out
water services (in addition to electricity services). Without this transfer, the Project activities
would have impacted the water sector minimally. Therefore, at the time of the project
restructuring, the reference to the water sector in the project name and its PDO was dropped.
As part of the restructuring, the instrument was changed from an Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) to a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) instrument, which was better suited to the reality on
the ground. The APL instrument is usually best suited to accompany a predefined sector reform
process, where milestones in the reform could be used as triggers for the different phases on an
APL. However, there was no clear roadmap for sector reform after 2009, and the country was
in the midst of a difficult political transition. Consequently, the APL instrument was no longer
suited to the realities on the ground.
30.    Extension of the closing date. As part of the proposed restructuring and as per the
request of the GOM, the closing date was retroactively extended from April 30, 2011 to June 30,
2013.
31.      Implementation schedule. A new implementation schedule was put in place, and all
activities of the restructured project were expected to be completed within the revised closing
date of June 30, 2013, including purchases of goods and services, and completion of final drafts
for technical studies and other Technical Assistance (TA) activities.
32.     Reallocation of funds. A reallocation of funds between the Credit categories was also
undertaken to ensure the completion of: (i) targeted activities to improve service delivery and
efficiency over the short term; and (ii) preparatory activities for future investments seen as

                                                 7
critical for the long term development of the sector. The size of the categories stayed about the
same, but the composition of activities, as outlined above, changed.
33.     Covenants and condition of disbursement.

       a) In the Financing Agreement (FA), Schedule 1, Section V “Other Undertakings” the
following changes were made:
     Dated covenant (b), which stated that no later than April 1, 2007, the Recipient shall
       have publicly disclosed the Electricity Tariff Indexation Formula and adjusted electricity
       tariffs in accordance with said formula, had not been complied with. The adjustment
       was not made on April 1, 2007. Therefore, the covenant was revised with a new date of
       April 1, 2013 agreed with the Borrower.
     The covenants (c) and (d) that related to the recruitment of a private operator for the
       management of JIRAMA were dropped as they were no longer relevant (see paragraph 9
       above).
     With regard to the disbursement conditions in the FA, the condition (b) related to the
       Vatomandry hydropower plant was dropped, following the elimination of this activity
       from the Project scope.
       b) In the Project Agreement (PA), the dated covenant in Section IV related to
JIRAMA’s level of accounts receivables was dropped since improving the JIRAMA’s
commercial performance was not the primary focus of the restructured Project and its revised
PDO.
2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
34.     Soundness of the background analysis: The project was designed on the basis of a
solid background analysis, an adequate and inclusive participatory process on the part of both
the Government and the World Bank, and with due incorporation of lessons learned by the Bank
from previous experiences in Madagascar. Based on the experience accumulated during the
preparation, implementation and operation of energy projects in Madagascar, the following
factors were identified as important criteria for the original project design:
        (a) the prioritization of investments based on technical, financial and economic merit,
starting with the rehabilitation and increase in the efficiency of existing assets, and the increase
in efficiency of plant and equipment, whenever justified;
       (b) the need for analytical work to lay the foundations for a private sector-led
development in light of strong and sustained increase in demand for electricity; and
        (c) the need for realistic and simplified design, including the need to be more vigilant
with respect to tariffs during inflationary periods, cost control, ownership by stakeholders and
donors’ coordination. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) presented the respective lessons
learned in: Section B(3) - on project components; Section B(4) - on lessons learned and
reflected in the project design; Section C(1) on partnership arrangements; and Section D(1) on
economic and financial analyses.


                                                    8
35.     Assessment of adequacy of project design: The Project’s strategy to focus on ways to
improve the financial viability of JIRAMA was relevant. While progress in increasing
JIRAMA’s revenue generation and establishing better concepts and tools for management was
made under a previous Bank financed project (the Energy Sector Development Project), there
was still a long way to go to achieve improvement in technical efficiency, cost recovery and
financial sustainability of the utility. Therefore, project design provided the right path for
assisting JIRAMA to advance further towards these goals. The Project’s strategy to focus on
priority investments on the basis of technical, financial and economic criteria was reasonable.
The Bank, in coordination with other donors, financed some of the high-priority investments,
such as the rehabilitation of existing power infrastructure, included in JIRAMA’s much larger
recovery plan. This was the centerpiece of the PWSRRP (APL-1), whose primary goal was to
restore the capacity of JIRAMA to a minimum acceptable level of operational and financial
performance, as a precondition for attracting private sector investment. The specific
investments had been selected, based on their short payback periods and high impact on the
JIRAMA’s earnings. The APL-1 also supported the long-term objective of improving the
electricity and water sectors’ performance by providing funds for analytical work on tariffs and
preparatory work on new investments, particularly in hydropower.
36.     Combining utility governance, investments, capacity building, and institutional
strengthening under the PWSRRP was the right strategic choice. However, the project activities
were numerous, including costly investments in generation and distribution networks (even
though these investments were critical), and the available project budget was inadequate to
result in any substantial impact. Outputs of the technical assistance and capacity-building
component were directed towards establishing a suitable framework and an enabling
environment for effective implementation of the physical investments component, such as the
establishment of public-private partnerships for JIRAMA. Project design left open the options
for the reform of JIRAMA, which were to be assessed in a study financed under Component B
of the project. The project activities, such as the focus on the JIRAMA’s financial situation,
had contributed to the government decision to increase tariffs to cost recovery levels prior to the
2009 political crisis. This, in turn, had strongly contributed to the sector’s capacity to implement
the project.
 37.    Adequacy of government commitment: The commitment to, and ownership of, the
project was strong at the time of project preparation and appraisal. During project design, the
GOM repeatedly expressed its interest in the Bank’s continuing support to the energy sector.
The government reiterated its interest in Bank support for the energy sector in the Sector
Development Policy Letter (briefly summarized in the PAD). The letter described actions that
GOM intended to take to ensure the JIRAMA’s financial recovery, long term management
options for JIRAMA, as well as other actions to support the sector, including equity
contributions and tariffs adjustments.
38.      Assessment of risks: The political risk associated with the (then) forthcoming elections
to stall the reforms was rated as moderate. The fact that the APL-1 investments were to be
committed prior to the elections was considered to be a mitigating factor. A number of risks,
including the inability of JIRAMA to make the needed investments due to its difficult financial
position; the high fuel costs not compensated by tariff adjustments, the decrease in collection
rates, the increase in accounts receivable, and governance problems were addressed through the


                                                 9
mitigation measures proposed in the PAD. The following actions were seen as mitigating these
risks:
        (i) In the short run: (a) upfront agreement and close monitoring of JIRAMA’s investment
program financing and business plan, and a stricter process for capital budgeting and financing
decisions; (b) revision of the electricity tariff adjustment formula, especially to allow for speedy
adjustments to changes in fuel prices; (c) strengthened governance of JIRAMA through private
sector participation; and (d) strengthened sector institutions; and
       (ii) The long-term involvement of the private sector to manage the utility was seen as
providing additional mitigation.
39.      The risk of weak institutional and implementation capacity of the MEM was identified
at appraisal and rated moderate. A strong mitigating measure - the recruitment of a technical
adviser as a condition of disbursement of funds to finance activities under Component B –
proved ineffective, as it was ultimately waived. The implementation of activities under
Component B was significantly delayed, as described in Section 2.2 below. The risks related to
labor union resistance to the internal JIRAMA reforms and the insufficient interest by foreign
utilities in managing JIRAMA were both rated as moderate at appraisal. These risks, which
never materialized, and the related subcomponents were rendered irrelevant at the time of the
interruption of the project implementation (following the March 2009 political crisis), and the
2012 restructuring of the project.
40.     Overall, the risk analysis of the project was adequate. The mitigation measures were
also overall appropriate and commensurate with the identified risks. However, the mitigation
measure to address the weak institutional and implementation capacity of the MEM by tying
disbursements on Component B to the recruitment of a technical advisor was too rigid and led
to delays in the implementation of the component.
2.2     Implementation
(including any Project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

41.      The Project was part of a two-phase, six-year APL program. Only Phase 1, APL-1
(mid-CY 2006 to mid CY 2013) of the proposed APL program has been implemented, and,
therefore, it is the subject of this evaluation. The IDA funding for APL-1 was about US$10
million. The APL-1 operation aimed at assisting the Government to prepare JIRAMA for
improved operations and private participation. The content of APL-2 was not defined in detail
at the time of appraisal, but the intention was to select some of the APL-2 components from the
JIRAMA’s investment program. The APL-2 was not implemented for a number of reasons
including the political crisis in Madagascar, the availability of funding and the fact that the
triggers were not met (among which was the completion of the recruitment of the long-term
private management firm for JIRAMA).
42.      The efficiency of the Project implementation was mixed, and the capacity of the sector
institutions to implement a relatively modest investment program may have been overestimated,
especially for Component B, for which the MEM was the implementing agency. There were
delays in the implementation of Component B, mainly because of the condition for
disbursement (the recruitment of a technical advisor), which the MEM could not satisfy.
Although the MEM agreed to recruit a technical adviser, the Ministry reversed its decision later,
                                                   10
because it thought the work could be done in-house, without external assistance. At the end, the
Bank accepted to waive this condition of disbursement. After the condition of disbursement
was waived, the implementation of some subcomponents moved more quickly, and the majority
of the scoping and analytical work was completed before the project closing date. The planned
environmental studies for future investments were not implemented. In the original project
results framework there were no intermediate results indicators for Component B. Two
intermediate results indicators for Component B were introduced at the time of the project
restructuring in July 2012 (see Section F(b) above). With regard to Component A of the
original project, by March 2009 (one month before the original closing date), the PDO
indicators related to the JIRAMA’s operational and financial performance were mostly met.
With regard to the disbursement achieved by March, 2009, only 54% of the project funds
disbursed because many of the short-term investments (Component A) were delayed. The
delays in Component A were mainly due to procurement issues, such as the delays in the
preparation of bidding documents, especially for hydropower rehabilitation, unsuccessful or
unresponsive bids and bid re-issuance.
43.     Because of the political crisis of March, 2009, the implementation of the initial project
(APL-1) was put on hold from March, 2009 to May, 2011. Disbursements were suspended in
line with the application of policy OP 7.30 dealing with de facto governments, which also led to
the restructuring of the project in July 2012. After the initial turnaround, achieved during the
first two years of project implementation, JIRAMA’s financial situation worsened after 2009.
The level of deterioration of the gains of the first two years of the project implementation (i.e.
prior to March, 2009) can be seen in the intermediate results indicators table of Section F.
Almost all of the indicators were revised in 2011, at a level lower than that achieved prior to the
political crisis in 2009.
44.    The implementation of the restructured project was short-a period of only nine months,
between September 24, 2012 (when the amended and revised financing agreement was signed),
and the closing date of the project on June 30, 2013. The team focused its attention on the
implementation of Component B 14 , which was least advanced, and engaged in an active
dialogue with the counterparts (JIRAMA, MEM, and the Regulator (ORE)) with regard to the
studies and consultancy services. The team and the counterparts considered Component B
important, as it was to lay the ground for future sector development. The team also worked
with other donors to facilitate harmonized interventions when re-engagement in the sector
becomes possible.
45.   Another aspect that had an impact on the project implementation was the fact that the
JIRAMA’s management attention focused primarily on responding to the enormous pressure
from government authorities and the public to find a solution to the load shedding and the
company’s difficult financial situation.




14
  Subcomponent B1: Technical assistance and communication, and Subcomponents B5: Preparation of feasibility
and environmental studies for future investments, were not implemented (see Annex 2 for details).




                                                    11
46.     Because of the above factors, the implementation pace was slow (spanning about 7
years, including a 3-year period of interruption in project implementation). By project closing
on June 30, 2013, disbursements were 87.3% of the IDA Credit of about $10 million.
2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
47.     The baseline data for the indicators (original and revised) were prepared and the
monitoring system was simple and based on measurable outputs. JIRAMA, through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), and to a lesser extent MEM, carried out the overall monitoring of
the project and the achievement of the output indicators. These indicators were reported to the
Bank quarterly. The monitoring included separate detailed reporting by JIRAMA, covering
progress on physical implementation, procurement, financial commitments and other elements
of the project progress. The design of the monitoring framework could have been improved to
include indicators related not only to the JIRAMA’s performance, but also to MEM.
48.   There is no indication that the information, provided by the M&E system, has been used
to monitor and evaluate the impact of new and rehabilitated infrastructure on all aspects of the
company or sector performance. Furthermore, the sustainability of the M&E arrangements
beyond the project implementation period could not be ascertained.
2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
49.     Environment and social safeguards: The project design took into account the Bank’s
safeguards policies, including procedures and implementation arrangements to ensure full
consideration of environmental safeguards in accordance with OP 4.01. The original project
and, to a smaller extent, the restructured project financed generation rehabilitation, distribution
reinforcement and rehabilitation of the existing transmission lines and substations in various
towns in Madagascar. The investments were aimed entirely at upgrading existing installations.
No green field sites were developed or human resettlement undertaken. On the social
safeguards side, OP 4.12 was not triggered, since no land acquisition was anticipated from any
of the subprojects.
50.     Financial management: The financial management of the project was carried out in
accordance with the project design and legal agreements. While the financial management
system, including budgeting, accounting, internal controls, funds flow, auditing, and reporting
was adequate and met the Bank’s minimum financial management requirements at project
appraisal, the system was further strengthened and upgraded during the project implementation.
The internal controls system under the project was deemed to provide timely information and
reporting on the project. Formal audits of the project were carried out on an annual basis. The
audits confirmed the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls and the reliability
of the Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) as a basis of credit disbursements and compliance with
the legal covenants. For Component A, the JIRAMA implementation unit managed its project
activities well and carried out adequate reporting. In addition, this unit continued implementing
projects of other donors during the crisis period, when the WB funded activities were suspended.
The financial management for Component B was strengthened through the hiring of an
administrative and financial manager to support the MEM team. An individual consultant, who
has been assisting the MEM team before the political crisis, had to be let go due to the
interruption of disbursements.


                                                    12
51.     Procurement: The overall procurement capacity of JIRAMA, and particularly of MEM,
was overestimated. Bidding documents were not ready in advance, and procurement actions
were delayed. Important packages, such as the rehabilitation of the Andekaleka hydropower
plant, had to be rebid, because they failed to attract responsive bids and/or were over the
available budget.
52.    A Procurement Capacity Assessment of JIRAMA was not conducted during the
appraisal because it was agreed with the JIRAMA’s management that the team responsible for
procurement under the recently closed IDA financed Energy Sector Development Project
(ESDP) would remain in place for the new project. An action plan for improving the JIRAMA
team’s capacity, which included refresher procurement training sessions for the project staff,
was implemented.
53.     A Procurement Capacity Assessment for the MEM’s Procurement Unit was conducted
during the appraisal. The key issues and risks concerning the Ministry procurement capacity
were identified. Corrective measures, such as the recruitment of a qualified and experienced
financial management expert and a procurement officer for the Coordination Unit, were taken.
However, the main cause for the delays in the implementation of the Component B can be
traced to the condition of disbursement attached to this component (as described in Section 2.2,
Implementation).
2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
54.     In view of the continuing strong growth of electricity demand, JIRAMA’s investment
plans include investments in power generation, transmission and distribution with a large role
foreseen for the private sector, especially in generation. However, unresolved issues related to
continuous tariff indexation to adjust for fuel cost increases (e.g., due to non-implementation of
the periodic indexation during the crisis, including the latest adjustment scheduled for April,
2013), collection and billing, and operational issues will continue to hamper JIRAMA’s efforts
to meet future demand. These issues and the lack of capital/equity make it difficult for
JIRAMA to access capital markets and attract private investors to finance supply expansion,
mainly through the Independent Power Production (IPPs) model. Therefore, currently, given
the poor financial situation of JIRAMA, the interest of the private sector seems to be limited to
providing services for management and operation, without taking any risk of committing capital
upfront for infrastructure investments.
55.     Once the political crisis ends in Madagascar, the Bank should consider providing
assistance to support a new sector investment and policy project to finance at least part of the
JIRAMA’s investment program, to improve its operations and cash flow, and to support a
renewed effort at reforming Madagascar’s power sector.




                                                 13
3.      Assessment of Outcomes
3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
56.     Relevance of the project objectives is rated High. The project objectives and the
activities supported by the PWSRRP were, and still are, highly relevant to the issues in the
electricity sector in Madagascar. With the financial difficulties of JIRAMA in mind, the project
objective, as stated in the PAD, focused on short-term gains in terms of reducing operational
costs and increasing revenues (rehabilitation of hydropower and thermal stations and fuel
switching at some thermal stations to use cheaper fuel oil). The short-term focus was
reaffirmed in the revised PDO, which also emphasized short-term improvements in the
availability of electricity.
57.     The higher objectives of the Bank intervention in the sector (e.g. as reflected in the CAS,
ISN and the Electricity Sector Development Project, implemented before 2006) were to assist
Madagascar with improving JIRAMA’s performance and reducing its fiscal burden, fostering
private sector participation in all segments of the electric power industry in Madagascar, and
improving infrastructure and electricity service provision to the population.
58.     Such high level objectives remain relevant to the current stage of Madagascar’s
development. Improving infrastructure service delivery was the central theme of the sector’s
development strategy throughout the life of the project, including the current Interim Strategy
Note of (ISN) of December 28, 2011, covering the period 2012-2013. It supports the GOM’s
PRSP around the pillar of promoting broad based growth. Achieving rapid economic growth
requires improved infrastructure, particularly the availability of reliable electricity supply to
existing and future businesses and attracting new foreign investment.
59.    The Bank’s implementation assistance was responsive to the changing circumstances,
especially in light of the political crisis in early 2009, and the consequent application of the
Bank’s operational policy O.P/B.P 7.3, which ultimately led to project restructuring.
3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDOs)
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)
60.    Achievement of the original PDO. Although the outcome indicators of the original
project were designed for the APL program as a whole, including APL-1 and APL-2, the
achievements of APL-1 could still be evaluated as described below.




                                                   14
        a) First Objective: Restore an adequate public utility service for electricity and
water in urban areas. The achievement of this objective was moderate. As of March 2009,
the improvement in generation efficiency was substantial. The percentage of diesel generation
within the total generation was reduced from 31% in 2006 to 14.8% in March 2009, against the
APL program (i.e. APL-1 and APL-2) target of 14%. The specific oil consumption of diesel
units was reduced from 247 g/kWh to 233 g/kWh, exceeding, in this case, the APL program
target of 240 g/kWh. The improvement in revenue management was moderate, as the results
for different consumer categories were mixed. The revenue collected for the energy, billed to
industrial customers, was increased from 77% in 2006 to 87% in March, 2009, exceeding the
program target of 82%. However, revenue collection fell for households; it dropped from 92%
in 2006 to 86% in March, 2009, against a program target of 93%. The reduction of electricity
losses was moderate: the energy billed over the energy produced increased from 76.3% in 2006
to 76.9% in March, 2009, which was close to the program target of 77.6%. Therefore, the
achievement of this objective is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
        b) Second Objective: Create the foundation for a sustainable expansion of a
commercially oriented service in the most cost-efficient way. The achievement of this
objective was relatively significant, measured against the necessity for JIRAMA to increase the
return on assets, have an adequate tariff indexing formula in place, and have adequate reporting
on technical, commercial, and financial performance and communicate it to the authorities (the
government and the electricity sector regulator, ORE). As of March 2009, the financial
outcomes indicators had improved and some were, for CY 2008, above the project completion
targets, the real term tariff indexing formula was in place (though periodic indexation was not
implemented, see paragraph 32), and the regular performance reporting to the government and
regulator was effective. Therefore, the achievement of this objective is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.
        c) Third Objective: JIRAMA under new private management. This objective was
not met. The JIRAMA is still under public management. Therefore, the achievement of this
objective is rated Unsatisfactory.
Because the third objective of placing JIRAMA under private management that bears the most
significant impact on the utility long-term viability and subsequently the sustainability of the
project development objectives was not achieved, the achievement of the PDOs of the original
project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
61.     Achievement of the revised PDO. The restructured project had two objectives: (a)
Improve the availability of electricity in the short term; and (b) Prepare the ground for a
sustainable long-term development of the sector. The first objective was achieved partially.
As shown in Table F above, the improvement of generation efficiency indicator was fully met,
the improvement in revenue management and the reduction in electricity losses were partly
achieved, while the financial outcomes of the project were not achieved due to the deterioration
of the financial situation of JIRAMA. Therefore, the achievement of this objective is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory. The second objective was also partially achieved, as Component
B (as restructured) was not fully implemented. In particular, environmental studies for future
investments for example were not carried out. Therefore, the achievement of the second
objective is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The achievement of the PDOs of the restructured
project is therefore rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.


                                              15
62.      With the restructuring of the project in July 2012, one core indicator was added, namely,
the direct project beneficiaries and the percentage of females among the beneficiaries. Three
intermediate results indicators were dropped: the percentage of diesel generation over total
generation, accounts receivable, and the specific oil consumption of diesel units. The following
three new intermediate indicators were added: Generation from rehabilitated hydro under
project, a scoping study of 6 potential sites and prefeasibility studies of these sites, and
analytical work and technical studies completed, were added. These last two intermediate
results indicators, which relate to Component B, were not included in the results framework of
the original project. The targets related to the enhancement of the performance of energy sector
institutions were only partially achieved. Some training for the staff of the MEM was carried
out and a number of studies on investments and reforms were completed (see Annex 2 for
details).
63.     Therefore, the overall assessment of the achievement of the project development
objectives can be rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
64.     There was a clear and logical causal chain between all of the activities that the APL
program and restructured project were designed to carry out under Component A and the
expected attainment of the objective to restore an adequate public utility service for
electricity and water in urban areas.
       Outputs: Rehabilitation of power plants, rehabilitation of transmission and distribution
       networks, installation of pre-payment meters, meter and residential customer records
       verification, installation of IT equipment and installation of efficient lamps.
       Outcomes: Increased generation efficiency and sales, reduction of losses and increased
       collection and revenues.
       As a result of the above-mentioned outputs, the JIRAMA’s financial situation in March
       2009 was considerably stronger than prior to the project implementation. This is due
       mainly to the following actions:
          Tariffs were adjusted so as to reach cost recovery;
          Collection has also improved for industrial consumers from a low baseline of 77% in
       2006;
        Improvements in operating efficiency through (i) the gradual fuel switching in the
       generation fuel mix from the high-cost gas oil to less costly fuel oil; (ii) improved fuel
       efficiency in generating units as a result of the rehabilitation of older plants, leading to
       the reduction of fuel consumption of about 6%, from 247 grams per kWh generated to
       just over 230 grams; and (iii) lower transmission costs – technical losses calculated as
       energy billed to energy produced decreased, albeit marginally, from 76.3% to 76.9%.
65.     Under Component B, the logical causal chain between all of the activities designed
under the APL program and the restructured project and the expected attainment of the
objective to create the foundation for a sustainable expansion of a commercially-oriented
service in the most cost-efficient way was not very clear to follow. This is because of the way
the results framework was presented in the restructuring paper. The achievement of this
objective was tied in the original PAD to the achievement of three intermediate indicators: 1)
JIRAMA was to achieve a sufficient return on assets to be able to fund interest expenses on its
debt and maintenance of its assets from internal sources; 2) to put in place an adequate indexing

                                               16
formula for tariffs, and 3) to produce on a monthly basis an adequate technical, commercial and
financial reporting of current operations performance and to communicate this information to
the authorities (the government and ORE).
       Outputs: Technical assistance and communication, analytical work and preparation of
       future investment projects especially such as the feasibility study of the Fempona
       regulation dam, the pre-feasibility study of the Antetezambato hydroelectric
       development, the review of the status of organization modalities of JIRAMA in the
       context of power sector restructuring in Madagascar and the updating of the investment
       plans of three JIRAMA area networks and three regions for rural electrification.
       Outcome: All these studies under Component B constituted the background work for
       the future expansion of sector operations and private sector participation.
66.     There was a clear causal chain between the objective of putting JIRAMA under new
private management and Component B of the project. However, while the study of options
for the reform of JIRAMA was completed, it did not lead to having JIRAMA under private
management. JIRAMA remains under full public management.

67.     US$1.27 million of the credit was not disbursed because some components could not be
implemented, including: the renovation works of the Volobe hydropower plant, the
rehabilitation of small hydropower plants (which proved to be costlier that the available budget),
the rehabilitation of mechanical auxiliaries of the Ambohimanambola thermal plant, which was
abandoned because the plant was irreparably damaged by a fire, and the environmental studies
for future projects.

68.     Overall assessment of the achievement of the PDOs. The assessment of the overall
achievement of the PDOs (efficacy) of the project follows the ICR guidelines (Appendix B) on
the rating of the outcome of projects with formally revised objectives. The overall efficacy of
the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

                                    Against            Against           Overall
                                 original PDOs         revised
                                                        PDOs
          1.    Rating          Moderately          Moderately
                                Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
          2.    Rating value           3                   3
          3.    Weight (%
                disbursed             66%                34%              100%
                before/after
                PDO change)
          4.    Weighted
                value (2x3)           1.98               1.02               3
          5.    Final rating            -                  -           Moderately
                                                                      Unsatisfactory




                                               17
3.3     Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
Rating: Low
69.      At appraisal, an economic justification of the project was undertaken in the context of its
role as part of a least-cost system expansion plan for the power sector. Costs included the
capital and operating costs of the proposed sequence of plants, as well as transmission and
distribution costs. Benefits were based on an average tariff of UScents13/kWh as a proxy for
customer willingness to pay for incremental electricity supply. The economic rate of return on
JIRAMA’s 2006-2010 investment program as estimated at the time of appraisal was 14%.
JIRAMA was expected to invest about US$184 million over a 5-year period or an average of
about US$36.8/year. This was an unrealistic amount, given JIRAMA’s absorptive capacity.
JIRAMA managed to invest only about US$83 million over the eight-year period, from 2006 to
2013, or about US$10 million/year on average. This equals the cost of the WB project under
review. A re-evaluation of the cost-benefit analysis, using the appraisal methodology, revealed
low project efficiency. Recalculations of the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) on
JIRAMA’s investment program for the period 2006-2013 using the current average tariff as a
proxy for economic benefits show it to be zero, at best. The net present value (NPV) is negative
(- $42.76 million, i.e. the present value of costs involved in achieving project objectives was
higher than the present value of benefits) is largely explained by the high cost of fuel which was
underestimated in the appraisal calculations. Furthermore, the level of investment, as explained
earlier, was substantially lower than forecast at appraisal (about half as much) with a subsequent
lower sales and the buildup of the stream of net benefits was slow, due to the gradual pick up of
incremental sales as a result of the rehabilitated infrastructure in JIRAMA’s investment program
coming on stream.
70.     The recalculation of the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and NPV of the restructured
project was also carried out and revealed substantial project efficiency. These calculations
followed the same methodology as in the project restructuring paper, confirming the strong
economic viability of the rehabilitation of the Antelomita hydropower plant and the deployment
of Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFL), which were the most important investments under the
restructured project (see Annex 3 for details).
3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating:         Moderately Unsatisfactory
71.     The overall outcome of the project has a high relevance in terms of increasing the supply
of electricity in the system that was, and continues to be, subject to severe load shedding.
However, the moderately unsatisfactory achievement of the project development objectives in
terms of increasing the efficiency of the operations of JIRAMA, enhancing the efficiency of
sector institutions, and failing to put in place a management contract for JIRAMA is detrimental
to the rating. Further, while the efficiency of the restructured project was high, that of the
original project was low. The combination of the relevance, achievement of project
development objectives and efficiency ratings, results in an overall outcome rating of
Moderately Unsatisfactory.


                                                    18
3.5       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
      (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
72.     The direct impact of the Project on lower-income urban population and other vulnerable
groups was not explicitly taken into consideration at appraisal, and no poverty analysis was
conducted at the preparation stage. Gender issues were not reflected during the preparation
stage, nor was the gender impact monitored during the major part of the implementation of the
original project. However, at project restructuring in July 2012, a core indicator was added to
measure the number of project beneficiaries and, among them, the percentage of females.
      (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
          (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
73.      The project’s institutional development impact, which is defined in ICR guidelines as
the extent to which the project “has improved the agency’s or country’s ability to make effective
use of its human and financial resources”, is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
development objective of the project i.e. “prepare the ground for a sustainable long term
development of the sector” is directly linked to institutional change and strengthening. The
institutional strengthening component targeted the delivery of technical assistance and training
to MEM in support of the development of the capacity required for effectively discharging its
responsibilities in the sector. However, except for a short training of the staff of MEM, little
capacity building seems to have taken place, and the scope of the sub-components related to
institutional strengthening15 was reduced at restructuring because more funding was added to
Component A of the project.
      (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
          None
3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
74.     There is substantial likelihood that some changes, detrimental to the ultimate
achievement of the project’s main development outcome i.e. improved sector efficiency, may
occur. This eventuality depends crucially on JIRAMA’s ability to meet its regular debt
payments, cover all operating costs, including fuel, and pay for IPP power purchases. The
financial and operational performance of JIRAMA improved sharply during the first two years
of the project implementation but has since deteriorated. The country’s political crisis triggered
the halt of disbursements and created the overall governance issue, also affecting the
performance of the sector. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that the risk to sustained and
meaningful private sector participation in the power sector will also remain high as long as the
political crisis is not resolved. This is a serious risk, given the history of frustrated attempts at


15
     Communication and Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Strengthening of the MEM.

                                                      19
attracting private capital in the power sector of Madagascar, beyond fee for service contracts.
Other considerations that may pose a serious risk to the development outcome are (i) technical
(such as those related to the lack of proper maintenance or the lack of reliable and affordable
fuel supplies, which may dictate a change in the generation mix, etc.); (ii) social disruptions in
response to load shedding; or (iii) environmental issues such as dam failures, etc. These threats
to the development outcomes may materialize in future if JIRAMA’s operational and financial
performance were to deteriorate further.
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1    Bank Performance
(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
75.    This ICR assesses the Bank’s performance during identification, preparation, and
appraisal of the project as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
76.     The composition and balance of the Bank team was adequate. It consisted of four core
sector specialists and six fiduciary and safeguards members, though the period for the original
project preparation was very short (two and a half months between the concept review and
appraisal). The Borrower’s compliance with the Bank’s safeguard policies was assessed
adequately. Strategic choices were made appropriately at the design and preparation stage
including: (i) the focus on rehabilitation and increasing efficiency; (ii) combining TA and
physical investments; and (iii) focusing on the sector’s institutional capacity. This focus was
narrowed further at the restructuring of the project.
77.     Most of the potential risks were correctly identified though under-rated. The potential
risk, posed on the project’s outcome by the JIRAMA’s financial situation, was not identified
formally in the project documentation. Nonetheless, the government implemented many of the
required actions in terms of tariff adjustment, payment of arrears and equity contributions to put
JIRAMA’s finances in order. The execution of these activities by the government led to a
turnaround in the financial situation of JIRAMA during the first two years of the project
implementation. On the downside however, capacity issues identified such as MEM and
JIRAMA procurement capacity and MEM policy/technical adviser recruitment but mitigation
measures not followed through which led to implementation delays. The original project
readiness for implementation could have been improved through early preparation of bidding
documents and the assessment of capacity building measures, especially at the MEM. The lack
of such measures was one of the major contributing factors in the partial and slow
implementation of component B of the project. Additionally, deficient monitoring framework
did not really provide a basis for measuring progress on implementation of the activities and
efficiency of the project was low.
78.     Overall, the project design was sound in terms of the choice of components, the lead-
time for preparation was short, and the preparation team was adequately staffed. The main
safeguards were adequately addressed, risks identified and some effective mitigation measures
were put in place (e.g. turnaround of the JIRAMA’s financial situation). However, critical
mitigation measures such as the implementing agencies’ capacity to implement the project did
                                               20
not receive the required attention, leading to project implementation delays, especially for
Component B. Furthermore, the monitoring framework did not really provide an adequate basis
for measuring progress on the implementation of project activities, for Component B in
particular.
79.     Quality at entry, as a whole, is therefore rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
(b)     Quality of Supervision
(including fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
80.    The quality of project supervision carried out by the Bank is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.
81.     The quality of supervision was intensive before and after restructuring of the project
(excluding the period 2009-2012 where implementation of the project was put on hold because
of the political crisis) as the team, first in Washington and Antananarivo, and later in Dar Es
Salam, were in constant touch with all stakeholders. The team was proactive in responding to
emerging issues and a changed political environment, including the preparation of the
restructuring of the project with the binding constraint of the closing date of June 30, 2013.
82.     Bank supervision missions were engaged in continued and extensive policy dialogue on
the sector issues held with MEM, JIRAMA, and the international donor community based in
Antananarivo. Advice provided during the implementation was timely and of high quality,
which ensured the expedited process on the preparation of investments, such as the
rehabilitation of hydropower stations, and the conversion of diesel stations to cheaper fuel oil.
The supervision team comprised, on average, two to three sector specialists, fiduciary and
safeguards specialists. The supervision team put a substantial emphasis on the monitoring
indicators. Relations with the borrower were generally good though sometimes tense,
especially when the team pressed the issue of the JIRAMA’s financial situation, and how to
address it. Also, MEM was pressed on the recruitment of the technical advisor. Ultimately, the
Bank agreed with the government’s position and waived the requirement. It is not clear whether
the Bank sought assurances that the capacity concerns it had originally identified, and which led
to the imposition of the disbursement condition, had been addressed or whether efforts had been
made to mitigate them.
83.     Restructuring of the project came late but the timing was essentially imposed by the
political crisis in Madagascar.
84.     Based on the above, the ICR rates project’s supervision as Moderately Satisfactory.
(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
85.   The rating of overall Bank performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory, being
moderately unsatisfactory at entry and moderately satisfactory during supervision.




                                                21
5.2    Borrower Performance
(a)    Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
86.     The Government performance is assessed as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
commitment to, and the ownership of the project, as discussed earlier, was strong at the time of
project preparation and appraisal, and relatively supportive during the implementation
(excluding the period when the disbursements were put on hold). Up to March 2009 the
government performance was satisfactory for the reasons explained in paragraph 36 above.
However, during the suspension of disbursement during the period of about three years (due to
the political crisis) the project implementation was rated as unsatisfactory. Furthermore, the
MEM delayed the agreed recruitment of the technical advisor and finally insisted on waiving it,
which resulted in the delays in the implementation of Component B, for which MEM was the
implementing agency. As discussed earlier, the insistence on the waver on the recruitment of a
technical advisor had a negative impact on the pace of implementation of Component B of the
project. The technical advisor would have helped speed up the preparation of expressions of
interest and bidding documents, issuance and evaluation of bids, and provided technical advice
on the substance of the studies, produced by consultants, and general advice to the Coordination
unit at the MEM and to the Minister on more substantive matters such as JIRAMA’s reform
options.
(b)   Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
87.     This is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory because of the following reasons: (i)
JIRAMA’s financial situation improved during the first two years of project implementation but
then fell afterwards. Its technical and financial performance deteriorated after the crisis of
2009, as shown by the recasting of the new 2011 baseline for the project indicators at levels
below those achieved in 2009 (i.e. before the crisis). As shown in section F above, with the
exception of the improvement in generation efficiency, none of the other PDO indicators of the
restructured project (post crisis), under JIRAMA’s main control was achieved; and (ii) the
assessment of the performance of MEM is described under the Borrower’s Performance in
paragraph 85.
88.     While JIRAMA made adequate reporting on the achievement of project indicators, there
is no evidence, as already mentioned in para. 46 above, that the information provided by the
M&E system was used by JIRAMA to monitor and evaluate the impact of new and rehabilitated
infrastructure on all aspects of its performance or that the utility intends to continue using the
established project indicators to monitor system performance in the future.
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.




                                               22
6.     Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
89.     Capacity building: When capacity issues are identified, as was the case for MEM,
training and other remedial measures should be prioritized for fast track implementation and put
in place soon after the preparation/appraisal phase of the project (i.e. either prior to
effectiveness or within a couple of months after effectiveness). Regional management should
always assess the status of preparation of key capacity building components before authorizing
completion of the appraisal phase.
90.     Quality of dialogue and pro-activity in the provision of advice to implementing
agencies are crucial to the success of a project. The team did a very good job of managing the
dialogue and offering advice to the implementing agencies. This was a particularly complex
task, given the circumstances at JIRAMA in particular and, more generally, within the country.
This project is also a good example of the donor coordination. Various donors (AfDB, SFI,
EIB, and AFD, GIZ, etc.) even though directly involved in the project, were kept abreast of the
sector developments and difficulties. This was particularly instrumental in attracting several
offers from potential partners for the long-term management of JIRAMA.
91.    Consider a more modest (preferably single) PDO given the fragile state of the country.
This approach would help in focusing all energies on the achievement of a single well defined
and circumscribed objective taking into account the prevailing technical, economic, financial
and implementation capacity constraints.
92.     Regular data collection and focus on impact and results. Careful attention should be
given to the results framework. In the case of this project, the data on the results’ indicators
achieved at project closing were available, but not regularly collected prior to writing the ICR.
This can leave the impression that there was a lack of focus on the impact and results of the
project.
93.    Project monitoring. In future, it is recommended that indicators linking outputs and
outcomes more closely be included as well as designing intermediate results indicators
accordingly.
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies
94.     JIRAMA which is the implementing agency for component A of the project has
indicated that it has no particular observation on the version of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) prepared by the Bank. It offered an update of the results indicators as at
December 31, 2013. This update could not be taken into account because it occurred six
months after the project was officially closed (June 30, 2013). Even if it were to be taken into
account however, the evaluation contained in this ICR would not be affected.
(b)    Co-financiers
Not applicable

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable

                                               23
                     Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                     Project Costs (US$ million)
     Components/Activities      Initial   Revised      Actual/latest     % of
                                                                       Appraisal
     Component A: Short term Investments
     A1(a): Power generation
                                 2.0           1.7         1.98           99
     reinforcement
     A1(b) : Retroactive
                                 1.0           1.0         0.93           100
     financing
     A2: Reduction of Trans.
                                 1.3           1.45        1.45           112
     and Distribution. losses
     A3: Revenue Management
     & Modern. of info system    2.3           2.7         2.57           112
     and IT equipment
     Component B: Technical
                                 2.6           2.9          1.8           69
     Assistance
     Unallocated
                                 0.8           0.25         0
     (Contingencies)
     TOTAL                       10.0          10.0        8.73          87.3

(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                          Estimate        Estimate    Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           (USD            (USD        Appraisal
                                          millions)       millions)
 Borrower                                     -               -             -
 International Development Association
                                               10.00        8.73           87.3%
(IDA)




                                          24
                       Annex 2. Outputs by Component (*)


Component A: Short term investments
Subcomponent A1a: Power generation reinforcement
         (a)   Replacement of hydro refrigerants system for Andekaleka hydropower plant
               (work completed in March 2010)
         (b)   Rehabilitation of unit 3 of Antelomita hydropower plant (unit 3 put back on
               stream at the end of June 2013)

Subcomponent A2: Reduction of transmission and distribution losses
          (a)   Rehabilitation of transmission networks (completed early 2009)
          (b)   Rehabilitation of distribution networks (completed April 2013)
  
Subcomponent A3: Revenue management and modernization of info sys and IT equip
Revenue management:
          (a)  Meter and residential customer records verification program (equipment
               received, verification program underway)
          (b)   Purchase and installation of prepayment meters (equipment received,
               installation underway)
          (c)  Invest in spot metering equipment and syst. (replaced by Distribution of
               CFLs). (920,000 CFLs purchased, deployment underway)
          (d)   Systematic verification of installation premises of the all 800 industrial
               customers (completed December 2010)

Modernization of information system and IT equipments:
           (a) Acquisition of IT equipments and training (training, purchase and installation
                  of IT equipment in various centers and branches of JIRAMA were completed
                  early 2008)

Component B: Technical Assistance (**)

Subcomponent B1: Technical assistance and communication
Subcomponent B2: Analytical work and Preparation of future investment projects:
  - Feasibility study of the Fempona regulation dam. Final report submitted on June 21, 2013
  - Pre-feasibility study of the Antetezambato hydroelectric development. Final report
     submitted in May 2013
  - Reassessment of the status and financing modalities of the Electricity Regulatory Office
     and the Agency for the Development of Rural Electrification. Final Report submitted end
     of June 2013
  - Revision of the legal framework of the electricity sector in Madagascar. Final report
     submitted end of June 2013
  - Review of the status of organization modalities of JIRAMA in the context of power sector
     restructuring and modernization in Madagascar
  - Updating the investment plans of three JIRAMA area networks and three regions for rural
     electrification. Report submitted end of June 2013
                                         25
     Subcomponent B3: Strengthening of the Ministry of Energy
       - Training for the personnel of MEM at the CIFOPE training center
     Subcomponent B4: Preparation and environmental studies for future investments
     Subcomponent B5: Project implementation

(*) The Project subcomponents reflect those after restructuring (therefore, the list does not
include the subcomponents of the original project that were dropped and defunded). The
numbering has been adjusted accordingly.

(**) All Sub-components were converted into Subcomponents B2 and B3 and, therefore,
implemented with the respective budget reallocation.




                                             26
                                Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                                  (including assumptions for the analysis)

I.       Original project. Recalculation of the NPV and IRR
     Following the analysis found in the Appraisal report of the PWSRRP of June 14, 2006,
     the following recalculations are based on JIRAMA’s investment program 2006-2013

      (US$ million)
                                                                                    Total           Increm.
                      Capital        O&M     Increm.                 Total          Sales           Sales             Value of     Net
      Year            Expend.        Costs   Fuel Costs              Costs          (GWh)           (GWh)             Sales        Benefits

             2006           7            0              ‐                  7             778                 ‐           ‐              ‐7
             2007          29            1                     1          31             784                     6        1.11         ‐30
             2008          13            1                  12
                                                                          26             852                  68 
                                                                                                                        13.68 
                                                                                                                                       ‐13
             2009           6            2    ‐             11
                                                                          ‐3               
                                                                                         791        ‐            
                                                                                                              61      ‐ 12.25
                                                                                                                                        ‐9
             2010           3            2                     9          14             844                  53 
                                                                                                                        10.59
                                                                                                                                        ‐3
             2011           9            2                     7          18             883                  39 
                                                                                                                          7.80         ‐10
             2012          10            2                     8          21             930                  47 
                                                                                                                          9.36         ‐11
             2013           6            2                  47 
                                                                          55           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.05 
                                                                                                                                        ‐1
             2014                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2015                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2016                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2017                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2018                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2019                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2020                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2021                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2022                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2023                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2024                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2025                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2026                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2027                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2028                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2029                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5
             2030                        2                  47
                                                                          49           1,200 
                                                                                                            270 
                                                                                                                        54.00 
                                                                                                                                         5

                                                                                                    NPV@10%                          ($42.76)

                                                                                                    IRR                               ‐0.31%

      Incremental sales are valued at ,                 0.2 US$/kWh which is the average tariff at June 2013.
      (used as a proxy for economic benefits)
      O&M cost                                          3% of Capital expenditures
      Fuel costs of 16 UScents/kWh for diesel and 12 Uscents/kWh for HFO (see below)
      Weighted average fuel cost (51% diesel and 49% HFO)                                    0.14 US$/kWh
      Tech and non tech losses                        20%
      Sales are as per JIRAMA's sales for the period
      Cost of Diesel                                        Cost of HFO
      Gen. effiency gr/kWh                   250                     Gen effiency   gr/kWh                            250
      Cost of diesel Uscents/liter           64                      Cost of diesel Uscents/liter                     48
                      Uscents/kWh
      Fuel costs per kWH                     16                                      Uscents/kWh
                                                                     Fuel costs per kWH                               12




                                                                     27
II.       Restructured project

      Following the same methodology as the Project Paper, two major investments were
      singled out for analysis. These are the Antelomita hydropower plant and the Compact
      Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs).

      Economics of Antelomita hydro rehabilitation         Economics of the CFL acquisition

      Additional  generation capacity         552 kW
           substituting for HFO              90%           Number of CFLs            920,000 units
           substituting for Diesel           10%           Use                            1.5 h/day/CFL
      Load factor                            70%           Est Reduction in dem            60 watts/h/CF
      Useful  life                              7 years    Est. Reduction of dem        32.85 kWh
      Marginal generation costs (US$/kWh)                  Useful life of a CFL             2 years
         Hydro                                  0          With 920,000 CFLs           30222 MWh/year
         HFO                                  0.2          T&D losses                    10%
         Diesel                               0.3          Reduction in generati       33580 MWh/year
      Total annual reduction in                            Part of HFO substitu       62.50%
      thermal generationn                    3385 MWh      Part of diesel substitu    37.50%
      Total annual cost reduction HFO         609          Generation Mix
      Total annual cost reduction Diesel      102             Hydro                      30%
      Total annual cost reduction             711             HFO                        50%
                                                              Diesel                     20%
                                         Net               Marginal generation costs (US$/kWh)
      (k US$)   Cost            Benef.   Benef.               Hydro                         0
                                                              HFO                         0.2
      Year 0            1,348             -1,348              Diesel                      0.3
      Year 1                      711      711
      Year 2                      711      711             Total annual cost reduction        ('000 US$
      Year 3                      711      711                Hydro                         0
      Year 4                      711      711                HFO                       3358
      Year 5                      711      711                Diesel                   2014.8
      Year 6                      711      711               Total cost reductio       5372.8
      Year 7                      711      711
                NPV                       $1,921                                             Net
                IRR                        50%             (k US$)   Cost         Benef.     Benef.

                                                           Year 0           946                -946
                                                           Year 1                    5,373    5,373
                                                           Year 2                    5,373    5,373
                                                                     NPV                      $7,617
                                                                     IRR                      555%




                                                      28
           Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
Names                                 Title                           Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier       Power Engineer, Team leader      AFTEG
Supervision/ICR
Saholy Andriambololomanana            Senior Program Assistant      AFCS4
Noreen Beg                            Senior Env. Specialist        LCSEN
Slaheddine Ben-Halima                 Consultant                    MNAPC
Fabrice Karl Bertholet                Senior Financial Analyst      AFTG2
Erik Magnus Fernstrom                 Lead Energy Specialist        AFTG2
Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier       Sector Leader                 AFTSN
Francois Marie Maurice                Senior Financial Management
                                                                    AFTME
Rakotoarimanana                       Specialist
Vonjy Miarintsoa Rakotondramanana     Energy Specialist             AFTG1
Patrice Joachim Nirina Rakotoniaina   Municipal Engineer            AFTU2
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson            Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPE
Lalaina Noelinirina Rasoloharison     Program Assistant             AFCS4
Lova Niaina Ravaoarimino              Procurement Specialist        AFTPE
Lily Wong Chung Seng                  Program Assistant             AFTG2
Thanh Lu Ha                           Senior. Program Assistant     AFTG2


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  USD Thousands (including
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                            12.07
  FY06                                              12                           112.44
  FY07                                                                             0.00
  FY08                                                                             0.00
                             Total:                 12                           124.51
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                             0.00
  FY06                                                                             0.00
  FY07                                              23                           160.25
  FY08                                              35                           168.28
  FY09                                              47                             0.00
                             Total:                105                           328.53

                                                  29
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              30
II – Full Borrower Contribution (see below)




                                              31
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                               32
                         Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



- ICR Guidelines (August 2006, last updated on 10.05/2011)
- Interim Strategy Note (December 2011)
- Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
- Joint IDA/IMF Staff Assessment (October 2003)
- PWSRRP PAD (June 14, 2006)
- Restructuring Paper (June 27, 2012)
- Financing Agreement (July 17, 2006)
- Project Agreement (July 17, 2006)
- ISR
- Supervision Aide Memoires




                                             33
                                                     44°                                                                                46°                                                                     48°                                                                                   50°



                                                                         M AD AGA SCA R
                             POWER/WATER SECTOR RECOVERY
            12°
                               AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12°

                                                                           EXISTING TRANSMISSION LINES:                                                                                                                                                                      ANTSIRANANA
                                                                               138 kV, DOUBLE CIRCUIT

                                                                               63 kV

                                                                               35 or 20 kV                                                                                                                                                                  DIANA

                                                                           MAJOR PRODUCTION CENTER
                                                                           WITH A CAPACITY OVER 1MW                                                                                                                                          Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nosy-Be                                                                               Iharana
                                                                           EXISTING HYDRO POWER STATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mahava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Vohimarina
                                                                           CANDIDATES FOR HYDRO DEVELOPMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vy
                                                                           PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                 Ambanja

                                                                           ALL-WEATHER ROADS
            14°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANTSIRANANA                                                                                    14°
                                                                           RAILROADS

                                                                           RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                 S AVA                      Sambava
                                                                           SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bealanana
                                                                           REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                 Analalava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Andapa
                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                  Antsohihy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Antalaha
                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SO F IA
                                                                           REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Befandriana
                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                  Maroantsetra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sofia
                                                                                                                           MAHAJANGA                                                                 Boriziny
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mandritsara
                                                                                                                                                                  MAHAJANGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    An
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         jom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ny
            16°                                                                                                                                                                                     Mampikony                                                                                                                               16°
                                                                                                                                               Mitsinjo            Marovoay
                                                                                                           Soalala                                                                                            Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    riv                                                                         Mananara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o
                                                                                                                                              B OE N Y
                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                           ah
                                                                                                                                                                  Ambato                     aja
                                                                                                                                                                   Boeni                        mb
                                                                                                                                                                                                   a

                                                                                       Besalampy                                                                                                                                                                ANALANJ IRO F O
                                                                                                                                                                            Boinakely Tsaratanana                                                               Soanierana-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Andilamena                                   Ivongo                         Ambodifotatra
                                                                                                                                                                          Maevatanana


                     Mozambique                                                                                                                                                                                           Vohitraivo
                                                                                             MELAKY                            Kandreho                                                                                                                   Vavatenina
                                                                                                                                                                               Bets




                                                                                                                                                                                             Andriamena
                                                                                       Ma                                                          B E T SI B OK A                                                                                                            Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                                                                                                                                 ibo




                                                                                         na                                                                                                             Amparafaravola                      Lake
                                                                                             mb
                                                                                                                                                                                  ka




                                                                                                ah                  Ambatomainty                                                                                                           Alaotra
                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ambatondrazaka
                         Channel                                                  Morafenobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Volobe
                                                                                                                                   vy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vohidiala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALAOTRA Amont Volobe
                                                                                                                               ava




            18°                                                                                      Bemahatazana                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18°
                                               Maintirano
                                                                                                                              Mah




                                                                                                                                                                Ankazobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MANGORO                                                TOAMASINA
                                                                                                                                           Fenoarivo be                    ANALAMANGA                                                           Fanandrana
                                                                                                                                     B O N G O L AVA                                   Anjozorobe

                                                                                 Antsalova                                                    A N TA N A N A R I V O                                                      TOAMASINA
                                                                                                                               Tsiroanomandidy                 ANTANANARIVO                              Manja-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        kandriana Andekaleka
                                                                                                                                                             Miarinarivo                                               Perinet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ampasimanolotra
                                                                                                                                                   Lily                                                 M Moramanga
                                                                                       Manambolo                                                                        I TA SY               Antelomitas a n d r a    AT S INANANA
                                                                                                                                                                                              I and II              ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     al




                                                                                                                                                               Faratsiho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Can




                                                                                                           Miandrivazo                                                                                                                                    Vatomandry
                                                                                       Belo                                                                                                                  Anosibe
                                                                                       Tsiribihina                                              Mandoto                                                                                     Antanambao-Manampotsy
                                                                                                                                                                                       Antanifotsy
                                                                                                                                               VA K I N A N K A R AT R A                                            Lohavana
                                                                                        Tsiribihin
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                          Antsirabe                                                            Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                  Sahanivotr y                                       ngo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ro
            20°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mahanoro                                                                               20°
                                                                                                  ME N A B E                                     Manandona                Talaviana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Marolambo
                                                    Morondava                                Mahabo                           Antetezambato                                    Fandriana
                                                                                  Moron
                                                                                            dava           Malaimbandy               A M O RO N ' M A N I A
                                                                                                                                         Ambatofinandrahana                       Ambositra
                                                                                                                                                          Manandriana                             VATOVAV Y                            Nosy Varika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lanes




                                                                                                                                                                                                F I TOVI N A N I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Panga




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vohilava
                                                                                                                                                            Ambohimahasoa
                                                                                                                                          Ikalamavony                                      Ranomafana
                                                                               Manja                                                                                                         Ifanadiana                         Mananjary

                                                                                                                                      FIANARANTSOA                               Namorana               Irondro
                                                                                                         Beroroha              H AU T E M AT SI AT R A                      Manandray
                                 Morombe                                Mangoky
                                                                                                                                                                      Ambalavao

            22°
                                                       TOLIARA                                                           I H OROM B E
                                                                                                                                                          Ankarmena                        Ikongo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Manakara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22°

                                                                                       Ankazoabo
                                                                                          atm.                                                  F I A N A R A N T S OA
                                                                                                                                   Ihosy
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vohipeno
                                                                                                                                                                 Ivohibe
                                                        ATS IM O
                                                     A N DR E FA NA
                                                                                                                                                                                 Vondrozo
                                                                               Sakaraha                                                                                                                Farafangana
                                                                           a
                                                                     h  an                                                                            Iakora
                                                                    c
                                                              e  re                                                                                                  ATSIMO
                                   TOLIARA                 Fih                                                               Betroka
                                                                                            Benenitra                                                             ATSINANANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                Vangaindrano
                                                                                                                                                                   Midongy-du-Sud
                                                                               Betioky Onilahy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50°
                                                                                                                              A N O SY                                Befotaka
            24°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TANZANIA                               45°              50°
                                                                                                                          Berakete
                                                                                                                Bekily                                                                                                                                                                                      COMOROS           Antsiranana
                                                                                                                                                                                 Manantenina
                                                                                                                                     ave




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Fr)
                                                                                                                                    ndr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UE
                                                                                                                                   Ma




                                                                         Ampanihy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BIQ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15°                             Mahajanga
                                                                                                             A N D ROY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M




                                                                                                                                        Amboasary-                                                                                                                         ZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR




                                                                                                                                           Sud                                                                                                                           MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                el




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ann




                                                                                                                                                                      Tolagnaro                                                                                                                                               Toamasina
                                                                                            Beloha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ch




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANTANANARIVO
                                                                                                                                        Ambovombe
                                                                                                                                         Androy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ique




                                                                                                          Tsihombe                                                                                                                                                     20°                                                                  20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mozamb




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fianarantsoa
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                      0               50               100                150                200                                                  Toliara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 34815




            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
            on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
JUNE 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS
            judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                       25°                                                                  25°
            acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                         44°                                                                            46°                                                                        48°                                                                 40°                    45°              50°
