Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4223 MAG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Power and Water Sector Recovery and Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 17, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4223 MAG 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 17, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) 
(
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out Part B of the Project through 
MEM and cause Part A of the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient has failed to comply with the obligations as set forth in 
Section V.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
The Recipient has adopted the Project Manual and the Project 
Implementing Entity has adopted the JIRAMA Project Manual all in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  
(c) 
For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the Recipient has upgraded, its 
accounting and financial management, and monitoring and evaluation 
system, in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and has appointed an 
accountant specialist and a procurement officer within the MEM. 
 
(d) 
For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Project Implementation 
Entity has upgraded its accounting and financial management, and 
monitoring and evaluation system, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
(e) 
Auditors, satisfactory to the Association, have been recruited for the 
purpose of Part A and Part B of the Project.
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Antananarivo 101 
Madagascar 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
MEFB 
    22489 
Antananarivo 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Nils 
Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Narisoa 
Rajaonarivony 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to restore an adequate public utility service for 
electricity and water in urban areas and to create the foundation for a sustainable 
expansion of a commercially-oriented service in the most cost-efficient way. 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
A. Short 
term 
investments
1. 
Supporting the Recipient in the reinforcement and rehabilitation of power 
generation infrastructure, including the rehabilitation of existing hydroelectric units, the 
rehabilitation of thermal units, and the conversion of generation units from diesel to 
heavy fuel oil (HFO), in particular in some of the following power generation sites: 
Andekaleka, Antelomita, Volobe, Ankazobe, Tsiazompaniry, Ambodiriana Vatomandry, 
Ambohimanambola, Antsirabe and Mahajanga. 
2. 
Supporting the Recipient in: (a) the reduction of transmission losses, through the 
rehabilitation of transmission networks, in particular the Ambohimanambola/Mandraka 
transmission line; and (b) the reduction of distribution losses, through the rehabilitation 
of low voltage (LV) networks in some of the following networks: RI-Tana, Morondava, 
Manakara, Antsiranana, Sambava, Antalaha, Amabanja, and Toamasina. 
3. 
Supporting the Recipient in: (a) improving its revenue management capacity, 
through the implementation of a meter and residential customer records verification 
program, the installation of prepayment meters and of spot metering equipment and 
systems,
 
and the
 v
erification of installations in premises of industrial clients; and (b) 
modernizing information system, and information and telecommunications equipment, 
and provision of training in the same. 
B. 
Technical Assistance, Capacity Building and Project Implementation
1. 
Supporting the Recipient in the contracti
ng
out
of
JIRAMA’s management to a 
private operator, through the provision of technical assistance required in connection with 
the process of selecting and contracting such private operator.  
2. 
Supporting the Recipient, as the case may be, in extending the Existing 
Management Contract before the actual transfer of management under paragraph 1 above. 
3. 
Supporting the Recipient in the carrying out of studies, such as pre-feasibility or 
environmental studies in connection with the short term generation development program 
to be implemented through independent power providers.  
Page  8
-
7
-
4. 
Supporting the Recipient in strengthening the MEM’s capacity, through technical 
assistance and services of a resident expatriate adviser.  
 
5. 
Supporting the Recipient in the carrying out of necessary engineering, financial, 
technical, environmental, social, and commercial studies to implement the medium term 
development plan of JIRAMA to be carried under the Program.
 
6. 
Supporting project monitoring, including environmental and social, and 
evaluation of the activities under the Project. 
7. 
Supporting project implementation, project coordination, procurement, and 
financial management, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement.
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing 
available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”) between the Recipient and the Project Implementing 
Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Association, which shall 
include the following:  
a. 
The obligation of the Recipient to transfer the proceeds of the Credit 
required for the implementation of Part A of the Project to the Project 
Implementing Entity on a reimbursable basis, and otherwise, to take all 
action necessary to permit the Project Implementing Entity to carry out 
the Project and ensure the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
b. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to promptly inform the 
Recipient of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with 
the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
c. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity, at the request of the 
Recipient, to exchange views with the Recipient with regard to the 
progress of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and 
the Project Implementing Entity's performance of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement and the JIRAMA Project Manual. 
d. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project 
in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and the JIRAMA Project Manual, and at all times to ensure 
that only activities that comply with the Subsidiary Agreement and the 
JIRAMA Project Manual will be financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
e. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to comply with the 
ESMF and EMP. 
f. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to promptly refund to 
the Recipient any proceeds from the Credit not used for purposes of 
Page  10
-
9
-
carrying out the Project or for achieving the objectives thereof, or 
otherwise utilized in a manner which does not comply with the provisions 
of this Agreement or the Project Agreement. 
g. 
A provision stipulating that, in case of conflict between any of the 
provisions contained in the Subsidiary Agreement or the JIRAMA Project 
Manual, on one hand, and those set forth in this Agreement and the Project 
Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement and the 
Project Agreement shall at all times prevail. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions. 
B. 
Other Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that, at all time during project implementation, a team 
composed of staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, including a technical advisor, an accountant and a procurement 
officer, be maintained within MEM for the purpose of carrying out Part B of the 
Project. Said team within MEM shall be responsible for providing overall 
support, and strategic guidance, and for carrying out fiduciary and monitoring 
and reporting activities under part B of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in 
accordance with the provisions of the ESMF, and, as the case may be, in 
accordance with the provisions of the EMP, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
aforementioned, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
 
JIRAMA under new 
private management. 
Sector level outcome 
 
Overall indicator : 
Contract signed for JIRAMA to be transferred to a 
private management firm on a long-term basis. 
 
Specific milestones 
·
Launch of prequalification by December 31, 
2006 
·
Launch of bidding documents by April 1, 
2007 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than 3 months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports, and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering 
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Direct Contracting - and expenditures which meet the 
Bank requirements may be eligible for retroactive 
financing 
C. 
Particular Methods of Pr
ocurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. Other 
Metho
ds of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Single Source Selection
 
(b)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
Page  13
-
12
-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for the 
Project 
(a) for the rehabilitation of the 
Vatomandry hydroelectric 
plant 
(b) for Part A of the Project 
other than for the 
rehabilitation of the 
Vatomandry hydroelectric 
plant  
(c) for Part B of the Project 
 
70,000 
 
4,650,000 
 
2,080,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,800,000 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1 million 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 15, 2005 for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) (b);  
(b) 
under Category 1 (a) unless the Recipient has submitted a report 
satisfactory to the Association, on the condition of the Vatomandry dam 
and the proposed safety measures to be implemented; and 
(c) 
under Category 1 (c) unless the Recipient has recruited a technical 
advisor with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2009. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
No later than November 30, 2006, the Recipient shall have adopted the 
Electricity Tariff Indexation Formula 
 
B. 
No later than April 1, 2007, the Recipient shall have publicly disclosed the 
Electricity Tariff Indexation Formula and adjusted electricity tariffs in accordance with 
said formula, and shall subsequently adjust said tariffs in accordance with the Electricity 
Tariff Indexation Formula every 6 months. 
 
C. 
No later than December 31, 2006, the Recipient shall have established terms and 
conditions to be used in the contracting of JIRAMA’s private partner satisfactory to the 
Association and have launched the prequalification process. 
 
D. 
No later than April 1 2007, the Recipient shall have launched the bidding process 
for the recruitment of a new private operator for the management of JIRAMA’s 
operations. 
 
E. 
The Recipient shall define, in agreement with the Association, no later than 
September 30 of each year during Project implementation, amounts to be injected by the 
Beneficiary, as need be, into JIRAMA during the following calendar year, so as to allow 
normal operations of the company.         
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1
 
and September 1: 
 
commencing September 1, 2016 to and including 
March 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing September 1, 2026 to and including 
March 1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
15
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“Dollar” and “$” mean the currency of the United States of America. 
4. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “EMP” means the plan, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the 
mitigation, reduction and or offset of the environmental and social impacts of 
activities under the Project, to be prepared as the case may be, pursuant to the 
ESMF (as hereinafter defined). 
5. 
“Environmental and Social Impact Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the framework adopted by the Recipient, describing the screening procedures 
applicable for activities under the Project as well as guidelines for the preparation 
of management documents found to be required as a result of said screening, 
including, as the case may be the an EMP. 
6. 
“Existing Management Contract” means the management contract entered into 
effectiveness on April 1, 2005 for the management of operations of JIRAMA to 
terminate on March 31, 2007. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
8. 
“Electricity and Water Tariff Indexation Formula” means the formula to be 
adopted by the Recipient setting forth parameters for the evolution of electricity 
tariffs based on macroeconomic data (such as inflation, exchange rates and oil 
prices, etc.). 
9. 
“JIRAMA” means the company “Jiro sy Rano Malagasy”. 
10. 
“JIRAMA Project Manual” means the manual adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity, outlining the policies and guidelines to be followed by the 
Project Implementing Entity in Project implementation, including financial, 
accounting, procurement and monitoring and evaluation procedures, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Association, and 
such term includes any schedules to the JIRAMA Project Manual. 
Page  17
-
16
-
11. 
“Ministry of Energy and Mining” or “MEM” means the Recipient ministry in 
charge of energy and mining. 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 2, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Program” means the program designed to restore an adequate public utility 
service for electricity and water in urban areas and to create the foundation for a 
sustainable expansion of a commercially-oriented service in the most cost-
efficient way and set forth or referred to in the letter dated June 2, 2006 from the 
Recipient to the Association. 
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “MEM” means JIRAMA. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means: Law Nr. 98-032 and Law 
Nr. 98-029 dated January 20, 1999 and implementation texts, and Ordinance Nr. 
75/024 dated October 17, 1975, establishing JIRAMA and providing for its laws. 
 
17. 
“Project Manual” means the manual adopted by the Recipient, outlining the 
policies and guidelines to be followed by the Recipient in Project 
implementation, including financial, accounting, procurement, and monitoring 
and evaluation procedures, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Manual. 
18. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity.
 
