*  *                                      OFFICIAL       I'
Fa0DOlCENTS
The World Bank                                   1818 H Street Nw           (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS
-&   pbm,9 -k__ ,2012
Mr. D6sir6 Rasidy
JIRAMA
149 rue Rainandriamampandry
BP 200 Antananarivo
101 Madagascar
Dear Sir:
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR: Credit No. 4223-MAG
(Power Sector Improvement and Recovery Project -previously known as Power
and Water Sector Recovery and Restructuring Project)
Amendment to the Project Agreement
We refer to the Project Agreement (the Project Agreement), dated July 17, 2006, for the
above-mentioned project (the Project), between JIRAMA (the Project Implementing Entity) and
the International Development Association (the Association). We also refer to the Financing
Agreement (Financing Agreement) dated July 17, 2006 between the Republic of Madagascar (the
Recipient) and the Association for the financing of the same project. By letter no. 381-2012-
MFB/SG/DGT/DDP/SSP/RB, dated June 7, 2012 the Recipient has requested that the Association
agrees to a revision of the Financing Agreement and the Project Agreement in order to reflect
changes in the Project, including: (i) a revision of the Project's activities; (ii) a revision of the
Project's development objective; (iii) a revision of the indicators used to measure the
performance of the Project; (iv) a revision of certain Recipient's and Project Implementing
Entity's undertakings as a result of these changes in the Project; (v) a reallocation of the funds
among existing disbursement categories; and (vi) an extension of the closing date. We are pleased
to inform you that the Association accedes to the Recipient's request. In order to reflect the
changes in the Project into the Financing Agreement, an Agreement providing for the
Amendment and Restatement of the Financing Agreement is expected to be signed concomitantly
with this Amendment Letter (the Letter). The purpose of this Letter is to reflect the changes in the
Project into the Project Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Letter and not otherwise
defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement.
The Association proposes to amend the Project Agreement as follows:
1.     The first sentence of Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement is amended to read as
follows:
"2.01. The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project."
2.     Section II.A.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following language:
RCA 248423. U WUI 64145 L FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿-2-                    Credit No. 4223-MAG
"1.    The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its
Respective Part of the Project, and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part of the
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 (b) of the General Conditions
and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association. Each such Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Recipient
not later 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and
forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report. "
3.     Section II.B.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following language:
"3.    The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association. Each audit of these
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year. The Project Implementing
Entity shall ensure that the audited financial statements for each period shall be: (a)
furnished to the Recipient and the Association not later than six months after the end of
the period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Association."
4.     Section TV of the Schedule to the Project Agreement is deleted completely and replaced
with the following language:
"Section IV.  Anti-Corruption
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines."
All other provisions of the Agreement except as amended herein, shall remain in full
force and effect.
This amendment shall become effective as of the date of the notice of effectiveness from
the Association to the Recipient, confirming that the Association has accepted the supporting
documents provided by the Recipient to the Association to establish that the following condition
of effectiveness has been satisfied, namely that the Agreement providing for the Amendment and
Restatement of the Financing Agreement has been signed by the Recipient and the Association.


﻿-3-                    Credit No. 4223-MAG
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by countersigning, dating and returning
to us the enclosed copy of this letter, while keeping one original for your records.
Sioce ely,
Hal
Country Direc r for Madagascar
Africa Region
AGREED:
JIRAMA
By:
6 Rasidy
Directeur G6n6ral
Date:   I Z"m        r   Q~


