                                                 E921
                                                  v 3




              Kingdom of Cambodia
                Nation Religion King




CAMBODIA: - POWER DISTRIBUTION GMS TRANSMISSION
            PROJECT
         - RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONAND
            TRANSMISSION PROJECT



                    DETAILED
  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
                        PLAN


                   January 2007




       Ministry of Industry Mines and Energy
              Electricite du Cambodge

                                                                                                       " ' t i No
                                                       KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA                                                                     ..
                                                                                                                                            *-*


                                                           NATION RELIGION 161NC                                                  , =--'

                                                                    --                          i


                                                                                        Phnom Penh, February CS 9 ,2007



                   To: Mr. Sohail Hasnie                                     To:    Ms. Rebecca C. Sekse
                         Senior Energy Specialist                                    Senior Financial Analyst,
                         Infrastructure Division                                    Energy and Mining Unit,
                         Southeast Asia Department                                  East Asia and Pacific Region
                  'Tel: + 63 2 632 5782164.12                                Tel:   202-458-0469
                  Fax: + 63 2 636 2336                                       Fax:   202-522-16481477-2743




                   Subject:         Detailed Environmental Management Plan (Draft) for Power
                                    Distribution and Greater Mekong Sub-Region Transmission Project
                                     and Rural Electrification and Transmission Project.



                  Dear Mr. SirlMadam,

                   We have pleasure to enclosing the draft Detailed Environmental Management Plan (DEMP)
                   for your kind review and approval. The DEMP is prepared by incorporation with the Initial
                   Environmental Examination (TEE) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which were
                   approved by ADB and Ministry of Environment of Cambodia.

                  The DEMP shall be applied incorporated to Construction Environmental Management Plan
                  (CEMP) which will be prepared by contractor.




                                          &

                   Corporate Planning and Projects


                   CC: - Mr. Yasuhiko HINO
                         - Mr. Praing Chulasa
                         - Mr. Sok Sovann




Elc-c:rrict:S d11Ca~:~Ccd(.:e: Fi" 19 Watt Flir,orn. D a ~ nPenh District, Phnom Penh.
                            St.                                                                                    Phone / Fax: (855) 23 42601E

. .
    Power Distribution and GhfSTransmission Project ADB L.oan No. 2052 CAM PF)
    Rural Electrijic.ation and Transmission Project. WB credit No. 3840-KH
    Detailed Environmentul hfanagement Plan
   ..                ..




                                                           Table of Content




    1.    INTRODUCTION            .................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                1

    2..   METHODOLOGY             ................................................................................................................................2

    3.    SUMMARY OF POTENTIAL NEGATlVE IMPACTS                                            .....................................................................2

         3.1. LAND ACQUISITION AND LAND USE CHANGE.........................................................................                                     2

         3.2. BUILDING REPLACEMENT AND HOUSEHOLD RELOCA TION................................................3

         3.3. LOSS OF TREE RESOURCES .........................................................................................................                  3

         3.4. LAND USERESTRICTION ..............................................................................................................                3

         3.5. CROPAND LAND DISTURBANCE ..............................................................................................                           4

          3.6.  WILDLIFE IMPACT ........................................................................................................................        4

          3.7. AIR QUALITY...................................................................................................................................   4

          3.8. SOIL EROSION ................................................................................................................................    4

          3.9. WATER QUALITY AND SOIL CONTAMINATION .........................................................................4

          3.10.NOISE...............................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                5

          3.11.HISTRIC. CULTURALAND RELIGIOUS SITES .............................................................................5

          3.12. RADl0 AND TV INTERFERENCE ..................................................................................................                    5

          3.13. HEALTH AND SAFETY ...................................................................................................................           6

    4 .   MITIGATION MEASURES                   ..................................................................................................................7

          4.1. DESIGNANDPRE-CONSTRUCTIONSTAGE ...............................................................................7

          4.2. CONSTRUCTIONSTAGE................................................................................................................                9

          4.3. OPERATIONSTAGE .....................................................................................................................            11

     5.   ENVIRONhIENTALMONITORING PROGRAM                                            ..........................................................................12

          5.I . RESPONSEBILITIES .....................................................................................................................         12

          5.2. FRAMWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM ............................................13

          5.3. MONITORING ITEMS ...................................................................................................................            14

          5.4. REPORTING FOR MONITORING PROGRAM ............................................................................                                   14

    6 .   PUBLIC CONSULTATION                   .................................................................................................................15

          6.1. NOTIFICATION ON THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION ............................... 15

          6.2. FEEDBACK OF LOCAL GRIEVANCE TO DEMP........................................................................ 15

     7.     RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF DEMP                                                   .....................................................16

          7.1. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................................................................16

Power Distribution and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrljication and Transmission Project, WB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan


     7.2. ESTABLISHMENT OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL DIVISION ...................................16

     7.3. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SED ..............................................................................................16




APPENDIXES


Appendix Summary of Mitigation Measures and Implementation Responsibility

. '
     Power Distribution and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
     Rural ElecfrrJcation and Transmission Project, WB credit No. 3840-KH
     Detailed Environmental Management Plun


     ABBREVIATION

      ADB                     Asian Development Bank

      CEMP                    Construction Environmental Management Plan

      DCC                     Design and Construction Contractor

      DEMP                    Detail Environmental Management Plan

      EDC                     Ekctricitk du Cambodge

      EIA                     Environmental Impact Assessment

      EMP                     Environmental Management Plan

      ESD                     Environmental and Social Division

      IEE                     Initial Environmental Examination

      MIME                    Ministry of Industry,Mines and Energy

      MOE                     Ministry of Environment

      O&M                     Operation and Maintenance

      PIC                     Project Implementation Consultant

      PMU                     Project Management Unit

      RGC                     Royal Government of Cambodia

      WB                      World Bank

      SEO                     Social and Environment Office

Power Distribution and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrijicat~onand Transmission Project, WE credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed EnvironmentalManagement Plnn



1.         INTRODUCTION

ElCctricite du Cambodge (EDC) intends to provide additional power to Phnom Penh to
improve electricity supply and reduce costs to the consumer under the Power Distribution
and Greater Mekong Sub-region (PDGMS) Project and Rural Electrification and
Transmission Project. EDC also plans to improve power supply and distribution in a number
of provincial towns under this Project with assistance from the ADB and the World Bank.

The components of the proposed Project are as follows;
<ADB fund>
     -    230 kV main transmission line from the WPP substation site to the Vietnam border
     -    Construction of substations at WPP and Takeo.
     -    Medium voltage distribution lines to villages
<WB fund>
     -    115 kV transmission lines from West Phnom Penh connecting to the existing ring
          line in Phnom Penh, Construction of National Control Center (NCC).
     -    Grid extension expanding the existing 22kV around Phnom Penh, Sihanoukville,
          Kampot, Takeo, Kampong Speu and Battambang.
     -    Updating equipment in the existing Phnom Penh Substation at GS1, GS2 and GS3.

The transmission line incorporates a 30 m right-of-way (ROW), covering 15m either side of
the centerline, where settlement and structures will not be permitted and vegetation height
restrictions will apply.

Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for the Project was canied out as part of ADB
Technical Assistance (TA) 4078           -  CAM in July 2003. This project has been categorized as
Environmental Category B by the ADB based on the prediction of relatively minor adverse
impacts from project construction and operation. Accordingly, the preparation of an IEE is
required in accordance with ADB environmental assessment requirements. Project is still at
the detailed feasibility design stage. The final design of infrastructure will be undertaken by
the selected Design and Construction Contractor (DCC).

The IEE contained the part of environmental impacts and mitigation measures, and the
environmental management plan including monitoring plan. The IEE report was submitted
to the Ministry of Environment (MOE) in November 2003. The MOE approved the Report
"in principle" in November 2003 ,however the MOE requested to MIME to prepare in both
version of English and Khmer in order to examine in detail. While the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by EDC in November 2003. The MOE again
requested to prepare in both version of English and Khmer for IEE report and EMP. EDC
prepared them and submitted to MOE in April 2006. MOE fully approved above document
in May 2006.


In the meantime, the ADB requires the RGC that a Detailed Environmental Management

Porver Distribution and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rurol Electrrjication and Transmission Project. WB credit No. 3840-KH
Delailed Environn~entalManagement Plan



Plan (DEMP) be prepared at the beginning of the implementation stage.

The objective of the DEMP is to determine the necessary practical mitigation measures for
avoiding, andlor minimizing negative impacts caused by the Project. The Project has various
aspects of construction activities such as establishment of transmission line and construction
of substation. Therefore, the DEMP has been developed so as to cover every aspect of the
Project components.


2. METHODOLOGY

The DEMP has been developed through the activities below.

    Reviewing the TEE Report prepared in July 2003;

    Reviewing the Environmental Management Plan(EMP) prepared in November 2003;

    Site investigating to identifying additional negative impacts to be considered in the
    DEMP;

    Clarifying the institutional aspect that necessary for the implementation of DEMP;

    Consulting on the mitigation measures proposed in the DEMP with the engineers of the
    PICs(ADB/WB)

    Consulting on DEMP with related agencies: MOE, and ADBIWB advisers



3.    SUMMARYOF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS

Project is in beginning stage of construction. The final design of infrastructure will be
undertaken by the selected Design and Construction Contractor (DCC). In this chapter,
potential negative impacts caused by the Project are considered based on the results of the
IEE.

3.1        LAND ACQUISITION AND LAND USE CHANGE

Land acquisition is required to establish the transmission line towers and substations. In the
TEE, land acquisition at each of the estimated 350 tower sites for the 230 kV transmission
line will be between 100-225 m2, totaling about 4 ha, depending upon final design. Land
acquisition at each of the estimated 200 tower sites for the 115 kV line will be 4 m2,totaling
less than 0.1 ha. Land to be acquired at the two substation sites will total about 8.0 ha,
including the area for the access roads leading to these sites. Accordingly, total land
acquisition is estimated to 12.1 ha, to be confirmed during the final design. The land for
230kV transmission line construction will be acquired from an estimated 140 households.
Permanent land use change will only occur on approximately 8.6 ha as cropping will be
permitted beneath the towers but land use will change on each tower footing. Cropping

Power Distribution and GMS TransnrissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrrficalion and Transmission Project. WB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan



crops will also be unaffected as they are generally less than 3 m high (e.g. cassava grows to
around 3 m).

3.5        CROP AND LAND DISTURBANCE

Disruption of farming activities and the disturbance of crops, bunds, canals and drains will
occur during construction and some line maintenance activities where machinery access has
to be gained and no permanent roads exist. Crop disturbance during construction will result
from the establishment of a temporary 3-4 m wide access way to each tower site, the
construction of each tower site and conductor stringing. Short sections of paddy bunds and
draintcanal embankments will be temporarily removed and drainslcanals may be
temporarily filled to establish access, to be reinstated by the contractor once construction
has been completed..

3.6        WILDLIFE IMPACT

Wildlife will be affected by transmission line construction and operation through the loss of
habitat from ROW vegetation clearing, and from the deaths of individuals caused by
electrocution or flight impact.

3.7        AIR QUALITY

Exhaust emissions from machinery used for tower and substation construction will be minor,
localized and of short duration. Dust may be generated on construction sites.

3.8        SOlL EROSION

Soils along the ROW are generally erodible due to high dispersibility, therefore ground
disturbance has the potential to create an erosion hazard. Reduced vegetative cover from
ROW clearing and general ground disturbance from machinery operation during
construction will only create a low erosion hazard as ground slopes rarely exceed 2%.
Exceptions to this will be on riverbanks and on the batters of canals and drains where
vegetation removal and ground disturbance on these steeper slopes may create a moderate to
high erosion hazard on these specific sites. A moderate erosion hazard will also be created
on embankment batters at the substation sites during and following landfilling.

3.9        WATER QUALITY AND SOlL CONTAMINATION

Water sources are susceptible to pollution from accidental spills of construction materials,
oils and chemicals, and from human contamination from defecation. Appropriate facilities
will be provided and controls placed on construction and workforce activities.

The WPP and Takeo substation sites are located on flood prone land. Soil and water
contamination may occur at the substations from the accidental release of transformer oil or

Power Distribution and GMS TransmissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrljication and TransmissionProject, WB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan



3.13         HEALTH AND SAFETY

Health hazards may be created by the temporary influx of construction workers into the
project area, from construction activities and from the operation of the transmission and
distribution lines.

Workforce Influx
A considerable number of people are likely to be employed as management staff,
skillediunskilled workers on the transmission line construction. They will mainly come from
outside the immediate project area, including from Phnom Penh, elsewhere in Cambodia
and outside Cambodia. The staff come from outside the transmission line area,
predominantly men, will temporarily reside in the project area during the construction
period. This period of residence has the potential to raise the number of cases of sexually
transmitted disease (STD) in predominantly rural communities in the project area.

Construction Hazards
Health hazards from construction activities will occur from heavy machinery operation, the
handling of hazardous materials and general construction activities. Unexploded ordinance
(UXO) is known to occur within the ROW and thus poses a significant hazard at these
locations.

Electrostatic Induction and Electromagnetic Induction
A health hazard caused by electrostatic and electromagnetic induction may occur. The
induction will occur in the area surrounding conductors and other electrical devices, but
rapidly reduce with distance from the source.

Electrocution
Electrocution can occur from contact with the live conductors, flashover from the conductor
to a tower and conductor breakage. Contact with live conductors or flashover to a person or
object near a live line is highly unlikely to occur given that a safe minimum vertical
clearance from ground level of 7 m and 6 m will be provided to the 230 kV and 115kV lines
respectively. The accidental failure of the transmission line involving a conductor breaking
is also highly unlikely to result in people being electrocuted. Very sensitive and 100%
redundant transmission line protection will be adopted for the line. This protection will
detect any fault, including the conductor snapping, and cause the line to be de-energised
within three cycles, thus largely avoiding the potential for electrocution from a breakage.

Hazardous Materials
Since Poly chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) has carcinogenicity, it is not used as an insulated
medium of transformers and capacitors.

Aviation Hazard
The installed transmission line will pose a very minor general aviation hazard. The volume
of air traffic in the project area is low, apart from adjacent to the northern end of the northern

Power Distribution and GMS TransmissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrification and Transmission Project, WB credit No. 3840-KfI
Detailed EnvironmerrtalManagement Plan



other hazardous substances. Both substations will be bunded in accordance with standards to
prevent the loss of oil off site.

Turbidity created by minor erosion and sedimentation resulting from construction will have
a negligible impact on water quality.

3.10       NOISE

Tower foundation construction will be undertaken by boring machines and pile drivers,
depending upon site conditions. This equipment will generate noise levels in the range of
90-105 dBA at source. If helicopters are used to construct towers or string lines, the noise
range may be slightly higher near the source.

Given the relatively short duration of excavation activities and helicopter operations that
will occur at any particular site along the transmission line route, and the predominantly
rural location of these activities, the resulting noise impact is classified as relatively minor.

3.11       HISTORIC, CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS SITES

The transmission line route avoids crossing or running within close proximity of historic,
cultural and religious sites and no graves are crossed by the ROW. The line will not be
visible from Tonle Bati and Angkor Borei historic sites, and will be a distant feature below
the horizon when viewed from Phnom Chisou, therefore the cultural landscape of these sites
will be unaffected.

The nearest religious site to the proposed route is Wat Svay Ampea, a locally significant site
located approximately 800 m southwest of the WPP substation site, 500 m north of the 230
kV ROW. Despite this close proximity, the 230 kV route does not cross the main approach
view of the temple, which is gained from the east along the access road off NR3. However,
the northern 115 kV line is proposed to cross the approach road approximately 800m to the
north of the other temple, Wat Sleng.

3.12       RADIO AND TV INTERFERENCE

High voltage transmission lines can develop a "corona effect" caused by the ionisation of air
around the conductors, insulators and hardware due to a constant electric charge. This effect
occurs when the stress on the air surrounding the conductor and associated hardware
exceeds the breakdown strength of air. It results in power loss and electromagnetic
interference to radio and television signals, producing low level noise, but does not pose a
health hazard. The corona effect is generally low in dry weather and rises as moisture levels
increase. Conductor size is a significant determinant of corona effect. The selection of a
sufficiently large conductor prevents the onset of corona.

Power Distribufion and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 20.52 CAM (SF)
Rural Elecfrtfica~ionand Transmission Projecr, WB credir No. 3840-Kff
DefailedEnvironmental Managenlent Plan



beneath towers is a safe practice in terms of electrical field exposure and line clearance from
crops and people working these areas.

3.2        BUILDING REPLACEMENT AND HOUSEHOLD RELOCATION

The transmission line ROW has been located to avoid settlements, but 135 houses and a
chicken shed could not be avoided and require relocation to establish the required line
clearance distances. These buildings will be relocated to nearby sites acceptable to the
relocating household, in accordance with the conditions set out in the Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP). An estimated approximately 20% of structures will be relocated on the same
parcel of land, while the remaining 80% of structures will require a new block of land and
the replacement of associated infrastructure due to insufficient space andlor topography
restrictions on the existing parcel.

New house site land will generally be acquired in the same village where the existing
dwelling is located. No impact will occur to "host" communities where land is acquired for
relocating households as these households will be relocated within their own communities.

3.3        LOSS OF TREE RESOURCES

Private and communal trees and plants above 3 m height within the 30m wide ROW will be
either removed or pruned to provide the necessary conductor clearance distance. Trees up to
3 m height will be permitted within the ROW, such as banana palms.

In addition, large trees within 30 m of the base of towers and poles will be selectively
removed or pruning to remove or reduce the height of trees that have the potential to fall and
strike these structures. Tree removal or pruning will also be undertaken immediately outside
the ROW to prevent trees from falling and striking the lowest conductor.

Tree removal and pruning will mainly occur in settlement areas, where the majority of trees
occur. Scattered trees such as sugar palms and coconut palms that are grown on paddy land,
canal embankments, riverbanks and roadsides comprise the remaining trees to be removed
or pruned.

3.4        LAND USE RESTRICTION

Land use restrictions will be placed on all land within the ROW, owned by 3,198 PAFs.
Vegetation will be restricted to 3 m height, whilst no structures will be permitted to be
constructed within the easement. On rural land, this will reduce the agricultural capability of
land by denying the growing of most trees in the ROW. On urban or industrial land, land use
capability will be reduced by prohibiting structures.

Immediately outside the ROW tree height restrictions will also be applied. Cereal cropping
within the ROW will be permitted as this vegetation is less than 1 m high, whilst garden



                                                                                          Page 3

Power Distribution and GMS TransmissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrijication and Transmission Project. WB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan



115 kV line where the route passes approximately 3.3 km south of Pochentong Airport, the
main international and domestic airport in Cambodia. Given the setback of the line from the
airport and a maximum height of line of around 21 m, a hazard will not be created to general
air traffic using this airport.


4. MITIGATION MEASURES

Mitigation measures for potential negative impacts will be adopted in each stage of the
Project, namely design and pre-construction stage, construction stage and operation stage.

Different mitigating approach could be considered for the same negative impact, depending
on the timing of the Project.

Followings are the mitigation measures for each project stage. Summarized potential
negative impact and the mitigation measures are given in Appendix.

4.1        DESIGN AND PRE-CONSTRUCTION STAGE

4.1.1      LAND ACQUISITION AND LAND USE CHANGE

     -    Fair compensation will be paid for acquired land based on current market rates,
          taking into account land capability.
     -    Design to minimize tower/pole footprint

4.1.2      BUILDING REPLACEMENT AND HOUSEHOLD RELOCATION

     -    Replacement houses, other buildings and facilities will be constructed to a similar
          standard to the existing structures
     -    Replaced structures will, in order of preference, be located on the existing
          landholding outside the ROW, on a replacement block of land in the vicinity of the
          original building or at a similar site agreed to with the owner.
     -    Relocated households will retain title over their existing ROW land (except tower
          and substation sites) despite being compensated with a house block and an adjacent
          tree and garden area, thereby gaining additional land for garden production or
          similar.
     -    Relocation expenses and allowances will be paid to affected households to cover the
          cost of moving possessions and the cost of living and disturbance during relocation.
     -    Building materials from structures removed from the ROW will be made available
          to the relocating household for its use. Materials that are not wanted by the
          household will be disposed of by the design and construct engineer.

4.1.3      LOSS OF TREE RESOURCES

      -   Compensation for removed or pruned trees will be paid at fair market value based
          on tree type and age.

Power Distribution and GhlS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Eleclrrjication and TransmissionProject, WB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan




4.1.4      LAND USE RESTRICTION

     -    A one-off compensation payment may be paid to affected landowners to offset the
          devaluation of land within the ROW due to reduced land capability as a result of
          building prohibition. This payment would be based on current or future land
          capability, depending upon the site. No compensation will be paid for vegetation
          height restrictions applied to land adjoining the ROW.


4.1.5      CROP AND LAND DISTURBANCE

     -    Tower footing design should minimize permanent land use requirement, and should
          allow access for farming in and around footing area

4.1.6      WILDLIFE IMPACT


 Habitat Loss
     -    At the freshwater swamp area special precautions are to be taken to avoid fish
          spawning and waterfowl habitat areas.

4.1.7      WATER QUALITY AND SOIL CONTAMINATION

      -    Substations will be constructed above at least the 1:10year flood level by creating a
           filled pad.
      -    Substation transformers will be located within secure and impervious bunded areas
           with a storage capacity of at least 110% of the capacity of oil in transformers and
          associated reserve tanks. Drainage flame traps with oillwater separators will also be
           installed.

4.1.8      HISTORIC, CULTZJRALAND RELIGIOUS SlTES

      -   Alignment should be designed to avoid areas of cultural significance
      -    Chance find procedures should be established and incorporated into construction
           contract bidding documents.

4.1.9        RADlO AND TV INTERFERENCE

      -    Transmission line design will comply with the "General Requirements of Electric
           Power Technical Standards of the Kingdom of Cambodia (hereinafter, referred to as
           Technical Standards), Clause 47", and equivalent international standards.
      -    A single conductor with the size of more than 400 mm2or bundle conductors will be
           used for a phase of the 230 kV line to mitigate the corona effect.
      -    The design of all line conductor fittings, vibration dampers, tension clamps and
           other line components will avoid sharp comers or projections that would produce




                                                                                          Page 8

Power Disfribufionand GMS TrunsmissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrijication and Trntlsmissiotl Project. WE credit No. 3840-KH
DefailedEnvironmental hfunagementPlan



          high electrical stresses in normal working conditions. The design of adjacent metal
          parts and mating surfaces will prevent corrosion of the contact surfaces and
          maintain good electrical contact under service conditions. Care will be taken during
          manufacture of conductors and fittings and during subsequent handling to ensure
          smooth surfaces free from abrasion.

           HEALTH AND SAFETY

          Proper design to limit ground level exposure to electrostatic and electromagnetic
          induction in compliance with "Technical Standards, Clause 47"
          Proper design to limit lightning strike in compliance with "Technical Standards,
          Clause 42"
          Wherever towers are located close to settlements, proper countermeasures must be
          taken in compliance with "Technical Standards, Clause 32"
          PCBs will not be used in transformers or any other project facilities or equipment.
          The use of marker balls on conductors will be considered in the detailed design of
          115 kV lines to make the conductors more visible. Specific sites considered will
          include where air traffic is more likely (i.e. near Phnom Penh Airport or above main
          roads, where an emergency landing may be attempted) or where longer spans occur
          (e.g. crossing watercourses).

           CONSTRUCTION STAGE

           LOSS OF TREE RESOURCES


          Trees that can survive pruning to less than 3 m height will be pruned to provide the
          required line clearance distances, not cleared(Transmissionline component)
          Vegetation to be cleared will be marked prior to clearance to ensure that minimal
          clearance occurs.
          Trees that have mature heights in excess of the required clearances will be clearly
          marked, and only these trees will be felled or trimmed to meet the clearance
          requirements.
          Vegetation to be removed manually, no pesticides to be used
          Felled trees and other cleared or pruned vegetation (wood, branches and foliage)
          will be made availablelretained by the owner of that vegetation for hisher use, or
          will be removed if requested by the owner(Transmission1ine component)

           CROP AND LAND DISTURBANCE


          The selection of construction techniques and machinery will consider minimization
          of ground disturbance
          Construction activities on cropping land will be timed to avoid disturbance of field
          crops within one month of harvest wherever possible.
          Established roads and tracks will be used for construction and maintenance access

Power Distribution and GMS TransmissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM(SF)
Rural ElectnJicafionand Transmission Project. WBcredit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan



          to the line wherever possible.
     -    Where access is required off existing roads and tracks, access will be restricted to a
          single carriageway width within the ROW unless more direct and lower impact
          access can be gained.
     -    The temporary placement of fill in drainsfcanals will not be permitted where
          impeded drainage could cause flooding or damage.
     -    Compensation for lost production will be paid for crops disturbed prior to harvest
          based on area of disturbed crop, market price and agreed yield.
     -    Spoil excavated from tower footings will be disposed of by placement along
          roadsides, or at nearby houseblocks if requested by landowners, to improve these
          features.
      -   Procuring of fill for the substation foundations by creating or improving local ponds
          or drains, undertaken with the agreement of local communities.

4.2.3      WILDLIFE IRIPACT


 Habitat Loss
      -   Trees that can survive pruning to less than 3 m height will be pruned to provide the
          required line clearance distances, not cleared(Transmissionline component)
      -   Transmission line construction workers will be prohibited from harvesting or
          collecting fi~elwoodor other tree products in the project area during their
          employment, apart from the current activities of locally employed staff.

4.2.4      AIR QUALITY

      -   Wet surfaces during hot, dry and/or windy conditions

4.2.5      EROSION


           Construction activities involving significant ground disturbance (i.e. substation
           landforming) will not be undertaken during the dry season (mid May to October)
           Groundcover to be left undisturbed as much as possible
           Tree clearance to enable line construction and establish the ROW will seek to leave
           ground cover (i.e. grass and low shrubs) undisturbed as far as possible.
           Tree clearing will only involve the cutting of trees to ground level or pruning as
           appropriate, with tree stumps and roots retained.
           Substation embankments will be topsoiled and planted with a cover crop and
           perennial ground cover species immediately following final landforming to provide
           rapid and long-term ground stabilization.
           Borrow pits to be rehabilitated and revegetated
           The fenced substation compounds will include the embankments to ensure that
           ground cover is protected from over grazing or harvesting.
           Excess fill from tower foundation excavation will be disposed of by landforming
           next to roads or around houses, in agreement with the local community or

Power Distribution and GhfSTransmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Elecfrrjcafionand Transmission Project, JVB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental hfanagemenfPlan



         landowner. All landformed areas will be seeded with a cover crop and perennial
         grass mix.
     -   Where fill is obtained from specific sites for the construction of the substation
          foundations, these sites will be rehabilitated by seeding with a cover crop and
         perennial grass mix.

4.2.6     WATER QUALITY AND SOIL CONTAMINATION

     -   Fuel and other hazardous materials used during project construction will be stored
          in a secure manner above flood level and at least 20 m from any waterbody,
          watercourse, canal or storage pond.
     -   Proper wastewater treatment, water supply and waste disposal facilities for
          workforce

4.2.7    NOISE


     -    Construction activities will only be undertaken during the day and local
         communities will be informed of the construction schedule.
     -   If nighttime construction is necessary, local population will be notified in advance

4.2.8    HEALTH AND SAFETY

     -   All sites certified clear of UXO by Cambodian Mine Clearance Authority (CMAC)
         prior to construction
     -    The Design and Construction Contractor will prepare an Occupational Health and
          Safety Plan and provide related training and instructions to all staff before each
          person commences duties.
     -    The construction workforce facilities provided by the Design and Construction
          Contractor will include proper sanitation, water supply and waste disposal facilities.
      -   Public health information will be provided by the Design and Construction
          Contractor to the construction workforce prior to the commencement of on-site
          work, primarily covering the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases (including
          HIVIAIDS).

4.3        OPERATION STAGE
     '




4.3.1      LAND ACQUISITION AND LAND USE CHANGE

      -   Owners of land acquired for 230 kV towers will be permitted to grow cereal crops
          under the towers.

4.3.2      WILDLIFE LlClPACT


 Habitat Loss
      -   Trees up to 3 m height will be retained within the ROW (Transmissionline component)

Power Distribution and GhfS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Elecfr~Jcationand Transmission Project, WBcredit No. 3540-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan




Flight Deaths and Electrocution

In accordance with results of O&M, where particular attention should be given, measures
to minimize bird deaths associated with transmission lines will be considered, including:
     -    silhouettes of birds of prey attached to conductors to frighten birds;
     -    markers attached to wires, such as colored balls, to improve line visibility for birds;
          and
     -    modifications to mitigate electrocution, such as perch guards and conductor
          insulation (Helland-Hansen et al, 1995).
Mammals
In accordance with results of O&M, where particular attention should be given, measures
to minimize fauna deaths associated with transmission lines will be considered, including:
     -    Installation of screens to prevent monkeys and other arboreal mammals climbing
          towers will be considered in the design of the towers.
     -    A monitoring program will be undertaken to determine the occurrence of fauna
          deaths associated with the transmission line. Additional mitigation measures will be
          considered if implemented measures are unsuccessful.


5.    ENVIRONMENTALMONITORING PROGRAM



5.1        RESPONSIBILITIES


Social and Environmental Division.SED. under Project Management Ofiices(PMO1 &2) of
EDC, with assistance of the PIC, will carry out Compliance Monitoring, which is the
monitoring activities on the compliance with proposed mitigation measures, to ensure
mitigation measures are implemented to meet environmental requirements.

The Contractors, under the supervision of the PIC, will prepare and carry out the
Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) based on DEMP prepared by the
SED with assistance of the PIC, to implement the mitigation measures. Also, the Contractors
will conduct self-monitoring to ensure the effectiveness of the compliance on he mitigation
measures.


5.2        FRAMEWORK FOR THE ENVIRONMENATL MONITORING


Fig-1 shows procedure and relationship in carrying out Environmental Monitoring
Procedure.

Power Distribution and GMS TransmissionProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electr~jicationand Transmission Project, IVB credit No. 3840-KFf
Detailed Environmental Management Plan




                                                                                                              I
                                                                                 Independent Monitoring
                                             EDC
                                                                                    Organization (IMO)




                             Project Management Unit      (m)
                                          ADBIWB

  F A                                          +
                            Social & Environment Office (SEO)

                                                                      -
                                    Provide


                          Development of D!tailed Environemtnal        Refer   Preparation of Monitoring
                                                                                            v
                                Management Plan (DEMP)                                    Plan




                                              *
                            Prepare Construction Environemtnal
                                  Managemnt Plan (CEMP)
                             by Contractor for ADBIWB Section




                           Social & Environmental Office (SEO)




                                 Environmental Monitoring
                                                                            Monitoring Construction Activities
                                            Report

                                             1 Submit     the Report                          I
                              Project Management Unit (PMU)
                                          ADBIWB




                                             1      Submit the Report

                                                                           Submit the Report

                                          ADBIWB                      4




                         Fig 1 Environmental Monitoring Procedure




                                                                                                      Page 13

Power Distribution and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrificafionand Transmission Project, WB credlfNo. 3840-KH
Detailed EnvironmentalManagmzent Plan




5.3.    MONITORING ITEMS

Monitoring items have been determined base on the potential negative impacts identified in
each project stage. Monitoring items for each project stage are giving below. Monitoring
activities are summarized in Table 1.


Table 1 Monitoring Plan
                                      Measurement                                     Monitoring       I
  Monitoring Parameter                                      Monitoring Location
                                        Technique                                     Frequency
 <Construction Stage>                                                                                  1
 Loss of Tree Resources             Observation             Along KOW              Monthly
 Crop           and        Land Observation                 Along ROW              Monthly
 Disturbance
 Wildlife Impact:                   Observation             Along ROW              Monthly
  Habitat 1,oss
 Air quality                        Observation             Along ROW              Monthly
 Soil Erosion                       Observation             Along ROW              Monthly
 Water Quality and Soil Observation                         Along ROW              Monthly
 Contamination                     I                       1                      I                    I
 Observation                         Observation            Along ROW              Monthly
 HealtWSafety                        Observation            Along ROW              Monthly
 <Operation Phase>
 Land Acquisition and                Observation             Along ROW             Once,
 Land Use Change                                                                   construction
 Wildlife Impact:                    Observation             On transmission lines Once,          after
 Flight          Death       and                             andlor towers         construction
 Electrocution


5.4.    REPORTING FOR MONITORIGN PROGRAM

SED, with the assistance of the Environmentalists of the PICs, will submit Monthly Reports
on Environmental Monitoring Program to the concerning organization. The content of the
Report will consists of

     Summary of the environmental effects of the Project that have been predicted during
    project planning.

     Summary of environmental effects which have been observed to date

     Unpredicted effects and the nature of observations, if any

     Project's compliance on the EMP




                                                                                               Page 14

Power Distribution and GhfS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Eleclr~ficationand Trans~nissionProjec~,WB credit No. 3840-KH
Detailed Environmental 12fanageme~ztPlan



    Recommended adjustments to the project operations if any

    Recommended adjustments to the monitoring program, if any

    Other observations, recommendations, and conclusions.

6. PUBLIC CONSULTATION

Public consultation is an important element for carrying out Environmental Monitoring
Program.      Providing local people participation in the Project will assist in finding out
impacts caused by the Project and their solution. Also this will improve environmental
governance mechanism to influence decision about the use and management of natural
resources.

All phases of the Project will include structure for consultation and for information
disclosure to affected people, appropriate government agencies, and other stakeholders, for a
sound environmental management. The following information will be disclosed to local
people and other stakeholders.


6.1. NOTIFICATION ON THE COMMENCEMENT OFTHE CONSTRUCTION

Meeting for notification on the commencement of the construction to local communities will
be held. The meeting will include representatives from (i) villages affected by the Project;
(ii) EDC, (iii) province affected by the Project; and (iv) Inter-Ministry Resettlement
Committee (IRC). The meeting will be held at each Project Provincial Office, at least one
month before the commencement of construction.

6.2. FEEDBACK OF LOCAL GRIEVANCE TO THE DEMP

During the construction stage, in order to ensure that mitigation measures (DEMP) is
properly implemented, it is important to maintain effective procedure for absorbing
grievances from stakeholders, to identify any environmental and social impacts occurred
from incompliance of mitigation measures.

Local people in the Project area, through public meeting, will be instructed on how to make
grievances on social and environmental issues to the Project when be impacted. At the
Meeting, Grievance Forms provided by the Project will be given to Village Chief for
grievance registration.

During construction stage, the local people can make their grievances to the Project through
their Village Chief. SED will conduct periodically visit to Village Chiefs to collect
Grievance Forms. SED, in collaboration with the Environmentalist of PIC, will carry out
solution for the grievances.

Procedure on absorbing and solving grievances is shown in Fig-2.




                                                                                      Page 15

Power Distribution and GMS Transmission Project ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electrijication and Transmission Project, WB credit No 38440-KH
Detailed Environmental Management Plan




       Solution for                                                SEO
                            4
        grievances


                                Submit Grievance Form                T
                                                            I                     /
  Register grievances on the                                   Village Chief
                                  . .........................
  Grievance Form


                                                                        Inform grievances


                                                             7 Affected People




                           Fig3 Procedure on Grievance Absorption and Solution


7. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF DEMP

7.1.       INTRODUCTION

MIME does not have an environmental or social unit at present. EDC currently undertakes
environmental and social functions on a project-by-project basis as necessary, performing
this work as a secondary role to their primary work as engineers or managers. In order to
carry out DEMP project base, establishing Social and Environmental Office (SEO) for the
Project is considered to be critical.

7.2.       ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SEO

The following persons, under the agreement of EDC, have been appointed as the staffs of
the SEO. They will cover the both Project components funded by ADB and WB.
1.    Mr. Mao VISAL, Head of SEO working on regular basis with the PIC

2.    Mr. Chen SOPHANNA, Deputy head of SEO working on regular basis with the PIC

The number of staff of SEO will be expanded to four before commencement of construction
activities.



7.3.        RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SEO

The SEO, with assistance of the Environmentalist of the PIC, will

Power Distribution und GMS TransmissiorrProject ADB Loan No. 2052 CAM (SF)
Rural Electr~jicationand Transmission Project, WB credit No. 3840-KIf
Detailed Environmental Mananement Plan



    Carry out Compliance Monitoring: the day-to-day inspection on compliance of
   mitigation measures of the contractors;

    Prepare reports on Compliance Monitoring.

   Address grievances from affected people




                                                                              Page 17

Appendix 1        Summary of Mitigation Measures and Implementation Responsibility

   Environmental Issue                                           Mitigating Measure                                          Responsibility

 <Design & Pre-construction Stage>

 Land Acquisition and Land    -  Fair compensation will be paid for acquired land based on current market rates, tahng        EDCDCC
1                            1                                                                                                                I
 Use Change                      into account land capability.

I                            1-  Design to minimize pole footprint                                                         I                  I
 Building Replacement and     -  Replacement houses, other buildings and facilities will be constructed to a similar             EDC

 Household Relocation            standard to the existing structures

                              -  Replaced structures will, in order of preference, be located on the existing landholding

                                 outside the ROW, on a replacement block of land in the vicinity of the original building

                                 or at a similar site agreed to with the owner.                                                 b



                              -  Relocated households will retain title over their existing ROW land (except tower and

                                 substation sites) despite being compensated with a house block and an adjacent tree and

                                 garden area, thereby gaining additional land for garden production or similar.

                              -  Relocation expenses and allowances will be paid to affected households to cover the cost

                                 of moving possessions and the cost of living and disturbance during relocation.

                              -                                                                                                 b
                                 Building materials from structures removed from the ROW will be made available to the

                                 relocating household for its use. Materials that are not wanted by the household will be

                                 disposed of by the design and construct engineer.

 Loss of Tree Resources       -  Compensation for removed or pruned trees will be paid at fair market value based on tree        EDC

                                 type and age

   Environmental Issue                                            Mitigating Measure                                              Responsibility
                           I                                                                                                    1
                              I                                                                                               I

 Land Use Restriction           -  A one-off compensation payment may be paid to affected landowners to offset the                    EDC         I
                                                                                                                              I      h
                              1    devaluation of land within the ROW due to reduced land capability as a result of building    1                 I
                              1    prohibition. This payment would be based on current or future land capability, depending   (                   I
                           I       upon the site. No compensation will be paid for vegetation height restrictions applied to  I                   I
                                   land adjoining the ROW
1Crop and Land Disturbance     -   Tower footing design should minimize permanent land use requirement, and should                   DCC

                                   allow access for farming in and around footing area
                                                                                                                                     L


 Wildlife Impact               Habitat Loss                                                                                          DCC

                           I                                                                                                  1
                               -   At the freshwater swamp area special precautions are to be taken to avoid fish spawning                        I
                           I       and waterfowl habitat areas.                                                             I                     I

 Water Quality and Soil        -   Substations will be constructed above at least the 1:10 year flood level by creating a            DCC

 Contamination                     filled pad.

                               -   Substation transformers will be located within secure and impervious bunded areas with            b




                                   a storage capacity of at least 110% of the capacity of oil in transformers and associated

                                   reserve tanks. Drainage flame traps with oillwater separators will also be installed

1Noise                         -   Setback of housing in accordance with Cambodian and World Bank noise                              DCC

                                   standardslguidelines

 Historic, Cultural and        -   Alignment should be designed to avoid areas of cultural significance                              DCC

 Religious Sites               -   Chance find procedures should be established and incorporated into construction

  EnvironmentalIssue                                        Mitigating Measure                                           Responsibility

                             contract bidding documents.

Radio and TV Interference  - Transmission line design will comply with the "General Requirements of Electric Power           DCC

                             Technical Standards of the Kingdom of Cambodia (hereinafter, referred to as Technical

                             Standards), Clause 47", and equivalent international standards.

                           - A single conductor with the size of more than 400 mrn2 or bundle conductors will be

                             used for a phase of the 230 kV line to mitigate the corona effect.                             A


                           - The design of all line conductor fittings, vibration dampers, tension clamps and other line

                             components will avoid sharp comers or projections that would produce high electrical

                             stresses in normal worlung conditions. The design of adjacent metal parts and mating

                             surfaces will prevent corrosion of the contact surfaces and maintain good electrical

                             contact under service conditions. Care will be taken during manufacture of conductors

                             and fittings and during subsequent handling to ensure smooth surfaces free from                A


                             abrasion.

Health and Safety          - Proper design to limit ground level exposure to electrostatic and electromagnetic              DCC

                             induction in compliance with "Technical Standards, Clause 47"

                           - Proper design to limit lightning strike in compliance with "Technical Standards, Clause

                             42"

                           -                                                                                                A
                             Wherever towers are located close to settlements, proper countermeasures must be taken

                             in compliance with "Technical Standards, Clause 32"
                           - PCBs will not be used in transformers or any other project facilities or equipment.

  Environmental Issue                                        Mitigating Measure                                         Responsibility
                           - The use of marker balls on conductors will be considered in the detailed design of 115

                             kV lines to make the conductors more visible. Specific sites considered will include

                             where air traffic is more likely (i.e.near Phnom Penh Airport or above main roads, where

                             an emergency landing may be attempted) or where longer spans occur (e.g. crossing

                             watercourses).




Loss of Tree Resources     - Trees that can survive pruning to less than 3 m height will be pruned to provide the          DCC

                             required line clearance distances, not cleared(Transmissionline component)

                           - Vegetation to be cleared will be marked prior to clearance to ensure that minimal

                             clearance occurs.

                           - Trees that have mature heights in excess of the required clearances will be clearly

                             marked, and only these trees will be felled or trimmed to meet the clearance

                             requirements.

                           - Vegetation to be removed manually, no pesticides to be used

                           - Felled trees and other cleared or pruned vegetation (wood, branches and foliage) will be

                             made availablelretained by the owner of that vegetation for hisher use, or will be

                             removed if requested by the owner(Transmission1ine component).

Crop and Land Disturbance  - The selection of construction techniques and machinery will consider minimization of          DCC

                             ground disturbance

                           - Construction activities on cropping land will be timed to avoid disturbance of field crops

  Environmental Issue                                      Mitigating Measure                                       Responsibility

                           within one month of harvest wherever possible.

                       -   Established roads and tracks will be used for construction and maintenance access to the

                           line wherever possible.

                       -   Where access is required off existing roads and tracks, access will be restricted to a

                           single camageway width within the ROW unless more direct and lower impact access

                           can be gained.

                       -   The temporary placement of fill in drainslcanals will not be permitted where impeded

                           drainage could cause flooding or damage.

                       -   Compensation for lost production will be paid for crops disturbed prior to harvest based

                           on area of disturbed crop, market price and agreed yield.

                       -   Spoil excavated from tower footings will be disposed of by placement along roadsides,

                          or at nearby houseblocks if requested by landowners, to improve these features.

                       -  Procuring of fill for the substation foundations by creating or improving local ponds or

                           drains, undertaken with the agreement of local communities.

Wildlife Impact:       Habitat Loss                                                                                    DCC

Habitat Loss           -  Trees that can survive pruning to less than 3m height will be pruned to provide the

                          required line clearance distances, not cleared (Transmission line component)

                       -  Transmission line construction workers will be prohibited from harvesting or collecting

                          fuelwood or other tree products in the project area during their employment, apart from

                          the current activities of locally employed staff.

  Environmental Issue                                    MitigatingMeasure

Air quality            - Wet surfaces during hot, dry and/or windy conditions                                         DCC

Erosion                  Construction activities involving significant ground disturbance (i.e. substation            DCC

                         landforming) will not be undertaken during the dry season (mid May to October).

                         Groundcover to be left undisturbed as much as possible

                         Tree clearance to enable line construction and establish the ROW will seek to leave

                         ground cover (i.e. grass and low shrubs) undisturbed as far as possible.

                         Tree clearing will only involve the cutting of trees to ground level or pruning as

                         appropriate, with tree stumps and roots retained.

                         Substation embankments will be topsoiled and planted with a cover crop and perennial

                         ground cover species immediately following final landforming to provide rapid and

                         long-term ground stabilization.

                         Borrow pits to be rehabilitated and revegetated

                         The fenced substation compounds will include the embankments to ensure that ground

                         cover is protected from over grazing or harvesting.

                         Excess fill from tower foundation excavation will be disposed of by landforming next to

                         roads or around houses, in agreement with the local community or landowner. All

                         landformed areas will be seeded with a cover crop and perennial grass mix.

                         Where fill is obtained from specific sites for the construction of the substation

                         foundations, these sites will be rehabilitated by seeding with a cover crop and perennial

                         grass mix.

                                                                                                                             Responsibility
                             I
 Water Quality and Soil      1                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                           I
                               - Fuel and other hazardous materials used during project construction will be stored in a        DCC          I
 Contamination               I                                                                                             I
                                 secure manner above flood level and at least 20 m from any waterbody, watercourse,

                                 canal or storage pond.

                              -  Proper wastewater treatment, water supply and waste disposal facilities for workforce

 Noise                         - Construction activities will only be undertaken during the day and local communities           DCC

                                 will be informed of the construction schedule.

                              -  If nighttime construction is necessary, local population will be notified in advance

 Health and Safety             - All sites certified clear of UXO by Cambodian Mine Clearance Authority (CMAC) prior            DCC

                                 to construction                                                                                i


                               - The Design and Construction Contractor will prepare an Occupational Health and Safety

                                 Plan and provide related training and instructions to all staff before each person

                                 commences duties.

                              -  The construction workforce facilities provided by the Design and Construction

                                 Contractor will include proper sanitation, water supply and waste disposal facilities.

                              -  Public health information will be provided by the Design and Construction Contractor to

                                 the construction workforce prior to the commencement of on-site work, primarily

                                 covering the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases (including HIVIAIDS).


1                           1                                                                                              1
 Land Acquisition and Land    -  Owners of land acquired for 230 kV towers will be permitted to grow cereal crops under         EDC         I

  EnvironmentalIssue                                      Mitigating Measure                                           Responsibility

Use Change                the towers                                                                                      .
WILDLIFE IMPACT       Habitat Loss                                                                                        EDC

                      -   Trees up to 3 m height will be retained within the ROW (Transmission line component)

                      Flight Deaths and Electrocution

                      Birds

                      In accordance with results of O&M, where particular attention should be given, measures to

                      minimize bird deaths associated with transmission lines will be considered, including:

                          -    silhouettes of birds of prey attached to conductors to frighten birds;

                          -    markers attached to wires, such as colored balls, to improve line visibility for birds;

                               and

                          -    modifications to mitigate electrocution, such as perch guards and conductor

                               insulation (Helland-Hansen et al, 1995).

                      Mammals

                      In accordance with results of O&M, where particular attention should be given, measures to

                      minimize fauna deaths associated with transmission lines will be considered, including:

                      -   Installation of screens to prevent monkeys and other arboreal mammals climbing towers

                          will be considered in the design of the towers.

                      -   A monitoring program will be undertaken to determine the occurrence of fauna deaths

                          associated with the transmission line. Additional mitigation measures will be considered

                          if implemented measures are unsuccessful

