                               E921
                               v4




    The Kingdom of Cambodia




Environmental and Social Management
         Framework (ESMF)
   For the Rural Electrification and
    Transmission Project (RETP)




              (January 2010)
                                       Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                     Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)




                                Table of Contents
                                                                                       Page
1.0    Brief Project Background                                                           2
                Objectives of the Environmental and Social Management Framework           2
       1.1
                (ESMF)
       1.2      Assumptions                                                               2
                1.2.1     Mini and Micro hydro power type sub projects                    2
                1.2.2     Solar House System (SHS) subprojects                            3
                1.2.3     Biomass Sub Projects                                            4
2.0    RETP Institutional And Implementation Arrangements                                 4
       2.1      Rural Electrification Fund (REF)                                          4
       2.2      Electricity Authority of Cambodia (EAC)                                   4
       2.3      Electricite du Cambodge (EdC)                                             4
       2.4      Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME)                             5
       2.5      Ministry of Environment (MoE)                                             5
       2.6      Private Service Providers (PSP)                                           5
       PART 1: ESMF Requirements For Hydro Power Type Sub Projects                        6
3.0    Requirements Of The Government Of The Kingdom Of Cambodia                          7
       3.1      Land Law                                                                  7
       3.2      Environment Law                                                           7
4.0    World Bank Environmental And Social Safeguards Policy Requirements                 8
5.0    Retp Project Implementation Arrangements                                          12
6.0    Detailed Environmental And Social Management Processes To Be Followed By          13
       The Consultant
7.0    Potential Adverse Impacts                                                         18
8.0    Options For Mitigation                                                            21
9.0    Requirements For Sub Project Environmental Impact Assessments (Ea) Reports        24
10.0   Requirements For Sub Project Environmental Management Plans (Emps)                27
11.0   Requirements For Sub Project Resettlement Action Plans                            29
12.0   Requirements For Sub Project Ethnic Minority Development Plans (EMDP)             30
       Part 2- ESMF Requirements For Biomass Plants (BP) and Solar Home                  31
       Systems (SHS) Sub Projects
13.0   Guidelines For Biomass Plants And Solar Home Systems                              32
14.0   Map of Cambodia                                                                   33
                                                                                         34




                                          1
                                            Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                          Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

1.0     BRIEF PROJECT BACKGROUND

The Rural Electrification and Transmission Project, RETP, is jointly financed by the Kingdom
of Cambodia, the International Development Association (The World Bank), the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and other private funds.
In January 2010, the RETP was restructured and will inter alia, finance the services of a
Consulting Firm (the consultant ) to prepare the Feasibility Studies (FS), Detailed Engineering
Designs (DED) and Bidding Documents (BD), for the following types of renewable energy
sub projects: mini and micro hydro power, biomass plants (BP)and solar housing systems
(SHS). These documents, the FS, DED and BD and the stated Environmental and Social
Safeguards documents required in this ESMF will collectively be known for the purposes of
this ESMF as the Package of Documents (PD) for each sub project. This PD in its entirety
will be prepared the consultant for each sub project.

The RETP funds will only finance the preparation of the PD for the sub projects and not the
implementation of the sub projects. Financing of the sub projects investments will be through
the Rural Electrification Fund (REF) and/or local commercial banks.

1.1     Objectives of the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

The main objective of the ESMF is to provide the mechanisms for RETP sub projects to
comply with the Kingdom of Cambodia's relevant environmental and social laws, and the
World Banks Safeguards policies, thus ensuring that at the time the sub projects are being
prepared and appraised, all required environmental and social management measures are
established, thereby enhancing the opportunities for sub project sustainability.

The ESMF also seeks to provide detailed technical guidance to the Consultant for preparation
of all required environmental and social management plans.

1.2     Assumptions

In designing this ESMF, the following assumptions for each category of sub project were
made to ensure relevance for and a close fit to the scale and intensity of the potential issues to
be addressed in each type of sub project to satisfy both requirements of the Kingdom of
Cambodia and that of the World Bank.

1.2.1   Mini and Micro hydro power type sub projects

        -   The total cumulative installed capacity of all these types of sub projects would not
            exceed 7mw.
        -   The maximum installed capacity for any individual plant will not exceed 2.5mw.
        -   These will be developed in rural areas with hydro power potential to serve off grid
            nearby rural communities.
        -   The Consultant is being recruited to prepare the PD for each hydro power sub
            project.
        -   The consultant will be a firm made up of a team of experts comprising
            environmental and social expertise.
        -   Each sub project will have to be commercially viable for it to be financed.
            Environmental and social management costs will be included in the financial and
            economic analysis for each sub project and will influence commercial viability of
            the sub project.

                                                2
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

        -   These fully designed sub projects will then be owned and implemented by either
            REF or be competitively offered to the private sector to own and operate.
        -   The sub projects will not be run-of river; hence will require intake structures and
            dry season storage.
        -   The main sub project components will be; (i) a weir to regulate dry season flows,
            creating a shallow reservoir (less than 4m deep) all within the existing river
            channel, (ii) Penstock or open earth channel to transfer intake and return flows,
            and (iii) a power house.
        -   No transmission lines will be included in these sub projects, only distribution
            lines.
        -   Approximate average cost of individual sub projects is $2m (for an average 1.2mw
            sized plant)

1.2.2   Solar Home System (SHS) sub projects

The REF will fund the purchase of 12,000 (twelve thousand) SHS units. The units will
comprise of the following main items: Solar Panel, Battery for power storage and domestic
lighting lamps, and switch board panel. Since this is a nationwide program with a pro poor
target, special efforts to provide indigenous minority communities with this benefit will be
made. The specifications for these are:

Solar Panel ­ The photovoltaic modules would comprise of no less than 36 series-connected
single or poly-crystalline silicon solar cells. Flat plate thin-film modules could also be used.
Cells would be laminated between high transmissivity low iron tempered glass and weather
resistant back-sheet to protect moisture penetration. The photovoltaic module would have a
peak power output of at least the specified rated value respectively under Standard Test
Conditions (STC) as defined in IEC 60904-1. The peak power output for thin film modules
would be the value after light soaking.

Battery - The battery will be sealed valve regulated lead acid (VRLA) and AGM type
(Absorbed Glass Mat), either of flat or tubular plate.

Lamps - The lamps will be 12V 7W DC energy saving compact fluorescent lamps (CFL) of E
27 screw type base. Each lamp should have its own inverter (electronic ballast). Each lamp
should be provided with a reflector and a holder that can be installed from the ceiling or
attached to the wall.

1.2.3   Biomass Sub Projects

The plants will be no more than few hundred KW (<300kw), will be fueled using agricultural
waste such as rice husk and will supply off gird customers using own distribution system.
Therefore the scope of this ESMF is limited and restricted by these assumptions.

2.0     RETP INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

2.1     Rural Electrification Fund (REF)

The REF is the implementing agency for these renewable energy type sub projects. The REF
is already established and is fully operational. The REF consists of a Board chaired by the
Minister of MIME and a secretariat, and its main functions are to implement this component
of the RETP and to manage the RETP's investment fund that will finance the sub project
investments.
                                               3
                                            Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                          Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)



The consultant preparing the PD will be contracted by and will report to the REF. Once the
PD is completed for each sub project, and all approvals, endorsements and licenses are
received, sub projects will be submitted to the REF for funding. Sub projects not funded by
the REF may also be submitted to local commercial banks for financing. The REF has the
option to also implement the sub projects, and sub projects that the REF do not implement,
will be offered to the private service providers on a competitive basis.

The REF has a Technical Unit, headed by a Technical Officer with responsibility for the
safeguards oversight of each sub project and the RETP will provide Technical Assistance (TA)
as needed to carry out these responsibilities.

2.2     Electricity Authority of Cambodia (EAC)

The EAC is the regulator for the sector and inter alia, has the responsibility for issuing licenses
to all operators in the sector, in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 7 and 35 of the
Electricity Law promulgated by the Royal Decree NS/RKM/021/03, dated February 02,
2001. One of the conditions for license issuance by the EAC to a sub project applicant is
proof of written approval/clearance from the Department of Environmental Impact
Assessment, Ministry of Environment, and endorsement of the sub project by the Ministry of
Industry, Mines and Energy.

2.3     Electricite du Cambodge (EdC)

The EDC is the state owned power utility company and are the dominant actor in the sector
and due to the relatively small scale of the sub projects in the RETP, EdC is not expected to
be interested in implementing these types of sub projects.

2.4     Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME)

The MIME is the coordinating and policy ministry for these three sectors. The Minister of
MIME is also the Chairman of the REF board and all sub projects will have to be endorsed by
the MIME before they are submitted to the REF for funding.

2.5     Ministry of Environment (MoE)

The MoE has responsibility for reviewing and approving the Environmental Assessments and
Environmental Management Plans (EMP) of the sub projects as per the requirements of the
Law on Environmental Protection promulgated by Royal Decree NS/RKM/1296/36, dated
24/12/1996 and other sub decrees on Environmental Protection of the Kingdom of
Cambodia.

2.6     Private Service Providers (PSP)

A number of licensed PSP already exist in the sector in Cambodia, generating and distributing
electricity to rural households through off-grid connections. Under the RETP, PSP's will
continue to have that opportunity and can participate in the project by implementing the sub
projects. Under the terms of the RETP, PSP's will have the opportunity to bid for these sub
projects and successful bidders will be awarded the sub projects with already completed PD,
prepared by the consultant and funding from either the REF and/or local commercial banks.



                                                4
              Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
            Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)




               PART 1
ESMF REQUIREMENTS FOR HYDROPOWER
         TYPE SUB PROJECTS




                 5
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

3.0    REQUIREMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF
       CAMBODIA

3.1    Land Law

The Constitution of Cambodia provides for land acquisition for public purposes. In Article
20 it states that "Nobody shall be forced to transfer his or her ownership, if forcing is
necessary in public interest and if no proper and just indemnity has been paid to owner".
Regarding compensation, Article 40 of the Constitution states that "...The right to confiscate
(land) possession from any person shall be exercised only in the public interest as provided for
under law and shall require fair and just compensation."

The new 2001 Land Law provides that no person shall be "deprived of their ownership unless
this action is for the public interest consistent with formalities and procedures provided by
laws and regulations, and after just and fair compensation".

3.2    Environment Law

The Law on Environmental Protection and Natural Resource Management, Preah Reach
Kram/NS-RKM-1296/36, was enacted on November 18, 1996 is the main protecting the
environment and Article 6 of the law specifically requires environmental impact assessment of
all proposed projects under procedures determined by sub-decree by the Ministry of
Environment. Article 7 of the law states "The Ministry of Environment shall consider and
make recommendations on the preliminary Environmental Impact Assessment or
Environmental Impact Assessment to relevant competent bodies within a period as
determined in the Law on Investment of the Kingdom of Cambodia." Articles 16, 17 and 18
require public participation and dissemination of information in the EA process and lays
procedures for this.




                                               6
                                       Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                     Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

4.0   WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
      POLICY REQUIREMENTS


                    4.1    Triggered Environmental Safeguards Policies


                                          These micro and mini hydro power projects will
                                          potentially cause significant adverse
                                          environmental impacts. Hence OP4.01 is
                                          triggered by all sub projects in RETP.


  Environmental Assessment OP 4.01             Undertake detailed qualitative and
    Environmental Assessment                   quantitative analysis to determine impacts.
    Environmental Management                   Determine tangible measures to prevent,
      Plan                                     minimize, mitigate or compensate for these
                                               adverse impacts.
                                               Requires Public Consultation and
                                               Disclosure, for each sub project, as part of
                                               the EA process.
                                               Requires EMP to address set of mitigation,
                                               monitoring and institutional measures to be
                                               taken during implementation and operation
                                               of the sub projects.


                                          This policy requires the conservation of natural
                                          habitats and specifically prohibits the support of
                                          projects that involve significant conversion or
                                          degradation of critical natural habitats, as defined
                                          by the policy.

                                          This policy will apply to all sub projects as
                                          activities will include access roads, operation of a
                                          weir to manage dry season flows, thereby
      Natural Habitats OP4.04             seasonal flooding of river channels. Also,
Issues addressed as an integral part of   transfer of flows via penstock or open channels,
          the EA and EMP                  will disturb land within these corridors.


                                               EA to identify impacts on biodiversity and
                                               species and determine endemism,
                                               endangered species, and
                                               Determine impacts on these species and
                                               propose acceptable mitigation and
                                               monitoring measures.

                                          This policy seeks to avoid the disturbance and or
                                          destruction of PCR as defined by the policy, by
                                          project activities. PCR include places of worship
                                          (temples etc), buried artifacts, cemeteries,
                                           7
                                        Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                      Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                                          archeological assets, etc.

                                          Cambodia is endowed with many of these
                                          resources throughout the Kingdom, and since
  Physical Cultural Resources (PCR)       the project activities will require seasonal
               (OP4.11)                   flooding of river channels and fairly significant
Issues addressed as an integral part of   construction activities, all sub projects will
           the EA and EMP                 trigger this policy.


                                                 EA to undertake and exhaustive desk
                                                 review and/or site investigation to pre-
                                                 identify and locate PCRs.
                                                 EA/EMP to propose management
                                                 measures.
                                                 Include chance finds clause in civil works
                                                 contracts.


                                          This policy seeks to address the management,
                                          conservation and sustainable development of
                                          forest ecosystems and their associated resources.

                                          This policy prohibits the support of sub projects
                                          that would involve significant conversion or
                                          degradation of critical forest areas or related
                                          critical natural habitats as defined by the policy.

                                          Sub projects that are located near forest and or
                                          are accessed through forests, pose considerable
           Forests (OP4.36)               risks to this policy's requirements and therefore
Issues addressed as an integral part of   this policy will apply to only those sub projects
the EA and EMP                            that pose this risk.

                                                EA will identify these areas in the sub
                                                project impact zones and will first seek to
                                                avoid impact to these areas by relocating
                                                and or re-siting the sub projects or any of
                                                its sub components.
                                                Where this is not feasible, the EA and EMP
                                                will provide tangible mitigation measures to
                                                manage impacts on these areas.


                       4.2 Triggered Social Safeguards Policies


                                               Addresses direct economic and social impacts
                                               from RETP sub projects that will cause (a)
                                               involuntary taking of land resulting in (i)
                                               relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets
                                               or access to assets or (iii) loss of income
                                           8
                                       Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                     Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                                              sources or livelihoods and (b) involuntary
                                              restriction of access to legally designated
                                              parks and protected areas resulting in adverse
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12)          impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced
   Addressed through following policy         persons.
   instruments;
    Resettlement Policy                       Sitting of sub projects to be so chosen so as
      Framework(RPF)                          to avoid these impacts altogether or to
    Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs)          minimize them to the extent possible. Sub
                                              projects that cannot avoid these impacts
                                              altogether will trigger this policy requiring the
                                              preparation of RAPs.

                                              Community donations of lands is not
                                              acceptable in the case of location-specific
                                              infrastructure (such as dams or reservoirs).


                                                   RPF already exist for this project.
                                                   RPF is to be followed when preparing
                                                   sub project RAPs when they are
                                                   required.
                                                   Consultation with potentially affected
                                                   people will be required.


                                              This policy requires the Government of the
                                              Kingdom of Cambodia to engage in a
                                              process of free, prior and informed
                                              consultation with Indigenous peoples, as
                                              defined by the policy, affected by the sub
                                              project.

                                              The World Bank can only support the sub
                                              project where the process of free, prior and
                                              informed consultation results in broad
                                              community support of the sub project by the
                                              affected indigenous groups. If this is the case,
      Indigenous Peoples (OP4.10)             then the sub project must include measures
Addressed through the following policy        to (a) avoid potentially adverse effects on
instruments;                                  these groups, or (b) when avoidance is not
      Ethnic Minority Development             feasible, minimize, mitigate, or compensate
       Framework(EMDF)                        for such affects.
      Ethnic Minority Development Plan
       (EMDP)                          This policy further requires that the sub
                                       project be designed to ensure that these
                                       groups where they are present in the sub
                                       project area benefit from the sub project.
                                       This means that these groups must be given
                                       the opportunity to benefit directly from a sub
                                       project in their area through access to
                                       electricity from the sub project.
                                          9
  Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)




             The EMDF (called an ethnic minority
             development strategy) was prepared for
             this project in 2003. This EMDF will
             be updated for closer alignment of the
             re-structured project objectives and will
             include updates in Bank and
             governmental policies and regulations
             on indigenous peoples, including their
             demographics. The updated EMDF is
             to be followed when preparing sub
             project EMDPs when they are required.
             Determination of whether or not to
             prepare the subsequent EMDPs will be
             based on a screening for indigenous
             peoples in proposed project sites that
             will be carried out by the WB Task
             Team. The EMDP will include
             measures to mitigate adverse effects
             including means to ensure access to
             project benefits.

             Informed consultation with potentially
             affected indigenous people/groups will
             be required.




     10
                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)




5.0   RETP PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS




                              11
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)




6.0    DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
       PROCESSES TO BE FOLLOWED BY THE CONSULTANT

          Stage                        Action Required                 By Whom and How

1.Carefully and Diligently Choose location based on technical        The Consultant team of
choose site locations      engineering criteria/issues for mini      Engineers will include
                           or micro hydro power. Key Issues          qualified Environmental
                           to be considered that affect site         and Social Specialists.
                           selection and environmental and
                           social impacts are:
                              - Access to location.                  Environmental and Social
                              - Maximum Head requirement.            Experts on the Team to
                              - Wet and Dry Season Water             provide preliminary
                                 Flows                               guidance and to
                              - Location of Weir                     accompany rest of the
                              - Height of Weir                       team on sites visits during
                                                                     this stage and will use
                              - Required Length of
                                                                     detailed geological and
                                 temporary (dry season)
                                                                     other technical maps.
                                 storage reservoir in river
                                 channel.
                                                                     Selected sites will be
                              - Location of Power House              identified clearly on these
                              - Transfer of flow to Power            maps.
                                 house by Penstock or Open
                                 Channel.
                              - Length of Penstock/ Open
                                 Channel
                              - Submerged/underground
                                 Penstock or surface
                              - Return of Flow from
                                 Powerhouse back to river.
                              - Distance between point of
                                 flow intake on river to return
                                 flow on river, i.e., the distance
                                 between upstream and
                                 downstream points on the
                                 river.
                              - Need for inter-basin transfer
                                 to increase dry season flow.
                              - Proximity of potential
                                 customers.
                              - Distribution Grid
                                 requirements.

2. Identify                   Preparation of schematic               The consultant team will
Engineering/Technical         engineering design drawings ,with      prepare schematic Design
Options                       required plans, sections and           Drawings.
                              elevations of all relevant features
                              such as reservoir, weir, penstock or
                                              12
                                     Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                   Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                         open channel, powerhouse and
                         downstream flow management,
                         distribution grids, all on
                         appropriate scaled drawings.


3. Carry Out Part 1 of   Based on scheme design drawings        The consultant EA and
Environmental and        from stage 2 above:                    SA team experts will
Social Assessment s (       - Under take preliminary (part      undertake these activities
which is Analysis of          1) Environmental Impact           using the guidance given
Alternatives)                 Analysis.                         in this stage.
                            - simultaneously undertake
                              preliminary social assessment
                              to determine (i) land
                              acquisition needs, estimate
                              number of
                              households/peoples who
                              might be affected , how they
                              may be affected, whether by
                              physical relocation, loss of
                              livelihoods and or loss of
                              economic asses, and (ii)
                              presence of Ethnic
                              Minorities, (via a screening
                              exercise to be carried out with
                              the World Bank) estimate
                              numbers of them and how
                              they may be affected.
                            - Based on preliminary impacts
                              from EA and SA, determine
                              possible mitigation measures
                              for each.
                            - These mitigation measures
                              are to be based on
                              compliance with all applicable
                              laws of Cambodia and World
                              Bank Safeguards policies.
                            - Calculate cost estimates of
                              these EA and SA
                              corresponding proposed
                              Mitigation measures.
                            - Determine which of these EA
                              and SA impacts can be
                              avoided by relocation of
                              some or all of the engineering
                              infrastructure/features of the
                              design and indicate these
                              possible site locations on
                              maps.
                            - First round consultations may
                              be necessary at this stage with

                                        13
                                         Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                       Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                                 potentially affected groups
                                 and other stakeholders to
                                 gage sub project support and
                                 to include concerns of those
                                 consulted into this stage of
                                 the sub project feasibility
                                 design cycle.


4. Input findings of EA     Add these environmental and             Entire consultant team
and SA into Financial       social management costs into the        (including EA and SA)
and Economic Analysis       financial and economic analysis to:     experts consulting closely
part of the Feasibility        - Determine from a financial         with the REF.
Study and based on                and economic sense, if sub
results decide whether to         project is still commercially
return to Stage 1 above           viable. If Yes, proceed to
or continue to next stage         next steps.
below                          - If No, then consider
                                  alternatives proposed in 3
                                  above, which will include
                                  relocation of certain features,
                                  re-design of the entire sub
                                  project and or selection of an
                                  entirely new site location.
                               - May also consider downsizing
                                  the sub project to reduce
                                  impacts.
                               - Result of this stage may be to
                                  go back to Stage 1 or
                                  continue with sub project as
                                  is ( i.e. existing scheme
                                  design) or with modifications,
                                  to stage 5.


5. Finalize EA and Social   If decision is made to continue to      For the EA and EMP,
Documents.                  this stage, then more detailed EA       this ESMF provides key
                            and SA work is required to provide      technical
                            adequate level of analysis and          information/guidance to
                            details of the impacts and then to      the consultants EA team
                            prepare the appropriate mitigation      to complete this work.
                            plans, also to the required detail.
                            These plans will include;               For the completion of the
                               - Final Environmental                RAPs and EMDPs when
                                   Assessment Report (EA).          required, the consultants
                               - Environmental Management           SA team will be guided by
                                   Plan (EMP) to be                 the Resettlement Policy
                                   implemented during all four      Framework (RPF) and
                                   phases of the project which      the Ethnic Minorities
                                   are (i) Design Phase, (ii)       Development Framework
                                   Construction Phase (iii)         (EDMF).

                                            14
                                          Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                        Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                                   Operational Phase and (iv)        This ESMF and the RPF
                                   Maintenance Phase.                and EMDF have already
                               -   Resettlement Action Plans- if     been publicly disclosed
                                   required.                         both locally in Cambodia
                               -   Ethnic Minority                   and at the World Banks
                                   Development Plans ­ if            infoshop.
                                   required.
                               -   Consultations with affected       The EA, EMP, RAPs and
                                   groups to be carried and          EMDP's will all be
                                   finalized during preparation      reviewed and approved
                                   of these documents.               for use by the Ministry of
                               -   Final EA, EMP, RAP and            Environment for EA
                                   EMDP documents are to be          plans, before a license is
                                   translated into Khmer for         issued by EAC.
                                   each project and then to be
                                   disclosed publicly, locally in
                                   Cambodia.
                               -   If indigenous minority
                                   communities are impacted,
                                   these documents will also be
                                   made available to them in a
                                   manner and location that is
                                   accessible by them (i.e., their
                                   local language or other forms
                                   of communication).


6. Finalize F.S., detailed   Completion of detailed engineering Entire Consultant team.
engineering designs and      designs incorporating the design
contract documents           stage mitigation measures in the
                             EMP. Construction stage
                             mitigation measures in the EMP
                             will be incorporated into the civil
                             works contracts (specifications,
                             Bills of Quantities and contract
                             clauses) to ensure they are
                             adequately priced and enforceable.
                             Operational and Maintenance Stage
                             mitigation measures will be
                             incorporated into the overall
                             projects Operational plan.


7. Implementation of         For sub project activities on all       REF to strictly enforce
RAP before sub project       land affected by involuntary            this.
starts on site.              resettlement, the resettlement
                             action plans will have to be
                             implemented in full, before taking
                             of that land by the sub project.



                                             15
                                       Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                     Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

7.0    POTENTIAL ADVERSE IMPACTS

      Impacts          Main Causes                 Location/Sub           Description of
                                                 Project component           Impact
                                                  causing impact

Disturbance        Inundation/flooding of       Reservoir area          Loss of Biodiversity
and/or Loss of     river channel, river         Impoundment of flow     (flora and fauna),
Habitat            banks and potentially        due to construction     including fish
                   adjacent land.               and operation of Weir   species. In addition
                                                in the river channel.   to biologically
                                                Penstock and open       losses, economic,
                                                channel corridor        livelihood and
                                                alignments.             nutritional losses
                                                                        possible.

                   Sub project location         Access roads.           Impact on human
                   creating new or                                      settlements due to
                   improved access to                                   loss of land leading
                   forest resources.                                    to physical
                                                                        relocation of
                                                                        communities, loss of
                                                                        economic assets or
                                                                        access to these
                                                                        assets.

                                                                        Enhanced
                                                                        destruction of
                                                                        otherwise poorly
                                                                        accessible or
                                                                        previously
                                                                        inaccessible forest
                                                                        resources


Loss of Physical   Flooding                     Throughout project      Disturbance and or
Cultural                                        area.                   destruction of
Resources(PCR)     Construction                                         PCR's such as
                                                                        places of worship
                                                                        (temples etc), buried
                                                                        artifacts, cemeteries,
                                                                        archeological etc.


Deterioration of   Large Stagnant water         Inundated area.         Longer water
Water Quality      bodies over long time                                retention times, de-
                   horizons.                                            oxygenation, and
                                                                        flooded biomass.

                   Reduced downstream           Locations downstream Reduced flows can
                   flows.                       of the weir.         cause increase in

                                           16
                                   Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                 Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                                                                        pollutant loads and
                                                                        concentrations.

               Excessive Deposition           Upstream face of Weir Siltation in the
               and Sedimentation.                                   reservoir, reducing
                                                                    capacity of
                                                                    reservoir.

               Excessive removal of           Construction sites.        Soil erosion,
               natural vegetation                                       sediment
               cover on large areas of                                  transportation and
               land/slope faces.                                        deposition.


Downstream     Reduced flows.                 Locations immediately     Loss of riparian
Hydrology                                     downstream of weir.       ecosystems
Changes                                                                 dependant on
                                                                        seasonal natural
                                                                        flooding.

                                                                         Loss of fish and
                                                                        other aquatic
                                                                        species.

                                                                        Less availability of
                                                                        water for
                                                                        downstream users
                                                                        for irrigation, water
                                                                        supply.

                                                                        May exacerbate
                                                                        water pollution.

                                                                        Economic effects
                                                                        from loss of
                                                                        navigation access
                                                                        for inland
                                                                        transportation of
                                                                        people and goods (
                                                                        on ferries, barges
                                                                        etc)


Construction   Heavy footprint of             Mostly Weir, penstock     Clearance of natural
impacts        Construction Activities        and open channel          vegetation,
                                              corridors, access roads   generation and
                                              and power house           management of
                                              location.                 large amounts of
                                                                        spoil material,
                                                                        quarry management
                                                                        issues, borrow pits,
                                                                        construction camps,
                                         17
  Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                                 dust and noise.
                                 Movement of large
                                 construction
                                 equipment




     18
                                          Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                        Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

8.0    OPTIONS FOR MITIGATION

The most important environmental mitigation measure for these hydro power type sub
projects is good site selection for the Weir and Power House. Use the Analysis of Alternatives
part of EA process to make iterative adjustments and re-siting of the weir and power house to
minimize as much as technically and economically feasible, the inundated area, water retention
times, length of penstock/open channels, reduced downstream flows, involuntary resettlement
and access to forest and/or other protected areas.


                                    Mitigation Measures to consider, for (i) enhanced
                                     sustainability, (ii) managing impacts and (iii)
           Impacts
                                   complying with Laws of Kingdom of Cambodia and
                                               relevant World Bank Policy.

                                         Minimize impact all together if possible, through
Disturbance and/or loss of               good site selection.
habitat                                  Avoid siting in or close to environmentally sensitive
                                         habitats.
                                         Restrict access to environmentally sensitive areas.
                                         Choose location of access carefully with this in
                                         mind. Close off construction access roads through
                                         sensitive areas after construction is completed
                                         Minimize Height of Weir to maximum extent
                                         possible.
                                         Minimize area in river channel to be flooded.
                                         Do not flood areas beyond river channel, such as
                                         catchment areas,
                                         Site power house as close to Weir location as
                                         possible to reduce length of penstock/open
                                         channels.
                                         Consider trade-offs between underground and
                                         surface penstock, size of penstock.
                                         Avoid offsetting loss of natural habitats; this is too
                                         complicated for subprojects this size. Consider
                                         Biomass or Solar Housing Systems in that case.
                                         If endemic species and endangered species are to be
                                         impacted, avoid this impact altogether, too
                                         complicated for sub projects this size to manage.
                                         Consider Biomass or Solar Housing Systems in that
                                         case.
                                         Consider installing a release valve in the Weir to
                                         ensure maintenance of riparian flows to sustain
                                         ecosystems downstream.
                                         WB OP4.04 prohibits siting where significant
                                         conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats
                                         will occur.
                                         Good construction practices.
                                         Close monitoring

Loss of Physical Cultural                Avoid /minimize impacts on PCR
Resources (PCR)                          Where impacts cannot be avoided, provide in-situ
                                             19
                               Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                             Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

                             protection if possible.
                             Otherwise, consider safe removal after scientific
                             inventory, and relocation to museums, new
                             sites,etc., as possible.
                             For unique and sacred sites affecting indigenous
                             groups and other local communities, close
                             consultations required.
                             Introduce chance finds measures in the civil works
                             contracts and operational plans.
Deterioration of Water       Reduce retention times.
Quality                      Reduce reservoir areas.
                             Reduce water depths in reservoir.
                             Selectively clear land of biomass before inundation.
                             Reduce length of river impounded.
                             Maintain downstream flows close to seasonal dry
                             season flows as much as possible.
                             During construction control erosion, sediment
                             transportation and deposition through maintenance
                             of natural vegetative cover or synthetic covers.
                             Avoid stock piling of spoil near river banks and
                             cover stock piles during wet seasons.

Downstream Hydrological      Need to maintain riparian flows to maintain
Changes                      downstream ecosystems, fish species and other uses
                             downstream.
                             Achieved through strategic management of water
                             releases to closely mimic natural flood patterns as
                             much as possible. Requires control valve
                             mechanism in the Weir.
                             Exact amounts determined in EA process.
                             Discuss with downstream stakeholders as part of
                             consultation process.
Construction Impacts         Effective management plans for dust and noise
                             control, spoil, quarry and borrow pit management
                             and construction camps management.
                             Disturbed sites should be restored.
                             Siting or any new access roads should be in the
                             environmentally and socially least sensitive areas.
                             Sensitive areas (forests etc) along the access road
                             should be legally and physically protected on-the
                             ground.
                             Good drainage of sites and treatment of run-offs
                             required in some cases.




                                  20
                                            Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                          Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

9.0    REQUIREMENTS FOR SUB PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
       ASSESSMENTS (EA) REPORTS

The consultant will conduct the environmental analysis of the sub project in a two part
process, consistent with requirements stated in Chapter 6 of this ESMF. The function of each
part of the EA process is as follows:
Part 1 of the EA ­ is to provide an opportunity early in the process to inform and influence
the feasibility design stage, so that environmental issues are taken into account before the sub
project design is finalized and detailed engineering designs are being prepared.
Part 2 of the EA ­ to finalize the EA based on final sub project design.
Therefore, the consultant will carry out the following tasks for each Part:

Part 1 of the EA- Analysis of Alternatives for the Feasibility Study to consider

           Task 1 ­ Baseline Data - Determine and assess the key biophysical and social
           features in sub projects area of influence. This would be determined through desk
           study of relevant documents and maps, site interviews, site investigation and
           surveys, to obtain data on river hydrology, rainfall, presence of environmental
           sensitive areas such as forests, wetlands, mountainous area, etc, land use, geology,
           land forms, identification aerial, terrestrial and aquatic flora and fauna species, land
           users, no. households in the project area, their socio cultural identity, downstream
           users, downstream ecosystems, etc. The purpose of this is to establish the pre-sub
           project baseline.
           Task 2 ­ Preliminary Impact Analysis ­ The sub project impact would be the
           changes to the baseline by the sub project activities. Determine and quantify on a
           preliminary basis, the adverse environmental impact.
           Task 3- Propose Preliminary Mitigation Measures ­ develop tangible mitigation
           measures to avoid, reduce or otherwise manage to acceptable levels, in compliance
           with local requirements, World Bank policies and/or international best practice.
           Task 4 ­ Cost estimates of these Mitigation Measures ­ develop preliminary cost
           estimates for each mitigation measure proposed.
           Task 5 ­ Analysis of Alternatives ­ develop alternatives to proposed sub project
           site location, weir ht, reservoir depth and length, etc, technology (i.e. biomass or
           solar housing systems, etc) including "without sub project "situation with aim of
           avoiding or reducing impacts. For each alternative, quantify the impacts to the
           extent possible and estimate costs of mitigation measures where possible.
           Task 6 ­ Consultations ­ The consultant will carry out initial consultations to
           sensitize potentially impacted people and groups on the sub project impacts and
           proposed mitigation measures, to obtain their views and to take that into account
           in the sub project design and in Task 5 above.
           Task 7 ­ Temporarily stop EA work and report findings ­ These are then
           reported back to the entire consultant team and the REF, and the costs are
           inputted into the financial and economic analysis to determine what impact the
           environmental and social management costs of the proposed sub project
           preliminary design would have on the internal rate of return (IRR) and commercial
           viability of the sub project.
           Task 8 ­ Together with the REF a decision is made to re-site or make changes as
           suggested in Task 5 above to improve the IRR of the sub project, or to cancel the
           sub project all together,
           Task 9 ­ Based on the decision made in Task 8 above the consultant repeats Task
           1-8 above for sub projects that are modified/re-sited or move to Part 2 of the EA
           process for sub projects with the decision to continue.

                                               21
                                         Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                       Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

Part 2 of the EA ­ Finalize EA

          Task 10 ­ Once a decision is made to continue with the sub project, essentially the
          consultant will now confirm and finalize the baseline data, complete the qualitative
          and quantitative impact analysis, details of the mitigation measures and develop
          more accurate cost estimates, complete consultations and complete the EMP and
          EA report. The suggested format for the EA report is given below and that for the
          EMP is in Chapter 10 of this report.

Suggested Structure of the EA Report

Executive Summary
Sub Project Description
Baseline Data
Summary of compliance requirements for applicable local requirements and World Bank
safeguards policies
Analysis of Alternatives
Environmental Impacts
Environmental Management Plan ­ covers mitigation measures, monitoring and instructional
arrangements and strengthening.
Consultations ­ discusses the methodology used, those consulted, summary of issues raised
and how they were addressed by the sub project.




                                            22
                                        Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                      Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

Fig 9.1 illustrating the relationship between the Environmental Assessment Report and the
Environmental Management Plan.




                                           23
                                          Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                        Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

10.0   REQUIREMENTS FOR SUB PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL
       MANAGEMENT PLANS (EMPS)

The consultant will prepare the EMP, which will be in four parts as shown in the table below.


                                      Design Stage ­ focus on mitigation measures that
                                      need to be incorporated into the detailed engineering
                                      design, e.g., adjustments and changes to be made to site
                                      location of each sub project component, mechanisms
                                      for riparian flow releases (e.g. valve in weir), etc.


                                      Construction Stage ­ focus on mitigation measures to
                                      be taken by contractor during construction. These
                                      issues are to be included in the BD (e.g. BoQ, civil
                                      works contracts, etc) so that their implementation is
                                      enforceable.


Environmental Management              Operation Stage­ focus on mitigation measures to be
Plan                                  taken during operation of the sub project, such as
                                      operation of the reservoir, riparian flow releases,
                                      clearance of reservoir before inundation, etc. These
                                      issues will need to be incorporated into the operational
                                      plan for the sub project.


                                      Maintenance Stage ­ present any mitigation measures
                                      to be taken during the maintenance of the sub project,
                                      such as reservoir cleaning, removal of siltation in the
                                      reservoir, etc.




                                             24
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

The actual contents of the EMP for each stage can be structured into a matrix such as this:


Impacts Mitigation Cost of              Institutional         Monitoring Plan ­ who will
        Measures Mitigatio              responsibilities ­    monitor that (i) mitigation      Cost
                   n                    who will              measures are implemented         for
                   Measures             implement when        and (ii) their efficacy so       Mon
                                        and how               change can be made if            itori
                                                              necessary.                       ng
                                                              Monitoring Who When
                                                              Indicators




The consultant can also expand on the issues in the table in text form.




                                              25
                                          Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                        Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

11.0   REQUIREMENTS FOR SUB PROJECT RESETTLEMENT ACTION
       PLANS


The consultant will prepare the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), for sub projects that trigger
the World Bank's Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12). These RAPs are
to be prepared based on guidance given in the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).

The suggested format for the structure of the RAP :

Definition of Terms

Scope of Land Acquisition and Resettlement

Socio Economic Information

Objectives, Policy Framework and Entitlements

Consultation, Grievance Redress and Participation

Relocation and Rehabilitation

Income Restoration Strategy

Institutional Framework

Resettlement Budget and Financing

Implementation Schedule

Monitoring and Evaluation

12.0   REQUIREMENTS FOR SUB PROJECT ETHNIC MINORITY
       DEVELOPMENT PLANS (EMDP)

A screening for indigenous ethnic minority communities will be carried out once project
locations are finalized. This screening determines whether EMDPs are developed or not.

For the micro hydro, the EMDP will include measures to mitigate adverse effects including
means to ensure access to project benefits.

These EMDPs are to be prepared based on guidance given in the Ethnic Minority
Development Framework (EMDF).

The format for the structure of the EMDP is as follows:

(a)    Summary of the social assessment findings.

(b)    A summary of results of the free, prior, and informed consultation with the affected
Indigenous Peoples' communities that was carried out during project preparation and that led
to broad community support for the project.



                                             26
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

(c)    A framework for ensuring free, prior, and informed consultation with the affected
Indigenous Peoples' communities during project implementation

(d)    An action plan of measures to ensure that the Indigenous Peoples receive social and
economic benefits that are culturally appropriate, including, if necessary, measures to enhance
the capacity of the project implementing agencies.

(e)     When potential adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified, an appropriate
action plan of measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for these adverse effects.

(f)    The cost estimates and financing plan for this EMDP.

(g)    Accessible procedures appropriate to the project to address grievances by the affected
Indigenous Peoples' communities arising from project implementation. When designing the
grievance procedures, the borrower takes into account the availability of judicial recourse and
customary dispute settlement mechanisms among the Indigenous Peoples.

(h)     Mechanisms and benchmarks appropriate to the project for monitoring, evaluating,
and reporting on the implementation of the EMDP. The monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms should include arrangements for the free, prior, and informed consultation with
the affected Indigenous Peoples' communities.




                                              27
                    Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                  Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)




                   PART 2
ESMF REQUIREMENTS FOR BIOMASS PLANTS (BP) AND
    SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS (SHS) SUB PROJECTS




                       28
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

13.0   GUIDELINES FOR BIOMASS PLANTS AND SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS

The potential adverse impacts associated with Biomass Plants and Solar Home Systems will be
relatively minor and site specific and thus no formal Environmental Assessment will be
required for these types of sub projects. These guidelines are provided to propose measures
that need to be taken with regards these types of projects.

BIOMASS SUB PROJECTS

The consultant will prepare and EMP for construction, operational and maintenance stages,
using the guidance matrix in Chapter 10.0 of this report. The main environmental issues to
consider are:

           Air emissions from pollutant gases from the generating plant- comply with local
           emissions standards for emitted gases.
           Noise impacts from the generating plant.
           Green House Gas emissions from burning of agricultural waste ­ determine these
           and if significant suggest tangible ways offset.
           Storage, transportation and handling of the agricultural waste, such as rice husk,
           can lead to other forms of land pollution.

SOLAR HOME SYSTEM (SHS)

The RETP will centrally purchase twelve thousand (12,000) SHS units, which will then to be
marketed to rural communities. The only environmental concern regarding the SHS is the
management the batteries, which have high a Lead (Pb) content in the storage batteries.
Serious personal health concerns will arise if lead from these batteries comes into contact with
humans, especially children. Therefore, how the batteries are stored, transported, handled
during use domestically, and then disposed at the end of the life cycle is crucially important.
Experience with similar systems in other developing countries requires that serious measures
be taken to avoid exposing people to the lead in the batteries.

Therefore, the specification is for the procurement and use of sealed batteries which should
not leak any substances. With regards disposal, the recommendation is for the supplier of the
batteries to be required to collect all disused batteries from all households, and to be
responsible for their storage, recycling and otherwise disposal, either nationally or for re-
export to other countries who have capacity to manage the safe disposal of these batteries to
acceptable international standard.

Therefore, the bidding documents for the procurement of the SHS will be revised to include
the following;

            Potential suppliers will submit a Battery Disposal Management Plan (BDMP)
            with their bids which will be reviewed by the REF.
            The REF will include in its evaluation criteria, the submission of an acceptable
            disposal BDMP.
            The Consultant will assist the REF in reviewing these BDMP.
            The supplier will also be required to provide training material in the form of easily
            readable leaflets in local languages on the risks and safe use, storage and handling
            of these batteries.
            The REF will monitor implementation of these plans and will pose serious
            punitive measures on the supplier(s) for any violations of these plans, which will

                                              29
                                           Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                                         Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

            include being responsible for the health management of any person or persons
            exposed to these risks as a result of negligence on the part of the supplier in
            implementing their BDMP.
            The Consultant is to assist the REF in preparing the bid documents to include
            these requirements.


The exclusion of indigenous ethnic communities as recipients of SHSs is a potential adverse
project impact. Thus in the preparation of EMDPs for SHSs, the Consultants should focus
on ensuring that minorities access the same benefits as the majority population with respect to
the SHS (see format from section 12.0). The consultants will clarify the approach regarding
the selection of beneficiaries which gives equal access to minorities; develop clear monitoring
measures to enable an assessment of whether ethnic minorities are benefiting equitably.




                                              30
                                Rural Electrification and Transmission Project (RETP)
                              Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)


14.0   MAP OF CAMBODIA




                         31
