Document of                 F*  E      14W
The World Bank                  z          c  p 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3349-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                      December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YR1)            YRI
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                4.50
YRl1 I=  $0.22                       0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO         Central Planning Organization
DOT         Department of Transport at MCT
FFYP        First Five-Year Plan
HA          Highway Authority
IDA         International Development Association
LDA         Local Development Association
MCT         Ministry of Communications and Transport
MPW         Ministry of Public Works
SFYP        Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86)
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights: $6.2 million (approximately
US$7 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Project Description:   The proposed project is designed to (i) assist the
Government in a selective strengthening program of
the main road network through an asphaltic overlay
of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road and restoration of its
drainage and storm water protection facilities; and
(ii) provide technical assistance to the newly
establisbed department of Transport (DOT) in the
Ministry of Communications and Transport. The pro-
posed project would benefit the producers and con-
sumers of the Taiz and Ibb Governorates througb
savings in vebicle operating costs, and the Yemen
Government by limiting increases in road maintenance
and repair costs. The risk attached to the physical
component is small, but the technical assistance
component could face delays in achieving the fore-
seen institutional and policy changes. However, in
view of the urgent need for these changes, the risk
is worth taking.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                             Local        Foreign        Total
(Project costs are exempted               $               million-
from custom duties and taxes)
A. Civil Works (Taiz-Al Mafraq Road)
Overlay                               3.1           8.4          11.5
Drainage and Flood Protection        0.5            1.4           1.9
Subtotal                          3.6           9.8           13.4
B.  Construction Supervision                 0.1           0.3           0.4
C.  Technical Assistance to DOT              0.2           0.7            0.9
Project Base Cost                          3.9          10.8          14.7
Physical contingencies 1i                  0.4           1.0           1.4
Price contingencies                        0.7           1.2          1l9
Subtotal                          1.1           2.2            3.3
Total Project Cost                         5.0          13.0          18.0
Financing Plan:                             Local        Foreign        Total
-           $ million     …
Government                                 5.0            -            5.0
IDA Credit                                  -            7.0           7.0
Cofinancier                                 -            6.0           6.0
Total                                    5.00         13.0          18.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY   1983              1984            1985
…$ million
Annual                                   1.1            5.6            0.3
Cumulative                               1.1            6.7            7.0
Rate of Return:               33 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3893-YAR, dated June 1, 1982.
1/ Excludes experts and training.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDR) 6.2 million (approximately US$7.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Fourth Highway project. The Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development has expressed interest in considering
financing the foreign exchange gap of about US$6.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.       A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a
Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report
on manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and a report
on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554a-YAR), dated January 6, 1982,
have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached
in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.       Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors. A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was followed by
the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their wake, the foun-
dations for the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and
expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also
started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Agricultural Research and Development credit which is scheduled for
consideration by the Executive Directors on June 8, 1982.



- 2 -
has fluctuated around $l billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980,
but which seems to bave dropped below this level in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels of
education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled and professional occupations, even the unskilled work force was under
strain during the height of the labor migration to neighboring countries.
However, it appears that previous sbortages of unskilled workers have recent-
ly eased somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of
manpower limits the capacity of the public administration to manage and
implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to
diminish in relative terms over the longer run, a development wbich calls for
measures to broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and
devise new schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission,
with IMF participation, addressed these and related issues, and its draft
report was discussed with the Government in November 1981. The Government
has already implemented some of the mission's recommendations.
Government Objectives
9.        The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81). It has endeavored to develop human re-
sources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Preliminary progress reports on the first four years of the
Plan indicate that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met
except in the agriculture sector where output has stagnated and actual growth
fell considerably below targeted levels primarily because of the abandonment



- 3 -
of marginal rain-fed areas where income opportunities could not compete with
the opportunities of migration.
10.       During the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986),
the Government had initially asked the Bank for assistance in reviewing major
development issues, and in evaluating priorities in sectors in which IDA is
involved so as to channel resources into the most desirable areas. This work
has been completed. In addition, at the request of the Government, the Bank
agreed to act as executing agency for a UNDP-financed project that assists in
overseeing the inputs which have been used by the Central Planning
Organization in the preparation of the plan. The SFYP was reviewed at the
Second International Development Conference wbich was held in Sanaa in late
April 1982.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
11.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and
1978/79. 1/ Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflec-
ting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government ser-
vices, and of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of
modern casb crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables,
fruits and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important eco-
nomic sector in YAR, was relatively stagnant and in some cases contracted.
12.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new mar-
kets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private invest-
ment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This coin-
cided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad boc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the Government
increased its capital expenditures from close to YRIs 60 million ($13 mil-
lion) in 1972/73 to around YRls 2.5 billion ($555 million) in 1979/80.
Domestic and External Finance
13.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million, which
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national sav-
ings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large
part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, most of whom
are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of the coun-
try and different population groups.
1/ The Government, with United Nations/Economic Commission for Western Asia
(UN/ECWA) assistance, has recently revised the country's entire national
accounts series. These new data are being reviewed at the Bank.



- 4 -
14.       Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following three years tax revenue more than
trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in
import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses, which in
1977/78 reached YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for
1978/79 have this surplus shrinking to around YRls 315 million ($70 million)
as a result of the continued large expansion of expenditures. The recent
Bank mission to review domestic resource mobilization, as well as a subse-
quent IMF Article IV Consultation mission, expressed concern that the overall
budgetary position deteriorated rapidly as of 1978/79 and the overall deficit
has been on the order of YRls 2 billion-2.5 billion ($445 million-$555 mil-
lion) per annum.
15.       YAR's external financial position has also changed dramatically in
recent years. Wbile at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange was
in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to request the
rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the country sub-
sequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of payments surpluses
and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for this change must be
seen in the large and growing amounts of workers' remittances and private
transfers, as well as in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations. However, the last two years or
so have witnessed a stabilization in the levels of remittances and transfers,
and since imports continued their rapid growth, the balance of payments has
also deteriorated sharply. As a result, there has been a significant run on
the country's foreign reserve holdings.
16.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial,
and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital Flows and External Debt
17.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most, of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to more than $l.5 billion by the end of 1980. The
principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, the Gulf States, IDA, China,
Germany and the USA.
18.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support.  Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the ex-
treme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority



-5-
and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants,
YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on
these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $417 million in 1980.
Most of the official loans and credits have been committed for the financing
of specific projects, witb the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including
irrigation, and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
19.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
20.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1980 was
estimated at $1603 million, of which $727 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, IDA, the Arab Fund, China, Germany and
the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits accounted for W201 million or about 13 percent
of the total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrow-
ing, the debt service payments amounted to $18 million for 1980, equivalent
to around 1 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed credit would be the thirty-first to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $278.3 million.l/ The World Bank strategy in YAR
has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development,
to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agricul-
ture, and to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in
rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended nine
credits, totaling $106.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries and rural infra-
structure; eleven credits totaling $107.6 million, for infrastructure includ-
ing highways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power distribution, and uroan
development; four credits, totaling $41 million, for education and training;
two credits, totaling $14.3 million, for industry; and a $2.0 million credit
to promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal resources to pri-
vate companies. In FY1978, an investment of $2.4 million by the Internation-
al Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
1/ This includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes a $6.0 million credit for the
Agricultural Research and Development project wbicb is scheduled for
Board consideration on June 8, 1982, and the $7.0 million credit for the
Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, wbich was cancelled
at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 6 -
22.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical sbortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
througb direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Three particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank
(through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a
team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.
Currently, the Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project that
assists the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see
paragraph 10). In MAF, the Bank supplies the services of seven advisers
initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now fi-
nanced jointly by IDA, the EEC Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama
project) and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which has the
responsibility for carrying out applied agricultural research for the country
as a whole, is also financed as part of this institutional support.
23.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) lagged somewhat lately largely due to the delay in the
recruitment of staff for project implementation and the shortage of counter-
part funds arising from budgetary constraints. Following a number of imple-
mentation reviews of the whole portfolio, there are indications that perfor-
mance started to improve and implementation of ongoing IDA-assisted projects
is now progressing satisfactorily. YAR's performance now compares favorably
with the regional average and is considerably above that of countries at a
similar level of development. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits, Bank grants, and IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution
of the ongoing projects, as of March 31, 1982.
24.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and education and training, and will seek to spread the benefits of develop-
ment more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and
technical assistance needed for successful implementation. A first health
project, and an agricultural credit project have been appraised; a fifth
education project, a third power project, and a fifth highway project are in
the preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include water supply
and sewerage, urban and housing, agriculture and rural development activities.
25.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
-large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially



- 7 -
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to co-
operate closely witb other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects, including this project,
have led to about $320 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid
donors.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.       Twenty years ago, YAR bad virtually no modern transport infrastruc-
ture. Although the efforts to build the main road network started in the
1960s, the intensive efforts to develop a transport system and to set up
institutions started only in the early 1970s, and IDA was associated with
these efforts through three highway and one port projects. The first
IDA-assisted investment in YAR was a highway project (Cr. 315-YAR; FY1972)
that led to the establishment of the Highway Authority (HA). From the
beginning, Government efforts were hampered by shortages of managerial and
technical talent and, since the 1973/74 oil price increases, unskilled labor
became scarce as Yemenis were attracted to lucrative employment opportunities
in neighboring oil-producing countries. Nonetheless, in the second half of
the 1970s, while basic transport facilities were lacking and the agencies in
charge still in embryo, transport demand soared at unprecedented growth rates
as a result of a booming economy fueled by the remittances of Yemenis working
abroad; increased migration of the rural population to the cities while main-
taining strong ties to their villages; structural changes in the rural areas
away from subsistence agriculture induced by high cost and shortage of labor;
and a large development program (First Five-Year Development Plan (FFYP))
which was financially supported by foreign assistance. Only recently the
growth of remittances appears to be leveling off, overall economic activity
to be stabilizing and transport growth rates to be returning to normal levels.
The Transport System
27.       Despite the manpower difficulties, however, progress so far in
building up the transport system is impressive. Yemen now has a main road
system of about 2,200 km (65 percent paved), three international airports and
seven airstrips and one major sea port and two secondary ones. However, much
remains to be done, particularly in roads. Although the length of the main
road system tripled over the last decade, many areas are still not served.
Traffic has outgrown the carrying capacity of the main links in the network;
these now require reconstruction and strengthening. The lack of port capa-
city that caused major supply problems during the 1970s has been corrected,
but further port expansion might be needed to accommodate traffic growth.
Similarly, airports are now in reasonable condition but further investments
are required to adapt the facilities for larger and heavier aircraft and to
extend air services to the outlying parts of the country.
Transport Policies and Institutions
28.       The transport policy objectives of the Three-Year Development Pro-
gram (1973/74-75/76) and of the FFYP (1976/77-81) emphasized the role of



- 8 -
transport and the need to build a sound infrastructural base to integrate the
country, mobilize domestic resources for development, reduce Yemen's isola-
tion from the rest of the world, and in general, cater for the growing mobil-
ity of people and exchange of goods. The objectives of the draft Second
Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (1982-86) are to foster the productive base of the
economy, giving priorities to agriculture, mineral and manpower development.
Transport and Communications, however, retains an important supporting role
to this strategy at nearly 17 percent of the proposed Plan investments.
According to the preliminary estimates for the draft SFYP, out of a total
investment of YRls 4.6 billion (about $1.0 billion) for Transport and Com-
munications, about YRls 1.8 billion (about $0.4 billion) is allocated to main
and rural roads. This amount would be less than the actual expenditures
under the FFYP. However, in addition the SFYP includes road projects under
preparation at an estimated cost of YRls 3.1 billion (about $0.7 billion),
some of which are scheduled to start during the Plan period.
29.       The transport sector is administered by two Ministries.  The Minis-
try of Public Works (MPW) supervises the activities of the semi-autonomous
Highway Authority (HA), which is responsible for technical planning,
constructing and maintaining the main road system. The Ministry of Communi-
cations and Transport (MCT) oversees the operations of the Yemen Port and
Marine Affairs Corporation, the Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority, and
the Land Transport Companies. Local Development Associations (LDA) build,
among other things, low-cost rural roads with their own, as well as Govern-
ment, financing. They are represented vis-a-vis the Government by the Con-
federation of Yemeni Development Associations.
30.       The Government has recently established in the MCT a Department of
Transport (DOT) under a deputy minister. While DOT could play a central role
in the sector, this nascent agency is still feeling its way, and as a result,
the operating agencies for ports, shipping, road transport, airports and
civil aviation continue to deal directly with the Central Planning Organiza-
tion (CPO) and the Ministry of Finance. The proposed project includes a
technical assistance component which aims to develop this newly established
department (paragraph 47).
31.       The CPO is responsible for national economic planning and coordi-
nating investment decisions, including those in the transport sector. Like
other Government agencies, it is seriously short of professional staff and
thus its involvement in the transport sector is minimal, leaving transport
planning almost entirely to the sectoral agencies.  However, although many of
the transport investment decisions have been conditioned by the availability
of foreign aid for specific projects, most have been based on a rational
approach to priority needs of the economy. The proposed strengthening of the
Department of Transport in particular should enable the CPO to perform its
function in the transport sector more effectively' in the future.
The Road Subsector
32.       At present, HA is responsible for the main road system.  The paved
roads provide essential links between the main population centers, the



- 9 -
seaports, and neighboring countries. However, the main links of the system
are now deteriorating rapidly because traffic grew very fast in recent years,
truck axle loads are much higher than the 8-tons for which the roads were
designed and maintenance efforts are constrained by staff shortages. The 800
km of unpaved main roads are located mostly in the Hodeidah, Ibb-and Taiz
Governorates. HA has no responsibility so far for the large tertiary network
whicb has been built through the efforts of LDAs. As a result of their
independence from the central Government, their grassroot thirst for develop-
ment, and especially the availability of local contributions, the LDAs have
been building all types of public works projects in rural areas and roads
have ranked high in their priorities. These roads or tracks have not been
built to any design standards and often are negotiable only by four-wheel-
drive vehicles. The length of this network is not known with any certainty
and is estimated to be of the order of 14,000 km.
33.       Yemen's road density is still very low (about 12 km/1000 sq. km),
but would compare well (83 km per 1000 sq. km) with other countries if the
LDA roads could be considered part of network. As to coverage, the main road
system is still inadequate and secondary roads in particular are still lack-
ing; LDA roads have assumed their functions in many areas and are carrying
traffic volumes in excess of what can be considered economic. The Highway
Master Plan Study to be prepared under the Third Highway project will iden-
tify the more important LDA roads, i.e. those with inter-regional signifi-
cance, those serving larger communities, etc., for upgrading and inclusion in
the national network to be maintained by HA (paragraph 39).
Road Transport
34.       Road transport, both passenger and general haulage, is essentially
a private sector function, but subject to regulations by drivers associations
which are enforced with Government assistance. The regulations require
drivers to register for the route they wish to operate on and to wait for
their turn at association freight and passenger stations which exist in all
major towns. Contracting transport from sources other than the association
offices is not permitted, but entry into the industry is free and many
migrant Yemenis returning with capital to invest in small business, opted to
be transport operators. As a result the size of the fleet is large, waiting
time at the turn offices long, vehicle utilization low and transport cost
bigh. Tariffs, which are proposed by the associations and normally approved
by Government without change, reflect these higb costs although they vary
from one route to another according to road conditions, likelihood of a back-
haul, size of shipments and other factors. Deregulation and determining the
proper roles of the driver associations are two principal issues that Govern-
ment must address if costs and prices are to be brought down. The technical
assistance proposed under this project would help the DOT to deal with these
issues.
Administration, Maintenance and Training
35.       The HA was established in 1972 under the first IDA credit to YAR
(paragraph 26). It operates as an autonomous Government agency with its own



- 10 -
capital, budget, income and salary scales, under a board of directors com-
prising Government officials and chaired by the Minister of Public Works.
The HA is charged with the technical planning, design and maintenance of
roads at cost from the Government budget, and road construction for central
Government and local authorities on a contractual basis. The HA's headquar-
ters in Sanaa provides central services for administration, planning and
design, but deploys its construction and maintenance efforts among its
regional offices in Sanaa, Ibb, Taiz, Hodeidab and Saadah. Road maintenance
is now becoming HA's main activity. Construction is normally carried out by
contract, but HA acts as builder of last resort in cases where no acceptable
bids are received.
36.       The HA's commitment to maintenance is positive, and in light of
existing constraints, results have been impressive. For example its main-
tenance budget increased from $150,000 in 1972 to about $8 million in 1981.
Yet, because of earlier shortages of budget, equipment and manpower, the
rapid development of the road network had not been matched by an improved
maintenance capability. In consequence, and to reverse the deteriorating
trend, a principal objective of the IDA-assisted Third Highway project
(Cr. 794-YAR) is the implementation of the maintenance program, based on a
detailed inventory of HA's network and an appraisal of the equipment, man-
power, and annual budget allocations needed for the recurrent and periodic
maintenance of all roads. The main bottleneck during implementation is in
human resources--a lack of sufficiently-trained personnel to operate and
maintain the available equipment, man the newly-equipped workshops and super-
vise and monitor the work of the maintenance teams. The technical assistance
program under the Third Highway project provides for essential personnel to
bridge the gap until the training programs have caught up with HA's needs
perhaps around 1984.
37.       The Third Highway project also provides for training programs de-
signed to meet the manpower shortfall. A firm of consultants defined the
magnitude of the problem--in essence, a need to train over a 30-month period
about 630 individuals in such diverse skills and trades as equipment opera-
tors, mechanics, technicians, storemen, etc. Training is now underway in a
Vocational Training Center at Taiz. An experienced Chief Training Officer
has been recruited to head HA's training department. His main task will be
to plan the fellowship program for maintenance managers and devise and
implement personnel and manpower development policies in HA so that the
Authority's objectives and work-load targets may be effectively met and the
training programs will have a lasting effect.
38.       The IDA-assisted Third Highway project provided for studies to
prepare a program for periodic maintenance to strengthen the more distressed
main roads. The strengthening of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road which is a subject
of this proposed project is the first phase of the program. Other roads will
follow as Government has already approached foreign donors who assisted in
the original construction of these roads. Based on economic and engineering
studies, the Government has adopted a national legal axle loading limit of 13
tons, and it is building under the same project five vehicle weighing sta-
tions at strategic points in the network to monitor and contain overloading.
The first of these stations will be operational about mid-1982.



- 11 -
Planning
39.       While the highway sub-sector has so far received high priority,
highway project investment decisions have been made essentially on an ad hoc
basis, but, the investments have generally been economically rational and
responsive to basic development needs. A highway master plan required under
the Tbird Highway project is being delayed mainly because of the lack of
adequate input data and the difficulty of obtaining such data. Meanwhile, as
a first phase of preparing the master plan, the Government is proceeding with
further strengthening of the HA's planning capabilities. The Authority would
then study the economic justification of the ten priority roads included
under the SFYP, 1982-86, and would also prepare a methodology for the eco-
nomic evaluation of roads in YAR and train Yemeni counterparts in the use of
such methodology. It would also undertake studies for developing traffic-
related design standards and a general classification system for the coun-
try's roads.
IDA Involvement in YAR's Transport Sector
40.       The proposed project would be the fifth IDA-assisted project to the
transport sector. IDA strategy in assisting the development of this sector
has reflected the Government emphasis on institution building. IDA's first
involvement in YAR was in the highway subsector with the First Highway proj-
ect (Cr. 315-YAR; FY72), cofinanced with the Kuwait Fund. The project, which
was completed in May 1978, emphasized technical assistance for establishing
HA and provided for feasibility and engineering studies for priority roads,
construction of the Taiz-Turba road and purchase of road equipment. The
Second Highway project (Cr. 558-YAR; FY75), also cofinanced with the Kuwait
Fund and completed in August 1979, provided for the continuation of technical
assistance and the construction of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road (the second stage
construction of which is the subject of the proposed project). The FY78
Third Highway project (Cr. 794-YAR), cofinanced with the OPEC Fund, again
catered for technical assistance to HA, but focused more closely on the road
maintenance problem by including provision for appropriate equipment for
maintenance, for mechanical workshops and buildings for new maintenance
depots; training of road and mechanical personnel and fellowships for more
senior Yemeni staff; five vehicle weighing stations; an overlay of 3 km of
main road between Taiz and km 3 (the Turba road); and the preparation of a
highway investment plan. The Ports project (Cr. 714-YAR; FY77) which was
also co-financed by the Kuwait Fund included technical assistance to the
Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation, dredging, berth construction works and
equipment for the port of Hodeidah as well as improvements at Mocha.
41.       The Project Performance Audit Report for Highways I and II (Report
No. 2737 of November 12, 1979) acknowledged that despite cost and time over-
runs, these projects had made important contributions to strengthening HA and
to the country's road network. The technical assistance under these projects
was delivered by consultants and gave HA its basic organizational structure
and the main operating divisions. A national axle loading policy was devel-
oped and a start was made to establish geometric design standards. A basic
accounting system was designed and traffic counting and planning systems were
set up. Based on an inventory of roads, a road maintenance program was
worked out, identifying both the direct equipment and manpower input needs



- 12 -
and the necessary worksbop and training infrastructure. Unfortunately, the
training objective of the technical assistance could not fully be achieved
because of the severe shortages of local personnel. To mitigate HA's staff
shortages in the short-term and to assist in the implementation of the above
programs and systems, the Third Highway project provides technical assistance
in the form of individual experts to fill the most important positions in
HA's structure. After initial difficulties in locating appropriate sources
of recruitment, these arrangements are now working satisfactorily.
Development Priorities
42.       The road subsector will require a continued high level of invest-
ment in the coming years, as the carrying capacity of many existing main
roads needs to be adapted to the requirements of increased traffic loads and
as the road system needs to be expanded in order to adequately meet the needs
of Yemen's rapidly developing economy. In parallel to the physical develop-
ment of the road system, road institutions and policies need to be built up
and strengthened. The ongoing Third Highway project addresses the Highway
Authority's needs, focussing on setting up systems for road maintenance and
manpower development and creating a sound basis for planning expansion of the
system. This project would complement and expand on these efforts through
assisting in the pavement strengthening program and addressing institutional
needs outside the Highway Authority, namely to help establish an organiza-
tional framework for planning and policy making of the transport sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project main component, the asphaltic overlay of the
Taiz-Al Mafraq road, would continue from the completed Second Highway
project (Cr. 558-YAR; FY75). It was prepared by the YAR Government with the
help of consultants. The proposed technical assistance component evolved
from the continuing sectoral dialogue with the Government. Project appraisal
was completed in February 1982. Negotiations for the proposed credit took
place in Washington from May 24 to 25, 1982. The YAR delegation was headed
by HE Abdallah Al-Kurshumi, Minister of Public Works, and included represen-
tatives of the Central Planning Organization and the Ministry of Communica-
tions and Transport. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Fourtb Highway Proj-
ect" (No. 3893-YAR, dated June 1, 1982) is being circulated separately. The
main features of the credit and the project are summarized in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project is designed to assist the YAR Government in a
selective strengthening program of the main road network and to improve the
management and administration of the transport sector. The project would be
implemented over the period 1983-84 and would consist of the following com-
ponents: (i) an asphaltic overlay and flood protection works for the Taiz-Al
Mafraq road (61 km); and (ii) technical assistance, including consultants'
services, medium-term experts and training, to assist the newly established
Department of Transport (DOT) in the Ministry of Communications and Transport
(MCT).



- 13 -
Road Strengthening
45.       The Taiz-Al Mafraq road is a key link in the main road network in
YAR, and part of the international route that follows the Red Sea littoral
and leads to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. It is the main
connection of the populous Taiz and Ibb governorates to the ports of Mocha
and Hodeida, carrying an average of about 2,500 vehicles per day. The exist-
ing double surface treatment pavement was designed for an axle load of 8
tons, which is well below the 13 tons permitted under the new national
axle-loading policy. Furthermore, traffic on the road increased faster than
expected. As a result, the pavement has been subjected to intensities and
frequencies of loading beyond its design capability. Hence, despite its
sound construction and a reasonable maintenance effort, recent deterioration
has been rapid and distress is evident in many locations, particularly in the
east-bound lane where vehicles coming from the ports are more heavily laden.
Under the project, the road would receive an asphaltic concrete overlay of 10
cm over 34 km and of 8 cm over 26 km.
46.       The need for the flood protection and river training works results
from damage inflicted to the road and its environs by a torrential downpour
and persistent heavy rains in April 1980. Damage was most severe in a 6-km
section, where the road and river run parallel. Rock-filled gabions protect-
ing the road embankment at bends in the river were undermined and subsided
leading to partial collapse of those embankments. Culverts carrying storm-
water from the mountain catchments were filled with debris and rubble so that
storm flows crossed the road, scouring the shoulders and pavement. The flood
problems in the area were clearly not foreseen by the road's initial design-
ers who planned against a ten-year flood, but were bampered by an almost
total lack of suitable hydrological and rainfall data. Moreover, according
to local population, this was the worst flood in living memory. Some repairs
have been carried out to assure use of the road during normal conditions, but
the main effort of rebuilding and strengtbening the protective works against
long-term flooding/rainfall will be undertaken under this project.
Technical Assistance and Training
47.       The recently established DOT at MCT is still not operational and
the MCT is relying on this proposed project to provide technical assistance,
experts and training, to effectively establish DOT. Accordingly, an organi-
zation and policy study would be conducted by a consulting firm, which is
expected to start by November 1982; the firm would submit by March 1983
detailed recommendations on the role of DOT in the administration and manage-
ment of the transport sector. The consultants would also provide the Govern-
ment with recommendations regarding organizational and policy options to
increase the efficiency of the road transport industry and to lower road
transport rates. About 125 manmonths of medium-term experts would be pro-
vided under this project to assist DOT in the implementation of these
recommendations. Moreover, to provide DOT with expertise and managerial
talent in the long term, the project includes fellowship for training five
DOT Yemeni staff in appropriate fields.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
48.       The proposed project will be implemented over a period of about two
years. The HA would be responsible for the execution of the civil works
component of the project, and the work would be supervised by consulting
engineers whose terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to IDA
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). The appointment of these con-
sultants would be made a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). Construction is expected to
start toward the end of 1982 and to be completed by mid-1984. The DOT will
be responsible for implementing the technical assistance component of the
project. Based on the consultants' study relating to the role of this
department (paragraph 47), the Government will propose by April 30, 1983 the
details of the technical assistance program for IDA approval (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.06). Most of the technical assistance experts
are expected to be drawn from developing countries, under inter-governmental
accords. It is expected that contacts with potential recruitment countries
be initiated in parallel witb the studies on the future role of DOT. The
technical assistance could then start by mid-1983 and extend to end-1984.
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about $18.0 million equivalent, of which about 72 percent, or $13.0
million equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. These esti-
mates teflect the first quarter of 1982 prices and are based on prices quoted
in contracts of similar nature. The project is exempted from taxes and
duties. Physical contingencies (applicable only to civil works and construc-
tion supervision) of 10 percent per annum were assumed in developing the cost
estimates. Price contingencies (applicable only to civil works) of 12 per-
cent per annum have been applied to the local cost component and 8 percent
p.a. for 1982 and 1983 and 7.5 percent p.a. for 1984 for the foreign exchange
component. The base cost related to the project component are $13.8 million
for civil works (asphaltic overlay, flood protection, river training and con-
struction supervision); and $0.9 million for technical assistance (consulting
services, experts and training for DOT). The estimated 55 manmonths of con-
sulting services for construction supervision, 16 manmonths of consulting
services and 125 manmonths of experts' services for assisting the development
of DOT, have been costed at $7,000, $12,000 and $5,000 per manmonth, respec-
tively, including travel, subsistence and overheads. All experts would be
hired by the Government.
50.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 6.2 million (approximately $7.0
million equivalent), represents about 39 percent of total project costs. The
credit will finance the foreign exchange requirement of the technical assis-
tance component and about 50 percent of the foreign exchange requirements of
the construction component. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develop-
ment has expressed interest in considering financing the foreign exchange gap
of about US$6.0 million equivalent. The Government would at most finance the
remaining local costs of about $5.0 million. The IDA credit would be made to



- 15 -
the YAR Government under standard IDA terms and conditions. The
effectiveness of the cofinanciers loan would be made a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01(b)).
Procurement
51.       For the civil works, costing about $13.4 million, excluding contin-
gencies, a single unit-price contract would be awarded after international
competitive bidding on the basis of the Association's 'Guidelines for Pro-
curement'. To save time, contractors would be postgualified for the work.
Consultants for construction supervision and for the DOT organizational and
policy studies costing about $0.6 million, excluding contingencies, would be
selected and appointed on the basis of the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers'. Technical experts, costing about $o.6 mil-
lion, for DOT would be selected individually on the basis of their qualifica-
tions and experience in relation to the job description prepared for each
position which together with the terms and conditions of their appointments
would be satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
Disbursement
52.       The proceeds of the proposed credit will be disbursed against (i)
50 percent of foreign expenditures of civil works procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding; (ii) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of the
supervisory consultant; (iii) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of the
technical assistance program; and (iv) 100 percent of fellowships.
Accounting and Audits
53.       The HA has a satisfactory accounting unit which would continue to
keep separate project accounts. MCT would have to establish separate project
accounts within its financial department. With regard to auditing, indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to IDA would audit those accounts, and the Govern-
ment will furnisb IDA with certified copies of the audit reports, not later
than five months after the end of each calendar year, commencing with calen-
dar year 1982 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(b)).
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The project would support a priority objective of the SFYP, namely
to adapt the main arteries of the highway system built during the 1970s, so
that they can meet economically the needs of the increased traffic volumes
and of the higher axle loadings now permissible. The benefits of the project
investment are savings in vehicle operating and road maintenance costs, and
avoided costs of flood damage repair and traffic disruption. The bene-
ficiaries will be in the first instance the users of the project road, the
people living alongside, and the Government. Part of the road user savings
can be expected to be passed on to the importers of raw materials, consumer
and other products in the Taiz and Ibb provinces and ultimately will reach
producers and consumers in the rapidly developing region. Through reduced or
avoided road maintenance and repair costs accounting for about a quarter of



- 16 -
all quantified benefits, the Government will be the largest single
beneficiary. The project will, thus help to keep public expenditures down in
a period of fiscal stringency.
55.       The economic return on the project is 33 percent.  The sensitivity
of the economic return has been tested for a 25 percent increase in costs and
a concurrent 25 percent decrease in benefits. Even under these assumptions,
the economic return would still be 17 percent. The economic return is more
sensitive to shortfalls in traffic and road user savings than to increases in
construction costs. The project's net present value, at a discount rate of
15 percent, would turn negative if traffic or road user savings were
overstated by more than 40 percent or if construction cost estimates were
exceeded by more than 75 percent.
56.       There are no special risks involved in the physical component of
this project and in view of its advanced state of preparation, its compact
nature, and the proposed arrangement for construction supervision by consul-
tants, the project should carry a less-tban-average risk of exceeding the
anticipated schedule and budget. In contrast, technical assistance to DOT
could face delays in achieving the foreseen institutional and policy
changes. However, in view of the importance of the issues addressed, the
risk is worth taking.
Environmental Impact
57.       The civil works in the proposed project comprise firstly an overlay
of the existing Taiz-Al Mafraq road which will not detract from the environ-
ment, but will marginally improve it from the point of view of the travelling
public. Secondly, the flood protection works to be constructed will be a
positive improvement, both visually and from a conservation point of view in
that potential damage and property loss from floods would be reduced.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in the Section III of Annex III. The effectiveness of the
cofinanciers' loan agreement and the appointment of the consultants for
construction supervision have been made additional conditions of effec-
tiveness of the credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN. ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            195.0                                                       MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      85.7                                 MOST RECENT           NORTh AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..           ..     420.0 *              865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUGRAMS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)        7.4        17.8      73.1                 758.3                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    *
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4039.0       4835.0    5693.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4          6.0        9.8                 45.2                     64.2
POPULATIUN PROJECT1ONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         22.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        20.7        24.8       29.2                 36.3                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      48.0        56.8      65.1                 442.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.4        43.0      45.6                  44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          54.4        53.9      51.2                  52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         3.1       3.2                   3.4                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         1.8        1.8                  2.7                      2.4
URBAN                               7.8         7.5       7.2                   4.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.6        48.7       47.1                 41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.7        26.4      23.1                  12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.5        3.2                  2.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          119.0        84.0      95.0                  96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    88.0        78.0      91.0                 110.4                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           69.0        57.0      68.0                  73.4                     65.8
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        15.0       19.0                 17.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MURTALlTY RATE      53.9        47.9       40.6                 14.9                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9         38.6      42.1                  55.9                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..           ..         ..                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS IO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         4.0       4.0                  59.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..        45.0      30.0                  83.9                     79.7
RURAL                                ..         2.0       2.0                  40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     75.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..     22126.1   12459.8                4174.5                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..          ..    5656.2                1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2901.0      1552.0    1994.3                 647.4                    471.2
URBAN                                ..          ..     255.6                 547.2                    558.0
RURAL                                ..          ..   30136.1                3361.1
ADM15SIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..       16.2                 25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                *-          *-       5.0
URBAN                                ..          ..       4.2/c
RURAL                                ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        2.8
URBAN                                ..          ..        1.8/c
RURAL                                ..          ..        3.1.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                *-          *-      56.5/c
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Pagge 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           NORTH EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         12.0       29.0                  85.1                     101.7
MALE                  14.0         23.0       50.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0        7.0                  67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1.         1.0        4.0                  38.0                      35.3
MALE                     ..         2.0        8.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEMALE                  ..          0.1        1.0                  28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0        5.0/d                11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         51.0       38.0/d                34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                           17.0         24.0       18.0/d                23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          3.0         1O.0/e    13.0                    43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         14.0       18.3                 121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  37.4                      89.0
NEWSPAPER (-"DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        11.6         ..                  35.9                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        1.0                    3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1225.7       1361.8    1439.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7          4.5        5.2                  10.5                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0       76.3                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0          9.0       10.9                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2       25.3                  26.4                      31.8
MALE                                  57.7         55.0       50.2                   47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.5        2.5                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5         1.6        1.9                    1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY -
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 271.4
RURAL                                  ..          ..      100.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       83.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   In the major cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodaidah; /d 1975; /e 1973.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank atlas are $460 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5812
thousand.
May, 1981



* --001 00-00000 ...     '000 N.            l4o --0001000  0000  00- 070
Ioo013300130  3pO7)  3000q10  - 10000                      6          -00)00 00
40100  SoooobOOl  00 0000 00030  --0-- p0(00001
0030 '3-010                                                                                  0)003   ooo   q p03000ocorodo    -  0o10oooo00oo~00
-I01001    ... uoo -oo  p00 0;043000 0000-013                                                    00pu033olSo                          0 00          0 0 0 0000013
0T..00713  0000  001-00 0100 100000                                                                00000000  3   000000  0110-04)0 todo    130-00
q,    r-  0~  ..00.0. 0  0130'
01010LTp0040         01001        30000   00q  0ouo0-00I1  30000- 000
3000010  01010008Sq  0100000:010   00½130    To0)o11-la010100
- 000  30   0000 0000     0000001030  11000  00000000:00   00 *0001
q~~~~~~~~~~~~'od0  0 T-`03 t  00  03040                                                                                            00 030 ,ooo
plq. ..,I  ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~    o  o0qp101*    00000 I
oooott,,010 030(0001  pu  10130300300000  3  00003;    0100  000    030  0  o100     01313000301:3-107100 00)000000
'0010  0130  000003   30I.    0001  00331  10   00000p ---T0 000I--I0000000010    3   030  Ou10   00013030                                                            00000
3*~0~-0 01310 001  3004003 0) 3000  0033 '1000   0   0  010q0000                         ~100010  00I.                  013       010000103000010,130o,o
- 3100.030000110  -  00000000300  0.00  0000 II    SO -                                           M10T0u  33010  0000000 A 0-IT.. 0101110 001000000            ou-01)000010
000 03 ooo*oooqubo  poOo-OOO3000000   on- d :oo   ....                                                     000   000000133a3001    00-0  0000  03033  01
400000 13330 0103  *00         030000               oooop P......000.11                                        30  '0 T103010  300001   30.-L          000- 00  0000  030   -3000
000010  Loood  10000-                                                        03131300(IT00000  od Iooj
-  ooop0  0110  -(0000100061  30010000   0003  003133  000003                            100400  031  0003)  0  1100  70t0 T0d0003000)001  .0700I'd                             uuu
VT)00) £Ouoo     '01-00  0040100000001   1313 -00)000  0I13d  -T0 - 0                                                                         00064    0  33   00001001 
T.-   p,II -q-  -                            III.--  0...... v033  110610
'0003-013  0'0336   1006 P0,"60  -00p0  10  0013 300100  01003 0030q3I
ooooo3 33 00000  pow'000003oz ooooo  'Ooo1010 30003031   100000  3  "001000003Oop lom  oo  odool  lo  330  0 00000130  0 'ooot~'4  001 TITS
00*000  1300T000000)0  00  001  0  1104)0010030010033000001003     ~         000010010d 000-P-)pOOO-                      0 0  0d-0130001003-4000)0013
O'  --d      CC              ......          0323114033000                '00003   30033  0-36    Lp  o  oo3  3ooj- 00000000033101
'*000030000   011  10  000330  00                           0  000  3  00  0010   10000 ;o 61  o-- 016 00 01961003  00000 I00 0000
30 d010300-0  0I03  0   030'=000  p00030-061006               00  100000                     00   *1000 0  p0030p 03  4pOO  010 030 I-d0 IILop ood -00 09  4000  10
1080000 -0300   -  )0) I'        000   400    00000000  000  0000000100-0030100  00 P100000001010 S (.1                                   10  0001003I.     0010003  10000 - -0000.
-3 ..4.    T-) P.   -.]-  ~.Zn  1.  .   '000.   61060. 3- Io0 2!1 3061                                    :~.'0013 36  300- '03   '33p-006   0)000 '- 11Td 0001-
103000030000  00300000000  'oooo. 0  00100  00307-I (00000   IOopooo  oo3o    -pu'1010                                    L6000   300000010 'OLoooup9ooo6  01001  -0030
'006(93 900 0060 '0363  300103 100130 14 000  3  00010-0100*0 00313;                          _- -300  000  103..   "1 I   3o3)4  00 300013 0133 0Aq000010   00 00
0000000001  '003000 ....            IT0 00  01000  10030  -          -'6333400)T-3039?-0300                00010b 310000)  30*000   p. '03000   31005 00 00010-0000000
..,.F 6360 300 3060  '3090  00313000000  100                     OoOoodOO  '-07010-p-d0  00000   00           d0 0010000           'l 0010000   -Lo  1001
''00*  *0000000'*001000000 *000)100  001  30Td-00  000 00010; P00                             -010 3000001  --00000001T0-000 )0000  4000o00000010
f0T00 -T7    --0    d -oo**Oo -o  O000o0o11-11 - 3000010      q003  010  4000                        '000   00  P-  '30  '33093   3010300- 00010   --OP-OI0o10  0010
7503400  P0030                       ..*0 q-100011-100       p0 000000  001001000   '(p00033 100 003-
300003300  ''o    000301003000  P00 0013300 000 130)30 (-o0o   10  000
'30100  40130   -0 0 110 -0 -0..) opoodo                        .       . 1001-000000001     '0001  1000  10p-31-  00
oSOO   )-031p  0  0000330000030)'0000   ooop  0000*03.                           00  00  300  000  060000  03000013   '003p*0OT000  00P6,101301-0
-T0 10     -T.00  *130  0P30T-- 0*10 -001003101000300 -              000   0*03                4000033000    -0 0000-   03-00-61-6   -3001000300001000  000P
'3000  0*0  0034000  000030.                    0 ... 0' .10000-0T2'.   1  I                                          -~CTI-66),TT 013 00                    03040130-0  3-i 1 13033
9000000    3   0100*0000_001   0100000   000000700330
3000003000 0 00 30011303',~oo30*o      ....10 ddu 40100   Ijop  30  03300                                                            30:  000  0000)  0001 p030000 oooM
-13010.0   *3  *0030-  0303000p0*00  0    03030101103000001  OoOOp0100u1013131  00  10  0000  o-y3o - O)T03p3- 1130000
00- 0*03011  1003 0100011001   0      o3o33-03601'1-p "i1i6i1-000010  00130   0-00-  000000  000   '1030003      0000  ~30*
AZ  003*-001037P37)0001001    00'30p0'30'0010Ooo   oOoO00-0300000000))
Oo)o*qoo0o  0300   00ooo  0001   00  00   0033  0    0000            ooo;3oo-o     00000000011030  0103   l000010p000   00011
03900 3  001010*0*1000030 0001  01 3000300000 0  0100300030*01"IF0  1000  033  000- io)Oo   3010130  0900op-d 3310'1030                                                    01
-00 0090000  000003030 30 00*00110000 001300 oooooi 00 01030000010                -000? 600T300.'6I  '306   000)00 1130
P)00  04 0000003  *00T10I 3 P -. 3030000   000000T130  10)1000000... 0300                            oLpl   000003010   100                     '00000    330000   00)1 '00001300 33
.,P.,   T.---  P  TTV -                                                                    ... 4-PT300)1300 003000T'000   0-6  300 '3300 '3016  0003-000003
'61-3160 300  '110-31I60'0-00;6T 000  -ooooodod 1000
'1*0  0  00o   03900000)00   03030 0010 300*o000300                                     30101307 103001000 Ob.-o  II0uo  - 0100-(10000)00 130000)000
'0000   OupOO30o                     -0330d     1"3030000100000(00                  .0.000  01) P0010   0100  -o0   o
0041 0)30013000  30 *001300  303 .T 90003000104 Lopoo-  000 P- *  oO-0) *0-13100  '000100-Q) 00103404  - (0001)0100    01  000000000
-90030   000000030   -U0110  1010010'00310100030  '000000001  0000000                                                                 '0000 010  110360'0  0I                001
'0000000--11000--0030700
0  7*0* -100300   000001101 -OoS7  3000000 -oT 010 "I  I0IIooo                                                                                                  p30       003  0)1-3
q33-f100 d0p31000*0   000)01010*0  0    00)00-0000    0pold000'T1 1000001030oO.130.01301300000                                                                      .1100000   01
00000p-*0 10100310  pmoo-do 3  0100T07  100030000  0000100000010000000030                                                                                                    '30000 01100~
£10000    0030090000 T001  9000  '700   - 30100  01T0000                                        -010033010IT~d   103j 001000010  30   p)70   3010031011   p00  '01310 130
'*0   0130-733003   104   030100o0;o   00  100001000  03  1 00000000)   000000  01  000000031000
3T-9 90)0 00103001  *000T003  0*-10   300. 00. 00   030-00)0  Aooood                               00  0)0*   0001  0000001000I0100  A          P T-OOOoopo           010000000
*00009  00* 03*  '000100010'. 00-03 300 030   4000 II   300400 11003                       00013000-00   003   00030    -1P)0 0I 03 -                            . 0030000   000003003
.T-    P-   TL  ..... .                                                                    qi0000-1000300030000003     000d:0 K-00T040:  00  00001I3o -o    0
otoootooooooooooob 00100) 0  10300010100' 13100  pOovop  030000                          oo  000T  '010004 -- 0'1      -7000 -)101300   loo1Iu - 33  0)001;.  010 '0000
'001-1 30L001000                   -*00*00       T 0070010  0o;do    0004000    0100000   00040
T00 *II000         Id0000-00000P.,   000p00000                    ...  '40010000'0'-Op'00?10p 430000 pqd001001010  000    OoooqO10T0                                               00
40130000  90010  00  p0  041010  0001   o   oo:O10001                                    337003013000311100    013000-ooo   -00100-                                  30000
0600003              646T 300 '013  '3340  00 4000 30 0W - 003000013) 003.30   0030300300
'00----00-0-P - I0p0  )0   030030000)30   P-03001-00                                         640000616  P00 '0330  '01160 1 oo3d0   -d 00040013300 - 300   10 -000:01  -T 001000110
-I00o   00*,0-0  100330 130013  ('00   0300   '03 '          30000000 30T90                                                                                         '0000 0606 P00  '3063
0q to  10013 030010 I 0q p.01 303-0  .400001  00  01000000 IO            tp,o                  '3961  030003 3-     100   000-     01-TO  0   0300000000003p031
033013 0930010001    0*331   001                   0:0T    0000   10  7033                      -.-0  '0*03103 0003100  00010010"0000000;o   ~00-30   31o3   0
-00*0  113s7030000po0100i34031003 'o30013  00a00300L
903100   33000o0.d0 T0003300   10  )1)000 '1000000d00)103                                          OO   06    040  000T 00nf-r-   :0T 030100  1003110)    00 *   '0000100  '031001003 
SoP-0 30I 00I      0001003030000030   00310   1   33300.0000030   000000  3000010    01113000 1 00000  -~ :00-0010
000013    Jq 1 )000100-) 30 O      qp                         I 0OOOoo311  133300  (0000 ~0   10300'010  300000 I300  0010   0000 Ooo -oIoo                    00010013   30001 - W'OO
'3000)   0300030  - :01  30-     0030-    00 I --     . 000 3000300100   1000103                                                                             '000pl003)03300'
-     00000  000000001  x10400010-    30.00)0000000000
00 00)000130 000003001 03 0113001  4030000301000000         '0-01310000000030  0100 d-0 OO--do  100300   1 -            00d 000   010000000-           00001100  0
03003300 1,33)3*0300 013  00  00030  00000300 - R-113-  00000010000  I0 00000  01-  0000-   '0100001  3013  00000001  001--'01000011  3   11000
0013  00  0101300000000030  1000  00000030..       1000..q3)00010000   1 i0001001000.0..00001313100..0.3030300410010
000000  0  00000  0*03003003  )336p10  0300   0101  0004   031601010  oo3    001000  310000131  01030.  03  310111)  10000010011101003
- 3o16COOoooO0)0000000000001'3o0-1100000701103)0000-  (3)--30                                  I  -001001010)10P13  000100110p-      0000-0'0J0  0000010000              -000-
'0)10000001130100013010)0  000100.000013.-           0  '0300100 000003-0                     -P Iooo  00000  0qo1003  00, 004000T '00000
-000'0000100 031 '003010  0000000  0  3)00000  10004)0 01 000  000000  10  000033330P030Dog00  0  003031  ;  ooooqooo:10oo3010100
-000so00£01100)   0001100001011 ')31000010303000    11  001   031000   0001   10   oo   1000   4   30130100
)60P101  0001  0   00C 0110



- 21 -                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1973-79      FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                  3810                    11           -4
GDP at Market Prices                  2800                     8            9
Gross Domestic Investments             900                    19           10
Gross National Savings                 524                    13          -40
Exports of GNFS                         56                    -3          -23
Imports of GNFS                       1441                    21           24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added    Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand         %       US% _
Agriculture             1000       38        1450        76          690       50
Industry                 350       14        150         8         2330      170
Services                1250      48         300        16         4170      300
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2600      100        1900       100         1370      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR1s Mln)
% of GNP
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1978/79
Current Receipts                1293      1985      2161      2692         13
Current Expenditure              841      1250      1847      2430         11
Current Deficit/Surplus          452       735       314       262          2
Capital Expenditure              603      1167      2618      2426         15
External Assistance, Net          606      691      1904       976         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRIs Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    3516      5081      6273      7382
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -939        -990      -609      1199
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1474      1555      2199      2830
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP           30        33       37       nwa.
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  73        45        23        18
Consumer Price Index          26        17        22        11
1/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts series has
recently been revised by the Government. The new data are being
reviewed by the Bank.
2/ Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (us$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob             14        12        19         7          3
Imports of Goods, cif           -194      -382      -730     -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                   -180      -370      -711      -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services, net          14        21       -10       -21         19
Factor Income, net               117       479       896      1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)    (842)   (1090)           (898)
Investment Income, net          (5)      (22)      (54)      (70)     (109)
Balance on Current Account       -49       130       175       240      -376
M & LT Capital, net               62       153       146       165        435
Official Grants                 33       114       104       103       312
Official Loans, net 1/          29        39        42        62       123
Disbursements                (32)      (42)      (46)     (68)      (133)
Repayments                   (-3)      (-3)      (-4)     (-6)      (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10         -11       133      -32         144
Increase in Reserves (-)         -23      -272      -454      -373      -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 2/       150       520       974      1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, 1979                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding            1,603          Cotton and Cotton Products        31
of which disbursed             727          Coffee                            13
Hides and Skins                   14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1980 3/                  Biscuits and Confectionary         9
All Other Commodities            33
%                                               100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1
1/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/  Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/  Includes workers' remittances and transfers.
EM1DB
January 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of March 31, 1982 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Cre-dits I/
Amount
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number Year      Borrower                Purpose                   IDA   Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed 2/                      55.2
465   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                  2.3       0.4
545   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                 10.0       0.04
559   19'S Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage          8.1       0.01
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                       8.0       0.8
636   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2          1.5
662   1976 Yemen Acab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0          0.8
670   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage         10.0       3.1
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                   6.0       1.1
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                      11.5       5.4
805   1978 Yemen Arab Re?ublic Tihama Agriculture II             10.5       4.6
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                10.0       4.8
880   1979 Ycmen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III            15.0      14.2
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                     10.0       6.9
950   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage         12.0      11.9
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agri-uJture IV              5.5       5.4
1025   19SO Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development             17.0      16.5
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                 17.0      16.6'
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Elect.                   12.0      12.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Dev.                   12.0      12.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development           15.0      15.0
1203 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                      12.0      12.0
1216 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0          2.0
To.al                                               271.3 1/  147.1
of which has been repaid
Total now held by 1DA                                271.3
Total undisbursed                                              147.1
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project whicb was
cancelled on October 31, 1979, and $6 million credit for the Agricultural
Research and Development project which is scheduled for consideracion by
the Executive Directors on June 8, 1982.
2/  Including supplementary credit of t10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
3/  Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount -n US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equi-y   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products        2.4       -      2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                               _
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of t2OO,OOO eacb, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 ane January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industri:i estates
in Taiz and Hodeidah are underway.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems whicb are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project is completed. The problem of cost escalation of rural
water scheme was largely solved by elimination of the rural roads component,
which became possible as a result of its financing by the local communities.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction has been substantially completed. Transfer of the
existing water system assets from the Port Authority has been effected.
Training of operational personnel for the sewerage collection and treatment
element has not proceeded apace.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and equipping of project institutions is com-
plete and all twelve institutions are operational. Technical assistance
and staffing needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates from
Arab countries. Progress in the utilization of the Basic Training Scheme
is relatively slow.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidab and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion. Cost overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for
Development and the YAR Government. The training program is underway and
technical assistance is also continuing.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without chang-
ing the project concept. One dairy farm has been completed, but the live-
stock fattening farm is facing some problems in the supply of irrigation
water. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouses, meat
markets, and animal health components, in particular, are achieving their
aims, and the livestock fattening, dairy production, and village develop-
ment components will provide valuable researcb information and development
experience for the livestock sector in YAR. The vacant positions in the
project implementation unit have been or are being filled.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been awarded. Implementation of the
sewerage component of the project is behind schedule because of the delayed
award of the civil works contract and changed location of treatment plant
site.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: Marcb 31, 1983
Civil works construction was completed in December 1981, about
eleven months behind appraisal schedule. Final estimation of the cost of
the works is in progress to determine final project cost including
contractors claims. The closing date has recently been extended to allow
time for project completion.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: Marcb 31, 1983
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in arranging cofinancing and subsequent difficulties in locating a
suitable training organization. Most of the equipment provided under the
project has arrived and construction contracts for three of the five
weighing stations have been signed. Implementation of a comprehensive
training program has started. Preparation studies for the overlay program
have been completed or are underway.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After an initial slow start, progress on all components relating
to Wadi Rima has picked up with some of them nearing completion. The
agricultural extension service is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Implementation is underway and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded. The rural electrification
interim study has been completed. YGEC's training center is operating but
experiencing some problems relating to lack of text books. Training abroad
is proceeding but not at an adequate pace to meet YGEC's pressing need for
trained staff.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tibama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a delay in declaring the credit effective and selecting
project consultants for engineering work, implementation is now underway
and the engineering consultants' inception report is expected shortly.
Farm management consultants have been selected and their contract is under
consideration by Government. Training of extension agents bas started and
assignments in the project area are being made. TDA has not yet appointed
a project manager. Procurement of equipment for agricultural services has
been initiated.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
Civil works equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
One project institution is already operational; the remaining three project
institutions will be completed shortly. The implementation of technical
assistance has been slow and the Ministry of Education has been requested
to submit a training program to utilize the funds allocated for this
component.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Tardy preparation of the hydrological study and tender documents
together with slippage of the well drilling program have delayed the water
component. Drilling is nearing completion in Ibb and will recommence in
Dhamar in April 1982. Bids for civil works are being evaluated and
contract awards are expected shortly.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Contracts for the construction of irrigation structures have been
awarded and the work started. The forestry expert and the sand dune
stabilization expert have been appointed and about 800 ha of dunes have
been selected for afforestation. The staff required for the rural uplift
program has been appointed.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
After initial delays, project implementation has somewhat
improved. A fisheries advisor has been selected and contract negotiations
for construction of fishing ports and shore facilities are underway.
Vessels for trial fishing and shrimping have been ordered.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Agricultural extension, rural water supply construction and
provision of agricultural credit, started under the First Southern Uplands
project, are expanded to cover most of the provinces of the region. Key
staff have been appointed. Expansion of agricultural extension services
and implementation of additional rural water schemes are progressing on
schedule.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrification Project; $12.0 million Credit
of May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway. Procurement of materials is
complete and contracts with consultants for detailed engineering and
construction supervision have been signed. The construction and erection
contract has been awarded.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway. The director general and
credit adviser have been appointed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No. 1202-YAR Sanaa Urban Development Project; $15.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is underway. The chief engineer and the
implementation engineer have been appointed.
Cr. No. 1203-YAR Fourth Education Project; $12.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway. The
Credit Agreement is already ratified.
Cr. No. 1216-YAR Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project;
T2.O million Credit of April 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 30 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sbeet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country                          19 months (June 1980
to prepare project:                             to January 1982)
(b) Agencies whicb prepared the project:           Highway Authority (HA) and
consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA:             August 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:        January 22, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:            May 25, 1982
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 October 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Effectiveness Condition:
(a) appointment of consultants for construction supervision
(paragraph 48); and
(b) Effectiveness of co-financiers loan (paragraph 50)
B.   Measures to be Taken by Government Include:
(a) The Ministry of Communication and Transport to submit by
April 30, 1983, for IDA approval the details of the technical
assistance program based on a study of the future role of its
department of Transport (paragraphs 47 and 48).



IBRD 16321
* RayGN0 ->,                  A r  e .                            44                                                                                                 APRIL 1982
<   .  silaa .   '~RAN   ',O  RN 
S A U D I    A R A B I A
Ge>\ ., SAhaN(.,w,-<,K P             VDRobson                                                      YEM EN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
s2--e . I /                                                                FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
502 N A,}MN ARRA /V P       EN    D     Il   
N                  ... w .- > t )\ ) . (, 4 0 Prolect Road
R - RR ARP aRARNe 5 fA                                                                                      -Paved Roads
-lOA i ETH OPIA \ SOMALIAf0       AR    I(       0        1               I .)    -                            _ _ -      Paved  Roads under Construction
~~~~C                               N>                                       -      C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oher Roads
D,A H G  /  ;   /  P    $    f t j   t@j  National Capitols
Ja=nf/\   t  t   >  S::d:b                         0   Cities, Towrs and Villages
Wvadts
,,    Contours In Meters
B \   {  1:,J' / < - ,    ( OBRI    *   Internatoral Airports
International Boundaries
;,~~~~~~Md ,               ,AX,,L\<\     J
'^'t¢t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 4/                                                        0 60  iocjA0t 
(  w                 H             H - <                          S,  F  W  .S   . ( .~~',  ~'AA 
\ d-AI:AIIA ' -                                                                  0         20  42 _0 \
0                          ~~~~~~~~Ab: )u=b-  ')      A N                                                                         ; '    % -A
N>                 N-N              N> K,40                                                                                 0
A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ j A A~~~~~~~            j                  2          20~~~~~~~~~~~M     LES
~~~~~~ (N~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TN               H  ~~DEIDd-
\       \             g        ee D,;   a.~                   ~      ~~~                               ~~-  \   
A T H I O P I A   /  /   0\0   )      ,w, _ 
/'\~~~~~~~~~~~A /'~Ao S     
1 4'                                                                                                                               14A
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~POL'   DEJIBOUTI                                          REUBI c2AeOfsetFr2 YEMEN-onrrr  o
/                                    /                      44*    .                  :                                                  4/
DEN
N                     GUL~~~~~/1F   Of   A DEN'
DJIBOUTI                                                                                               RR5ROAROAARONNRRRRRORRARAANRA RRNRRRA
44'                                                                         W6



I
I
I



1, = 5p1      //No
5;g_ A   Rao R .       5~~DEFT FEE OF                                                                                                                                 '
'\ EAON   D                EHA  STAN
1,- <,>g'-el  t_J                                                                                        YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TOTEFa     '<EEOC  EATETFO PIDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY  SECTOR
.        Ao DAAE      '.                                                                                                                              PROJECTS
DI'DANy                                                                                                                                                          Ag-NA-1O eelpmn
EaLDE* T EEFDFA                               =,                                                                   ,.C=EEEDtFF 04 FOrFT
f        IEDDOTE   -- z                         <rS           fT5                       ,'= XIS            +S           ;9<                                    shorres
SOM-LI=
ETH -PIA          :V       .0         _       t;     .S                          -                v        -S l           :j           =                      d tc
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~i?=                                                                                                                                 ,_ =T   DID  '-:='.r  .<       = g!     Hlhvh MOlTEEEFc
tDi                                              t                                                     f :t     -  IL   ;;4 ;tzw t n
E   t s  :;-=  !_                        g                                               d-, - /: ' $5, ' = -= ; i Q 'A Ed.A..r A
N                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~HIgh-ays
A     VAA H.ghOAy ?-,--eeToeOt
ST      =      .         =  ; A Z    - -+    =  - Std, 0_ !ZSS  ft  s;il  EX STING FEATURES
-~~    ~        ~~~                    -            4         0: 3 ~ -o                A  A tC  ;   a 4tte=   '                A       POE Cet velnopac oenTa
S~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                       -                                SOAC*=T= AFATEr CA2, =Jj_pItondlse L
Not-on] CapITol
I    Ejeth  A7  K                                        -   ~~~~~~~~~~P-TTAy Roads
V                                     P,.--i B-~~~~- SDOSJED4dE-
. z~~~~~~ HAP                                                                                                                                 ELSj EVAT= iiON   . t-.E-) C,.'
N             , t   ; t =;,/                                                         1                            0OlTKEN          D             s 75
ID~~~                                                             ~~~  /  R                      '                                          -   WoicA4ETsupTrwE                             InT
,~~~~~~~~~~                                          \ \  ,                      !                                             PDA  ovRnn.v RROAOq OTI4
N.         -_   --                                                                                                      lRer-DEAVATWATELSUMmESE)
TF~~~~~~~                                     -~      ~    -
e -   -  r.eCAMM                                                                           OCT
RA' WAW'   mQ .                                                              <O4
'~~~~~~~>'N eMd     ;sodv5d'. sie L V  ADE  O .      *   s~mFn                                   rtlUTI  L   -EOr i 97L
DA  0"' ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~       -      1--II
I'~~~~-
7  D0f""T~~~~~~~~  ' ~~~~# ~~ ~
-D ~ ~ ~              I              acER  e              E         '                                              '



