Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    "-''A
Report No. 3893 LYAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 1, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform,nce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1982)
Currency Unit            Yemeni Rial (YR1)
US$0.222           =     YRls 1.00
US$1.00                  YRls 4.50
US$222,222         =     YRls 1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =      3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)    =       0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADF         -       Abu Dhabi Fund
ADT          -      Average Daily Traffic
AFESD        -      Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development
B:C         -       Benefit:Cost
CPO          -      Central Planning Organization
DOT          -      Department of Transport
DST         -       Double Surface Treatment
ER          -       Economic Return
FRG         -       Federal Republic of Germany
FYB          -      First Year Benefit
GDP         -       Gross Domestic Product
HA           -      Highway Authority
IDA         -       International Development Association
ILO         -       International Labor Organization
KFAED        -      Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MCT          -      Ministry of Communications and Transport
RPW          -      Ministry of Public Works
NPV         -       Net Present Value
PRC          -      People's Republic of China
SA          -       Saudi Arabia
SFD         -       Saudi Fund for Development
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
USAID        -      United States Agency for International
Development
USSR        -       United Socialist Soviet Republics
VOC          -      Vehicle Operating Cost
VTC         -       Vocational Training Center
Fl                                  YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
Since January 1, 1981:   January 1 to December 31
Previously:                    July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
B. The Transport System.                                                           2
C.  Transport Policy Planning and Coordination  . . . . . . .                     4
D. Previous Projects.                                                             7
II.    THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Network   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
B.   Traffic   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   10
C.  Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     11
D.  Planning ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
E.   Financing   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
F.  Engineering   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
G. Construction . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
H.  Maintenance   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
I.  Training  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   16
B.  Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    16
C.  Engineering   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    18
D. Cost Estimates .18
E.  Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    20
F.  Project Execution, Supervision and Reports  . . . . . . .                    21
G.  Accounting and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    23
H. Environment.                                                                  23
IV.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    24
B. Pavement Strengthening .24
C.   Drainage and Flood Protection Works   . . . . . . . . . .                   25
D. Results ..... .                                                               27
E.   Risks   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
V.     RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     28
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. Schlechtriem (Economist),
R. Mulligan (Engineer), and H. Clark, Consultant (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
List of Annexes
1. Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File .            .            . . .  29
2.  Main Government Agencies Dealing with Transport . . .   30
3.  Preparation of Technical Assistance Component . . . .   31
4.  Public Expenditures on Transport 1976-1981  . . . . .   34
5.  Organization Chart, Highway Authority . . . . . . . .   35
6.  Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
7.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements . .        . . . . . . .   37
8.  Average Daily Traffic on Taiz-Al Mafraq Road  . . . .   38
9.  Vehicle Operating Costs on Taiz-Al Mafraq Road  . . .   39
10. 'Summary of Economic Analyses  . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
Map
Map No. IBRD 16321



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) occupies an area of about
195,000 km2 (roughly the size of Nebraska but with the topography of
Switzerland) in the southwest corner of the Arabian peninsula. It is
bordered to the north and east by Saudi Arabia, to the south by the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and on the west by the Red Sea.
There are three distinct geographic regions, the arid coastal plain (the
Tihama), the rugged central highlands rising to about 4,000 m where the
bulk of population lives, and the eastern plateau which merges into the
desert sands of Saudi Arabia. About 8% of the land is arable, mainly in
the southern highlands where rainfall is higher, but also in the eastern
plateau, the Tihama, and in pockets of terraced mountain slopes through-
out the central highlands. Agriculture is maintained through irrigation
and water conservation systems.
1.02     Most of the estimated 6.8 million population is widely dispersed.
Only about 8.5% live in towns (of 10,000 or more) and between 10% and 15%
live and work abroad, mainly in Saudi Arabia. The remainder is scattered
in small villages in rural areas (mainly in the central highlands). In
this geo-economic setting, providing the means for transport can be phy-
sically daunting and expensive, yet demand is widespread and growing.
1.03     Up to about 20 years ago, living conditions in Yemen were almost
medieval. There was little transport infrastructure and travellers
crossed tribal boundaries only with the consent of the local sheikhs.
The end of the civil war in 1972 brought a new regime anxious to usher
the country into the 20th century. Communications were recognized as the
catalyst of development; with no railways, and with coastal shipping and
air transport both of minor importance, transport by road is dominant.
Emphasis was placed, therefore, on developing comprehensive and adequate
networks of roads.
1.04     Since early 1974, when oil prices quadrupled, Yemen's oil-rich
neighbors offered lucrative employment, and reduced availability in the
country mainly of unskilled but also of already scarce skilled and semi-
skilled manpower, so that around 20% of the labor force works abroad.
Thus, while basic facilities were lacking, and the agencies concerned
were still in embryo, the economy boomed, fueled by remittances from the
migrant labor force. Moreover, increasing migration of rural people to
the cities while maintaining strong ties to their villages; structural
changes in the rural areas away from subsistence agriculture induced by
labor in short supply and at high cost; and an ambitious development
program financed with foreign assistance all created fresh and increasing
demands for transport (Table 1.1). Only recently the growth of remit-
tances appears to be leveling off, overall economic activity to be
stabilizing and transport growth rates to be returning to normal levels.



-2-
Table 1.1: Average Annual Traffic Growth Rates
1971-76        1976-80
1.  Road Traffic 1/                                  20%            27%
Light vehicles                             23%            26%
Heavy vehicles                             11%            32%
2.  Imports at Yemen Ports                           14%            29%
Dry cargo                                  12%            28%
Petroleum products                         23%            30%
3. Air Transport Passengers
at Sana'a Airport                              26% 2/         11%
Domestic                                   n.a.           58%
International                              n.a.            6%
1/ Average of five stations at main highways
2/ 1974-76
Now also, the high wage rates demanded in Yemen, and which reflect in
high infrastructure costs, are attracting some migrants home.
B. The Transport System
1.05     Progress so far in building up the transport system is impres-
sive: Yemen now has a main road system of about 2,200 km (65% paved),
three international airports and one major sea port and two of less
importance. However, much remains to be done, particularly in roads.
Although the length of the main road system tripled over the last decade,
many areas are still without adequate road connections. Additionally,
traffic has outgrown the carrying capacity of the main trunks of the
system, which now require reconstruction and strengthening. The serious
port capacity constraints that caused significant supply problems during
much of the seventies have been removed but further port expansion will
be needed to accommodate traffic growth. Similarly, airports are now in
reasonable condition but further investments are required to adapt the
facilities for larger and heavier aircraft and to extend air services to
the outlying parts of the country. The national airline will have to
expand its fleet to cope with the rapidly growing domestic traffic and to
meet demand for additional international destinations.



-3-
Highways
1.06     The highway system is discussed in Chapter II.
Ports
1.07     Yemen has three ports of significance:  Al Hodeidah, Al Mocha
and Salif. Hodeidah is located almost centrally on the coastline and is
the main port of Yemen, handling about 90% of general cargo traffic and
all petroleum imports. Under the first five-year plan, with IDA's parti-
cipation under a Port Development Project, the approach channel was
widened and the port dredged to a general depth of 9 m; three new berths,
including a container berth were constructed and the existing berths
rehabilitated; transit sheds (about 20,000 m2) were built and open
storage areas (over 100,000 m2) developed, and equipment provided.
Across the bay from Al Hodeidah, two floating berths, equipped with
cranes were built at Al Kathiba at the beginning of the Plan to provide
quick relief to port congestion.
1.08     The historic port of Mocha is well sited to serve the prosperous
southern highlands governorates of Taiz and Ibb. Under the Five-Year
Plan, it received a fingerpier with two berths with 8 m water depth,
cargo sheds, new storage areas, and navigation and cargo-handling equip-
ment. With the completion of the Mocha-Al Mafraq road to paved standards
providing easy access to the main road network, more use may be expected
of Mocha port.
1.09     The port of Salif is a natural deep-water harbor with a modern
pier to handle salt. It has no general cargo facilities, is further from
Yemen's main traffic centers than the other two ports, and has no fresh
water.
1.10     The ports of Hodeidah and Mocha are managed by the Yemen Ports
and Marine Affairs Corporation, and Salif by the Yemen Salt Export
Corporation.
Civil Aviation
1.11     Airports at Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah provide facilities for
both international and domestic air traffic and seven small airports
cater for regional needs. Under the first Five-Year Plan, Sana'a airport
(runway 3,250 m) was improved significantly; a new runway (of 3,000 m)
was built at Hodeidah and the one at Taiz was extended (also to 3,000 m).
All three major airports received substantial amounts of equipment and
are in a position to meet present traffic needs.
1.12     The National airline's (Yemenia) fleet was renewed and expanded
under the first Five-Year Plan to reduce operating costs and facilitate
route extensions, both domestic and international. It now uses DH 7s on
its domestic operations and Boeing 727-200s on its international routes
to neighboring Arab countries, to Europe and South Asia.



- 4 -
C. Transport Policy Planning and Coordination
Policy and Planning
1.13     The policy objectives of the First Five-Year Plan (1976-81) were
stated in only general terms, but emphasized the role of transport and
the need to build-up a reasonable infrastructural base to integrate the
country, to mobilize existing domestic resources for development, to
reduce Yemen's isolation and in general to cater for the growing mobility
of people and exchange of goods. Roads were to be extended to connect
the Yemen Arab Republic with neighboring states and help open up remote
parts of the country; ports were to be expanded to absorb the growing
import and export of goods expected during the plan period. A general
objective with implications for transport was that of promoting integra-
tion with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. The objectives of
the Draft Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) are to foster the productive
base of the economy with priorities given to agriculture, mineral and
man-power development. Transport and Communications, however, retains an
important supporting role to this strategy at nearly 17% of the proposed
Plan investments. According to the preliminary estimates for the Draft
Second Plan, out of a total investment of YRls 4.6 billion
(US$1.0 billion) for Transport and Communications, about YRls 1.8 billion
(US$0.4 billion) is allocated to main and rural roads. This amount would
be less than the actual achievement under the First Plan (para. 1.18).
However in addition, the Draft Plan includes road projects under prepara-
tion at an estimated cost of YRLs 3.1 billion, some of which are
scheduled to start during the Plan period.
1.14     The Central Planning Organization (CPO) is responsible for
national economic planning and coordinating investment decisions, includ-
ing those in the transport sector. Like other Government agencies, it is
seriously short of professional staff and its involvement in transport
has been in less depth than in other sectors, leaving transport planning
almost entirely to the sectoral agencies. For the preparation of the
transport part of the Draft Second Five-Year Plan, the CPO made use of
consultants to collate the contributions of the sectoral agencies.
Although many of the transport investment decisions have been conditioned
by the availability of foreign aid for specific projects, most have been
based on a rational approach to priority needs of the economy. The
planned strengthening of the Department of Transport (DOT) (para. 1.16)
and the preparation of a highway master plan (para. 2.10) will enable the
CPO to perform its function in the transport sector more effectively in
the future.
Organization and Regulations
1.15     The transport sector is administered by two Ministries.  The
Ministry of Public Works supervises the activities of the-semi-autonomous
Highway Authority (HA), responsible for the planning, constructing and
maintaining the main road system. The Ministry of Communications and
Transport (MCT) controls the Yemen Port and Marine Affairs Corporation



- 5 -
(YPMAC), the Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority, the National
Airline, and the Land Transport Companies. Local Development Associa-
tions (LDA's) build, among other things, low-cost rural roads with their
own, as well as Government, financing. They are represented vis-a-vis
the Government by the Confederation of Yemeni Development Association
(CYDA). The basic organization of transport-related agencies is illus-
trated in Annex 2.
1.16     The MCT has recently formed a DOT under a vice-Minister.  This
nascent agency is still feeling its way, and as a result, the operating
agencies for ports, shipping, road transport, airports and civil aviation
which have generally dealt directly with CPO and the Ministry of Finance,
appear still to do so, and as yet have little accountability to their own
Ministry for their activities or plans. To improve the situation, the
proposed project includes organizational and policy studies to be carried
out by consultants, as well as technical assistance to implement reforms
defining more clearly the role of the DOT and clarifying accountability
and lines of communications.
1.17     Road transport, both passenger and general haulage, is essen-
tially a private sector function, but subject to regulations of drivers'
associations which are enforced with Government assistance. The regula-
tions call for drivers to register for the route they wish to operate on
and to wait for their turn at the associations' freight and passenger
stations which exist in all major towns. Contracting transport from
sources other than the association offices is not permitted but entry
into the industry is free and many migrant Yemenis returning with capital
to invest in small business, opted to be transport operators. As a
result the size of the fleet is large, waiting time at the turn offices
long, vehicle utilization low and transport cost high. Tariffs which are
proposed by the associations and normally approved by Government without
change, reflect these high costs although they vary from route to route
depending on road conditions, likelihood of a backhaul, size of shipments
and other factors. De-regulation and determining the proper role of the
drivers' association are two principal issues that Government must add-
ress if costs and prices are to be brought down. Studies to this end are
also proposed to be carried out in connnection with the highway master
plan (Annex 3). The technical assistance element of the proposed project
would help to implement the necessary organizational and policy changes
with a view to stimulating greater competition as has been successfully
done in other sectors of the economy.
Transport Investment and Road User Charges
1.18     Public expenditures during the first Five-Year Plan to build-up
the transport system described above (paras. 1.05 to 1.12), amounted to
YRLs 3.8 billion (US$0.85 billion), of which YRLs 2.2 billion or 58% was
for roads (Annex 4). Government does not have an explicit road user
charge policy, but road users contribute to the general tax revenue
through customs duties and excise taxes on fuel, customs duties on trans-
port equipment, annual vehicle taxes and various licence fees. Since the
beginning of the Five-Year Plan, the proceeds of these taxes have



-6-
increased more than seven-fold due to increases in the volume of taxed
items, improved collection procedures, and changes in the rates, reaching
in 1980 about YRLs 500 million or nearly a quarter of the total tax
revenue (Table 1.2). This amount is about 25% higher than the Govern-
ment's total expenditures for administration, maintenance and construc-
tion of the main road network in that year and would also cover most of
the Government's contribution to the LDA road construction program.
Further increases in the vehicle and fuel taxes have been proposed
(para. 1.19). Thus, while the level of road user charges is adequate at
present and will be even higher in the coming years, the incidence of
these charges on particular user groups requires further study to ensure
that each pays at least the cost of damage it causes to roads. This will
be done under the highway master plan which is expected to commence
shortly.
1.19     The Yemen Petroleum Corporation (YPC) is responsible for import
and distribution of petroleum products. Government's policy is to recoup
the full cost of petroleum supplies from consumers. While it also levies
import duties and consumption taxes on petroleum products, the rates are
tied to the 1973 price level with the result that tax payments in rela-
tion to cif price (or consumer end price) have deteriorated over the
years. In order to protect and ease the impact of fuel prices increases
on households and industry, diesel fuel and some other products were
subjected to an "undercharge" which was financed partly by a surcharge on
motor gasoline and partly by a budget subsidy. The subsidy was discon-
tinued in early 1981 and as a result of price increases, sales proceeds
again cover the cost of import and distribution of petroleum products.
Gasoline is presently retailed at a price of YRls 2.6 (US$0.58) per liter,
of which about one-third is accounted for by taxes and surcharge. Diesel
fuel sells at a retail price of YRls 1.5 (US$0.33) per liter which covers
import costs and about 17% YPC's handling charges, with the remainder of
charges being met from surpluses on other products. As part of IDA's
report on mobilization of domestic financial resources in YAR, the possi-
bility of charging rates of customs duties on petroleum products on an ad
valorem basis to reflect current prices rather than 1973 prices, has been
discussed with Government.



-7-
Table 1.2: Road Expenditures and Road User Tax Revenues in 1980
YRLs million
Road Expenditures
1. Highway Authority
Road construction                                     320.0
Administration and Maintenance                         80.0
400.0
2.  Local Development Associations                          130.01/
Total Road Expenditures        530.0
Road User Revenue
1. Fuel taxes
Customs duty, excise tax and surcharge on
gasoline (estimated)                                  98.4
Customs duty and excise tax on diesel
fuel (estimated)                                      16.4 2
114.8
Less undercharge on diesel fuel (estimated)            42.5 2/
Net revenue                 72.3
2. Customs duties on road transport
equipment (estimated)                                 350.0
3.  Vehicle taxes                                            62.5
4. Driving licences, transfer licenses,
plates, vehicle licences                               18.0
Total Road User Revenue        502.8
Total Tax Revenue    2,098.0
1/ Average annual expenditures 1976-81, including local contributions.
2/ Assuming 40% of the diesel fuel consumption is on roads.
D. Previous Projects
1.20     IDA has assisted the Government with US$28.2 million in three
highway projects, one of which is still in progress and US$6.0 million
for a Ports project. Work on the two earlier highway projects which were



- 8 -
financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund was satisfactorily completed in
1978, while the Ports project is well advanced. The First Highway
Project consisted of technical assistance to set up and organize the HA,
feasibility and engineering studies, construction of the Taiz-Turba road,
and supply of road equipment. The Second Highway Project financed the
continuation of the technical assistance and the construction of the
Taiz-Al Mafraq road (the second stage construction of which is the
subject of the proposed project). The Third Highway Project financed
jointly with the OPEC Fund again catered for technical assistance to HA,
but focussed more closely on the road maintenance problem by including
provision for appropriate equipment for maintenance, for mechanical
workshops and buildings for new maintenance depots; training of road
mechanical personnel and fellowships for more senior Yemeni staff; five
vehicle weighing stations; an overlay of 3 km of main road between Taiz
and km 3 (the Turba road); and the preparation of a highway master invest-
ment plan. The Ports Project which was also co-financed by the Kuwait
Fund included technical assistance to the Ports and Marine Affairs
Corporation, dredging and berth construction works as well as equipment
for the port of Hodeidah.
1.21     The Project Performance Audit Report for Highways I and II
(Report No. 2737 of November 12, 1979) acknowledged that despite cost and
time overruns, these projects had made important contributions to
strengthening HA and to the country's road network. The technical assist-
ance under these projects was delivered by consultants and gave HA its
basic organizational structure and the main operating divisions. A
national axle loading policy was developed and a start was made to esta-
blish geometric design standards. A basic accounting system was designed
and traffic counting and planning systems were set up. Based on an
inventory of roads, a road maintenance program was worked out, identify-
ing both the direct equipment and manpower input needs and the necessary
workshop and training infrastructure. Unfortunately, the training objec-
tive of the technical assistance could not fully be achieved because of
the severe shortages of local personnel. To mitigate H.A's staff short-
ages in the short-term and to assist in the implementation of the above
programs and systems, the Third Highway Project provides technical
assistance in the form of individual experts to fill the most important
positions in H.A's structure. After initial difficulties in locating
appropriate sources of recruitment, these arrangements are now working
satisfactorily.



-9-
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     Over the last decade, the length of Yemen's main road network
has more than tripled. At present, HA is responsible for maintaining
about 2,200 km of roads, 65% of which are paved. The paved roads provide
essential links between the main population centers, the sea-ports, and
adjoining countries. The 800-odd km of unpaved roads are located mostly
in the Hodeidah, Ibb and Taiz Governorates. Evolution of the network
since 1970 is illustrated in the following table:
Table 2.1: Growth of Main Road Network
Length (km)
Year         Total       Paved Roads        Unpaved Roads
1970          702            436                 266
1971         840             436                 404
1972        1088             584                 504
1973        1183             598                 585
1974         1211            612                 599
1975         1293            684                 609
1976         1410            762                 648
1977         1841           1113                 728
1978         1942           1183                 759
1979        2013            1217                 796
1980        2270            1472                 798
2.02     The condition of many paved roads has been deteriorating due to
an unprecedented growth in traffic over recent years, an increase in the
axle weights of vehicles well beyond the 8-ton design loading which was
Yemen's earlier standard, and also an acute shortage of skilled staff in
HA's maintenance organization, limiting its ability to cope with the
problems.
2.03     HA has no responsibility for the large tertiary network which
has been built through the efforts of the Local Development Association
(LDA's).  As a result of their independence from Government, their grass-
root thirst for development, and especially the availability of local
contributions, these associations have burgeoned in numbers from 28 in
1972 to more than 190 now, and have been active in promoting and building
all types of public works projects in their areas; roads giving access to
even the smallest communities have ranked high in their priorities.
These roads or tracks have not been built to any formalized design stan-
dards and most lack drainage. Many are barely of bulldozer width and



- 10 -
are negotiable only by four-wheel-drive vehicles. The length of this
network is not known with any certainty and is estimated to be of the
order of 14,000 km, but an indicator to its magnitude may be gleaned from
the LDAs' program (albeit ambitious) to build a further 24,000 km in the
three years 1980-82.
2.04     Yemen's road density is still very low (about 12 km/1000 sq. km),
but would compare well (83 km per 1000 sq. km) with other countries if
the LDA roads could be considered part of the network. As to coverage,
the main road system is still inadequate and secondary roads in parti-
cular are still lacking; LDA roads have assumed their functions in many
areas and are carrying traffic volumes in excess of what can be con-
sidered economic. The Highway Master Plan Study under the Third Highway
Project will identify the more important LDA roads, i.e. those with
inter-regional significance, those serving larger communities, etc., for
upgrading and inclusion in the national network to be maintained by HA.
B. Traffic
2.05     There are no data from which development of the motor vehicle
fleet over recent years may be assessed. Tax records show a fleet of
123,270 vehicles (81,317 trucks of all sizes, 32,177 taxis and 9,776
passenger cars) at the end of 1980, or 18.1 vehicles per 1000 inhabitants
which appears high compared with other countries at a similar stage of
development. The HA's Planning and Traffic Engineering Division have
been carrying out systematic traffic counts since 1976 (with some inter-
ruptions due to due lack of staff). These data show that traffic on main
roads grew at high rates, particularly during 1977-79 (upto 40% p.a.),
reflecting in general the rapid growth of the economy, the structural
changes that resulted in additional transport demand, and the traffic
generating effect of road construction. Away from the urban centers,
traffic on main roads generally ranges between 2,000 and 4,000 vehicles
per day. Many secondary roads carry between 500 and 1000 v.p.d. despite
their poor condition. Permanent counters are being installed at key
points in the network to monitor traffic development on a year-round
basis. In line with the economic forecasts for the second Five-Year
Plan, average traffic growth rates of 10% to 12% p.a. are expected for
the next few years.
2.06     A 1978 report by the consultants Kampsax/Berger noted signifi-
cant overloading on most of the paved network by some classes of vehicle
and included studies of what axle loading would minimize total costs of
transport, road construction and maintenance. Based on these studies, a
permissible axle loading of 13 tons has been adopted, and the design axle
loading increased from 8 tons accordingly. More recently, a 1980 axle
load survey in the Taiz area indicated that 46% of loaded trucks had axle
weights exceeding 13 tons, the heaviest then encountered being 21.2 tons.
The effect is now noticeable in pavement distress at some locations on



- 11 -
most of the paved roads and a strengthening program is being prepared by
HA to cope with the problem, work on the Taiz-Al Mafraq road which is
included in this project being a first phase of the program. In parallel,
under the IDA-assisted Third Highway Project five vehicle weighing sta-
tions are being built at strategic points in the network to monitor and
check overloading. The first of these stations will be operational about
mid-1982. By that time, Government also expects to have completed axle
loading legislation, including enforcement regulations defining the
penalties of non-compliance.
C. Administration
2.07     The Highway Authority (HA) (see Annex 5) was established in 1972
under the joint IDA/Kuwait Fund assisted First Highway Project. It ope-
rates as an autonomous Government agency with its own capital, budget,
income and salary scales, under a board of directors comprising Government
officials and chaired by the Minister of Public Works. HA is charged
with the technical planning, design and maintenance of roads at cost from
the Government budget, and road construction for central Government and
local authorities on a contractual basis. HA's headquarters in Sana'a
provides central services for administration, planning and design, but
deploys its construction and maintenance efforts among its regional
offices in Sana'a, Ibb, Taiz, Hodeidah and Sada'h. Due to shortages, of
skilled staff, HA's participation in design has been limited, reliance
being placed on the services of consultants for this purpose.
2.08     In 1976, HA formed a Mechanical Services Division providing
equipment on a rental basis for both construction and maintenance, and
the following year set up separate construction and maintenance divi-
sions. The hire charges for equipment cater for depreciation and also
make provision for institutional overheads.
2.09     A major problem impeding HA's work has been the shortage of
suitably qualified personnel at all levels. As under the IDA assisted
First and Second Highway Projects, the Third Highway Project provides for
technical assistance to alleviate this massive shortfall; until recent
months, recruitment of experts had lagged and for various reasons there
was initially a high turnover of individuals who had taken up appoint-
ments. Recently, however, as a result primarily of a Government-to-
Government dialogue with India, a group of experts on secondment from
their home civil service has taken up appointments in HA. Additionally,
a forceful recruiting drive in Egypt and Sudan has yielded some highly-
qualified accounting staff. Recruitment efforts are continuing, and, it
is hoped, within the next few months HA's complement will be filled. The
technical assistance program will thus enable HA to fulfill its tasks in
the short term. The training programs (paras. 2.24 and 2.25) are
expected to produce by 1984 sufficient skilled workers and tradesmen to
replace most expatriates of this category, but at the professional level,
the process will take longer.



- 12 -
D. Planning
2.10     In preparation of IDA's First Highway Project, and as a step
toward rationalizing road investment decisions, consultants reviewed road
improvement proposals and prepared a program for system development
during the period 1972-79, covering about 1,400 km of roads. This docu-
ment provided the basic framework for expansion of the network in the
1970's. Some of the projects were included in the Government's Three-
Year Development Plan (1973/74 through 1975/76), others in the First
Five-Year Development Plan (1976/77 through 1980/81). Road planning
efforts in recent years have not been firmly based, due to lack of staff,
paucity of planning data and abnormally high rates of traffic growth. In
the light of such experience, Government tended towards designing more
capacity than needed into its transport facilities. A highway master
plan included under the Third Highway Project had to be delayed because
of lack of adequate input data on the primary sectors. However, in view
of the spiralling costs of construction, Government has again given
emphasis to planning. To prepare a program of road investment decisions
for the Second Five-Year Development Plan, HA carried out at short notice
(under the Third Highway project) an economic review of the road projects
uncommitted in the First Five-Year Plan, as well as other new proposals;
the review also took account of design standards and set a priority
ranking. Many of these 'roads' are tracks only, whose improvement is
long overdue. Preparation of the highway master plan is due to start
shortly. It will provide the concept for a balanced development of the
road system and establish priorities, based on a comprehensive review of
needs and detailed traffic forecasts, and propose improvements in various
road and policy matters.
2.11     For main roads construction, the First Five-Year Plan antici-
pated a total investment of YRls 3.1 billion (US$0.7 billion),
YRls 2.0 billion of which was classified as first priority. Actual
expenditures reached about YRls 1.4 billion (US$0.3 billion) by the end
of the Plan period. In physical terms, the rate of achievement was even
less. The major works carried out or underway are for two road connec-
tions to PDRY (financed by the Arab Fund and the Saudi Fund), three
connections to Saudi Arabia (one financed by Abu Dhabi and two by the
Saudi Fund) and a link to Mocha Port (financed by Libya), totalling in
all 726 km. However, the bulk of Plan projects directed to serve domes-
tic needs (some 2,300 km of secondary roads) was delayed for lack of
foreign financing. Only very recently commitments for some of these
roads were obtained, the largest of which are from Iraq for an additional
road link in the Sana'a-Hodeida corridor, Saudi Arabia for a link from
Yarim to Qataba and from Libya for the "unity road" from Ibb via Qataba
to PDRY. These projects will make up for the bulk of work during the
first years of the Second Five-Year Plan. The preliminary Plan alloca-
tion is about YRls 1.8 billion (US$0.4 billion) for road construction,
overlays and maintenance. In addition, the Plan includes road projects
under preparation at a total cost of YRLs 3.1 billion (US$0.7 billion),
several of which are scheduled to start during the Plan period. Thus, it
is expected that the pace of road development under the Second Five-Year
Plan will be about the same as under the First Plan.



- 13 -
E. Financing
2.12     Much of Yemen's main road construction has been financed from
foreign aid, the People's Republic of China, USAID, the USSR, the Federal
Republic of Germany, the Kuwait Fund, the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund
for Economic Development, Saudi Arabia, Libya, as well as IDA, all having
participated at some time, and some currently. Financing of road mainte-
nance began only in 1972/73 and has risen from less than US$150,000 then,
to about US$7.8 million in 1981. The main constraint to effective main-
tenance is now neither budgetary nor the lack of appropriate mechanical
equipment, but the shortage of skilled manpower. Yet despite this pro-
blem, progress in this field has been dramatic and demonstrable. The
technical assistance and training programs under the Third Highway Pro-
ject are addressing manpower problem (para. 2.20).
2.13     The Government finances road maintenance, design and the related
overheads, and HA carries out the work at cost. IDA has previously par-
ticipated in the construction of low class roads under the Tihama and
Southern Uplands Development Projects but has recently confined its
assistance to technical advisors to the local authorities.
F. Engineering
2.14     HA has little in-house capability to prepare engineering designs.
Detailed engineering for road construction is normally carried out by
consultants employed by HA or by the concerned agency of the country or
organization financing the construction.
2.15     Geometric design standards had been determined satisfactorily
for low-volume (less than 400 vpd) roads, in compliance with a covenant
of the Second Highway Project; these standards now need review in the
light of increased construction and maintenance costs and prevailing
traffic volumes. The Highway Master Plan Study to be prepared under the
Third Highway Project will recommend traffic-related design standards for
these roads as well as the primary, generally paved, road network and
recommend a general classification system for the country's roads. The
increase in the design axle-loading from 8 tons to the new legal limit of
13 tons as well as the increased traffic have called for updating the
design standards and methodologies for pavements and structures.
G. Construction
2.16     In principle, all road construction activities should be chan-
neled through HA. However, with HA unable to cope with the mounting
demand for new roads, immediate needs in many areas were met by the LDAs
with their low cost roads. In the long run, the more important of these
LDA roads must be integrated into the main road network maintained by HA,
and accordingly will need to be reconstructed/upgraded.
2.17     In general, HA acts as Government's executing agency for all
stages of the project cycle, and retains international consulting firms
for all the phases of the project from identification through construc-
tion supervision. The projects are advertised for international tender



- 14 -
and the contracts awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders. One exception
to this procedure was the construction of the Taiz-Turba road under the
IDA-assisted First Highway Project, where no responsive bids were
received. HA itself, as builder of last resort, undertook the work
successfully with the guidance of a management team, and to avoid
potential conflict of interest, the supervising consultant was retained
by CPO. For the same reasons this procedure is being repeated for HA's
construction of the Yarim-Qataba road.
2.18     As an exception, some bilateral lenders have their own executing
agencies which engage consultants to prepare the designs to HA's stan-
dards, then call for tenders (HA may bid), award the contract and arrange
for supervision of the work by consultants. HA then has no formal parti-
cipation in the procedures except to take over the road on completion.
H. Maintenance
2.19     HA's commitment to maintenance is positive, and in light of
earlier constraints, results have been impressive. For example the
1972/73 budget was less than US$150,000; in 1980 it was nearly
US$8 million (para. 2.12). Yet, because of earlier shortages of budget,
equipment and (still) manpower, the rapid development of the road net-
works had not been matched by an improved capability to maintain them.
In consequence, and to reverse the deteriorating trend, a principal
objective of IDA's Third Highway Project was the implementation of the
maintenance program for the years 1978-81 prepared by the consultant
Kampsax/Berger. This program was based on a detailed inventory of HA's
1978 network and an appraisal of the equipment, manpower, and annual
budget allocations needed for the recurrent and periodic maintenance of
all roads, based on their traffic usage.
2.20     IDA and the OPEC Fund combined to finance the needed equipment.
Government has supplied annual budget allocations to the extent they can
be gainfully spent. The main bottleneck is in human resources--a lack of
sufficiently-trained personnel to operate and maintain the equipment pur-
chased, to man the newly-equipped workshops and to supervise and monitor
the work of the maintenance teams. The technical assistance program
under the Third Highway Project (para. 2.09) provides essential personnel
to bridge the gap until the training programs (paras. 2.24 and 2.25) have
caught up with H.A's needs which is expected toward the end of 1984.
2.21     In the meantime, HA has made a determined effort in organizing
and deploying its limited manpower to tackle its workload on the basis of
priorities determined primarily from the Kampsax/Berger inventory, but
reinforced by recent inspection.
2.22     Periodic maintenance of the more distressed main roads, it is
now understood, is planned to be undertaken by the bilateral lenders
which financed their construction. For example, the Sana'a-Hodeidah road
will most probably be upgraded by the People's Republic of China, who
built it, the Al Mafraq-Hodeidah (km 16) road by the USSR, and the
Sana'a-Taiz road, in part, by the Federal Republic of Germany.



- 15 -
2.23     The Third Highway Project has an allocation for the design of
overlays for about 120 km of paved roads, part of which was utilized to
prepare this project. As most bilateral sponsors finance their own
studies, IDA has also agreed to extend the use of this category for feasi-
bility and engineering studies of new roads.
I. Training
2.24     As mentioned earlier (paras. 2.20-2.21), a bottleneck to achiev-
ing effective road maintenance is the pervasive shortage of skilled
personnel. IDA's Third Highway Project provides funding for training
programs designed to meet the shortfall. A firm of consultants was
engaged and prepared an inception report which defined the magnitude of
the problem--in essence, a need to train over a 30-month period about 630
individuals in such diverse skills and trades as equipment operators,
mechanics, technicians, storemen etc. Unfortunately, despite HA's
acceptance of the inception report, the consultant and HA could not work
together, and the contract was terminated.
2.25     Now, on the basis of a Government-to-Government dialogue, a team
of trainers with the appropriate skills has been seconded from the civil
service of India, and training is now underway based on a Vocational
Training Center (VTC) at Taiz in the south of the Republic, in accordance
with the program devised by the consultants. An experienced Chief Train-
ing Officer has been recently recruited from Egypt; his main first task
will be to plan the recruitment needed to maintain the input of trainees
to the Taiz VTC, the fellowship program for maintenance managers provided
for in the Third Highway Project, and, more broadly, to devise and imple-
ment personnel and manpower development policies in HA so that the
Authority's objectives and work-load targets may be effectively met and
the training programs will have a lasting effect.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The project has two major objectives:
(i)  to continue support of the selective main road strength-
ening program initiated under the Third Highway Project;
and
(ii)  to improve the management and administration of the
transport sector.
B. Description
3.02     The project would comprise:
(i)    asphaltic overlay and flood protection works for the
Taiz-Al Mafraq road (61 km), including supervision by
consultants; and
(ii)   technical assistance including consulting services,
experts to fill key positions and staff training to the
recently-established DOT at the MCT to enable the Depart-
ment to play its central role in the management and
administration of the sector.
Road Strengthening
3.03     The Taiz-Al Mafraq road (map) located in the south of the
country is a key link in the main road network, and part of the interna-
tional route that follows the Red Sea littoral and leads to the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen. The road linking Al Mafraq to the port of
Mocha, was recently completed to paved standards. The project road was
reconstructed and upgraded from the original gravel/earth road in 1976
under IDA's Second Highway Project; the pavement was completed with a
double surface treatment under this first stage of construction at which
time the design axle loading was 8 tons. Since then, axle-loading of
13 tons has been imposed in Yemen, but pending the completion of weighing
stations, actual loads often exceed this new limit. Moreover, traffic
flows have increased faster than anticipated at the time the reconstruc-
tion was designed (1975). In 1981, counts showed two distinct flow
levels, Km 3-23 (the village of Hajda) at 3,200 vpd (20% trucks), and
km 23-64 (Al Mafraq) at about 2,000 vpd (25% trucks).
3.04     As a result, the pavement has been subjected to intensities and
frequencies of loading beyond its design capability. Hence, despite its
initial sound construction, and subsequently, a reasonable maintenance
effort, recent deterioration has been rapid and distress is evident in
many locations, particularly in the east-bound lane where vehicles coming
from the ports are more heavily laden.



- 17 -
3.05     The consultant carried out a deflection survey of the road at
the end of the wet season in mid-July 1981 (when deflections are expected
to be greatest), and on the basis of this survey and the forecast traffic,
prepared an overlay design calling for a 10 cm asphaltic concrete carpet
over the road's 7 m width from km 3-37, and thereafter, 8 cm of overlay
from km 37-64. The shoulders of the road (1.0 m to 1.5 m each) would be
raised accordingly with selected material.
Flood Protection and River Training Works
3.06     The need for the flood protection and river training works to be
constructed results from damage inflicted to the road and its environs by
a torrential downpour which occurred in the catchment area of the Jabal
Habash on April 24, 1980, and was followed by persistent rains in the
next few days. According to locals dwelling near the road, this was the
worst flood in living memory, supporting the contention that it was of at
least 30-vear intensity, and possibly 50-year or more. Where the road
and river run parallel, and in particular, between Km 19 and Km 25 from
Taiz, damage was most severe and was concentrated in about 23 locations
but mostly in the vicinity of and including the village of Hajda. Rock-
filled gabions protecting the road embankment at bends in the river were
undermined and subsided leading to partial collapse of those embankments.
Culverts carrying,stormwater from the mountain catchments were filled
with debris and rubble so that storm flows crossed the road, scouring the
shoulders and pavement. The flood problems in the area were clearly not
foreseen by the road's initial designers who planned against a ten-year
flood, but were hampered by an almost total lack of suitable hydrological
and rainfall data. Some repairs have been carried out, but the main
effort of rebuilding and strengthening the protective works will be
undertaken under this project.
Technical Assistance
3.07     The approach to institution-building under the project repli-
cates the arrangements that evolved under the earlier highway projects
and produced satisfactory results at acceptable costs, i.e. to use
foreign consulting firms to develop the concepts, programs and working
systems and then to follow-up by providing qualified individuals to fill
the positions essential for their implementation. Accordingly, provision
is made in the proposed project for consultants to review and make
detailed recommendations on: (i) the role the newly established DOT
should play in the administration and management of the sector; and
(ii) organizational and policy options to increase the efficiency of the
road transport industry and to lower road transport rates (Annex 3).
This study should start about November 1982 and be completed end-March.
About seven experts would be provided under the project to serve in
executive positions for about 18 months and help with implementing these
recommendations, including; drafting any necessary legislation and
regulations; setting up an agreed data collection system to serve as a
basis for forecasting future traffic and to monitor transport costs and
prices; implementing agreed reforms of the road transport industry;
advising the modal agencies under the department's jurisdiction (ports,



- 18 -
airports, national airline, and road transport companies) on the evalu-
ation of investments and operational policy options in accordance with
agreed guidelines, and setting up a system for reviewing investment
proposals by these agencies in the framework of a comprehensive transport
planning approach. The details of the technical assistance program would
be agreed with Government when the consultant's recommendations are
available. In order to ensure a local capability to continue the efforts
begun by the technical assistance team, a training program is included in
the proposed project to assist Yemenis of appropriate background and
calibre to study these specialities abroad. Thus, during credit negoti-
ations, agreement was reached with the borrower on the terms of reference
for the consultant who will make recommendations on the structure, opera-
tions and policies of the new DOT. Furthermore, assurances were obtained
that by April 30, 1983, the Borrower would submit for IDA's review and
comment, draft proposals for organizational and policy improvements of
the DOT together with the details of the related staff assistance and
training programs (all based on the consultants study) and thereafter
implement the agreed measures and programs.
C. Engineering
3.08     The second stage of construction of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road was
designed by the consultants Kampsax/Berger in 1977. The overlay of the
first 3 km from Taiz was included in the Third Highway Project in line
with their recommendations, but the remainder was deferred. However,
because of the higher than expected increase in truck traffic since that
time, HA retained the consultant SWECO to review the overlay design before
submitting the project to the Association for appraisal.
3.09     SWECO also carried out the design of the river-training and
flood protection works along critical sections of the road where it runs
parallel to the wadi Habash. In this task, they were given invaluable
assistance by HA which made available an 'on-the-spot' report of the 1980
flooding prepared by the supervisor who had been in charge of the road
since its construction.
D. Cost Estimates
3.10     The estimated cost of the project is:



-19-
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimates
% of
I- IYRs Million           1 I--US$ Million --       Foreign
Project Element       Local  Foreign  Total      local  Foreign  Total    Exdhange
1. Taiz-Al Mafraq Road
(a) Overlay           13.96   37.65   51.61       3.10    8.37   11.46
(b) Drainge and River
Training          2.58    5.97    8.55      0.57    1.33    1.90
Sub-total    16.54   43.62   60.16      3.67    9.70   13.36       72.5
2. Construction Supervision  0.25    1.45    1.70      0.06    0.32    0.37       85.0
3. (a) Consultant's-Services  0.17    0.69    0.86     0.04    0.15    0.19
(b) Tedcnical Assistance   0.56    2.25    2.81    0.12    0.50    0.62
(c) Training             0.05    0.40    0.45       0.01    0.09    0.10
Subtotal (3)         0.78    3.34    4.12       0.17    0.74    0.91       81.1
Base Cost           17.57   48.41   65.98      3.90   10.76   13.66        73.4
4. Contingencies:
(a) Physical 1/        1.69    4.51    6.18       0.38    1.00    1.38
(b) Price2/            3.24    5.58    8.82       0.72    1.24    1.96
Subtotal (4)         4.93   10.09   15.02       1.10    2.24    3.34
Total Project Cost         22.50   58.50   81.00       5.00   13.00   18.00       72.2
1/ 10% on civil wrks and construction supervision
2/ 12% p.a. on local cost caiponent, 8.0% p.a. on foreign
cost compmnent for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984.
3.11      Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from the
final engineering designs and on unit rates derived for the individual
works and checked against recent contract awards. Thus, an allowance for
contractual risk is implicit in the prices, and has not been included
separately in the project cost estimate. In line with Government proce-
dures for contracting public works, no taxes and import duties have been
included. Supervision, which will be exercised by foreign consultants is
estimated at US$391,000 based on a man-month cost of US$7,000 (including
salary, costs, fees, overheads, international travel and subsistence).
The organization and policy study for the DOT has been estimated to cost



20 -
US$192,000, based on a requirement of 16 man-months at an average cost
(including salary costs, fees, overhead, international travel and sub-
sistence) of about $12,000 per man-month. In the light of recent experi-
ence in Yemen with employing in staff positions experts from other
developing countries, the staff assistance is estimated to cost about
US$5,000/man-month (inclusive of salary, subsistence and international
travel), and about 125 man-months would be required. The fellowship
training program is estimated at $100,000, providing for about five
fellowships of 18-months duration at an average cost (including tuition,
fees, subsistence abroad, books, health insurance and international
travel) of US$20,000.
3.12     The base cost estimate reflects prices as of the end of 1981.
Price escalation, as footnoted to Table 3.1, has been assumed as 12% per
annum for the local component of costs and 8.0% per annum for the foreign
component for 1982 and 1983, and 7.5% for 1984. A 10% physical contin-
gency has been allowed for civil works and construction supervison.
During credit negotiations, the project cost estimates were confirmed
with the Borrower.
3.13     The civil works will most likely be executed by either a local
contractor or a foreign contractor currently working in Yemen. On either
basis, the foreign exchange component of the work is estimated at about
72%.
3.14     The data used in the preparation of the project, and the source
material are listed in Annex 1.
E. Financing
3.15     The Borrower would be the Yemen Arab Republic.  The proposed IDA
credit of US$7.0 million equivalent would finance about 54% of the foreign
exchange component or about 39% of the total cost. The remaining
US$6.0 million (46%) of the foreign component would require co-financing.
Government has approached potential co-financiers and should agree at
negotiations that it will contract co-financing of at least US$6 million
equivalent for the project. In the further discussions of the financing
plan, IDA should aim at meeting the foreign costs of construction super-
vision and technical assistance, and at sharing the foreign cost of
construction with the co-financier, as it would not be practicable to
split a relatively small and tightly integrated contract into two. The
Government has given an understanding that it would meet all local costs
including cost over-runs and any shortfall in foreign exchange. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during credit negotiations.
3.16     In accordance with the above, a suggested financing and
disbursement plan based on the co-financier's participation of
USS6.0 million, is shown below. The plan was discussed with the Borrower
at credit negotiations. Effectiveness of the co-financier's loan would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: Preliminary Financing and Disbursement Plan
Cost                    Source of Finance
Project Component    Local   Foreign   Total   IDA    Cofinancier   Government
------------ US$ million equivalent ----------------
Construction           4.58    11.44    16.02    5.69        5.75           4.58
%                  28.5     71.5    100.0    35.5        35.9           28.6
Constr. Supervision   0.06      0.32      0.38    0.32       -              0.06
%                  15.0     85.0    100.0    85.0         -             15.0
Technical Assistance  0.17      0.74      0.91    0.74       -              0.17
%                  18.9     81.1    100.0    81.1         -             18.9
Unallocated            0.19     0.50      0.69    0.25       0.25           0.19
%                  27.5     72.5    100.0    36.3        36.2           27.5
Total                  5.O00   13.000   18.000   7.000       6.000          5.00
X                  27.8     72.2    100.0    38.9        33.3           27.8
F. Project Execution, Supervision and Reports
3.17     The HA would be responsible for execution of the civil works
component of the project, and the work would be supervised by HA's
consulting engineer. Employment of such consulting engineer would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The HA will be
responsible for submitting quarterly progress reports on the status of
the civil works to the Association. Within six months of the closing
date of the credit, the Borrower would provide IDA with a Project
Completion Report. Arrangements for contract supervision and progress
reports were agreed with the Borrower during credit negotiations.
3.18     The DOT will be responsible for appointing the review consultant
and implementing the technical assistance element of the project result-
ing from the consultant's recommendations, DOT will be responsible for
submitting to the Association the evaluation of consultants' proposals,
conformed copies of the contract with the successful consultant, the CVs
of proposed technical experts, and copies of the contracts for their
employment (para. 3.22). It will also be responsible for submitting
quarterly reports on progress made by the technical assistance team.
During credit negotiations the Borrower agreed the foregoing implemen-
tation and reporting arrangements by DOT.
Procurement
3.19     For the civil works, a single unit-price contract would be
awarded after international competitive bidding on the basis of the
Association's 'Guidelines for Procurement.' To save time, contractors



- 22 -
would be post-qualified for the work. Bidding documents have been agreed
and the works were internationally advertised in late April 1982.
Accordingly, construction is expected to start towards the end of 1982
and finish about mid-1984. During credit negotiations, the Borrower's
agreement to these procurement arrangements was confirmed.
3.20     Construction supervision would be exercised on behalf of HA by
qualified and experienced consulting engineers, selected and appointed on
the basis of the Bank's 'Guidelines.'
3.21     Similarly, the consultant to review and recommend the structure,
operations and policies of the DOT will be selected and appointed on the
basis of the Bank's 'Guidelines'; technical experts to serve in executive
positions in the DOT (para. 3.07) will be selected individually on the
basis of their qualifications and experience in relation to the job des-
cription prepared for each position. The experts, and their terms and
conditions should be satisfactory to IDA. Most are expected to be drawn
from developing countries with well advanced institutions, under inter-
Governmental accords. Potential recruitment sources and the procedures
were discussed at negotiations. It is anticipated that about seven
experts would be needed for a period of 18 months, starting mid-1983
and finishing end-1984.
Project Implementation Schedule
3.22     The project implementation schedule at Annex 6 reflects the
timing of the project components indicated above. The project completion
date would be December 31, 1984. The implementation schedule was dis-
cussed and confirmed with the Borrower at credit negotiations.
Land Acquisition
3.23     As no realignments will be made from the existing Taiz-Al Mafraq
road, no land acquisition is expected.
Disbursement
3.24     Disbursements from the credit will be made on the basis of:
(i)    50% of the foreign cost of the civil works;
(ii)   100% of the foreign exchange costs of the supervisory
consultant; and
(iii)  100% of the foreign exchange costs of the consultant's
services, the technical assistance program, and the
training program for the DOT.
3.25     Assuming credit effectiveness within three months of signature,
a schedule of estimated disbursements has been prepared and is at Annex 7.
Since the previous transportation projects in the Republic were all
widely dis-similar in content, and each had its particular initial
problems in implementation, there is not an adequate statistical basis



- 23 -
for arriving at an overall disbursement profile for an "average" highway
project. Moreover, unlike the transportation projects analysed Bank-
wide, which have an average duration of seven years, the civil works and
technical assistance components proposed are of short duration (18 months
each) and do not fit the global mould. Contract documentation for the
civil works has been completed and the procurement process can commence
soon so that a contract may be signed shortly after credit signature.
For these reasons, it is expected that disbursements will be completed by
March 1985. The schedule of disbursements was discussed and confirmed
with the Borrower during credit negotiations.
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.26     With the help of technical assistance under the Third Highway
Project, HA has instituted new integrated financial and cost accounting
systems and documentation recording systems which form a satisfactory
basis for the auditing, monitoring and reporting on IDA assisted highway
projects in YAR. This foundation is being reinforced by the introduction
of more accurate budget cost estimating procedures, and by the setting up
of budgetary control, internal audit, and control and management informa-
tion systems. The MCT would establish separate project accounts within
its financial department. Thus the Association's requirements for pro-
ject financial management will be satisfactorily met.
3.27     The Government's Central Organization for Control and Auditing
(COCA) mainly audits accounts of Government departments while independent
auditors do the same for most autonomous and semi-autonomous Government
authorities. In line with this division of labor, COCA should audit the
project accounts of the MCT and HA should retain an independent firm of
auditors for this work. During credit negotiations the Borrower agreed
that the MCT secure the services of COCA and that HA appoint such a firm
of independent and suitably qualified auditors, satisfactory to the
Association, to audit, not later than three months after the end of each
calendar year, commencing with calendar year 1982, their respective
expenditures on the project and report thereon to the Association within
five months after the end of each calendar year.
H. Environment
3.28     The civil works in the proposed project comprise firstly an
overlay of the existing Taiz-Al Mafraq road which will not detract from
the environment, but will improve it from the point of view of the
travelling public. Secondly, the flood protection works to be construct-
ed will be a positive improvement, both visually and from a conservation
point of view in that potential damage and property loss from a flood of
five- to ten-year frequency should be obviated.



- 24 -
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01     The project civil works component would support a priority
objective of the Second Five Year Development Plan which is to adapt the
main arteries of the highway system built during the 1970's so that they
can meet economically the needs of the increased traffic volumes and of
the higher axle loadings now permissible. The project road was recon-
structed to paved standards with IDA's assistance under the Second
Highway Project in 1976, but now requires: (i) pavement strengthening
and (ii) modernization of drainage and restoration of storm water protec-
tion facilities that were damaged in severe floods in 1980. The two
investment components have been evaluated separately. The direct quanti-
fiable benefits related to (i) are savings in vehicle operating costs and
road maintenance costs; those related to (ii) are avoided costs of main-
tenance, flood losses and damage repair and traffic disruption. The
economic return (ER) on the pavement strengthening investment is 39% in
the most trafficked section of the road and 33% in the other. The ER on
the drainage and flood protection component is 16%. The project works'
consolidated ER is 33%.
4.02     The beneficiaries of the project works will be in the first
instance the users of the road, the people living alongside, and the
Government. As the present road freight tariff system takes account of
road conditions, part of the road user savings can be expected to be
passed on to the importers of raw materials, consumer and other products
in the Taiz and Ibb provinces and ultimately will reach producers and
consumers in the rapidly developing region. The reforms sought for the
road industry would result in increased competition among truckers and
thus ensure that tariffs are closely cost-related. Through reduced or
avoided road maintenance and repair costs which account for about a quar-
ter of all quantified benefits, Government will be the largest single
beneficiary. The project will, therefore, help to keep public expendi-
tures down in a period of fiscal stringency.
4.03     The economic analysis is based on the feasibility study carried
out by SWECO, supplemented by additional data on traffic, vehicle operat-
ing costs and flood damages provided by the HA. Market prices of 1981,
properly adjusted to exclude transfer payments (taxes and subsidies) were
used throughout. It has not been practicable to quantify the benefits of
the project's technical assistance component for the MCT. However, these
services will contribute and complement previous assistance to build up
basic institutions and policies in the transport sector, they are consi-
dered eminently justified.
B. Pavement Strengthening
4.04     The project road links the Taiz and Ibb provinces, which together
hold about 36% of Yemen's agricultural land and about 34% of its popula-
tion, with the ports of Hodeida and Mocha. Taiz is the traditional



- 25 -
administration and services center of the south and has recently been
evolving as an industrial pole in the country's overall development
strategy. With 120,000 inhabitants, Taiz is Yemen's third largest city,
growing at a rate of 7% per year.
4.05     The record of past traffic growth on the road (Table 4.1 and
Annex 8), although not complete, clearly reflects the rapid development
of the region and, in the case of light vehicles, also the traffic
generating impact of previous road improvements. Since the original
paving of the road in 1976, the number of light vehicles nearly quad-
rupled and the number of trucks about doubled, both substantially
exceeding the levels forecast by IDA's appraisal of the Second Highway
Project. Based on this record and taking into account the more moderate
economic outlook for the coming years, growth rates of 12% p.a. for light
vehicles and of 8% for heavy vehicles have been chosen for the project's
economic evaluation.
Table 4.1: Average Traffic Growth Rates (% p.a.)
on Taiz-Al Mafrag Road
Passenger Cars,      Trucks,       All
Jeeps, Pick-ups      Buses         Vehicles
1973-76                  5                 72             17
1976-81                 31                 14             25
1981-93                 12                  8             11
4.06     The proposed pavement strengthening investment was evaluated by
comparing the costs of road maintenance and vehicle operation in the
"without" and "with" scenarios over a ten-year period. If the strength-
ening were not done, it was assumed that the road would be resurfaced
every three years (at a cost of about YRls 159,000 per km) and that
routine repairs of pavement cracks and potholes and of shoulder damage
would be stepped up (at an additional annual cost of YRls 12,830 per km)
to keep it in reasonable condition. Despite these efforts, the roughness
of the road would remain high. Taking into account the deterioration of
the new pavement over the ten-year period, vehicle operating costs
(Annex 9) on average would be about 9%, or YRls .135 (US$ 0.03 equiva-
lent) per vehicle-km, lower with the overlay than without.
4.07     The possibility of stage construction, i.e. applying an overlay
of 8 cm and 5 cm initially and a second overlay of 5 cm after five years,
has been studied but rejected as it would lead to overall higher
(discounted) costs of construction, maintenance and vehicle operation,
and a lower net present value of benefits.
C. Drainage and Flood Protection Works
4.08     Since the extraordinary floods in 1980, the Highway Authority
has carried out about YRls 1 million worth of repair works to the
existing drainage and flood protection facilities along the road; they



- 26 -
would be adequate to cope with five-year floods if they could be properly
maintained. However, in view of the generally tight labor situation in
Yemen and H.A's staff shortage in particular, it is unlikely that HA will
be able to devote sufficient effort to these works, and the actual capa-
city of the facilities to contain floods therefore will be less.
4.09     Under the project, the existing facilities would (i) be rebuilt
to eliminate to the extent possible the need for manual cleaning work,
and (ii) be strengthened in critical locations so that they could with-
stand ten-year floods. The benefits related to (i) have been evaluated
in terms of maintenance costs that theoretically will be avoided. This
amount (YRls 300,000 per year) is lower than the annualized costs of
damages and losses due to clogged pipes and culverts in floods of average
frequencies of up to five-years, if the project were not carried out.
The benefits related to (ii) would be the annualized cost of avoided
damages and losses during floods with frequencies of five to ten years,
i.e. assuming efficient operation of existing drainage and flood pro-
tection facilities.
4.10     There is no scientific method for determining exactly the
damages and losses associated with a ten-year flood, if the additional
drainage and flood protection works under the project were not built.
Based on the 1980 precedent, assessments have been made (i) of the likely
damages to the road itself; (ii) of the destruction of adjacent private
property; and (iii) of the cost of traffic disruption. The damages to
the road have been evaluated on an individual location basis, adding up
to YRls 5.0 million, or about half the actual damages suffered in 1980.
The destruction and damage to some thirty houses including inventory
losses of shops that would be prevented have been conservatively valued
at YRls 1.6 million. The cost of traffic disruption due to flooding of
the road has been estimated at YRls 1.6 million, assuming that the
average commercial vehicle (in 1988) would suffer a six hour delay, which
compares with virtual closure of the road during several days in 1980.
On this basis, the annualized costs of avoided damages and losses that
will be eliminated by the project are as follows:
Flood                   Annual            Average         Annualized
Frequency              Probability    Damage & Loss    Damage & Loss
---- -  (YRls)-----------
Ten years                    0.1           8.2 million        820,000
Five to ten years      0.2-0.1 = 0.1       4.1 million        410,000
TOTAL                                                  1,230,000
4.11     Consistent with the economic life of the drainage and flood
protection assets, costs and benefits were compared over a period of
twenty years. During this period, floods more severe than the ten-year
design flood may occur but could be evaluated only in qualitative terms.
With the safety margins built into the designs, the project works could



- 27 -
withstand basically intact even a 20-year flood (which would most likely
occur within that period) and prevent damage and loss that, although not
quantified, would be larger than the benefits estimated for the ten-year
design flood. Floods of 50-year and 100-year frequency (40% and 20% pro-
bability over the period) might partially or wholly destroy the works,
but the benefits (in terms of reduced damage and loss) would again be
larger than those taken into account. Obviously, it would be possible
that a 50-year flood might occur shortly after inauguration of the road
(2% probability), making substantial reconstruction necessary. In this
case, project benefits would fall short of project costs. However,
guarding against such a remote eventuality would clearly lead to an
uneconomic over-design and to inefficient use of scarce resources.
D. Results
4.12     The results of the economic analysis, based on the foregoing are
summarized in Annex 10. The economic return on the works as a whole is
33%. The sensitivity of the economic return has been tested for a 25%
increase in costs and a concurrent 25% decrease in benefits. Under these
assumptions, the economic return would still be 17% for the project, but
drop to only 8% for the drainage and flood protection component. However,
for this component the stipulated coincidence of cost increases and
benefit decreases is not realistic as the benefits mostly (85%) consist
of avoided maintenance and rebulding works and therefore will increase in
case the project's construction costs turn out higher than expected. The
economic return of the project is more sensitive to shortfalls in traffic
and road user savings than to increases in construction costs. The pro-
ject's net present value, at a discount rate of 15%, would turn negative
if traffic or road user savings were overstated by more than 40% or if
construction cost estimates were exceeded by more than 76%.
E. Risks
4.13     There are no special risks involved in physical component of
this project and in view of its advanced state of preparation, its com-
pact nature, and the proposed arrangement for construction supervision by
consultants, the project should carry a less-than-average risk of exceed-
ing the anticipated schedule and budget. However, in the light of
experience of the previous project, the technical assistance component
could face delays in achieving the foreseen institutional and policy
reforms. While close supervision of this component is intended, this may
reduce, but not eliminate, the risk. In view of the importance of the
issues addressed, the risk is worth taking.



- 28 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Borrower on the following principal matterst
(i)  that it will contract co-financing in an amount of not
less than the equivalent of US$6 million (para. 3.15);
(ii)  that the DOT will propose for IDA's agreement (i) not
later than April 30, 1983, organizational and policy
improvements and the details of a related technical
assistance program, identifying the experts and the
scholarships to be financed under the proposed credit
(para 3.07); and (ii) the CV's of suitable technical
experts and draft contracts for their employment
(para. 3.21); and
(iii)  that the MCT secures the services of the Central Organi-
zation for Control and Audit and HA appoints a firm of
independent and suitably qualified auditors, satisfactory
to the Association, to audit, not later than three months
after the end of each calendar year, commencing with
calendar year 1982, their respective expenditures on the
project, and to report thereon to the Association not
later than five months after the end of each calendar
year (para. 3.27).
5.02     Effectiveness of the co-financier's loan would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (para. 3.16), as would HA's
appointment of consulting engineers to supervise the project construction
(para. 3.17).
5.03     With the confirmations and agreements indicated above, the
project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 6.2 million
(US$7 million equivalent) to the Yemen Arab Republic on the usual terms.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.     Yemen Arab Republic - Transport Sector Review (Draft Report),
January 1982. Prepared for the Central Planning Organization by
Rendel Palmer and Tritton, Consulting Engineers and Economists
(Financed by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development).
2.     Yemen Arab Republic - The Construction Industry--A Survey and
Identification Report. World gank/Unido Cooperative Program (Draft
Report) July 1981.
3.     Yemen Arab Republic - Development of a Traditional Economy.  The
World Bank, January 1979.
4.   Yemen Arab Republic - Three-Year Maintenance Program Study 1978-1981.
Volumes I and II Final Report, Kampsax International A/S/Louis Berger
International Inc. October 1978.
5.   Yemen Arab Republic - Axle Loading and Pavement Strengthening
Study--Final Report. Kampsax International A/S/Louis Berger
International Inc. July 1978.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Overlay of the Taiz-Al Mafraq Road; Feasibility Study, Final
Engineering, Bidding Documents. SWECO January 1982 update of
Kampsax/Berger Studies.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Government Agencies Dealing with Transport
|        F F I C E   |
.__---   -O0 F  T H E
P R E S I D E N T
P R I M E
M    I   N    I   S   T   E   R  S  ---------------------C   P   0
O F F I C E                                                   
MINISTER OF                                                                             MINISTER OF
PUBLIC WORKS                                                                            CCMMUNICATIONS
AND TRANSPORT                                     MINISTER OF
INTERIOR
Roads  Other
DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORT
HIGHWAY__            _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _
AUTHORITY
.|  TRAFFIC
OFFICE
PORTS             SEA            CIVIL            YEMEN          ROAD TRANSPORT    MISCELLANEOUS              I
CORPORATION       TRANSPORT        AVIATION         AIRWAYS           CORPORATIONS         PROJECTS
CORPORATION    AUTHORITY         CORPORATION       (PASSENGERS
AND FREIGHT)
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Preparation of Technical Assistance Component
I. Department of Transport (DOT) Studies
The consultants will examine the present organization of the
transport sector administration, identifying the functions and responsi-
bilities of the various agencies concerned with transport, their powers
and authorities and inter-relationships and taking into account the
general structure of the Government, make recommendations on:
(i) the detailed responsibilities of the DOT arising from its.
central position in the sector, and the authority it
should have, for formulating transport policies, setting
and coordinating goals and objectives and monitoring the
performance of the agencies under its jurisdiction;
(ii) the relationships of the DOT with the CPO and the Ministry
of Public Works (responsible through the Highway Authority
for road construction), the Ministry of Interior (respon-
sible for traffic police) and other Government agencies
so that it can fulfill its responsibilities under (i) as
part of a coherent transport policy that reflects Govern-
ment's overall development priorities;
(iii) the relationships of the DOT with the agencies under its
jurisdiction to ensure adequate guidance and supervision,
including "technical assistance" which a strengthened DOT
could initially extend to these agencies, in particular
to promote economic and financial planning;
(iv) substantive content of legislation, executive regulations
and other governmental actions required to create clear
lines of authority for preparation and approvals of
budgets and development plans, for financial reporting
and other related matters of all Government transport
agencies;
(v) scope and composition of a transport data bank to be
administered by the DOT that would monitor traffic
development, transport costs and prices;



- 32 -                    ANNEX 3
(vi) general guidelines for the evaluation of transport
investments and a system for review of investment pro-
posals by the DOT, using existing literature and written
material on the subject; and
(vii) the internal organization, management and staffing of the
DOT so that it can successfully discharge its responsibi-
lities, taking into account the findings under II below.
This shall include job descriptions and qualification
requirements of key personnel and evaluation of the
existing professional staff of the DOT, specifying
priority training and recruitment requirements.
II. Road Transport Industry Studies
The consultants will review existing legislation and regulations
as well as the informal arrangements governing the marketing and under-
taking of transport (both passengers and goods) in the Yemen Arab
Republic, analyze the structure and capacity of the road transport indus-
try, estimate the cost of road transport, and, in the light of current
industry performance, costs and tariffs, evaluate alternative policy
scenarios reflecting different degrees of (direct or indirect) Government
intervention in industry operations, taking into account Government's
plans to increase road safety and to contain vehicle overloading. Based
on this analysis, as well as broad assessments of present and future
transport demand and an appreciation of economic policies adopted in
other sectors, the consultants shall make recommendations on policy,
organizational and other measures geared to improve efficiency of the
road transport industry and to lower road transport rates, including:
(i) design of measures to remove or circumvent existing
barriers to competition and to make market forces work
more effectively;
(ii) delineation of areas where an open market system would
act to the disadvantage of consumer groups worthy of
protection or would lead to diseconomies, and the regula-
tory and other measures required in these specific areas
to prevent such disadvantages and diseconomies;
(iii) definition of the roles the drivers' associations should
play in the operations and development of the road trans-
port industry;
(iv) definition of the roles which the Government-owned road
transport companies can and/or should play in the
development of the industry;
(v) determination of the tasks of the DOT and of other
Government agencies to ensure adequate supervision of
and, if necessary, intervention in the operations and
development of the road industry; and



- 33 -                      ANNEX 3
(vi) the substantive content of new or revised legislation,
regulations and other Governmental actions to implement
the recommended industry reforms.



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Expenditures on Transport during 1976-1981
YRls     US$ Equiv.
Million   Million          %
A. Infrastructure
1.  Main highways                           1,583         352         41
Rural Roads                               650 1!      144         17
2,233        496         58
2. Ports
Hodeidah and Al Khatib                    233          52          6
Mocha                                      85          19          2
18         71         -8
3. Airports
Sana'a Hodeidah Taiz                      705         157         19
Seven domestic airports                     6           1         19
I I        158         85
Total A            3,262         725         85
B. Public Transport Companies
1.  General (Road) Transport Corp.             20           4         --
2.  Yemen Airways (Yemenia)                   558         124         15
Total B              578         128         15
GRAND TOTAL         3,840         853         100
1/ Includes local contributions.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization Chart, Highway Authority
f CHAIRMAN HIGHWAY AUTHORITY l                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HIGHWAY AUTHORITY HEADQUARTERS
| DEPUTY CHAIRMAN & CHIEF    l
ENGINEER
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPUTY CHIEF ENGINEER                                             L                                                              DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER TECH.
[ REGIONAL OFFICES MANAGERS  |__
[DIRECTION PUBLIC RELATION]
CHIEF          CHIEF           CHIEF          CHIEF          CHIEF         CHIEF             DIRECTOR                      CHIEF           CHIEF
MECH.           CONST         DESIGN        TRAINING       PLANNING        MAINT.               ADM          CHIEF         PROC &         AUDITOR         LEGAL
SERVICES      DIVISION       DIVISION       DIVISION        & PROJ        DIVISION            DEPT.         ACCOUNT        STORES         ACCO &         ADVISER
DIVISION                                                   DIVISION                                                       OFFICER         STORES       _
May 1982



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
tfl                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~CAL.
YEAR              1982                        1983                       1984                1985
I T E M                   ACTIVITY                  ACTION BY__
QUARTER  1st   2nd   3rd   4th    lst   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th  l.tj2nd
_ _  105/25               I l      l                  I      1      1
1.01  End of Negotiations        Government/IDA                          6  107/05               1      1
1.02 Sign Credit Agreement   Government/IDA                                     S  I             I      I
1.  IDA Credit                                                                                   1     110/31                       IIII
1.03  Credit Effectiveness   Government/IDA                                  I                   I      I      I             I      I      I          I
1.04  Credit Closing Date              IDA                            l      l      l            l      l      l             l      l      l           0
.                                                  :~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~04/301   1                 
2.01  Advertise Bids             Government                           |             I
06/dLO08/I5I                   I      I                            
2.02  Prepare Bids               Contractors                               u         l                  I l  l  l            l      l
2. Taiz-Al Mafraq                                                                                  09/15I                           II                           
Construction   2.03 Evaluate & Postqualify  Government/IDA                             I      I                    I      i                   I      I      I           I           U)
2.04 Appoint Supv. Consult.  Government                               I      I                    I     I      I             I      I      I          I
2.05  Award Contract             Government                                         I s 110/15    I     I                      i     0 33
2.06  Construction               Government/Ctrctor                   I      i      i                                                                 I__ _ _  03/3-i----
3.01  Invite Proposals           Government                                  1 106/301           I      I      I             I      I      I          I
I  107/1 I                                                        
3.02  Prepare Proposals          Consultants                                  07/311                                                 
3.03  Evaluate Proposals         Government/IDA                              1 108/311           I      I      I             I      I      I          I
I  I      IIII                                            I      II
3.  DOT Study       3.04  Award Contract             Government                                  109/151              I      1                    I      I                 I
and Technical
Assistance    3.05  Implement Study              Consultant                  l09/151                              I     0'/30 I              I      I      I 1
3.06 Agree Job Descriptions  Government/IDA                           I      I             03/311        1     I             I      I      I          I
3.07  Recruit Experts            Government                           I             I                            06/30                                 l
3.08  Implementation             Government                                                                                                1 I  i  i  l  _    _    _   _ 12/31  l
June 1982



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                            at End of Quarter
IDA         Co-financier        Government
1982/83
December 31, 1982              0                  0                 0
March 31, 1983                0.1                0                  0
June 30, 1983                  1.1               0.9                0.7
1983/84
September 30, 1983             2.1                1.8               1.4
December 31, 1983              3.7               3.3                2.6
March 31, 1984                 5.7                5.1               4.1
June 30, 1984                  6.7               6.0                4.8
1984/85
September 30, 1984             6.8               6.0                4.9
December 31, 1984              6.9               6.0                5.0
March 31, 1985                 7.0                6.0                5.0
Source:  Staff Estimates, March 1982



-38 -
ANNEX 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic on
Taiz - Al Mafraq Road
(vpd)
Section:                 Km 3 to Km 23            Km 23 to Km 64
Year                     1981      1984 1!         1981      1984 1I
Passenger cars           1260      1770             657       923
Pick-ups and Jeeps       1307      1836             804      1130
Two-axle trucks           456       574             321       404
Heavy trucks               182      229             154       194
Buses                        6        8               6         8
All Vehicles        3211      4417            1942      2659
1/ Anticipated opening year
Source: Staff estimates based on data provided by SWECO and
Highway Authority



- 39 -
ANNEX 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs on
Taiz-Al Mafra Roadl/
(YRls per km
Section:                       Km 3 to Km 37          Km 37 to Km 64
High       Low          High       Low
1.   Without Overlay
Passenger cars            1.16      1.10           1.15      1.10
Pick-ups & Jeeps          1.62      1.54           1.48      1.41
2 Axle trucks & buses   2.99        2.85           2.61     2.48
Heavy trucks              3.70      3.52           3.20      3.04
2.   With Overlay
Passenger cars            1.09      0.97           1.08      0.97
Pick-ups & Jeeps          1.51      1.36           1.39      1.24
2 Axle trucks & buses   2.80        2.51           2.44      2.19
Heavy trucks              3.46      3.10           2.99      2.68
1/   Vehicle operating costs will vary over the project life in
accordance with road deterioration and the cycles of road
maintenance
Source: Staff estimates based on data provided by SWECO and
Highway Authority



- 40 -
ANNEX 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis
Pavement Strengthening  Drainage & Flood    All Works
Km 3 - 37    Km 37-64        Protection         Combined
------------------- YRls Million --------------------
1. Undiscounted Costs and Benefits
Economic Construction Costs                     34.426       21.060             9.199          64.685
Economic Benefits
Avoided pavement maintenance
Routine (10 years)                          5.100        2.600             -              7.700
Periodic (10 years)                        21.776       16.372                           38.148
Savings in vehicle operating costs
(10 years)                               104.341        51.482            -             155.823
Avoided drainage maintenance
(20 years)                                  -            -                 6.000          6.000
Avoided flood damages and losses
(20 years)                                  -            -                24.300         24.300
Total Benefits                         131.217        70.454           30.300         231.971
2.  Present Value of Costs and Benefits
Economic Construction Costs                     25.938        15.867            6.931          48.736
Economic Benefits
Avoided pavement maintenance
Routine (10 years)                          1.935        0.987             -              2.922
Periodic (10'years)                         8.498        6.389                           14.887
Savings in vehiclle operating costs
(10 years)                                40.771        20.106            -              60.877
Avoided drainage maintenance
(20 years)                                  -            -                 1.420          1.420
Avoided flood damages and losses
(20 years)                                  -             -                5.751          5.751
Total Benefits                             51.204       27.482             7.171         85.857
3.  Net Present Value 1/                        25.266       11.615             0.240          37.121
4.  Benefit/Cost Ratio 1/                         1.97         1.73             1.03            1.76
5.  Economic Return                              39%           33%               16%             33%
6.  First Year Return                            31%           28%               15%             18%
7.  Sensitivity Analysis 2/
Economic return                             20%          16%                 8%            17%
First year return                           19%          16%                 9%            17%
1/   Using a discount rate of 15%.
2/   Assuming a 25% increase of costs and a 25% decrease of benefits.



IBRD 16321
SS~~~~~~~~~~D :i01-,:,' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~APRIL 19822
o '0 '            \   S A U D I    A R A B I A
1150, SAUDIAPASIA tt_ > <          WhraYEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
00-@<\ 1Jv'~ i.8wI/<Nclrcn                                                                               FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUDAN .- _
Project Road
o l iTHIDP1A  t  (\~) 4  t  \ t                       -      Poved Roads
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1---Paved Roads under Construction
S  A'           D   A  HX  2 | ?    g    <                            uOther Roads
*Jj=n25 /\                 j/0 (9   QA  \            D'A                                                  National Capitals
i0                                          S \  va\ i   ) 4udoh    /   < /          i            0   Cities, Towns and Villages
_j   -liA-  Contours in Meters
o-                                                                            B e \   j-Cf}  )    9 \  V - >     ro  A.*   International Airports
i''1                     I                       \                                                 o,/ ,_,, | (  Provincial Boundaries
}   r.,)   's  t    gHo,i/   < - 1 \ 0   V    9 ~       /               _._ International Boundaries
o      20     40      60     eo      (00
I                                          KI~~~~~~~~~~~~LOMFETES
o          20           40          60
AAI LES
< g f"' ''""' \ A%J'-  ""'','. """dnl                              '                      .''Moi                            - 
N~~~~~~~~
Ai K
E  T  H   I  O  P  t A  /  -  - . - . . .......... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dse.io  fe..noDouDuA   oono  00.400 .50,   .44  i
/ i -- - 0 ~~GULf  O:F  ABE/V                                                                 j    00000O. =D/ 
7;/o                 D1 DJIBOUTI                                                                                                  O      o .  .           i -  2t.
/  DJIBOUTI                                                                                                  oouoo,se'oo,~~~~-y
/~~~~~~~~~~~d
-        440                                                                            440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



