CREDIT NUMBER 1267 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourtrå Highway Project)
betveen
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
?ated                                , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1267 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             a                        , 1982,
between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHFREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist -n the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from another external
source of finance (hereinafter called the Co-financier) a loan
(hereinafter called the Co-financier Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to about six million dollars ($6,000,000) to assist in the
financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the Co-financier Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Co-financier; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meaniags:
(a) "Authority" means the Highway Authority of the Bor-
rower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 16 of 1972; and


﻿-2-
(b)  "Department" means the Department of Transport within
the Ministry of Communications and Transport of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to six million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985, or
such later date as the Association shall astablish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to


﻿-3-
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual install--ants payable on each February
1 and August I commencing August 1, 1992, and ending February 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on February 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through the Authority and Part B of the Project through
the Department with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate financial, administrative and engineer-
ing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) the
supervision of the construction under Part A of the Project, and
(b) carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering and management consultants whose selection, qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the princi-
ples and procedure,s described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by Wo'ld Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" piblished by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Pruject.
Section 3.04. (a* The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contre..z for
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of tne Cre-
dit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all necessary action to ensure that the develop-
ment of the policies and procedures referred to in Part B
(1) of the Project shall be completed in time to be furnished,
and shall furnish by April 30, 1983, to the Association for its
review and comments the draft proposals of said policies, and
procedures; and
(b) on the basis above, introduce such modifications in
said proposals as the Association shall reasonably request and,
thereafter, take all necessary measures to adopt and implement
the same in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and xpenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible ftr carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section fur each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of eaci such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said separate accounts and records
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times cause its
highway system and road maintenance equipment to be maintained
and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering standards and routine and
periodic maintenance practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Co-financier Loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Co-financier
Loan Agreement, or
(ii) the Co-financier Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.    For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿-7-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditicns:
(a) the Borrower has employed the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(b) all conditions precedent     to the effectiveness of the
Co-ftnancier Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been duly fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date                         -   ia hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrowar under Sections
4.02 and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                        Telex:
CENPLAN                              2266
Sana'a                               CENPLAN YE


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By J                      6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
6    ,   Regional Vice President
Europe, MidAle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Civil works              5,040,000              50% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultants'
services:
(a) for cons-             280,000              100% of
truction super-                                foreign
vision under                                   expenditures
Part A of the
Project
(b) for Part B            570,000              100% of
of the Project                                 foreign
expenditures
(3) Fellowships                 90,000              100%
(4) Unallocated                220,000
TOTAL    6,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from :he
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the


﻿- 10 -
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
with respect to Category (1), if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals   under   said  Category   may   continue   until  all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Asphaltic overlay and flood protection works for 61 km com-
prising the Taiz-Al Mafraq road.
Part B:
(1) The development and implementation of policies and pro-
cedures designed to improve: (a) the planning and management
functions of the Department; and (b) the efficiency of the trans-
port industry in the Borrower's territory.
(2) The provision of about 90 man-months of overseas fel-
lowships for the training of the Department's staff in transport
planning and management.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter   called   the   Guidelines),   on   the   basis   of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
works in question.     The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 13 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the awarid is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission tu the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


