Report No. 308a-GR                                                                        FILE  CO:PY
Appraisal of Nestos and Yannitsa
Irrigation Project
Greece
April 17, 1974
AMENA Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                drachma (Dr)
US$0.033            =        Dr 1.00
US$1.00             =        Dr30Q.00
US$33,333           =        Dr 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)    -
1 mllimeter(mm)                       =        0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                           -        3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                   =        10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)        3                    1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm3                    810.7 acre feet
1 cubic meter per second (m /sec)              35.35 cubic feet per second
1 liter per second (1/sec)                     0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilometer (km)      2               =        0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )              =        0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                                  2.47 acres
1 stremma (str)                       =        0.247 acres
1 kilogram-(kg)                       =        2.205 pounds
.1 metric ton (ton)                    =        2,205 pounds
1 kilovolt (kV)                       =1000 volts
1 kilovolt-ampere.(kVa)               =        1,000 volt-amperes
1 kilowatt (kW)                       =        1,000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                 =        1,000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                       =        1,000 kilowatts
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS
ABG     -         Agricultural Bank of Greece
GOEV    -         General Farmer's Water Users Association
HWS     -         Hydraulic Works Service, Ministry of Public Works
LtRS    -         Land Reclamation Service, Ministry of Agriculture
PPC     -         Public Power Corporation            I
TOEV    -         Local FarmerAs Water Users Association
YEKE    -         Service of Construction Control
GOVERNMENT OF GREECE
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 to DECEMBER 31



GRFECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUIVARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................              i-
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................,.,.,,..                         1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                           1
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                     3
Location and Historv .3
Climate .......                                              3
Topography and Soils.                                        3
Transportation and Communications.                            4
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size                        4
Water Resources and Hlydrology .5
Present Land Use and Yields.                                 6
Agricultural Research and Extension.                         7
Credit.                                                      7
IV. THE PROJECT ..                                                        8
Description .
Proposed WTorks .                    .                       9
Water Control and Quality.                                    9
Status of Engineering   .                .11
Consultants   .                    .11
Land Acquisition   .                 .11
Construction Schedule   .                .12
Cost LE'stimates                 ..12
Financing   . .13
Procure-mnent         ..                     .......  13
Disbursement   .                   .14
Project Accounts and Audit   .             .14
V.   ORGANIZ ATIOn AIM 'AXNAGEMET.                            ...       14
Implementation of Project IJorks .14
Project Coordination .16
Operation and Maintenance .16
Supporting Agricultural Services .17
Land Consolidation .19
Recovery of Project Costs .19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October-November
1972 consisting of Messrs. Paul Peperz,lk, '. Altaf Hussain and Rene Stevenin
(Bank): and of a reappraisal miission in October 1973 consisting of T'r. Paul
Peperzak and .liss MIeera Shah (Bank) and rMr. V. F. Gioia (Consultant).



Table of Contents - Continued
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION,  -ARI2T PROSPECTS, PRICES ANT)
FARM INCOME .......... .............................            21
Production   . .21
Market Prospects   .                .22
Prices..                                                  24
Farm Income and Other Income Data.                        24
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................... .             25
Economic Benefits    .                .25
Employment and Income Distribution   .        .26
Environment and Health   .              .26
VIII.   AGREEM.ENTS REACHED AND RECOTT!4ENDATION .27
ANNEXES
1.   Soils
2.   Present and Future Cropped Area, Yield and Production
3.   Project Description
4.   Construction Schedule, Charts 7564R & 7565R.
5.   Cropwater and Irrigation Requirenents
6.   Monthly Flows of Nestos River and Irrigation Requirements
7.   International Water Use Agreement, Nestos River
8.   Schedule of Expenditures
9.   Cost Estimates
10.   List of Equipment to be Procured under ICB
11.   Loan Disbursement Schedule
12.   Organization Charts
Chart 7515R - Organization of Hydraulic Works Service (HWS)
Chart 7516R - Organization of Directorate of Agriculture
and LRS
Chart 7514R - Project Organization
13.   Farmers' Organizations (GOEVs and TOEVs)
14.   Operation and Maintenance Costs
15.   Production Costs and Farm Budgets
16.   Prices Used for Project Appraisal
17.   Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
18.   Labor Requirements
MAPS
IBRD 10294 - Nestos Subproject
IBRD 10295R- Yannitsa Subproject



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANIITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second irrigation project in Greece com-
prising two subprojects: Nestos in Eastern Macedonia and Yannitsa in Cen-
tral Macedonia. Both are among the least developed areas in the country.
On completion in five years, the project would provide irrigation and drain-
age to about 23,600 ha--8,200 ha in Nestos and 15,400 ha in Yannitsa--at a
total cost of US$72.7 million equivalent.
ii.       Agriculture is very important to Greece's economy.  It provides
employment to about 40% of the labor force, generates 45% of all exports
and provides raw material for a number of industrial plants. Its contribu-
tion to GDP, however, is only 20% in 1973, down from 25% in 1960. Devel-
opment of agriculture depends heavily on irrigation, but despite a rapid in-
crease in public investments in a large number of irrigation projects in re-
cent years, only one-half of the potential 1.6 million ha is irrigated. Slow
progress in the past has been due to the scattering of investment and lack of
project preparation and implementation, both leading to long gestation periods.
iii.      The proposed Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project woule include:
(a) construction of irrigation canals and drains;
(b) construction and improvement of access roads;
(c) building of an electrical network to provide power for pumps;
(d) installation of pumping units;
(e) supply of portable sprinkler equipment; and
(f) supply of operation and maintenance equipment.
The project also provides for consultant services and for the consolidation
of landholdings.
iv.       Estimated total project cost including overall physical contin-
gencies and price escalation is US$72.7 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$30.0 million or 41%. The proposed US$30.0 million
Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of the civil works,
equipment, consultant services, and phy7sical and price contingencies. Con-
tracts totalling about US$45.2 million, or 91% of total project costs, ex-
cluding contingencies, for civil works and purchase of equipment (irrigation
gates and distributors, pumps, motors, pipes and sprinklers, transformers,
and 0&M equipment) would be awarded following international competitive
bidding. To ensure wide competition, the civil works would be tendered
in three contracts, each of about US$10 to 12 million. Consultant serv-
ices (US$0.3 million) would be employed in accordance with Bank procedures.
v.        Project planning, design, and contracting would be done by the
Ministry of Public Works, which has had experience in works of a similar
nature and size. It would be assisted at the design stage by consultants
to be employed by the Government. Supervision would be entrusted to two



- ii -
project offices, to be specially established in the Ministry of Public Works
for the two subproject areas. These units would work under the respective
subproject managers who, in turn, would be responsible to the Chief of the
Regional Services of Construction Control (YEKE) of the 'inistry of Public
Works. Land consolidation, soil surveys, land reclamation and on-farm works
would be carried out by the Land Reclamation Service, Ministry of Agriculture,
through the existing offices of Regional Inspectors of Agriculture in Kavalla
and Thessaloniki.  Additional staff would be provided by the parent Ministries
of Public IJorks and Agriculture. The Public Power Corporation would be re-
sponsible for the installation and supply of electrical energy for irrigation
pumps. A Steering Committee would be set up in Athens to formulate policy
and would include representatives of the MTinistries of Coordination and Plan-
ning, of Public Works and of Agriculture, Land Reclamation Service, Public
Power Corporation, the Agricultural Bank of Greece and the two subproject
managers. The chairman would be the Director General of the Ministry of
Coordination and Planning. Two Project Coordination Committees, one for
each subproject, would be established under the chairmanship of regional
chiefs of YEKE to coordinate the work of the local branches of participat-
ing agencies.
vi.       At full development in 1982, the net value of annual incremental
production to the economy would be about US$10.2 million. The economic rate
of return for the whole project would be 13.7%, for Nestos 12.2% and for
Yannitsa 14.3%. If sunk costs, totalling Dr 82.0 million (US$2.73 million)
are taken into account, the rates of return for the whole project, Nestos and
Yannitsa, would be 12.9%, 10.2% and 13.1%, respectively. Incremental family
income of a typical 2.5 ha farm in Nestos after payment without interest of
full 0OUT cost and a portion of the investment cost of the project would be
Dr 27,916 (US$931) and that for a typical 2.0 ha farm in Yannitsa would be
Dr 31,773 (US$1,059).
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30.0 million for a
period of 20 years including a five and one-half years grace period. The
borrower would be the Government of the Hellenic State.



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Hellenic State has requested a Bank loan of
US$30.0 million to partly finance the completion and rehabilitation of irri-
gation and drainage systems in Nestos in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace (8,230
ha net) and Yannitsa in Central Macedonia (15,400 ha net), costing US$72.7
million. Government had proposed the inclusion of a third subproject in
East Vermion, also in Central Macedonia, but this was excluded at appraisal
because of inadequate preparation.
1.02      The Bank Economic Mission of 1970 observed that irrigation is the
chief means of rapid agricultural growth in Greece and stressed the need for
completing and rehabilitating existing projects simultaneously with a better
preparation of new schemes. This is the second request for Bank support for
irrigation development in Greece. A Baak loan of US$25 million was made in
June 1971 for the Groundwater Development Project in the Thessaly Plain; pro-
gress is satisfactory after a slow start caused by time-consuming organiza-
tional and administrative problems. Passage of a law in December 1972, ab-
solving farmers from reDayments of investment cost of construction for recla-
mation necessitated extensive discussions betwqeen Government and the Bank.
As a result of the discussions, Government and Bank agreed on a fixed water
charge, at a level lower than originally agreed at loan negotiations.
1.03      Passage of the law and subsequent discussions delayed progress on
the processing of the loan for the Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project
and a reappraisal of the project became necessary. This report is based on
engineering studies, prepared for the Ministry of Public Works by Greek con-
sultants, Th. C. Gofas and D. Komis, Consulting Engineers for the Nestos sub-
project, and Hydromechaniki S.A. Engineering Company and Nicolaides, Ltd. for
the Yannitsa subproject, and on agro-economic and soil studies prepared by
the Land Reclamation Service (LRS) of the MIinistry of Agriculture. Several
additional studies on marketing and engineering were also available. The
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme was associated1 with the project from identif-
ication to the final drafting of the feasibility studv. The project vas ap-
praised in October-November 1972 by MIessrs. Paul Peperzak, M. Altaf Hussain
and Rene Stevenin (Bank), and reappraised in October 1973 by Mr. Paul Peperzak
and Miss %eera Shah (Bank), and Mlr. V. F. Gioia (Consultant).
II.  BACKGROLMT)
2.01      Greece has a land area of 132,000 1m  and a population of 9.1 mil-
lion (1973), increasing at less than 1° per annum. There are 3.9 million ha
of productive land, of which about 3.4 million ha are cultivated: the balance



is fallow land. GDP at constant 1967 prices rose as planned by 8% per annum
during 1963-73. The growth in agricultural production at 3% per annum was,
however, behind the 5.2% target, mainly because of poor performance in the
livestock subsector which, in turn, was due to shortfalls in feed grains
and fodder crops.
2.02      Agriculture contributes only 20% to GDP at present as coripared
with 25% in 1960. Incomy per person employed in agriculture is only 40% of
those employed in other sectors. Agriculture is, nevertheless, important to
the economy because it provides employment to about 40%' of the 3.3 million
working population, generates about 45% of all exports and provides raw
materials for industrial plants. The Government has been encouraging its
growth through income supports and input subsidies. The main agricultural
commodity exports are tobacco, cotton, fruits, vegetables, raisins, hides
and skins. Agricultural imports by value are about half of agricultural
exports, the most important commodities being beef, mutton, milk and feed
grains.
2.03      Four main constraints hinder growth of the sector:  i) Water for
irrigation is scarce and potential resources are not being developed rapidly
due to high cost of water exploitation. The total area under irrigation is
less than 0.8 million ha which represents only one-fifth of the cultivated
area and half of the potential irrigable land; increase in irrigated areas
has averaged 30,000 ha or about 4.5% per annum; ii) Small and fragmented farm
holdings resulting from a limited area of arable land and laws of inheritance
form a structural obstacle. Average holdings are 3.3 ha and consist of 8 or
more parcels of land; iii) Labor situation is anomalous. Hired labor employed
in agriculture is scarce while there is underemployment among farm families.
This reduces the savings and the use of improved technologies and farm inputs,
and iv) Extension services provided for the sector have not been adequate.
2.04      Irrigation is the chief means of agricultural growth as it enables
diversification, yield improvement, and consolidation of fragmented farm
holdings which is compulsory in irrigated areas (para 3.12). Government
has been giving priority to irrigation exDansion in its development programs,
with about 90% of public sector exoenditure on agriculture going to irriga-
tion, drainage, reclamation and flood protection schemes. However, progress
has been slow in relation to investments due largely to scattered investment
and inadequate project preparation and implementation leading to long gesta-
tion periods.
2.05      Government agricultural policy has been, and continues to be, to
encourage production of feedgrains, fodder crops, livestock products and sugar
for import substitution; and to promote production of crops with better export
prospects such as cotton, fruits and vegetables. Due to Greece's associate
membership in EEC which gives access to its products to the Common `arket,
the export promotion policy has been quite successful, but expansion and
better utilization of irrigation facilities need to be accelerated if sim-
ilar success is to be realized in import substitution.



-3-
2.06      This project aims at removing the main growth constraints as it
provides for irrigation facilities, consolidation of fragmented farm holdings,
employment for family labor, and agricultural extension services. The project
would lead to expansion in exports and substitution of imports.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and History
3.01      The project consists of two subprojects (Maps IBRD 10294 and IBRD
10295R): Nestos, located in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, between Kavalla
and Xanthi, about 200 km east of Thessaloniki; and Yannitsa, located in Cen-
tral Macedonia, about 40 km west of Thessaloniki.
3.02      The Nestos subproject itself is located in Thrace 1/ on the east
bank of the Nestos River in the delta, and includes the sub-areas of Evlalon-
Dekarchon and Erasmion-Myrodaton. A diversion weir and flood protection dikes
have already been constructed on the river, and most of the western delta, as
well as the upper third of the eastern delta, have been developed.
3.03      The Yannitsa subproject area is the former Lake Yannitsa.  Formerly,
the area was covered with water about 4 m deep and surrounded by marshes. Re-
clamation was started in 1925 and the lake was drained in 1937. In 1950, con-
struction of irrigation canals, roads and main drainage channels was undertaken
and by now most of the lands surrounding the subproject area have been developed.
Climate
3.04      The Nestos and Yannitsa areas have similar Mediterranean-type
climates, with hot dry summers and mild winters; however, frosts do occur.
Annual precipitation averages 700 mm in Nestos and 620 uma in Yannitsa, with
monthly minima of 20-25 mm in July and August in either area. The Nestos
area is swept during part of the summer by a continental dry wind from the
north and Yannitsa by dry and hot southwestern winds. These account for
the low relative humidity of about 52% in Nestos and 57% in Yannitsa during
July and August. Wind velocities are rarely greater than 3 m/sec and are,
therefore, acceptable for sprinkler irrigation.
Topography and Soils
3.05      The Nestos subproject area lies between 2 and 20 m above sea level
on a deltaic plain quite suitable for irrigation, with longitudinal slopes of
about 0.15%. Drainage is satisfactory. The existing main drainage channel,
1/   The subproject is part of a larger development located on either side
of the Nestos River which is also the dividing line between Macedonia
and Thrace.



flood protection dikes along the river, and highly pervious soils make the
area suitable for immediate improvement.
3.06      Soils are mostly alluvial, of which about two-thirds are coarse
sandy loams having a high infiltration rate (Annex 1). Water-holding capac-
ity is fair throughout the soil profile and surface soils are largely neu-
tral to slightly alkaline. About 1,150 ha, or 12% of the area, is affected
by salt but can be reclaimed by leaching with or without application of gyp-
sum and subsoiling. At present, 6,830 ha or 73% of the project area is
classified as "suitable for all crops" (Classes I-III);'reclamation would
increase this area to 8,525 ha (gross) or 91% (Annex 1, Table 1). Conse-
quently, soils in this area are highly suitable for the proposed project.
3.07      The Yannitsa subproject area lies between 1 and 5 m above sea level,
with gentle slopes ranging between 0.02 and 0.10% towards the Limni main col-
lector and the Loudias River. The low-lying central lands of the area are
waterlogged in early and late spring, except near the main drain, the water
level of which is controlled by the Schina pumping station, which started
operation in 1972.
3.08      Soils in the Yannitsa project area are derived from alluvial, col-
luvial, and limnic deposits. They are generally uniform with high organic
matter content, high fertility and moisture-holding capacity as well as high
permeability and are thus eminently suitable for project development. About
330 ha, or 2% of the area, is affected by salts, requiring reclamation meas-
ures similar to Nestos (see Annex 1 for details on soils).
Transportation and Comrnunications
3.09      The Nestos subproject is located about 40 km east of Kavalla and
its harbor. The paved main road from Thessaloniki to Xanthi and on to the
Greek/Turkish border crosses the Nestos River over the Toxotes weir. The
Egnatia highway, soon to be constructed, would bisect the subproject area
and further improve communications facilities.
3.10      The Yannitsa area is served by the harbor in Thessaloniki, about
45 km east of the project, via two paved main roads to either Alexandria
and Veria, or to Yannitsa and Edessa. A railway line also connects Veria,
Alexandria and Thessaloniki. The project area itself is bisected by two
good gravel roads, one from Yannitsa to Alexandria, crossing the Loudias
River near the Schina pumping station, and one following the Limni main
drain to Kria Vrisi and Kavasilon.
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.11      The Nestos subproject area has about 2,700 families, all of whom
are engaged in agriculture; many combine livestock with crop farming. The
average size of family is 4.4, of whom two are of working age. Except during
seasonal peaks, family labor is underutilized, but during such peaks, labor
is hired from neighboring cattle-raising communities.



- 5 -
3.12      Farmers living in the area own 78% of the land.  The remainder is
public land used by the community for grazing. The average family holding
is 2.5 ha, which is also the average size of operational holdings, compared
to the national average of 3.3 ha. Many holdings are fragmented. These
would be consolidated as land consolidation is obligatory in areas where
irrigation and drainage are provided. Public lands would be used to in-
crease the size of existing farms and to settle landless farmers, and Gov-
ernment would compensate farmers with land for that occupied by project
structures; thus no cash payments for land acquisition are visualized.
3.13      The Yannitsa population is concentrated in villages and towns sur-
rounding the project area, because the lakebed has been only recently re-
claimed. There are about 17,750 ha of land, 12% of which have been retained
by the State for right-of-way purposes. About half of this retained area
("belt area") has been annually rented for cultivation pending construction
of irrigation and drainage works. The balance is held by about 14,800 land-
owners, not all of whom are directly engaged in farming. As the average
ownership holding is only about 1 ha, to create a viable farm size, roughly
one-third of the landowners cultivate land rented from the other two-thirds.
The latter work as farmers on land outside the project area or as laborers
in and around the project area. There are also peak demands for seasonal
labor, which are satisfied by the hiring of migrant laborers from Eastern
Macedonia and Thrace.
3.14      The typical operational farm size after combination through renting
is 2.0 ha. As land in this area was distributed comparatively recently follow-
ing reclamation of the lake, fragmentation does not present a major problem;
however, limited adjustments would be necessary to provide project facilities
to all farms.
Water Resources and Hydrology
3.15      At present, irrigation on the Nestos Delta is supplied from the
unregulated flow of the Nestos River and from scattered groundwater sources.
The Nestos catchment area covers 5,550 km2, 60% of which lies within Bulgaria
and 40% within Greece. The unregulated flow during the critical month of
August, in four out of five years, is estimated at 40 Mm3 (14.8 m3/sec), which
could be augmented with groundwater at a peak extraction rate of about 5 Mm3
(1.8 m3/sec), making a total of 45 Mm3 (16.6 m3/sec), which would suffice the
needs of the project and the already developed areas in the Nestos Delta
(17.2 m3/sec.). Moreover, the water supply for the irrigation of the lower
Nestos area will be improved by the proposed multipurpose Paranestion Dam,
on the upper stretch of the Nestos River within the Greek border. Final
design of this dam, based on satisfactory results of recent geological in-
vestigations, is now in progress. Construction is scheduled to start in
1976. Upon completion in 1982, the total water requirement of the project
area, which would reach full development in 1982, would be further secured.
3.16      The Salonika Plain, which includes the Yannitsa subproject, draws
its water supply from unregulated flows of the Aliaknon and Axios Rivers
and to a limited extent from springs of the East Vermion massif and from



- 6 -
groundwater. The Aliakmon River, with a catchment area of 6,340 km2, dis-
charges about 41 Mm3 or 15 m3/sec in August. The Axios River (Vardar River
in Yugoslavia), with a catchment area of 23,750 km2, discharges about 81 Mm3
or 30 m3/sec in August, but only two-thirds of this is available for use of
the right bank area including the project, as the remainder is already com-
mitted for left bank irrigation. Water from the East Vermion springs is
totally used in summer and the groundwater potential is limited. These
latter sources are likely to be phased out upon operation of the Polyphyton
Dam on the Aliakmon (completed in 1973), which will provide an ample supply
of water, estimated at 51 m3/sec during the peak irrigation season. Water
availability would thus be adequate for project needs.
Present Land Use and Yields
3.17      Of 9,100 ha of cultivable land in the Nestos subproject area,
7,100 ha are cultivated, 1,000 ha of whiich are double-cropped with late
maize following winter cereals; and 2,000 ha are in so-called communal lands,
used as pastures. About 2,300 ha, mostly maize and alfalfa, receive inade-
quate irrigation--2,050 ha by pumping from about 600 shallow wells and 250
ha by pumping from the main drains; while the main, traditional crops, wheat
and barley, are grown under rainfed conditions, as is the balance of both
spring and summer maize. The main cash crops are oriental tobacco and vege-
tables. Because of substantial use of fertilizers and other inputs, yields
are reasonable considering the droughts suffered during the summer months.
3.18      Livestock-raising, mainly cattle and sheep, is traditional in
Nestos. Meat and milk production have encouraged the growing of fodder
crops such as maize, alfalfa, sorghum, and summer forages, which has in-
creased the need for irrigation.
3.19      Almost all of the available land in the Yannitsa subproject area is
cultivated, about 9,900 ha under rainfed conditions and 5,800 ha receiving
inadequate irrigation from blocked drainage ditches, aggravating the already
serious waterlogging in adjacent areas. Only 300 ha are double-cropped, with
late maize. The main crops are wheat and barley (33% of the cultivated area),
burley tobacco (20%), cotton (16%), maize (15%), and sugar beets (8%). The
growing of sugar beets is increasing due to expansion of the sugar factory
at Plati, adjacent to the project area.  In spite of high soil fertility,
good farming and adequate use of inputs, crop yields are depressed by the
extremely poor drainage conditions (para 3.07).  Reduction of 30% in yields
is common and may be as high as 60% when the water table surfaces, as it does
on as much as 9,300 ha, or 60% of the area. Annex 2 gives details of cropping
patterns, area, yields, and production in the Nestos and Yannitsa subproject
areas with and without the project. Present and future conditions without
the project are assumed unchanged because of the present advanced level of
agriculture, and because of drainage and irrigation constraints which would
prevent further improvement without project works.
3.20      Irrigation in both subproject areas is done mostly by sprinkling and
involves portable pumps and sprinkler equipment purchased by the farmers them-
selves. The farmers are aware, however, of the new development works to be



- 7 -
installed in the project area and thus are not planning to make additional per-
sonal investments in this kind of equipment. Irrigation is likely to continue
in the same way throughout the first few years of project development, but
gradually phase out when new project installations take over. By that time,
equipment owned by the farmers will be worn out and presumably discarded or
sold off to outsiders.
Agricultural Research and Extension
3.21      The Regional Inspectorate of Agriculture for Eastern Macedonia and
Thrace in Kavalla covers all agricultural research and extension activities
in the Nestos area, which lies in the Xanthi District. Applied research on
crop production is carried out at the State Agricultural Research Station,
and on tobacco at the Tobacco Research Station, both in Xanthi. Research
and extension on specific crops such as tobacco and sugar are done by various
production organizations or private industry in and around the project area.
Additional advice on the use of fertilizer and equipment is provided by the
local branches of the Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG).
3.22      The Yannitsa subproject area lies in the Districts of Thessaloniki,
Imathia and Pella, all within the Regional Inspectorate of Agriculture for
Central and Western Macedonia in Thessaloniki. The Regional Inspectorate
is well staffed with extension agronomists, engineers and various specialists.
Research on general crop production, plant protection, soils and fertilizers
is done at one of the country's largest regional stations in Thessaloniki.
More specialized research on cereals and on cotton (by the Cotton Institute)
is also done in Thessaloniki, on land reclamation (by LRs) in Sindos, on
livestock improvement in Yannitsa, and on fruit trees in the Vermion area.
Research and extension on tobacco and sugar are carried out, as in Nestos,
by various production organizations and private industry in and near the
project area. Local ABG staff is also involved in advisory activities.
3.23      Research on all phases of agricultural production, both at the
national and regional levels, is adequate for project needs. Staffing for
extension programs is limited but of good caliber, requiring additional num-
bers to serve the Nestos subproject.
Credit
3.24      The Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG) has more than 175 branches
throughout the country which extend short-, medium- and long-term loans and
administer Government subsidy programs for the agricultural sector. Over
the past 15 years, loan operations have grown to such an extent that they
reach about 90% of the farmers. The interest on short-term loans varies
between 4% and 5% depending on the end use and whether obtained directly
or through a cooperative. For medium- and long-term loans, which account
for about one-fifth of the total credit portfolio, interest rates are about
half as much. Information on the amounts of loans to project farmers is not
available but the expansion in credit facilities in the region during the
five years ending with 1972 has been impressive. Between 1968 and 1972, the
amount of short-term loans given by the seven branches serving the two sub-
project areas more than doubled from Dr 739 million (US$25 million) to



-8-
Dr 1,518 million (US$51 million). Medium-term loans registered a relatively
slow 37% increase from Dr 352 million (US$12 million) in 1968 to Dr 483 million
(US$16 million) in 1972. Besides cash loans, ABG also handles inputs like
fertilizers, seeds and pesticides through the National Agency of Cooperatives
and extends considerable supplementary advisory services to farmers through
its own staff. The total amount of credit extended through Credit Coopera-
tives, mostly as short-term loans, is equivalent to about 50% of the total
credit extended directly by ABG. In general, method and operation of credit
extension in the rural area are satisfactory.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The project would provide irrigation and improved drainage for
23,630 net ha, made up of two subprojects, Nestos of 8,230 ha and Yannitsa
of 15,400 ha (Annex 3). A reduction in net cultivable areas from the ori-
ginal 9,100 and 17,750 ha respectively is due to project structures. The
project would comprise the following:
(a) construction of main and secondary concrete-lined irrigation
canals and structures (conveyance canals have already been
built up to project boundaries), and distribution pipelines;
(b) construction of drainage channels, to connect existing
gravity main drains, and of drainage pumping stations in
waterlogged areas;
(c) construction of farm access roads;
(d) installation of an electrical network within the project
area to provide power for irrigation and drainage pumps;
(e) supply and installation of electrical pumps for sprinkler
irrigation;
(f) supply of portable sprinkler equipment; and
(g) supply of operation and maintenance equipment.
The project would also provide for consultant services and for the consolida-
tion of landholdings. The Ministry of Public Works would supervise construc-
tion of the irrigation and drainage works and the Public Power Corporation
(PPC) that of the power network. All project works would be completed in
five years with construction beginning in 1975. Detailed construction sched-
ules are presented in Annex 4.



-9-
Proposed Works
4.02      Nestos Subproject.  Two concrete-lined, main irrigation canals
would extend existing conveyance canals, each via a compensation reservoir,
into the project area and deliver 8.6 m3/sec through concrete-lined, second-
ary canals of trapezoidal section, and distribution pipelines (buried and of
asbestos-cement) at 400 m intervals. All canals would be regulated by auto-
matic gates and distributors, thus securing high conveyance efficiency (es-
timated at 90%) and proper partition of flow between canals. As pervious
soils preclude surface irrigation, sprinkler irrigation would be used.
Electrical pumps served by an electrical network to be erected, would be
installed at 400 m intervals along the secondary canals to irrigate units
of 120 ha each through portable pipes and sprinklers. Main drainage would
be provided by two channels discharging into the sea: one of them, already
constructed, bisects the project area; the second one, a natural stream
which must be deepened and enlarged, would form the eastern limit of the
project area. The tertiary drains would be 400 m apart and at least 1 m
deep; deeper and closer spaced where soils are heavier. A complete access
road system following the primary and secondary canals would be provided.
Details are given in Annex 3.
4.03      Yannitsa Subproject.  Irrigation would be supplied from the exist-
ing Aliakmon-Axios main supply canals. Main and secondary canals would be
of trapezoidal section and concrete-lined, and the distribution pipelines
would be 250-300 m apart. Because of high soil infiltration rates, sprinkler
irrigation would be used and electrical pumps would be installed at 300 m in-
tervals along the secondary canals to serve irrigation units of 36 ha each.
An electrical network would be installed to serve the pumps. The existing
canalized Loudias River and Limni Main Collector serve as the area's main
drains. A large pumping station was installed in 1972 at Schina to help
improve drainage. The project would include completion of main and secondary
drains, and of open tertiary drains at 250-300 m spacing throughout. Six
strategically placed low-lift pumps would discharge drainage outflow into
the main drains. Access roads would follow the main and secondary canals
throughout the project area. Details are given in Annex 3.
Water Control and Quality
4.04      The Nestos subproject would draw its water from the Nestos River.
Quality of this water is excellent. The existing Toxotes diversion weir
already serves 15,500 ha in the Nestos Delta within which the project is
located. The project water requirement in the critical month of August is
estimated at 12.4 Mm3, representing 4.6 m3/sec on the basis of 1,550 m3/ha
(Annex 5). Since the project area is to be served together with the remain-
der of the Nestos Delta area, currently irrigated from the same diversion
weir, the total Delta requirement has been assessed at 46.1 Mm3, or 17.2 m3/
sec in August for a total of 23,730 ha (15,500 existing plus 8,230 proposed).
This total requirement could be met from the unregulated low stage flow of
the Nestos River in four years out of five, provided that the deficit would
be made up by pumping from the existing shallow wells, which are able to
supply, at a maximum, 5 Mdm3 or 1.8 m3/sec during August (Annex 6). On the
average, in one year out of five, a variable deficit could be expected during



- 10 -
August, not exceeding 15% of the optimum water requirement for the proposed
cropping pattern. From the data in Annex 6, it is obvious that even with
minimal flows of the Nestos River, no shortages of water may be expected
during the other months of the irrigation season. However, the period of
project implementation would extend through 1979 and full development would
take another three to four years.  By this time, the Paranestion Dam,3to be
built ugstream on the Nestos River, would make available about 150 MM /month,
or 56 m /sec, even during the critical month of August, which is far more
than would be needed for the entire Nestos Delta development, including the
subproject.
4.05      About 40% of the Nestos watershed is in Greece, the balance being
in Bulgaria. An agreement between both countries has been in force since
1964, calling for cooperation and mutual information on river development
(Annex 7). There are no large irrigable areas in the upper valley or water-
shed in Bulgaria and it is therefore unlikely that the low stage flow would
be reduced prior to entering Greece. Furthermore, Paranestion Dam would
provide sufficient storage to make the Nestos Delta irrigation independent
of the summer discharge flowing from Bulgaria. In a meeting of the Greek-
Bulgarian Committee dealing with the development of international rivers
(including Nestos) held in May 1973, the Government of Bulgaria was informed
about the Nestos irrigation project; Bulgaria has not raised any objection
to the project.
4.06      The Yannitsa subproject is the central part of the large--over
100,000 ha--Salonika Plain which is already partially irrigated by the un-
regulated flows of the Aliakmon and Axios Rivers. In order to fully satisfy
the irrigation requirements of the plain, construction of a large multipurpose
dam at Polyphyton on the Alia~mon River has recintly (1973) been completed.
Its storage of about 1,620 MIm will make 600 Mlm available during the irriga-
tion season which would be adequate to irrigate the entire plain. From exist-
ing major diveision canal! on the left bank of the Aliakmon, with a head dis-
charge of 80 m /sec, 12 m /sec would be drawn to supply the subproject area,
which wo ld be more than adequate for the maximum project water requirement
of 3.6 mi /sec in July (Annex 5). The Aliaknon River water is of very good
quality for irrigation. The Zorba district of 2,410 ha in the Yannitsa
subproject would be irrigated from the Axios River diversion weir until a
link canal 9A (Map IBRD 10295R) between the Aliakmon and Axios Rivers would
have been §onstructed. An assurance was obtained that a discharge of not less
than 1.4 mi /sec would be reserved for irrigation of the Zorba district from
the Axios diversion until such time as the link canal was constructed. After
completion of the linkc canal, now under consideration, the entire subproject
area would be irrigated by water diverted from the Aliaknon. Plans have also
been prepared for the construction of a regulating barrage on the Aliakmon
River at Assomata, downstream of Polyphyton. The Covernment policy at this
time is that irrigation requirements during the peak irrigation season are
given priority over electric power requirements. An assurance was obtained
that the Covernment would continue to follow such policy for the project area.



- 11 -
4.07      The Aliakmon watershed lies entirely within Greece, but most of
the Axios-Vardar watershed is in Yugoslavia. The Greek negotiating team
stated that Yugoslavia was informed about irrigation development of the
entire Axios basin in Greece of which the Yannitsa subproject is a small
part, and that no objection was raised by Yugoslavia against this develop-
ment. Both countries were working on an agreement on Axios-Vardar water
uses. The capacity of the link canal (para 4.06) would be designed to sup-
plement the Axios low stage discharge and to allow the full development of
about 40,000 ha likely to be irrigated in the Greek portion of the Axios
Valley. Once the link canal is constructed, the flows in the Axios River
would not affect the project.
Status of Engineering
4.03      Design and tender documents for both subprojects have been prepared
by Greek consultants: Nestos by a consortium of Th. Gofas and D. Komis Con-
sulting Engineers and Yannitsa by another consortium of HIydromechaniki S.A.
Engineering Company and Nikolaides and Partners. Designs for both projects
are based on topographical maps on a scale of 1:5,000. For Yannitsa, allow-
ance is being made in construction for possible subsidence of the former lake
bottom. Government has approved the two designs for the two subprojects.
lowever, revisions are still needed so that the final design of the dis-
tribution systems, including pumps, buried pipes, hydrants and portable
sprinkler equipment would be the most economic and technically efficient.
The system proposed in detail in Annex 3 would have technical and economic
advantages for the tertiary distribution system.  Consultants would review
the available designs of the distribution system and recommend the one most
economical and technically efficient. Such a review would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
Consultants
4.09      Consultants would be needed for the final design of project works,
revision and redesign of the tertiary distribution system, preparation of
specifications for electrical pumps, buried pipes, hydrants and portable
sprinkler equipment, evaluation of bids and to advise on specific problems
likely to be encountered during construction (such as subsidence of soils).
An assurance was obtained that Government would employ for this purpose
qualified consultants in accordance with Bank procedures for use of consul-
tants.
Land Acquisition
4.10      In the Yannitsa subproject, right-of-way was reserved at the
time of settlement of the area, and the need for further land acquisition
is therefore minimal. In the Nestos subproject area, one-fifth of the
land is publicly owned. This would be used or given in compensation for
the land to be acquired for project works.



- 12 -
Construction Schedule
4.11      All project works would be completed in five years.  Annex 4 gives
the construction schedule and Annex 8 the annual financial requirements.
Cost Estimates
4.12      Project costs are estimated to be US$72.7 million, including phys-
ical and price contingencies, of which the foreign exchange component is
estimated as US$30.0 million or 41% of total project costs. The foreign
exchange component includes estimated cost of such equipment and material
as may be locally purchased through international competitive bidding.  This
loan would disburse 90% ex-factory cost of such equipment and material (para
4.18). A summary of these estimates is given below; details are in Annex 9.
Dr Million               US$ Million         Foreign
Local  Foreipn  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Nestos Project          247.2   200.2    447.4   8.2         6.7    14.9      45
Civil Works           197.6    98.9    296.5   6.6         3.3     9.9      33
Equipment              20.0    93.6    113.6   0.7         3.1      3.8     84
Power Network           7.2      4.8      12.0   0.2       0.2     0.4      50
Engineering and
Administration         22.4      2.9      25.3   0.7       0.1      0.8     12
Yannitsa Project         590.4   447.8  1,038.2  19.6       15.0    34.6      43
Civil Works           492.4   247.6    740.0  16.4         8.3    24.7      33
Equipment              24.0   178.6    202.6   0.8         6.0      6.8     88
Power Network          22.1    14.7       36.8   0.7       0.5      1.2     42
Engineering and
Administration         51.9      6.9      58.8   1.7       0.2      1.9     11
Subtotal /a        837.6   648.0  1,485.6  27.8        21.7    49.5      44
Contingencies
Physical (10%)         83.7    64.8    148.5   2.8         2.2      5.0
Price Escalation /b  363.3   184.8    548.1  12.1          6.1    18.2
Grand Total /a      1,284.6   897.6  2,182.2  42.7        30.0    72.7      41
/a   Discrepancies due to rounding.
/b   See para 4.13.



- 13 -
4.13      Cost estimates are based on bills of quantities prepared by the
consultants and unit prices maintained by the Public Works Department, up-
dated at reappraisal in October 1973 to reflect current contract conditions.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been added for unforeseen expenditures.
Price escalation has been provided as under:
1974     1975     1976-79
Civil works (7)                 15       12          10
Equipment (V)                    9         7          5
Financing
4.14      Of the total project costs of US$72.7 million, the proposed Bank
loan of US$30.0 million would finance the estimated foreign exchange component
of the civil works, equipment, consultant services, and physical and price
contingencies. The balance of project costs (ITS$42.7 million) together with
interest during construction and commitment charges 1/, would be financed
through Government budgets for the Ministry of Public Works and PPC. The
Government has agreed that adequate budgetary allocations would be made to
meet the balance of project costs (para 4.129) and interest during construc-
tion and commitment charges. The Bank loan would be for 20 years including
5-1/2 years' grace.
Procurement
4.15      All civil works and equipment totalling US$45.2 million, excluding
contingencies, would be tendered on the basis of international competition
in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. Civil works would be
carried out under not more than three contracts of about US$10 to 12 million
each, one for Nestos and two for Yannitsa. Assurances to that effect were
obtained from the Government. Equipment supply contracts (Annex 10) would
consist of irrigation regulators, US$2.1 million; pumping units for sprinkler
irrigation, US$3.1 million; portable sprinkler equipment, US$3.7 million;
pumping equipment for drainage, US$0.7 million- transformers, US$0.6 million;
and operation and maintenance equipment, US$0.4 million. All ICB equipment
contracts would allow local manufacturers a 15% preference margin or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less. Construction and equipment items
costing less than US$10,000 each, which would not be suitable for international
.tendering or urgently required, could be purchased by the Ministry of Public
Works following regular Government procurement nrocedures. Such purchases
would be limited to a total of US$400,000. Specifications of pumping units
and Dortable sprinkler equipment would provide sufficient flexibility to
permit a choice between equally suitable alternative systems as might be
proposed by different manufacturers (Annex 3, para 12). Electrical network
estimated at US$1.6 million (including installation and material costs but
excluding cost of transformers) would be constructed by the PPC through local
contracts, as a part of their overall development program.
1/   Interest during construction and commitment charges estimated at US$6.5
million.



- 14 -
4.16      The MIinistry of Public Works, on the basis of final designs prepared
by the consultants, and with consultants' assistance, would be responsible
for the preparation of all contract documents, evaluation of bids and award
of contracts subject to Bank approval. To ensure that civil works contracts
under the project would be large enough to attract wide competition, there
would be no more than three civil works contracts of about US$10 to 12 mil-
lion each (para 4.15). Contracts of this size would be within the capability
of several local contractors, yet large enough to attract international com-
petition.
4.17      Since portable pumps bought and currently operated by the farmers
in the project area would be worn out at the time of project completion (para
3.20), their entire replacement by new electrical pumps has been provided for
in the project cost (Annexes 9 and 10). Some existing portable sprinkler
equipment currently serving about 9,100 ha (Annex 4) might be used during
the initial years of project implementation.
Disbursement
4.18      The Bank loan would finance (i) 33% of all civil works contracts;
(ii) full foreign exchange cost of imported equiprent and materials and 90%
of ex-factory cost if purchased locally through ICB; and (iii) the foreign
exchange costs of consultant services. Savings, if any on completion of
the project, would be cancelled. An estimated quarterly disbursement sched-
ule is presented in Annex 11.
Project Accounts and Audit
4.19      The borrower will cause the departments and agencies responsible
for carrying out the project to maintain separate accounts for each subproj-
ect, following current accounting nrocedures, which are satisfactory. The
accounts, inter alia, would report wqater charges collected during the fiscal
year.  An assurance was obtained that the project accolnts would be audited
annually by the auditing services of the Ministry of Finance of Greece, and
that the auditors' report Tiould be sent to the Bank within six months after
the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION MND MANAGF7MENT
Implementation of_Proec~t Works
5.01      The Ministry of Public Wlorks would be responsible for planning,
desiczning and supervising construction of the main and secondary canals,
drainage channels and roads, as well as of irrigation and drainage works
dowm to the farm units, including provision and installation of stationary
pumps, buried pipelines and hydrants and supply of portable sprinkler equip-
ment in both subproject areas. Consultants would be employed for assistance
in the design of the works, preparation of specifications and evaluation of
bids (para 4.09).



- 15 -
5.02      The Hydraulic Works Service (HWS) of the Ministry of Public Works
is primarily responsible for and has had extensive experience in the planning,
design and construction of major water works in the country and in the proj-
ect area in particular. The INS central office in Athens performs the basic
work of.planning, preparing specifications, contracting and overall supervi-
sion. Final designs of the two subprojects have been prepared by consulting
engineers under supervision of HWS Offices ofService of Construction Control
(under the name of YEKE 1/) are established under the supervision of the
Regional Inspectorates of HWS to supervise construction of local project works
(Annex 12, page 1).
5.03      Project construction would be carried out by private contractors
under supervision of the HWS central office and of the local YEKE's,offices,
already established in Alexandroupolis and Thessaloniki, for the purpose of
regional development in the Nestos Delta and the Salonika Plain, respectively.
Project offices would be created within each of these YEKE's for execution
and supervision of the subprojects. The project offices would work under the
direct supervision of specially assigned project managers, and the general
supervision of the YEKE Chief of Central M4acedonia and Thrace in Alexandroupolis
and of Western Macedonia in Thessaloniki. To assist the project managers,
professional staff of the present YEYE's would be made available and supple-
mented by additional staff as necessary.
5.04      Agricultural development in Greece is dealt with by the General
Directorate of Agricultural Development and Research within the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Land Reclamation Service (LRS) within the General Direc-
torate is responsible for planning, administration, operation and maintenance
of all land reclamation works and execution of small works in the country.
Land consolidation, additional soil surveys, and execution of minor local
works such as land leveling and reclamation of saline/alkaline lands in the
project areas would be carried out by the approDriate sections in the LRS
regional offices in Kavalla and Thessaloniki, under the general supervision
of the Regional Inspectors of Agriculture. Land consolidation would be
carried out in cooperation with the Land Distribution and Consolidation
Division of the Ministry of Agricultuire. For any of the services, additional
staff may be supplied as needed by new recruitment or by drawing upon avail-
able manpower in the Ministry of Agriculture and/or LRS in regional and dis-
trict offices (Annex 12, page 2).
5.05      The Public Power Corporation (PPC) would undertake the power sup-
ply of the subproject areas, including the construction of substations as
necessary, and of the distribution network serving the irrigation and drain-
age pumps. PPC has indicated its readiness to serve the project areas and
to construct the necessary lines, provided sufficient lead time is availa-
ble as reflected in the construction schedule (Annex 4). Erection of lines
1/   YEKE = Ypiressia Elenchou Kataskeves Ergon (Service of Construction
Control). YEYXi I is for hydraulic works; YEKE II for roads, etc.



- 16 -
would be carried out either by PPC through private contractors. PPC has its
central office in Athens and regional branches throughout the country, in-
cluding the project areas. PPC, having been involved from the start in the
national rural electrification program, is capable of handling the required
construction and maintenance. An assurance was obtained that Government
would cause PPC to supply power to the project area in accordance with the
project needs during construction and implementation.
Project Coordination
5.06      The project would be implemented jointly by four public or semi-
public agencies. At the field level, activities would be coordinated by
Project Coordination Committees--one for each subproject--to be set up at
project headquarters, namely at Kavalla for Nestos and at Thessaloniki for
Yannitsa. Each committee, chaired by the Chief of YEKE, would include the
project manager, regional heads or representatives of PPC, Ministry of Agri-
culture, LRS and Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG). An assurance was ob-
tained that the two Project Coordination Committees would be set up within
four months of signing the loan agreement and that these committees would
meet as required but at least once every three months to review past per-
formance, plan future work and ensure coordination of each agency's activi-
ties (Annex 12, page 3).
5.07      A Steering Committee would be established in Athens for overall
policy and guidance. This committee would be established before the loan
becomes effective. Members would include the project managers and repre-
sentatives of the MIinistries of Coordination and Planning, of Public Works,
of Agriculture and LRS, PPC and ABG. It would be chaired by the Director
General of Planning and Public Investments of the Ministry of Coordination
and Planning, who would also provide permanent secretarial assistance for
the committee in his office. The Steering Committee would meet as required
but at least once every six months to review the project activities and would
send a copy of the minutes of each meeting to the Bank within one month after
each meeting (Annex 12, page 3). Assurances were obtained to that effect.
Operation and Maintenance
5.08      Upon completion of the project works, IEIS would continue to operate
and maintain the main irrigation canals and drainage channels in both subproj-
ects, as well as the Schina pumping station in Yannitsa.  PPC would operate
and maintain the electrical network. All other project works, including
secondary and tertiary irrigation and drainage systems, pumps and portable
sprinkler equipment, would be operated, maintained and administered by the
local water users' organizations, GOEVs and TOEVs, under the overall super-
vision and control of LRS. The scope, structure and responsibilities of these
organizations are described in Annex 13. The existing TOEV of Thalassia-
Kremnasti in the Nestos area would be expanded to accommodate the needs of the
local project farmers. Similarly, the TOEV in the Yannitsa area, at Kria
Vrisi, would be expanded to include the subproject area.



- 17 -
5.09      maintenance of main roads, irrigation canals, drainage channels
and structures, other than those maintained by HWS, would be the responsi-
bility of the GOEVs, while the TOEVs would maintain the secondary works
and irrigation equipment under supervision of LRS. For maintenance opera-
tions, LRS machinery and equipment may be rented by the TOEVs or the work
may be carried out through local qualified contractors. The TOEVs would
maintain and repair pumps, electrical motors and portable sprinkler equip-
ment, using existing LRS workshops in or near the subproject areas.
5.10      Power for irrigation as well as operation of the drainage pump sta-
tions would be available from existing power plants and high tension network,
eventually to be supplemented by the Paranestion and Polyphyton hydroelectric
plants (paras 4.04 and 4.06). Construction of another substation in the
vicinity of Yannitsa is already contemplated as part of the rural electri-
fication program for that area. The cost of electricity for irrigation pur-
poses is Dr 0.50 per kWh and allows for maintenance and amortization of the
distribution network. This rate, charged by PPC to the TOEVs, is included
in the water charge paid by the farmers.
5.11      In the past, annual charges for administration and maintenance
within each irrigation scheme were on an area basis and the same for all
crops, except for a few specific crops, such as tobacco and vegetables,
depending on their water requirements. Under the project, water charges
would be collected uniformly on an area basis, irrespective of the crop
grown. These charges would cover the cost of operation and maintenance of
project works and equipment including the use of electricity and a portion
of the investment cost of the project (para 5.20 and Annex 14).
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.12      Extension services would be provided through the Inspectorates of
Agriculture in Kavalla and Thessaloniki (paras 3.21 and 3.22). Existing staff
in Thessaloniki is adequate for the Yannitsa subproject, while for the Nestos
subproject additional staff would be needed. Under a nationwide plan for the
intensification of agricultural extension, called the "New Program" and start-
ing in January 1974, six additional extension officers, each assisted by two
extension aides, will be assigned to about one half of the project area, at
the rate of 1 officer and 2 aides for a group of 250 farms. The balance of
the project area would remain under the old system, continuing to receive
agricultural extension through the two extension officers (without aides)
already in the area. Adequate staffing for project purposes would be as
follows:



- 18 -
Nestos (about 3,000 farm families)
3 extension officers (1/1,000 farms)
12 extension aides (1/250 farms; 4 assisting each
extension officer)
Yannitsa (about 6,000 farm families)
4 extension officers (1/1,500 farms)
12 extension aides (1/500 farms; 3 assisting each
extension officer)
The difference in extension coverage between the two areas is warranted be-
cause the farmers in Yannitsa are more progressive. The extension aides
would work under the direct supervision of extension officers to whom they
would be assigned, while the overall extension program for the subproject
areas would be coordinated by the Project Coordination Committees (para
5.06). An assurance was obtained that the number of extension officers and
aides in the project area would be at least as indicated above. Staff to be
assigned to the subproject areas would be additional to the cadre of advisors
and extension workers ordinarily available through the ABG and private indus-
try (paras 3.21 and 3.22).
5.13      Results of research performed at regional and district stations,
as well as by private industry, would continue to be made available to ex-
tension workers and farmers in the project areas. Staffing of the Govern-
ment stations is adequate for inmediate nroject needs.  M,oreover, Government
has indicated plans to establish during 1974 a pilot research and demonstra-
tion station within the Nestos Drolect area.
5.14      ABG is the financial organization through which credit would be
extended to project farmers (para 3.24). The two subproject areas are ade-
quately served by local branches and offices. Through them ABG would make
available the necessary medium- and long-terr. credit for on-farm. investments
as well as short-term crop loans to individual farmers and/or cooperatives.
Total funds required annually for short-term credit at full development are
estimated at Dr 76.5 million in Nestos and Dr 200.0 million in Yannitsa (based
on production cost data in Annex 15). Although adequate funds appear to be
available for this nurpose, an assurance was obtained that Government would
cause ABG to cover the credit needs of project farmers.
5.15      Production, credit and marketing cooperatives affiliated with the
Union of Cooperatives are functioning in both subproject areas. In Nestos,
there are seven credit cooperatives and twqo milk producer cooperativ'es.
There are numnerous cooperatives in Yannitsa, including cooperatives for
credit, tobacco production and processing, fruit growing, seed production
and milk production.  Fertilizers, pesticides, seeds and other production
requisites are readily available through ABG.



- 19 -
Land Consolidation
5.16      In the Nestos subproject, State and communal land, occupying about
22% of the project area, would be distributed to the farmers. In the Evlalon-
Dekarchon area of this subproject, preliminary operations for consolidation
have already been completed. In Yannitsa, where land distribution took place
only a few decades ago (para 3.14), consolidation would be limited to adjust-
ments required to service all project farms with irrigation, drainage and
road facilities,      assurance was obtained that land consolidation would be
carried out in the project area in accordance with the existing law (para 3.12)
and completed before or simultaneously with construction.
Recovery of Project Costs
5.17      At present, beneficiaries of irrigation facilities in Macedonia and
Thrace generally pay on the average (depending on the type of crop irrigated)
a water charge of Dr 900 (US$30)/ha for gravity irrigation which covers the
costs of administration and maintenance of irrigation facilities. An addi-
tional Dr 900 (US$30)/ha is paid if pumping for sprinkling is involved, which
includes Dr 700 (US$23)/ha for power and Dr 200 (US$7)/ha for additional tech-
nical staff. Pipes and sprinklers are owned by the farmers themselves.
5.18      In the Groundwater Project (Loan 754-GR) financed by the Bank, the
agreement at the time of loan negotiations was that farmers would pay a charge,
varying between Dr 1,300 (US$43) and Dr 1,900 (TTS63)/ha, depending on the use
of electric power for snrinkler operations, to cover operation and maintenance
of wells, canals, roads, drains, pumps and sprinkler equipment.  Moreover, an
additional charge of Dr 1 000 (US$33)/ha would be levied to repay 75% of the
capital cost, excluding interest, covering the cost of wells, pumps and
sprinkler equiDment.  The total water charge of Dr 2,300 (US$77) to Dr 2,900
(US$97)/ha/annum represented 30%' and 38,%, respectively, of the average incre-
mental income (Dr 61,500 or US$2,050) of a typical 8-ha farm under the project.
5.19      A new law went into effect in December 1972.  It exempted farmers
from contributions to most of the capital costs for land improvement projects
and the farmters in the Groundwater Project would no longer pay the additional
charge of Dr 1,000/1a (para 5.13).  A compromTise solution between Government
aiid the Bankc was reached in September 1973, undler which Government would
charge farmers a fixed sum of Dr 500/ha/year for 23 years towards repayment
of investment cost.  This would leave the farmers in the project area wJith
an incremental income of Dr 48,000 (US$1,600) per year.
5.20      Under the project the beneficiaries would nay project charges of
Dr 2,700 (US$90)/ha/annur in NTestos and Dr 3,000 (UIS100)/ha/annum in
Yannitsa.  Of these, Dr 2,100 (TUSM7)/ha/annum in Nestos and Dr 2,400 (US$80)/
ha/annum in Yannitsa would cox r 0&M costs, including cost of electricity.
In addition, Dr 600 (US$20)/ha/annum (about 27% of 04TJ costs) for both sub-
projects would cover depreciation.  An assurance was obtained that project
charges would be annually collected, and paid into a separate central account,
on per stremma basis of not less than the actual aggregate cost of operating



- 20 -
and maintaining the irrigation and drainage facilities and an additional
amount also to be annually collected equivalent to not less than 27% of such
aggregate costs, representing a provision towards depreciation.
5.21      These amounts would be more than the water charges levied in the
Groundwater Project. Recovery of greater charges under the project would not
be in agreement with the Government policy to partly subsidize irrigation
projects. Moreover, recovery of a greater proportion of the small farmers'
incremental income would reduce their incentive for increased production.
It would also improve income distribution because project farmers are among
the poorest in Greece.
5.22      In order to evaluate farmers' capacity to repay project costs, in-
comes of representative farmers in the project areas have been analyzed (An-
nex 15). Income data for a typical 2.5 ha farm in Nestos and for one of 2.0
ha in Yannitsa, without and with the project, are summarized below:
Nestos       Yannitsa /a
----Dr (US$) ----
Without Project
Net income                                    21,641         13,679
(721)         (456)
With Project
A. Net income, before payment of O&M               56,307         51,242
cost and a portion of the
investment cost                              (1,877)        (1,708)
Incremental income, before payment of         34,666         37,563
O&M cost and a portion of the invest-
ment cost                                     (1,156)        (1,252)
B.  Net income, after payment of O&M cost         49,557         45,242
and a portion of the investment
cost /b                                      (1,652)        (1,508)
Incremental income, after payment of O&M    27,916           31,563
cost and a portion of the investment
cost /b                                         (931)       (1,052)
/a   After payment of land rcnt.
/b   Dr 2,700 (US$90)/ha/annura in Nestos and Dr 3,000 (US$100)/ha/annum in
Yannitsa, or Dr 6,750 ("6$225) per 2.5 ha farm per annum in Nestos and
Dr 6,000 (US$200) per 2 ha farm per annum in Yannitsa, (Annex 14). The
difference in O&M cost in the two subprojects is caused by additional
power requirements for the drainage pumping stations in Yannitsa as
well as by the different layout of irrigation blocks in each subproj-
ect area.



- 21 -
The project charges proposed are Dr 2,700 (US$90) and Dr 3,000 (US$100)/ha/
annum for Nestos and Yannitsa subprojects, O&M costs would account for 78%
and 80%, respectively. The remaining about 22% and 20% respectively would
be recovery of investment costs. At this rate, payments would represent 20%
and 16% respectively of the typical farm's incremental incomes in the Nestos
and Yannitsa subprojects.
5.23      With the proposed level of recovery, the present value of subsidy
to the farmers (measured by discounting over 50 years at 10%) would amount
to Dr 1,749 million (US$58 million) and the revenues would cover Dr 532
million (US$18 million) out of the discounted total cost of Dr 2,281 million
(US$76 million), or 23%.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The project would enable desirable changes in cropping patterns,
cropping intensity and in production as summarized below (see also Annex 2):
Cropped Area              Production
Without   With       Without    With
Prooect/a Project   ProjIect  Project  Incremental
O000 ha-----   ----------'000 ton-----------
Wheat and barley                8.1        2.6       17.8      9.6         (8.2)
Tobacco (burley and oriental)  3.8         3.8        6.2     10.3          4.1
Maize                           5.8        7.6       20.8     46.0         25.2
Sugar beets                      1.2       3.2       48.0    182.3        134.3
Alfalfa and winter fodder (hay)0.8         3.4        8.2     48.3         40.1
Seed cotton                     2.5        3.1        4.3     10.9          6.6
Vegetables                      0.4        1.3        6.0     38.8         32.8
Peaches                         0.2        0.2        3.0      5.0          2.0
Hazelnuts                         -        0.2         -       0.5          0.5
Groundnuts                       -         0.6         -       1.5          1.5
Beans                           0.7        0.5        0.8      1.2          0.4
Summer fodder (green)           0.1        0.2        1.3      5.0          3.7
Miscellaneous                   0.2         -         0.2       -          (0.2)
Total                23.8       26.7
Cropping intensity             88%        112%
/a   Excluding 2,000 ha under natural unimproved pastures.



- 22 -
6.02      Project structures would reduce the net cultivable area from 26,850
ha to 23,630 ha, but the cropped area would increase from 23,800 ha without
the project to 26,730 ha with the project due to higher cropping intensities.
Incremental production would primarily result from the increase in cropped
area, improved irrigation and drainage and increased market opportunities.
6.03      The current level of farming is high in the project areas, yet
farm income is low, primarily due to the small size of holdings and drainage
and irrigation constraints. Fertilizers, improved seeds and chemicals are
readily available and commonly used where irrigation and drainage conditions
permit. Adequate credit is extended by ABG with seven branches to service
the two project areas. Use of machiness, owned and rented, is also common.
Almost all field cultivation is done by tractors. Use of harvesting machin-
ery is increasing for cereals, corn, fodders and cotton. Seasonal shortages
of labor following an increase in cropping areas and improved yields coupled
with sizeable emigration to urban areas and EEC countries are posing a con-
straint to agricultural development in this area, but the current official
policy of promoting mechanization is expected to largely reduce this impact.
Market Prospects
6.04      The main marketable crops in value terms would be sugar beets,
tobacco, maize, vegetables, cotton, hay, peaches, hazelnuts, groundnuts and
fodder. Exportable crops would be tobacco, cotton, peaches and some vege-
tables. Marketing prospects are discussed below.
6.05      Sugar Beets.  Sugar beets would supply a part of the requirements
of existing factories at Xanthi (Nestos) and Plati (Yannitsa), each located
within about 15 miles from the project boundaries. Capacity at both plants
would accommodate the estimated incremental production within each area.
The proposed incremental production of 74,250 tons of sugar beets from the
Nestos subproject would meet only 25% of the annual plant requirements of
300,000 tons of sugar beets, while the Plati factory, with a higher capacity
could easily handle Yannitsa's projected incremental production of 60,000
tons of sugar beets. Greece is a net importer of sugar despite having the
lowest per capita consumption in Europe. The retail sugar prices, due to
local taxes, are the highest in Europe, and if reduced, would further add
to the demand. The Greek sugar industry is well organized and operated by
the semi-autonomous Hellenic Sugar Industry, S.A. The prices paid to beet
growers are in line with those in other European countries where some of
the farmers receive US$2 to US$3 a ton more than those assumed for the
project.
6.06      Tobacco.  The Nestos subproject would produce only oriental tobacco
and Yannitsa, burley tobacc    In both cases, the present areas under tobacco
would not be increased, but - higher production would accrue due to yield and
varietal improvement. Incremental production of oriental tobacco would be
300 tons, which in the context of annual world trade of 300,000 tons is a
rather small quantity. In case of burley tobacco, the improved quality of
the produce resulting from the project should not have any difficulty in its



- 23 -
disposal. Moreover, Government's intervention through a 10% premium to
Greek exporters of burley tobacco to free exchange countries would be help-
ful in promoting its exports.
6.07      Maize.  Incremental production of 25,200 tons would replace only
a minor part of the current imports, which during 1973 were 850,000 tons.
6.08      Vegetables.  Vegetables such as melons and leafy vegetables would
be essentially for local consumption with potential markets in Kavalla and
Thessaloniki. Tomatoes could be used for processing into paste as well as
for local consumption. Peppers and cucumbers, however, are mainly for ex-
port, chiefly through existing marketing channels to Germany. Currently,
annual cucumber exnorts are 10,000 tons and the government plans to increase
it to 30,000 tons. The proposed annual production of 4,000 tons is there-
fore quite realistic. Production of 5,000 tons of peppers would be consumed
fresh or processed in the local and export markets.
6.09      Cotton.  The present production of medium staple (1-1/16") seed
cotton in Greece is close to 400,000 tons. Of that, about 40% is exported
as lint and 60% is consumed by the local industry. Cotton textiles are also
exported, and represent about 17% of the total Greek exports of manufactured
goods. There are good prospects for export of cotton seed cake, although it
would more likely be absorbed by the local livestock industry. The project's
incremental production of 6,600 tons of seed cotton would be only 1.6% of
the current production and 4.0% of current exports. Existing ginning facil-
ities in or near the project areas are adequate to handle the increased
volume.
6.10      Alfalfa and Other Fodder Crops.  The lagging livestock subsector
needs, among other things, more and better feed if the development of the
agriculture sector is to be accelerated. All hay and green fodder would be
as animal feeds. The project areas are traditionally rich in livestock num-
bers but not in quality, which Government proposes to improve through breed-
ing and management. An active livestock station services the project areas.
6.11      Peaches.  The area under peaches would remain the same as before
the project. However, improvement in yield due to the project would increase
production by 2,000 tons. This is less than 1% of peach production in the
country; both fresh and processed peaches have good export prospects and the
incremental production would have no difficulty in its disposal. Although
the government's peach production target for the 1980's is 385,000 tons as
against present production of about 200,000 tons, sufficient peach trees
have already been ,'anted and increasing area under peaches in the project
would not be advisable.
6.12      Hazelnuts and Groaindnuts.  3,000 tons of hazelnuts are currently
produced in Greece and 1,0C1 cons imported. No accurate statistical data
is available for groundnuts, but its production is small, and imports very
high. Production of 500 tons of hazelnuts and 1,500 tons of groundnuts under
the project should not cause any marketing problem.



- 24 -
Prices
6.13      Two sets of prices for agricultural commodities have been used for
appraisal, one for the financial analysis of farm budgets and incomes and the
other for economic analysis. Prices used for financial analysis are based on
the average (1969-73) farmgate prices, including subsidies, as recorded by
the Ministry of Agriculture, and adjusted by 3% for annual increase, and
were maintained during the project life because judging from its past pro-
longed participation and its present plans to intervene no change is antic-
ipated in the current Government policy of intervention through income sup-
ports and input subsidies. The economic prices for grains, cottons and oil-
seeds were based on those forecast by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Pro-
jections Department. For tobacco, sugar beets, peaches and nuts, prices
were based on Bank projections and on discussions with FAO commodity experts.
For both financial and economic analysis, the current price (1969-73 inflated
average) of vegetables was reduced by 20% to account for perishability. The
prices used are given in Annex 16.
Farm Income and Other Income Data
6.14      There are about 2,700 farm families in Nestos, with a population of
11,800. The average family size is 4.4 persons, of whom two are of working
age. The typical owner-operated farm is 2.5 ha. The population of the
Yannitsa subproject is not accurately known because most people live out-
side the reclaimed lake bed area forming the subproject. The number of
farm owners is about 14,700 and a typical--partly owned and partly rented--
farm is about 2 ha. Family size and composition in Yannitsa can be assumed
to be similar to Nestos. Based on these assumptions, the farm income dis-
tribution is illustrated below:
PRESENT FARM INCOME DATA
(At 1973 Prices)
Per Person
Per Family        Per Person         Employed
-------Dr (US$)------------------------
Nestos subproject /a           28,133  (938)    6,394  (213)    14,067    (469)
Yannitsa subproject /a         17,783  (593)    4,042  (135)       8,892    (296)
Greek agriculture sector /b                            -          34,500  (1,150)
Greek economy /b                      -         32,940(1,098)    86,100  (2,870)
Greek economy excZ-lp
agriculture sector /b                                -         123,000  (4,100)
/a   Net farm income (as estinated in Annex 15) has been increased by 30% to
include income from livestock subsector.  This 30% is the average of
livestock contribution to Gross Agricultural Product (GAP) in Greece.
Since livestock outDut is dispersed throughout the country, application
of the national average to the project area seems appropriate.
/b   As obtained from Government Planning Organization; comparison with these
data is essentially illustrative.



- 25 -
FARM INCOME DATA AT FULL DEVELOPMENT (1982)
(At 1973 Prices)
Per Person
Per Family        Per Person         Employed
____________----Dr (US$)---____________________
Nestos subproject /a           64,424   (2,147)  14,642    (488)   32,212  (1,074)
Yannitsa subproject /a         58,815   (1,960)  13,367    (446)   29,408    (980)
Greek agriculture sector /b                               -          50,577  (1,686)
Greek economy /c                      -           58,633  (1,954)  153,258  (5,109)
Greek economy except
agriculture sector _c                         -                   218,940  (7,298)
/a   Net income (after payment of production costs and water charges (see Annex
15) at full development) also raised by 30% for livestock contribution
which may, in fact, be lower. The greater increase in income after
the project in Yannitsa is due to drainage alleviating the serious
waterlogging condition existing before the project. These figures exclude
possible income that could be earned away from the farm.
/b   Assuming a growth rate of 4% per year.  This is the midpoint of the 5%
target and 3% realization of the period 1968-73.
/c   Assuming a growth rate of 7.5% per year which is slightly less than the
8% growth rate for 1968-73.
6.15      It may be seen that project farmers have substantially lower in-
comes than those (farmers and others) engaged in the agricultural sector or
other sectors.  Despite the doubling, and even tripling, of their income,
project farmers would, in 1982, still earn less than the rest of the popu-
lation including those engaged in the agricultural sector.
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Benefits
7.01      The quantifiable benefit of the project would be increased produc-
tion of crops from an area of 23,630 net ha (Annexes 2 and 17). Production
would increase from the start of the project in 1975 and reach full develop-
ment by 1982.  From that year onwards the annual gross value of production
at economic prices would be Dr 812 million (US$27 million), more than twice
the expected output without i:he project. After deduction of production costs,
the incremental value of annval production at economic prices would be Dr 306
million (US$10.2 million).
7.02      Project life with proposed replacements is assumed at 50 years.  The
economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 13.7%. Sensitivity
tests made with adverse assumptions of costs, prices and outputs indicate



- 26 -
that even under such unfavorable conditions, the rate of return is not likely
to fall below 10% for either of the subprojects. Details of assumptions and
results are in Annex 17.
7.03      The project would improve the balance of payments through increased
exports of all incremental production of tobacco and cotton as well as of cer-
tain vegetables and peaches, and through import substitution of maize (after
allowing for a reduction in winter cereal production), sugar, hazelnuts and
groundnuts. At full development in 1982, estimated incremental gross foreign
exchange earnings could be about US$8 million/annum and annual savings could
approach US$7 million.
Employment and Income Distribution
7.04      The effect of the project on employment would be as follows:
Without Project               With Project
Family   Hired   Total      Family    Hired   Total
_____ _---------'-000 man-days---------------------
Nestos                     320       27      347        548      120      668
Yannitsa                  1070      241     1311       1535      451    1986
Total                1390     268      1658      2083       571    2654
Man-years of 300 days    4633      893      5526       6943     1903    8846
The project would increase the labor requirement by about 3,300 man-years of
300 working days. This would be met by increasing family labor employment
by 50% and more than doubling the use of hired labor. (For details, see
Annex 18.) Hired labor would be obtained in Nestos from the surplus labor
in neighboring grazing areas and in Yannitsa from families who rent their
lands to others, as well as from migrant workers from Eastern Macedonia and
Thrace. The beneficiaries of the two subprojects are among the poorest
farmers in Greece. In the Nestos subproject between one fifth and one fourth
of the farmers belong to the Turkish speaking Muslim minority. The increased
production and employment due to the project combined with only partial
recovery of project investments would relieve poverty and improve income
distribution.
Environment and Health
7.05      The project would bave no adverse effect on the environment.  Air
and noise pollution would be reduced by replacing existing diesel pump en-
gines with electric motors. Project drainage would lower the water table
and reduce breeding grounds for mosquitoes.



- 27 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Agreement was reached on the following points:
(a) until completion of the canal linking the Aliakmon and Axios
Rivers, a discharge from the Axios diversion of not less than
1.4 m3/sec would be reserved for the Yannitsa subproject (para
4.06);
(b) in allocating the waters of Aliakmon River to the project area
the Government would give priority to irrigation over other
uses (para 4.06);
(b) engineering consultants acceptable to and upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory for the Bank would be employed in accord-
ance with the procedure outlined in the "Uses of Consultants
by the World Bank and its Borrowers published in September
1966" (para 4.09);
(d) all civil works, and equipment and material would be procured
through ICB as outlined in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under Bank Loans and Association Credits - published in April
1972 and revised in October 1972", there would be no more than
three civil works contracts (para 4.15);
(e) project accounts would be audited annually by the auditing
services of the Ministry of Finance, and that the audit re-
ports would be sent to the Bank within six months after the
close of each fiscal year (para 4.19);
(f) PPC would be caused to supply power to the project area in
accordance with the project needs during construction and
implementation (para 5.05);
(g) two Coordination Committees one for each subproject would
be set up within four months of signing the loan agreement,
and that these committees would meet at least once every
three months (para 5.06);
(h) extension staff for Nestos would comprise at least 3 ex-
tension officers supported by 12 aides, and for Yannitsa 4
extensi.),. officers supported by 12 aides (para 5.12);
(i) ABG would be causcd to provide the credit needs of project
farmers (para 5.14);
(j) land consolidation would be carried out in the project area
in accordance with the existing law, and completed before or
simultaneously with construction (para 5.16); and



- 28 -
(k) project charges would be collected per stremma of cultivated
land at levels sufficient to cover the actual aggregate costs
of operating and maintaining the irrigation and drainage fa-
cilities serving such land, including electrically powered
facilities, and an additional amount to be collected annually
equivalent to not less than 27% of such aggregate costs to ac-
count for depreciation which would be paid into a separate
central account (para 5.20).
8.02      The appointment of a Steering Committee and provision of a design
of tertiary irrigation facilities by engineering consultants would be condi-
tions of loan effectiveness (para 4.08 and 5.07).
8.03      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million, for a term of
20 years including a 5-1/2-year grace period.
April 17, 1974



ANNE   1
Page 1
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
A. Nestos Subproject Area
1.        Two reports on the soils in the project area as well as detailed
maps on a 1:20,000 scale were prepared by the Land Reclamation Services (LRS)
in 1970 and 1972. The reports cover, respectively, the two sub-areas
Evlavon-Dekarchon and Erasmion-Myrodaton, which make up the total project
area, and contain information on soil series and types, textural classes,
pH, water-holding capacity, infiltration rates, CaCO3 content, conductivity
and irrigability classes.
2.        The soils are mainly derived from recent alluvium and are largely
of a coarse to medium loamy texture. Infiltration rate is medium to high
(2-25 cm/hr) and water-holding capacity is fair (available moisture = 10%).
Because of the fairly light soil texture and high infiltration rate, the
most appropriate method of irrigation will be by sprinkling.
3.        Soil reaction is neutral to slightly alkaline.  Most of the soils
have an electrical conductivity of less than 4 millimhos. About 350 ha in
the Evlavon-Dekarchon area are affected by salts, and 800 ha in Erasmion-
Myrodaton, the latter including only 49 ha of strongly alkaline soils.
Reclamation of most of the saline and saline/alkaline sails can be effected
by leaching without and with addition of gypsum, respectively; the alkaline
soils will need, moreover, deep plowing or subsoiling.  The cost of reclama-
tion with gypsum is on the average Dr 6,000 (US$200) per ha, or Dr 10,000
(US$333) per ha when subsoiling is added. Application of gypsum may be up
to 20 to 30 tons per ha, and is usually not repeated. Gypsum is obtainable
as a by-product from a nearby fertilizer factory (Kavalla) at Dr 36 (US$1.20)
per ton. The main expense of reclamation is, therefore, in the transport
of gypsum, land leveling, gypsum spreading, discing and plowing.
4.        Soils are of medium fertility, but farmers are used to the
application of fc-t'4lizers and deficiencies of N and P in particular are
thus corrected annually.
5.        Classification of the soils according to their suitability for
irrigation shows fairly higlh percentages in Classes I, II and III (31, 26
and 16%, respectively). Soils with limited suitability because of their
saline/alkaline conditions or right-of-way status (Classes IV and V) will
move to classes with greater suitability after reclamation and development.
A relatively small area (64 ha) in Class VI will remain unchanged because
of rock outcroppings (Table 1).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
B. Yannitsa Subproject Area
6.        Studies of the Thessaloniki Plain by consultants (Grontmy, 1952;
OSYM, 1955; and NEDECO/Hunting, 1970) have included geological, hydrological
and soils information of the subproject area which is part of the former
Yannitsa lakebed. Maps on scales of 1:200,000 and 1:50,000 give details of
soil series, texture, salinity and alkalinity, infiltration and irrigability.
Recent studies by the LRS accompanied by a semi-detailed soil survey (scale
1:20,000) and numerous laboratory analysis of soil samples have provided addi-
tional data on hydrology (especially water table movements), and soil physical
and chemical characteristics.
7.        Main characteristics of these limnic soils are their high inherent
fertility, high organic matter content, high water-holding capacity (up to
30%), and high permeability. Texture ranges from silty loam to silty clay,
with clay contents from 34 to 78%, respectively. The organic matter content
varies from 1.6 to 15% in the topsoil and from 0.5 to 32% in the subsoil;
CaCO3 content is also high, averaging from 5 to 14%. Stratification of
soils through deposits of lacustrine sediments on layers of peat, in turn
underlain by "gyttja" (mixture of clay, calcium carbonate and fresh water
algal and molluscan residues) in layers 30 to 120 cm thick, is common in
this area. Clay strata, acting as impervious barriers, may or may not
occur at depths of 2.5 to 6 m. Permeability is on the average at least
4 m per day or 17 cm per hour.
8.        Because of the subproject's location and topography, waterlogging
remains a major problem, despite the construction of flood protection and
primary drainage systems in 1938. Installation of the new Schina pumping
plant in May 1972 has already improved drainage within the immediate vicinity
of the main drain (Limni Main Collector ) but a fairly dense network of
drainage channels will be necessary to effect adequate drainage at the indi-
vidual farm level. Tile drainage, originally thought to be needed for at
least 10% of the area, will probably no longer be necessary as new laboratory
results have shown that (a) soil texture is less heavy than earlier measured
(due to high organic matter content), and (b) soil porosity is higher than
expected.
9.        Only about 330 ha are affected by salts; 180 ha of these are
classified as saline and 150 ha as alkaline. Their reclamation can be
effected in the same way as described in paragraph 3. Salinity and
alkalinity, occurring over small scattered areas are only found in Zorba
in the extreme easLern part of the sub-project area. Electrical conductivity
in these particular areas may vary from 4 to 10 millimhos.
10.       Because of its lacustrine formation, the area is remarkably uniform
in soil formation and characteristics. Although poor drainage allows only
39% of the area to be classified as "suitable for all crops", all land in
Classes IV and V is expected to be upgraded to Classes I, II and III, follow-
ing the provision of drainage under the project. Thus, the majority of the
area may be said to have medium to high suitability for irrigation. (Table 2)



GREECE
NESTOS AND YAN1NITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Irrigability Classes
I         II        III      IV         V         VI     Total
-________________----------ha-----------------------------
Without Project
Evlalon - Dekarchon             1,279       971      1,247      972       562 /1   64       5,095
Erasmion - Myrodaton            1,631     1,446        255       -        951 E    -        4,283
Project Area (ha) /3      2,910      2,417      1,502     972      1,513       64     9,378
(%)           31         26         16      10         16        1       100
With Project
Evlalon - Dekarchon             2,134     1,417        842      638        -        64      5,095
Erasmion - Myrodaton            2,156     1,591        385      151        -        _       4,283
Project Area (ha) /3      4,290      3,oo8      1,227     789        -         64     9,378
(X)           46         32         13       8         -         1        100
/1   Including 200 ha saline and 150 ha saline/alkaline areas, plus 212 ha of right-of-way land,
to be developed under the project.
/2   Including 247 ha saline, 504 ha saline/alkaline, and 49 alkaline areas, plus 151 ha of
right-of-way land to be developed under the project.
/3   Surveyed area extends beyond project boundaries.
Legend: Classes I, II and III - suitable for all crops
Class IV - suitable for selected crops only
Class V - temporarily not suitable for crops (because of salinity/alkalinity,
poor drainage, etc.)
Class VI - not suitable for crops (because of rock outcroppings, shallow profile, etc.)



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITS IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yrannitsa Subproject
Irrigability Classes  .
I          II            III         IV             V             VI         Total
--------------------------------------ha--------------------------------------
Without Project (ha)              148       2,182         3,732       7,410 /2       1,928 /2        -         15,400
(%)                1          14            24          48             13           -            100
With Project    (ha) /3         4,030       7,990         3,380          -              -            -         15,400
(%)               26          52            22          -              -            -            100
/1   See legend, Table 1.
/2   All land in this category is temporarily unsuitable for crop growth because of poor drainage; 330 ha of
land in classes IV and V are, moreover, salt-affected. Provision of drainage would improve these lands
to more suitable categories, regardless of their present status of salinity/alkalinity.
/3   Surveyed area corresponds with net project area (excludes about 2,350 ha of land retained for project
structures and other uses).
CDZ
,' K-



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Cropped Area, Yield and Production Without and With the Project
Without Project                                             With Project (at full development)
Crop                                    Cropped Area                     %/ of        Yield per       Produc-       Cropped         % of         Yield per    Produc-         Incremental
oKainfed     Irrigated        Total          Total       hectare LI        tion          Area           Total         hecLare        tion         Production
ha-                                               ton                   ha                                   ton                    ton
Wheat and Barley                  3,000            -           3,000          37.0           2.2          6,600          1,000 /2        10.3           3.5           3,500          (3,100)
Maize (main crop)                   680          1,800         2,480          30.6           4.3         10,664          1,930           19.8           6.5          12,545           1,881
Maize (second crop)                 -            1,000         1,000          12.3           4.0          4,000          1,000            10.3          4.5           4,500              500
Tobacco (oriental)                  600            -             600           7.4           0.7            420             600           6.2           1.2             720             300
Alfalfa (hay)                       200            300           500           6.2          10.4          5,200           1,750          18.0          15.0          26,250          21,050
Vegetahles /3                       130            100           230           2.8          13.0          2,990             550           5.7            -           15,500          12,510
Summer Forage,
incl. Sorghum (fresh)              -              100           100           1.2         13.5           1,350            200            2.1          25.0           5,000           3,650
Sesame                              100            -             100           1.2           0.7              70            -               -            -              -                (70)
Sunflower                            70            -               70          0.9           1.2              84            -               -            -                               (84)
Poplar Trees                         20            -               20          0.2          40 m3            800 m          -               -             -                             (800 m
Sugar Beets                         -              -             -              -             -              -           1,350           13.9          55.0          74,250          74,250
Groundnuts                          -              _              _                                                         600            6.2          2.5           1,500            1,500
Winter Forage (hay)                 -              _             _               _            _              _              500 /2         5.1          8.0           4,000           4,000
Hazelnuts                           -              -              -              -            -              -              250            2.6          2.0              500             500
Cultivated Area                   4,800         3,300          8,100         100.0                                       9,730 /4       100.0
Pastures (unimproved)             2,000                        2,000
Net Area /5                                                    9,100                                                      8,230 /6
Cropping Intensity  (7o)                                           89                                                       118
/1   Weighted averages for irrigated and rainfed crops.
/2   Rainfed, served with better drainage.
/3   Weighted average of melons, tomatoes, peppers, cucumbers and leafy vegetables.
/4   Of which:  8,230 ha irrigated and 1,500 ha rainfed.
/5   Excluding area with buildingb, scruututes and roads.
/6   Reduction in net area due to project structure.



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yannitsa Subproject
Cropped Area, Yield and Production Without and With the Project
Without Project                                           With Project (at full development)
Crop                     Rainfed    Cropped Area                     7. of        Yield per      Produc-        Cropped       % of         Yield per      Produc-       Incremental
CpRainfed    Irrigated j/    Total          Total       hectare L2L    tion           Area          Total        hectare         tion         Production
ha                                              ton                    ha                                 ton                   ton
Wheat and Barley              5,100           -             5,100         32.5           2.2         11,220         1,600           9.4           3.8 /4       6,080          (5,140)
Tobacco (burley)                700         2,500           3,200         20.4           1.8          5,760         3,200          18.8           3.0          9,600           3,840
Cotton                        1,150         1,350           2,500         15.9           1.7          4,250         3,100          18.2           3.5         10,850           6,600
Maize (main crop)             1,500           500           2,000         12.7           2.6          5,200          3,100         18.2           7.0         21,700          16,500
Maize (second crop)             -             300             300          1.9           3.0            900          1,600          9.4           4.5          7,200           6,300
Sugar Beets                     650           550           1,200          7.6         40.0          48,000         1,800          10.6         60.0         108,000          60,000
Beans (dry)                     400           300             700          4.5           1.2            840            500          2.9           2.5          1,250             410
Alfalfa (hay)                   200           100             300          1.9          10.0          3,000         1,200           7.1          15.0         18,000          15,000
Vegetables /5                   100           100             200          1.3          15.0          3,000            700          4.1            -          23,300          20,300
Peaches                         100           100             200          1.3         15.0           3,000            200          1.2         25.0           5,000           2,000
Cultivated Area              9,900          5,800         15,700         100.0                                     17,000 /6    100.0
Net Area                                                   17,750                                                  15,400 /7
Cropping Intensity (%)                                         88                                                      110
/L   Inadequately irrigated.
/2   Allowing for substantial crop failures resulting from rise of water table under poor drainage conditions.
/3   Weighted averages for inadequately irrigated and rainfed crops.
/4   Rainfed:  improvement in yield largely due to drainage.
/5   Weighted average of melons, tomatoes, peppers, cucumbers and leafy vegetables.
/6   Of which:  15,400 ha irrigated and 1,600 ha rainfed.
/7   Reduction in net area due to project structure.  The assumed area for structure allows for the possible unreclaimable pockets.
IOq 
,D



ANNEX 3
Page 1
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Description
A. Nestos (See Map IBRD 10294)
1.        The irrigable delta plain, downstream of the existing Toxotes
diversion weir (elevation 40m) has a total area of 46,400 ha gross (36,000
ha net). Dikes on both banks of the river, and two conveyance canals with
a capacity of 24 and 21 m3/sec have already been constructed. Construction
of irrigation, drainage and road systems has also been completed over about
12,700 ha on the right (west) bank and is presently underway over an addi-
tional 2,800 ha on the left (east) bank. The remaining 20,500 ha consist
of about 12,000 ha in the coastal area, on both sides of the river, to be
developed at a later stage, and 8,230 ha of the proposed Nestos subproject,
located on the left bank. Two main irrigation canals leading to the north-
ern boundary of the subproject area and the main central drain, traversing
the entire subproject area, have also been completed.
2.        The principal features of the subproject are:
(a)  extension of the two primary canals by about 22 kn;
(b)  construction of about 45 km of primary canals, 36 km
of seconday canals and 187 km of distribution pipelines, at
regular intervals;
(c) completion of the drainage system, including the second main
drainage channel along the eastern border of the project area,
and of secondary and tertiary open drains discharging into the
two main drains. Based on soil characteristics, spacing of
tertiary drains has been determined to be 400 m with a minimum
depth of 1 m, except where heavier soils require a closer spacing
of 200 m and increased depth to about 1.5 m;
(d) construction of farm roads to provide access to project lands.
Primary and secondary roads would be 6 m wide, including two
shoulders of 1 m each, in a compacted embankment with a
0.25 m thick sand and gravel pavement 1/.  All roads are
interspersed between irrigation canals and drainage channels.
1/   Construction of tertiary roads will be carried out at a later stage by
the organization in charge of operation and maintenance of the irrigation
works (LRS).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
For the future construction of the Egnatia main highway,
which would cross the project area, a 60 m wide strip
has been reserved and the design of irrigation and drainage
systems on either side would avoid as many highway crossings
as possible;
(e) installation of electrical pumping units along the secondary
canals at about 400 m intervals, each to irrigate by sprinklers
two rectangular units of 60 ha each (average), consisting of
10 irrigation blocks of 6 ha each, on either side of the canal.
Water would be supplied to each 60 ha unit by a buried pressure
line with delivery outlets (hydrants) spaced at 75 m intervals,
i.e. two hydrants for each irrigation block of 6 ha;
(f) installation of an overhead electrical distribution system,
parallel to the primary and secondary irrigation canals.
Electric lines would be of medium tension 15/22 kV, transformed
to low tension 400 Volt along the secondary canals, with
transformers of 100 kVa (average), close to the individual
pumping stations; and
(g) supply of complete sets of portable pipes (lateral or flying
lines) and sprinklers for rotation within each irrigation
block of 6 ha.
3.        Capacities of the two3primary canals at the northern border of the
project area are 4.8 and 10.7 m /sec. They are designed to provide 2.6 and
4.3 m3/sec, to irrigate an additional 6,000 ha of land to be developed at a
later date in the area between the project and the sea. The cost for this
increased canal capacity would be about Dr 7.4 million, or 2.5% of the project
cost of civil works. As the additional coastal area is not a part of the
project, the eventual benefits therefrom are not included in the economic
analysis of the project.
4.        Primary and secondary canals would be concrete lined and have
trapezoidal cross section. Regulation of the irrigation system would be
automatic through constant level gates and controlled discharge distributors.
Storage basins would also be provided to allow flexibility of timing and to
reduce water losses. Fields would be sprinkler-irrigated from buried pressure
lines and portable pipes by means of electrically driven pumps. Several
alternative solutions of different and larger irrigation units were examined.
The proposed grouping of individual blocks of 6 ha each into a rectangular-
shaped area of 60 h.., served by one pump, would represent the lowest capital
investment, while sub-units of 3 ha correspond closely to the average farm
size (2.5 ha). Details of the sprinkler irrigation system are described in
Section C of this Annex. Prevailing wind velocities would not adversely
affect water distribution.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
B. Yannitsa (See Map IBRD 10295)
5.        The subproject area is the bottom of the former Lake Yannitsa at
an elevation of less than 5 m. It consists of the following sub-areas:
Kria Vrisi - 2,660 ha, Balitsa - 2,330 ha, Yannitsa - 1,250 ha, Zorba -
2,410 ha, Nichorion - 1,500 ha, Schina - 3,600 ha, Nision - 1,010 ha and
Kavasilon - 640 ha, for a total net area of 15,400 ha. Major reclamation
works undertaken since 1925 have included the following: drying up of the
former Lake Yannitsa; flood protection through canalization and diking of
the Axios and Aliakmon Rivers; excavation of a peripheral canal to collect
runoff water from the Vermion massif; and dredging of a new channel for the
Limni main collector and Loudias River, draining the Yannitsa Lake into
the Gulf of Salonika. Subsequently, most primary and secondary drains
were constructed throughout the plain, and irrigation works were implemented
on the higher ground surrounding the former lake. Nevertheless the central,
lower part of the former lake bed was still affected by flooding from the
Loudias River caused by high rainfall and flash floods from several torrential
tributaries near Yannitsa. This problem was recently solved by the construc-
tion of the large Schina drainage pumping station (completed in 1972) at the
junction of the Limni collector and Loudias River, and the installation of
associated check gates on the Loudias River. From there on, drainage towards
the Gulf of Salonika is effected by gravity. Additional check gates have
been installed on the lower Loudias River to prevent sea water intrusion.
The higher parts of the plain, surrounding the project area, are irrigated
through main canals leading from diversion weirs in the Aliakmon River, close
to Veria, and in the Axios River, close to Nea Chalkidon. The installed canal
capacity is sufficient to extend irrigation to the project area.
6.        The principal features of the subproject are:
(a)  extension of primary canals by about 73 km;
(b) construction of about 183 km of secondary canals and 520 km
of distribution pipelines at regular intervals;
(c) improvement of existing secondary drainage channels and con-
struction of a closer drainage network, including tertiary
drains at a spacing of 300 m. Drainage channels serving the
higher part of the project would discharge by gravity into
the Limni main collector or into its main tributaries such
as the Lipochorion drain. Six low head pumping stations with
a total ir:3talled capacity of 295 HP, would control the ground-
water level in low-lying portions of the project area and ensure
drainage of storm run-off;
(d) construction of acoss roads interspersed between irrigation
and drainage channels, similar to those proposed for Nestos
(para. 2d);



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(e) installation of electrical pumps along secondary canals
at about 300 m intervals, serving two units of 18 ha each,
divided into 4 irrigation blocks of 4.5 ha each, similar
to the system proposed for Nestos (para. 2e);
(f) installation of an overhead electrical distribution network
parallel to the irrigation canals, also similar to that in the
Nestos subproject, but with transformers of 30 kVa (average)
each (para. 2f); and
(g)  supply of complete sets of movable pipes and sprinklers
for rotation within each irrigation block of 4.5 ha.
7.        Primary and secondary irrigation canals would be concrete lined and
have a trapezoidal cross section. Regulation of the irrigation network would
be automatic with constant level gates and constant discharge distributors
at each canal intake. Storage basins would be provided as in Nestos. The
fields would be sprinkler irrigated from distribution pipelines by means of
electrical pumping units. Because of soil conditions, spacing of the tertiary
drains, and therewith of the buried pressure lines, located mid-way between
the drains, would be only 250-300 m (instead of 400 m at Nestos), and spacing
of secondary drains determining the interval of secondary irrigation canals,
would be only 600 m (instead of 1,500 m in Nestos). This explains the higher
cost of the Yannitsa irrigation network. The methods of sprinkler irrigation
in Yannitsa and Nestos would be similar and the following paragraphs apply,
therefore, to both subprojects.
C. Nestos and Yannitsa
Irrigation Pumping Units
8.        An analysis of capital and operating costs of diesel and electrical
pumping units for sprinkling has shown that installation of the power network
and electrical pumpsets would cost about 50% more than a system using diesel
pumpsets. However, operation and maintenance costs for diesel units would
be 35% higher than those for electrical units. In the long run, therefore,
use of electrical units would be more economical and satisfactory.
Sprinkler Irrigation System
9.        Designc *-F the Irrigation systems for both subprojects prepared
by consultants and approved by government, include tertiary canals at the
upper side of each rectangular unit of 60 ha in Nestos (400 x 1,500 m) or
18 ha in Yannitsa (300 x 600 im), and electrically driven pumps placed along
the tertiary canals to servo ,ndividual irrigation blocks of 12 ha each.
Because of several technical and economic disadvantages inherent in this
system, the mission recommends an alternative design which would limit
the number of pumps to only one for each double irrigation unit of 120 ha



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(2 x 60 ha) in Nestos and 36 ha (2 x 18 ha) in Yannitsa. In that case each
pump would supply water directly from a secondary canal and through two
buried median pipelines, equipped with hydrants, to the two units on either
side of the secondary canal.
10.       The proposed solution would have the following advantages:
(a) lower investment cost, due to the elimination of tertiary
canals and appurtenant structures (intake regulators, culverts,
etc), low tension electric lines and trunk lines (steel pipes
of larger diameter);
(b) reduction of number of pumps (one instead of ten in Nestos
and one instead of three in Yannitsa);
(c) easier access to fields from tertiary roads;
(d) no land occupied by tertiary canals and low tension lines;
(e) saving of water since with tertiary canals surplus of water
at the end of the canal is always lost;
(f) lower operation and maintenance costs;
(g) longer lifetime of buried pipes than of open canals, low
tension lines and trunk lines; and
(h) possibility of eliminating some secondary canals, roads
and medium tension lines.
11.       In the design as proposed by the Bank, the movable equipment would
in both subprojects consist of one lateral, directly connected to one of the
two hydrants in each irrigation block. The type of sprinklers would be the
same in Nestos and Yannitsa, but their number, as well as length and diameter
of the laterals would be different depending on the layouts. The following
technical details for the typical irrigation blocks in the two subprojects
would apply:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Nestos                  Yannitsa
(a)  Size of irrigation block  6 ha                          4.5 ha
(b)  Length of lateral          36 + 192 - 228 m             36 + 144 - 180 m
(c)  Diameter of lateral        100 mm                       80 mm
(d)  Number of sprinklers        16 of 0.488 1/sec           12 of 0.458 1/sec
at 2.5 atm.                 at 2.5 atm.
(e)  Discharge of lateral       7.8 1/sec                    5.5 1/sec
(f)  Volume of water delivered 28 m3/ha                      19.8 m3/hr
(g) Area covered by one
setting                   200 x 18 m - 0.36 ha         150 x 18 m = 0.27 ha
(h)  Precipitation rate         7.8 mm/hr                    7.3 mm/hr
(i) Water delivered per
month with 3 settings
(in rotation) of 8                           3                            3
hours each                  187.2 mm = 1872 m /ha       175.2 mm - 1752 m /ha
(j) Effective irrigation
per month, assuming 85%           3                            3
field efficiency           1590 m /ha                   1490 m /ha
(k) Duration of one complete
rotation with 2 settings
of 8 hours per day        6.0 : 0.72 = 8.3 days        4.5 : 0.54 = 8.3 days
On the basis of these data, it would thus be possible during the peak season
to irrigate the same area three times per month. This would require about
25 days, allowing 5 to 6 days each month for breakdowns or rest.
12.       These layouts could be adjusted, depending on the shape of the
irrigation units and blocks, the number of farm lots .nd diversity of crops.
Detailed specifications of sprinkler equipment, to be procured through inter-
national competition, should clearly indicate criteria required, standards,
and maximum performance. The manufacturers, when asked to tender on the list
of types and quantities of sprinkler equipment, should be allowed to propose
and justify alternative systems which have different equipment but fulfill
the same requirements.
13.       Estimates of major quantities of works and equipment involved in
the implementation of the two subprojects are summarized below:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Item                      Unit                 Quantities
Nestos               Yannitsa
Main Irrigation Canals               km            22                   12
Primary Irrigation Canals            km            45                   61
Secondary Irrigation Canals          km            36                  183
Pipelines                            km           187                  520
Primary & Secondary Roads                          92                  270
Drainage Channels Excavation         m     2,050,000             5,260,000
Regulators (automatic gates)         no            61                   84
Hydrants, 100-80 mm diameter         no /a      2,750                6,850
15/22 kV Electric Lines              km            80                  245
Transformers, Including Con-
ductors and Line-hardware           no            70                  430
Pumping Units                        no            70                  430
Portable Pipes, 100-80 mm diameter km /b          313                  616
Sprinklers                           no 7T    22,640                42,780
Drainage Pumping Stations            hp          -                     295
/a   Nestos:  average of one for each 3 ha; Yannitsa:  average of one for
each 2.25 ha.
/b   Nestos:  8,230 : 6 ha = 1,372 irrigation blocks x .223 km = 313 km
Yannitsa : 15,400   4.5 ha = 3,422 irrigation blocks x .180 km = 616 km.
/c   Nestos:  16-17 per irrigation block; Yannitsa : 12-13 per irrigation
block.






GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Construction Schedule
Calendar Year                        1974                     1975                    1976                     1977                     1978
Civil Works Tenders                                            Award of Contracts
Re-design of Tertiary Irrigation
Distribution System
Drainage Channels and Roads
Irrigation Canals, Structures &                                                 -
Regulators
Power Network                                                                      _                      .
30                      40
Pumping Units - Irrigation (70)'                                                                             T                        -
3,000                    4,000                1,230
Supply of Portable Sprinkfer
Equipment for 8,230 ha1
Supply of Operation and Maintenance                                                                                                I
Equipment
Progress of Development (cumulative)
2,200                    5,000                   8,230
Drainage (ha)
New System                                                                                              3,000                   8,230
Irrigation (ha)
(Old System)1                (3,300)                  (3000)                   (2,500)                 (2,000)                  (1,000)
mimi                       *uui                    inmm                      u                       *umui                    mu**
1 Eissti s,m,aII diesel pumps and sprinkler equwp-ernt serving about 3,300 ha, would be progressively
replaced by the new system.
World Bank-756412R)



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yannitsa Subproject
Construction Schedule
Calendar Year                        1974                   1975                   1976                   1977                    1978
Civil Works Tenders                                         Award of Contracts
Re-design of Tertiary Irrigation
Distribution System
Drainage Channels and Roads
Drainage Pumping Stations
Irrigation Canals, Structures and 
Regulators
Power Network                                                                   _                                                   _
200                    230
Pumping Units - Irrigation (430)1                                                                        200 I7                      m
4,000                   8,000            3,400
Supply of Portable Sprinkler
Equipment for 15,400 ha1
Supply of Operations & Maintenance
Equipment
12,000
Progress of Development (cumulative)
8,000                 12,000                  15,400
Drainage (ha)
Irrigatio  (h  New System                                                                                       4000                   15,400
I rrigasion (ha)                                                                                                    m
(Old System) '            (5,800)                (5,000)                (4,000)                (2,500)                  (1,000)
(D
1 Existing small diesel pumps and sprinkler equipment serving about 5,800 ha would be progressively replaced by the new system.
World Bank-7565(2R)



ANNEX 5
Page 1
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
NESTOS SUBPROJECT
Cropwater Requirements
Season
Item                                April        May        June         July       August        Sept.     Total
Average Temperature (OC)                 14.5         20.2        24.7         28.8        28.0         22.4
Effective Rainfall (mm)                  34           55          54           30          17           32          222
Field Requirements
Alfalfa             k /l                             .70         .80          .90         .90          .80
mm                             99          104         168          164          91           626
Pasture/Forage    k                                  .65         .75          .75         .75          .60
mm                             83           94         135          134          60           506
Tobacco (Oriental)k                                  .50         .75          .75         .70
mun                            32           94         135          124                       385
Sugar Beets         k                   .35          .40         .65          .75         .70          .50
mm                 12          15           74         135          124          45           405
Maize (main)        k                    .50         .65          .75         .70         .50
mm                 32          58           94         124           83                       391
Maize (second)    k                                               .65         .75         .60          .50
um                                          74         135          104          45           358
Groundnuts          k                                .50         .70          .70         .50
mm                             38           84         124           83                       329
Hazelnuts           k                                .60          .70         .75         .75          .55
mm                             61           84         135          134          53           467
Vegetables /2       k                .25-.40      .50-.70     .65-.80      .75-.90     .75-.80         .60
mm                 15-19       17-67        74-104    135-168    134-144         60        435-562
/1   k-value (Blaney-Criddle method).
/2   Including peppers, cucumbers, melons and miscellaneous leafy vegetables.



GIREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Irrigation Requirements /1
Net                                                                      Season
Crop                                 Area       April      May      June       July     August      Sept.     Total
ha                      -------3 'oOO-----------------------------
Alfalfa                                 1,750        -       2,265     2,379      3,844     3,752      2,082     14,320
Summer Forage                             200       -          217       246        353       350        157      1,323
Tobacco (oriental)                        600        -         251       738      1,059       972        -        3,020
Sugar Beet                              1,350       212        265     1,306      2,382     2,188        794      7,147
Maize (main crop)                       1,930        807     1,463     2,371      3,128     2,094        -        9,864
Maize (second crop)                     1,000        -         -         967      1,764     1,359        588      4,680
Groundnuts                                600       -          298       659        972       651        -        2,580
Hazelnuts                                 250        -         199       275        441       438        173      1,526
Peppers                                   150         29        33       184        308       283        117         955
Vegetables                                200        39         44       194        353       350        156      1,137
Melons/Cucum'yers                         200         50       175        272       439        -         -           936
Total                              8,230     1,137      5,210     9,591    15,043    12,437       4,067     47,488
Total Cropped Area (ha)                           3,830      7,230     8,230      8,230     8,030      4,900      8,230
Irrigation Requirement per ha (m3)                  297        721     1,165      1,828     1,549        830      5,770
/1   At 76.5% efficiency (90% conveyance x 85% farm efficiency of sprinkler irrigation).
I'd
(D 
n)



ANNEX 5
Page 3
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yannitsa Subproject
Cropwater Requirements
Season
Item                            April        May         June        July       August        Sept.      Total
Average Temperature (OC)               14.4         19.0        24.5        26.8         26,4        22.0
Effective Rainfall (mm)                38          47           34          21           24          39           203
Field Requirements
Alfalfa             k !1              .50         .70          .80         .90          .90         .80
mm /2            45          71         107          131         116           71          541
Tobacco (Burley)  k                               .50          .75         .75          .70
nun                          38          83          121          98                       340
Sugar Beets         k                 .35         .40          .65         .75          .70         .50
mun              15          15          81          121          98           38          368
Maize (main)        k                 .50          .65         .75          .70         .50
rm               28          53          98           97          63                       339
Maize (second)    k                                            .65          .75         .60          .50
mm                                       93          113          92           38          336
Cotton              k                              .30         .45         .75          .75         .70
mm                           15          43          121         107           68          354
Beans               k                              .50         .70          70          .50
mm                           38          89           97          73                       297
Vegetables          k                 .25          .50         .65         .75          .75         .60
mm               30          38          81          107          92           53          401
Peaches             k                              .70         .80         .85          .80         .45
mm                           78          93          123         108           30          432
/1   k-value (Blaney-Criddle method).
/2   Adjusted downward by 10-20% on basis of actual data obtained at LRS Research Station near project
area (Sindos).



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yannitsa Subproject
Irrigation Requirements L
Net                                                                 Season
Crop                               Area         April     May      June     July    August   Sept.    Total
ha         --       - ----0----------m        ------------------------
Alfalfa                              1,200          706    1,114    1,678    2,055    1,820   1,114        8,486
Tobacco (Burley)                     3,200          -      1,589    3,472    5,061    4,100        -      14,223
Sugar Beet                           1,800          353       353    1,906    2,847    2,306       894     8,659
Maize (main crop)                    3,100        1,134    2,148    3,972    3,931    2,553        -      13,737
Maize (second crop)                  1,600          -         -      1,945    2,364    1,924       795     7,028
Cotton                               3,100          _        608    1,742    4,903    4,336   2,756    14,345
Beans                                  500          -         248      581       634      477      -       1,941
Vegetables                              700         275       348      741       979      842      485     3,669
Peaches                                200          -         204      243       321      282       79     1,129
Total                             15,00        2,468    6,612   16,280   23,095   18,640   6,123    73,217
Total Cropped Area (ha)             15,400        6,800   13,800   15,400   15,400   15,400   8,600    15,400
Irrigation Requirement per ha (m3)                  363       479    1,057    1,500    1,210       712     4,754
/1   At 76.5% efficiency (90% conveyance x 85% farm efficiency of sprinkler irrigation).



ANNEX 6
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Flows of Nestos River and Irrigation Requirements
Item                                      June      July    August    Sept.
--- /sec-------------
Monthly Flows L
Average                                     117.8      50.1      22.5     22.3
Minimum                                      44.3      25.0      10.1      9.2
Flow, Exceeded in 3 out of 5 Years           86.1      38.0      19.5     18.1
Flow, Exceeded in 4 out of 5 Years           68.9      29.2      14.8     15.h
Maximum Available Groundwater Supply          2.0       2.0       1.8       1.7
Total Flow, Exceeded
in 4 out of 5 Years                   70.9     31.2      16.6      17.1
Irrigation Requirements of:
15,500 ha, Already Irrigated /2               7.0      13.4      12.6      5.0
Project Area (8,230 ha)                       3.7       5.6       4.6      1.6
Total Irrigation Requirements         10.7     19.0      17.2       6.6
/L   Period of observation:  1951-1967.
/2   Surface irrigation at 55% overall efficiency.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
International Water Use Agreement, Nestos River
1.        Of the total catchment area of 5,550 km2 of the Nestos River above
the Delta, 3,230 km2 lie in Bulgaria and 2,320 km2 within Greece. Reference
is made in the test of this report to regulation of Nestos flows in the
planned upstream hydroelectric development, expected to be in operation by
1980 (paras 4.04 and 4.05, main text). A Master Plan report on the develop-
ment of the river has recently been completed, and an outline plan selected.
A final feasibility study for the selected arrangement is expected to be
carried out in 1973, and detailed designis in 1974. Construction is expected
to begin late in 1974 or early 1975, with the first unit of the power plant
in operation by June 1980.
2.        The development will include a principal reservoir with maximum
storage level at 400 m elevation, the storage pool extending up to, but not
beyond, the Bulgarian border. There are no current plans for consumptive
use of the Nestos water in Bulgaria.
3.        Bulgaria and Greece have general agreements covering development
of the river, aimed at avoiding conflicts of interest. The first agreement,
signed in July 1964, concerns cooperation between the two countries in plan-
ning development of the Nestos River, as well as of the Strymon, Ardas and
Evros Rivers. With the objective of providing more effective flood protec-
tion and deriving the greatest possible utilization of the waters of these
rivers, the two countries specifically agreed (a) to collaborate in the
study of works and installations on the rivers, the utilization of which
would be of common benefit to both countries; (b) to "avoid causing sub-
stantial damages to each other, due to construction and operation of works
and installations on the rivers flowing through their territories"; (c) to
exchange technical and economic data about works and installations; and
(d) to exchange necessary data and information concerning high water and
ice flows, to prevent floods. The data would be gathered by the technical
services of both countries and could be exchanged during meetings of their
representatives, convened by the services.
4.        Another agreement, signed in July 1971, ratified by the Greek
Parliament, concerned the establishment of a joint Greek-Bulgarian Committee
to coordinate the collaboration of the two countries in the fields of electric
power and utilization of waters of the international rivers. More specific-
ally the task of the Committee would be to study data gathered by the ser-
vices of both countries, to decide on issues forthcoming from these studies,
to see to it that the terms of the agreement concerning utilization of waters
of the international rivers are properly applied, and to make proposals to
the governments, when necessary, and examine, at the request of the govern-
ments, any question of common interest that might arise on that subject.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        The Committee is composed of twelve members, six from each country,
appointed by their respective governments. The Committee would meet once
a year, alternatively in Athens and Sofia. If necessary, the Committee
could hold additional sessions, after concurrence by the chairmen of both
countries' delegations. The language of the meetings would be those of the
two countries, but the proces-verbal of the Committee, to be prepared at the
end of each session, would be edited in French.
6.        In view of the above agreements, it is unlikely that the inter-
national character of the Nestos River would be any hindrance to the
implementation of the Nestos subproject.



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Schedule of Expenditures
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978     Total
Item                                     ---------Dr Million---------------------
Drainage Channels and Roads                         -        70.0      60.0       2.1        -      132.1
Irrigation Canals, Structures and Regulators        -       50.0      100.0      43.9        -      193.9
Power Network and Transformers                      -        5.0        5.0       5.0       2.6      17.6
Pumping Units - Irrigation                          -          -       15.0      15.0       2.3      32.3
Portable Sprinkler Equipment                        -                  15.0      20.0       7.0      42.0
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                 -          -         -        4.2        -        4.2
Supervision during Construction                    0.5       8.5       11.0       4.5       0.8      25.3
Subtotal                                      0.5     133.5      206.0      944.7     12.7     447.4
Physical Contingencies (10%)                       0.5     146.8      226.6     104.2      14.0     492.1
Expenditures with Price Escalation /1              o.6      180.2     300.5      149.2     21.6     652.1
Equivalent US$ Million                              -        (6.0)    (10.0)      (5.o)    (0.8)    (21.8)
/1 At percentages as in para 4.13 and compounded annually.
co



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yannitsa Subproject
Schedule of Expenditures
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978       Total
Item                                    ----------Dr Million-----------------------
Drainage Channels and Roads /1                      -      140.0     170.0      25.0        -        335.0
Irrigation Canals, Structures and Regulators        -      100.0     200.0    159.5         -        459.5
Power Network and Transformers                      -       10.0      20.0      15.0       4.7        49.7
Pumping Units - Irrigation                          -         -       20.0      30.0       9.6        59.6
Portable Sprinkler i!quipment                                 -       15.0      30.0      22.8        67.8
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                 -         -         -        7.8        -          7.8
Supervision during Construction                    2.0      17.5      22.5      15.0       1.8        58.8
Subtotal                                     2.0      267.5    447.5    282.3       38.9      1,038.2
Physical Contingencies (10%)                       2.2     294.3     492.2     310.5      42.8     1,142.0
Expenditures with Price Escalation /2             2.5     362.0       655.0   444.6       66.0     1,530.1
Equivalent US$ Million                            (0.1)    (12.0)    ( 21.8)   (14.8)    ( 2.2)       (50.9)
/1   Including drainage pumping stations.
/2  At percentages as in Para 4.13 and compounded annually.
It 
No co



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Cost Estimates A
Dr Million                     US$ Million            Foreign
Item                           Local    Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange
Civil Works                                    197.6      98.9      296.5        6.6      3.3       9.9        33
Drainage Channels                             44.4      19.1       63.5        1.5      0.6       2.1        30
Roads                                         48.0      20.6       68.6        1.6      0.7       2.3        30
Irrigation Canals and Structures             105.2      59.2      164.4       3.5       2.0       5.5        36
Equipment                                       20.        93.6     113.6        0-7       3.1      3.8         8
Irrigation Regulators and Hydrants             6.1      23.4       29.5        0.2      0.8       1.0         80
Pumping Units - Irrigation                     4.5       27.8      32.3        0.1      1.0       1.1         90
Portable Sprinkler Equipment                   8.6      33.        42.0        o.4      1.0       1.4
Operation and Maintenance Equipment             -        4.2        4.2         -        0.1      0.1
Transformers                                   0.8        L.8       5.6         -        0.2      0.2        100
Power Network                                    7.2        4.8      12.0        0.2      0.2       0.4         5O
Supervision during Construction                 22.4        2.9      25.3        0.7      0.1       0.8         12
Administration and Supervision (5%)           21.1         -       21.1        0.7       -        0.7          0
Consultants (1%)                               1.3       2.9        4.2         -       0.1       0.1        70
TOTAL                                247.2     200.2      447.4        8.2      5.4      14.9         45
Physical Contingencies (10%)                    25.0       19.7      44.7        0.9                1.5
Price Escalation             (compounded)      10.C.O      55-°     160.0        3.5                5-h
GRAND TOTAL                          3?772     27h.9      652.1      1a9.                21.8        14
/1   Excluding interest during construction and commitment charges on the Bank loan.



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yannitsa Subproject
Cost Estimates /1
Dr Million                       US$ Million          Foreign
Item                             Local    Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign  Total    Echange
Civil Works                                     492.4      247.6      740.0       16.4      8.3      24.7        33
Drainage Channels /2                           66.5       28.5      95.0        2.2       1.0       3.2        30
Roads                                         152.6       65.4     218.0        5.1       2.2       7.3        30
Irrigation Canals and Structures              273.3      153.7     427.0        9.1       5.1      14.2        36
Equipment                                        2h.0      178.6      202.6       0.8       6.0       6.8        88
Irrigation Regulators and Hydrants              5.0       27.5      32.5        0.2       0.9       1.1        90
Pumping Units - Irrigation                      6.1       53.5      59.6        0.2       1.8       2.0        90
Pumping Equipment - Drainage                    1.1       20.9      22.0          -       0.7       0.7       100
Portable Sprinkler Equipment                   10,5       57.3      67.8        0.4       1.9       2.3        83
Operation and Maintenance Equipment              -         7.8        7.8        _        0.3       0.3       100
Transformers                                    1.3       11.6       12.9        -        0.4       0.4       100
Power Network                                    22.1       14.7       36.8       0.7       0.5       1.2        42
Supervision during Construction                  51.9        6.9       58.8        1.7      0.2       1.9        11
Administration and Supervision (5%)            49.0         -       49.0         1.6       -        1.6         U
Consultants (1%)                                2.9        6.9        9.8       0.1       0.2       0.3        70
TOTAL                                590.14     17.8   1,038.2         19.6     15.0      34.6         43
Physical Contingencies (10%)                     58.7       45.1      103.8       1.9       1.6       3.5
Price Escalation              (compounded)      258.3      129.8     388.1        8.6       h.2      12.8
GRAND TOTAL                          907.4      622.7   1,530.1         30.1    20.8      50.9        41
/1   Excluding interest during construction and commitment charges on the Bank loan.
/2   Including structures of drainage pumping stations.
M



ANNEX 10
Page 1
G.RECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured under International Competition /1
Foreign
Item                                     Local   Foreign    Total    Exchan
Dr Million
ll.l      50.9      62.0
1.   Irrigation Regulators           Nestos                    23 .Li.    29.5     82
and Hydrants  2                Yannitsa        5.0      27.5      32.5
10.6      81.3      91.9
2.  Pumping Units                    Nestos                    27.       32.3       89
- Irrigation /2               Yannitsa         6.1      53-5      59.6
19.1      90.7    109.8
3.   Portable Sprinkler              Nestos          82.0                           33
Equipment /2                   Yannitsa       10.5      57 .3     67.8
4.  Pumping Equipment
- Drainage                     Yannitsa       11.1      20.0      22.0       95
2.1      16.h      18.
5-   Transformers /2                 Nestos          0.8        4.8       5.-       89
Yannitsa        1.3      11.6      12.9
-       12.0      12.0
6.   Operation and Maintenance       Nestos           -        424.2               100
Equipment /3                   Yannitsa         -        7.8        7.8
Total          44.0     272.2     316.2       86
Equivalent US$ million         (1-5)      (9.1)    (10.6)
/1   All item categories listed include a 10% provision for appropriate spare parts.
2   Estimated quantities of new equipment are listed in Annex 3, para 13.
/3   See page 2.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Equipment /1
Item                      Ilumber     Unit Price       Cost
Dr '000
Wheel Tractors - 65 hp             8           250           2,000
Wheel Loaders - 55-70 hp           5           850           4,250
Ditchers                           8           350           2,600
Land Levelers                      3           125             275
Pipe Trailers                      6           105             620
Workshop Equipment                                             &55
Miscellaneous and
Spare Parts (101)                                           1,090
Total                                                 12,000
(Equivalent US$ 0.40 million)
/1   To be procured under international competition.



ANNEX 11
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                at Ed of Quarter /1
(US$ million)
1974/75
March 75                                        1.2
June 75                                        3.3
1975/76
5.14
September 75                                     5
December 75                                   105
March 76                                      10.7
June 76                                       14.0
1976/77
September 76                                  17.
December 76                                    20.7
March 77                                       22.7
June 77                                       21.7
1977/78
September 77                                   26.7
December 77                                    28.7
March 78                                       29.3
June 78                                       30.0
/1   Excluding interest and commitment charges during construction.






ANNEX 12
Page
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF HYDRAULIC WORKS SERVICE (HWS)
MINISTRY OF
PUBLIC WORKS
HYDRAULIC            |
VVORKS SERVICE
(HWS)
DIRECTION                    DIRECTION
OFDlECTIGN                           OF
OF DESIGN ( CONSTRUCTION
SECTIONS
Administrtion  8 Tpographes                           Adminitration                       Topographern 
7    INSPECTORATE                                                            INSPECWORATE
VV & C MACEDONIA                             .E. MACEDON/THRACE
(THESSALONIKI)                                                                 (KAVA.LLA}
|(THESSALONIKI)                               (HWS                                 Y PKEI 
SECTIONS                      ROECT OFFICES                                  SECTIONS                  _ PROJECT OFFICES
Supervision                           I           I                                                                 I Suevsino
of Design    _YANNITSA   l                                                      ein        _|PROJECT MGR.|
PROJECT MGR.                                                                     NE|STOSLL) 
Supervision   _                                                             Supervision of                         i
of Construction   _                                                        |Construction     r
4 Civil Engineers                                                             2 Civil Engineers
(Supervisors)                                                                (Supervisors)
|Admninistration       |          -1 Topg.rApess;| Administration| 1 Topographer
World Bank-7515t1R\






A12lTJ'Y^ 10
Page '
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE AND LRS
iMINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE
Agrc.Prdue                             grc.Mahier
AGRIC. DEVELOPMENT                                                  DIVISIONS OF AGRIC. PROT UCTION,
R RESEARCH                                                 FORESTRY, TOPOGRAPHY. SPECIAL SERVICES
(D,recto, General)                                                        (D,rect-r Generai)
r
AGRICULTURAL                           AGRIACULTURAL                           LAND RECLAMATION SERVIE
RESEARCH                             DEVELOPMENT                                        iLRS)
(D,,ect.,)                             (Director)                                      (Chief)
LRS ~        ~         -    Reqrna Devp.pA .    |r                     |gr  LeatnLR
_   Reclamat'on
.Planning & Admn..
Sttdieuds  ueeEtito
M t& MacnOentnce of
_   Land Distribution     .              ~~~~~Prolects
_ 1 7;=;                               ~~~~~~~~~ Agmc Ma-h e,y
(through TOE   SPEVTORAT                                                                INPCTRT
T  (ESSAL ANOK IKI               -KVLA
DISTRICT  IMATHIA ~    ~     OTHR                                     OHE
AG h    .EP                             DIIIN                                   DIVISONS                        ARIC  DISPTRIC
OFIC S      LARSdil            diinlSupr                                                                          1     1
SECTIONS AND SbeErvRedbyVIddtiCESSpprtoty y roiEd                                                  TINSANT D  OFFVICES
i~ ~ ~ ~ EL                           ieito KZN                          ....itit              aondsERrucion    Xe
|  OF AGRICULTURE  l                           l       OF AGRICULTURS~~~~Wrldhun-7h6lR
Mac&CMCEOI hi, &                                                                   Eq.pe  MMACEOONIA&THRAcE |           n
| THESSALONIKI )                                                                                RODiKAALL) I
(A.an,.             AddtioI  I.p'                                                          X ANH
PEL                         ma b_ P,vddb                            diintSppt-   ep    dd              (ti
I~ ~ ~~~(d_                    D,c  f KZNLbDittofRAAadSERI
g~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V-l B OTHER  THER                    i      






GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA fRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
|MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE
R EGISONIAL
OFFICES
IINSPECTORATES)
DIVISION OF_
AGRIC. DEVELOPMENT                          _     W & C MACEDONIA
PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
/   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ' ~~~~~~~( Y AN NITSA)
Chief 'IEKE  Il-f WS) -Chmr
E. MACEDONiA/THRACE  .              Pject M..ager
RECLAMATION                     (KAVALLA)                      Regional Di-ector PPC
/ , SERVICE .                                                 g . Director of Agriculture
\ Regional Technical Inspector, ABG
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. .... ^..................1
. STEERING COMMITTEE
Chm: Director General                     PUBLIC WORKS
Planning & Public Investmentsr
*Members:
Mcmbers:   ,                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~W & C MACEOI    
* Proiecc Managert (2)
MINISTRF OP                 Represeetatives of: WTHSSALONIKI)
CORDNT ION T              -Ministry of Public Work,                   VOK
-Ministry of Agriculture                 SERVICE               -             M        N T
:    -Land Reclamation Service    :                                                            THRACE|
-Public Powver Corporation
*    -Agricultural Bank of Greece
*    Liaison  Officer                                                                                              .......................................
PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
"'"-'--'-'-1''''--1--------------                                          (    vy  ~~~~~~~~Chief Y{EKE I (HWS) - Chm-
__ THESSALONIKI                Project Manager
Regional Director, PPC
\P_VVE*                                                             Director of Agriculture
Regional Technical Inspector, AEG
\                               P        ~~~~~~~~~TtiESSALONIKI     /
AGR. BANK OF GREECE|              |        
uos
World Bank-7514fRf             P.






MINEX 13
Page 1
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farmers' Water Users Associations (GOEVs and TOEVs)
Responsibilities of GOEVs and TOEVs
1.        The Farmers' Water Users Associations (GOEVs and TOEVs)1/act as
agencies for those areas where reclanation works have been or are being
executed.
2.        The General Farmers' Water Users Association (GOEVs) are charged
with the administration of major reclamation works (Class "A" projects),
which are usually large projects affecting radical improvements in agricul-
tural conditions of sizeable areas (such as river diversion or regulation
projects, dams, main irrigation canals and drainage channels, culverts and
tunnels). In general, GOEVs are in charge of works serving more than one
TOEV. The Local Farmers' Water Users Associations (TOEVs) are the agencies
responsible for the allocation of construction, maintenance, operation and
administration of Class "B" projects, which are the smaller projects, serv-
ing local interests only, or they govern a local project which may be an in-
tegral part of a larger State-executed project of the Class "A" category.
3.        GOEVs and TOEVs are responsible for the following:
(a) Management and distribution of the water under their
jurisdiction;
(b) Operation and maintenance of water distribution works;
(c) Defining obligations of the members, with respect to:
(i) payment of contributions:
(ii) payment of expenses for project construction not
covered by subsidies and loans, and
(iii) payment of annual expenses for operation, maintenance
and administration of the works.
Payments are made in the form of water charges per stremma
(one-tenth of one hectare). In case of inability or
reluctance on the nart of the GOEV or TOEV to allocate and
1/   GOEV = General Organization of Reclamation Works;
TOEV = Local Organization of Reclamation Works.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
apply the above charges to their members, the local pre-
fecture is responsible for recovering the charges. Or-
dinarily, TOEV officials are responsible for the collection
of water charges for operation and maintenance, while
repayment of loans for construction works is made by the
farmers through the Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG);
(d) Payment of dues on the part of the GOEV, TOEV and farmers
to the State, the Central Fund for Agriculture, Livestock
and Forestry, and the Forest Service, as well as to ABG;
(e) Collection of rents or grazing fees for undistributed
land within the project area; and
(f) Designation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture,
or the agricultural utilization of project areas.
GOEVs and TOEVs prepare schedules and regulations of irrigation distribu-
tion for the area under their jurisdiction, in line with instruction from
the appropriate services under the Ministry of Agriculture, and they employ
their own water management personnel to implement such distribution.
Establishment of GOEVs and TOEVs
4.        GOEVs are established by the Land Reclanation Service (LRS) upon
recommendation of its regional offices. They are governed by a Board of
seven mernbers, five of whom are appointed by the local prefect (Director
of Agriculture) and two of whom are elected by the TOEVs to serve as their
delegates.
5.        TOEVs are established at the request of beneficiary farmers, by
filing an application to the appropriate Director of Agriculture, who
examines the expediency of such establishment. In most cases, the esta-
blishment of a TOEV is sponsored by LRS.
6.        Recommendation and final approval for the establishment of a TOEV
are made by the prefecture (Directorate of Agriculture)- Included in the
recommendation are:
(a) a map of the area under the jurisdiction of the proposed
TOEV;
(b) a provisional Property List of the beneficiaries/members
of the proposed TOEV;
(c) the Establishment Act, to be signed by the beneficiaries
whose aggregate property must represent at least 5/9 of
the overall area which will benefit from the works: and



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(d) a statute, to be approved by the initial General Assembly
which is composed of delegates (electors) to be selected
in a local meeting by the members who are entitled to
establish a TOEV.
7.        Election of representatives for the General Assembly in each
municipality of conmunity is made on the basis of size of land ownership (one
vote per each basic unit of 5 to 15 stremmas). Members having less than 5
stremmas may form a group to acquire the right to vote.-
8.        The Administrative Board of a TOEV has seven members, elected
by the General Assembly. If a TOEV has less than 40 members per General
Assembly, its Administrative Board consists of five members.
TOEV Structure, Resources, Budget, Borrowing Powers
9.        The Farmer's Water User Associations are legal entities under
Public Law 3881 of 1958 and are subject to supervision by the Ministry of
Agriculture, which exercises administrative, technical and economic control
over them.
10.       TOEV and GOEV income is derived from water charges (levied per
stremma of irrigated land or per volume of irrigation water), from rents
or duties for grazing, from public loans or loans by banks or any other
revenue provided for in their statute.
April 9, 1974






ANNEX 14
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
1.        Annual maintenance costs at full development have been estimated
as percentages of the corresponding investments, i.e., 5% for drainage chan-
nels, 2.5% for drainage pumps, 3% for roads, 1.5% for concrete-lined canals
and buried pipes, 2% for irrigation regulators, and fixed equipment for
tertiary distribution system, 5% for operation and maintenance equipment, and
2% for the electrical network, transformers and pumps. The average maintenance
cost would amount to Dr 1,153 (US$38.43)/ha/year for Nestos, and Dr 1,394
(US$46.47)/ha/year for Yannitsa.
2.        The operating staff would consist of one waterman for every
120 ha (Nestos) or 108 ha (Yannitsa) and five technicians for every waterman
during the five months of irrigation, as well as a full-time workshop crew,
consisting of foremen and appropriate mechanics and electricians. Including
the cost of one engineer for Nestos and two engineers for Yannitsa, necessary
clerical staff, transportation costs and office expenditures, the annual cost
would amount to Dr 404 (US$13.47)/ha for Nestos and Dr 462 (US$15.40)/ha for
Yannitsa (see Table).
3.        Annual consumption of electrical energy would be about 1,000 kWh/ha,
in both subprojects based on an average irrigation requirement at the intake
of the sprinkler irrigation pumping stations of 5,800 m3/ha. Additional
energy consumption at Yannitsa for drainage-pumping would be about 140 kWh/ha.
Based on the Public Power Corporation (PPC) rate for agricultural use (Dr
0.50/kWh), the total annual cost of electricity would be Dr 500 (US$16.67)/ha
for Nestos and Dr 570 (US$19)/ha for Yannitsa.
4.        Total annual operation and maintenance charges would therefore
amount approximately to Dr 2,100ha (US$70) for Nestos and to Dr 2,400/ha
(US$80) for Yannitsa.






ANNEX 14
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operating Staff - Annual Costs
Staff                               Number         Rate       Months       Amount
Dr/month                 Dr '000
Nestos Subproject
Pump Operation /1
One Waterman for 120 ha                69          3,740          5         1,290
One Technician for 600 ha              14          6,000          5           420
Workshop
Senior Foremen                          1          9,600         12           115
Mechanics                               4          6,000         12           288
Electricians                            4          7,200         12           346
Operation Center
Engineer                                1         18,000         12           216
Clerical Staff                          3          6,000         12           216
Miscellaneous Office Expenditures
and Transportation Costs (15%)                                               434
Total          3,325
i.e., Dr 404/ha (US$13.47)
Yannitsa Subproject
Pump Operation /2
One Waterman for 108 ha               142          3,740          5         2,655
One Technician for 540 ha /3           22          6,000          5           660
Drainage Pump Operators /3              8          5,400         12           518
Workshop
Senior Foremen                          2          9,600         12           230
Mechanics                               8          6,000         12           576
Electricians                            8          7,200         12           691
Operation Centers
Engineer                                2         18,000         12           432
Clerical Staff                          6          6,000         12           432
Miscellaneous Office Expenditures
and Transportation Costs (15%)                                               929
Total
i.e., Dr 462/ha (US$15.40)
/1   Based on electrical pumps serving 1 unit of 120 ha each.
/2   Based on electrical pumps serving 36 ha each (3 units = 108 ha).
/3   Drainage pump operators would be working part-time as irrigation technicians
during peak irrigation season.






GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs of Production - Nestos Subproject
Fertilizers,
Crop                                 Chemicals                                                      Total                         Total
and Other                       Hired                          Direct      Interest       Production
Seeds        Materials      Machinery         Labor      Irrigation         Cost         @ 2.5%            Cost
-------------------------------_-_                - Dr/ha  .--------------------------------------------------
Without Project
Wheat and Barley               860            560           1,700            120            -            3,240            81            3,321
Maize (main crop)              200          1,200           2,980            240           350           4,970           124            5,094
Maize (second crop)            200          1,200           2,620            240           500           4.760           119            4,879
Tobacco (oriental)           2,600          1,740          4,250           1,800            -           10,390           260           10,650
Alfalfa                        600            600           2,880            960           750           5,790           145            5,935
Vegetables                   2,400          2,500           2,000          1,440           750           9,090           227            9,317
Summer Forage                  400            600           2,300            480           750           4,530           113            4,643
Miscellaneous /I               NA             NA              NA             NA             -            3,755            94            3,849
With Project (at full development)
Wheat and Barley               860            860           2,350            120            -            4,190           105            4,295
Maize (main crop)              250          1,450           3,680            360            -             5,740          144            5,884
Maize (second crop)            250          1,450           2,820            240            -             4,760          119            4,879
Tobacco (oriental)           2,600          1,990           6,050          2,400            -           13,040           326           13,366
Alfalfa                        600            900           4,130          1,440            -             7,070          177            7,247
Vegetables /2                  -              -               _-                            -            20,342          509           20,851
Summer Forage                  400            900           3,000            720            -            5,020           126            5,146
Sugar Beets                    460          2,200           6,450          1,800            -            10,910          273           11,183
Groundnuts                     600          1,350           2,950          2,880            -             7,780          195            7,975
Winter Forage                  750            600           2,300            360            -             4,010          100            4,110
Hazelnuts                    2,700          2,500           1,200          4,200            -            10,600          265           10,865
/1   Weighted average of sesame (100 ha), sunflower (70 ha), and poplars (20 ha).
/2   Weighted average of melons (100 ha), peppers (150 ha), cucumbers (100 ha), tomatoes (100 ha), and other vegetables (100 ha).



ANNEX 15
Page 2
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
/1
Farm Budget - Nestos Subproiect
Cropped Area        Yield         Price      Gross Value    Production         Net Value
Crop                          per Farm      per Hectare    per Ton   of Production           Cost       of Production
ha             ton         ------------------------Dr-------------------------
Without Project
Wheat and Barley                      1.06            2.2            2,885         6,728            3,520           3,208
Maize (main crop)                    0.87             4.3            2,930        10,961            4,432           6,529
Maize (second crop)                   0.35            4.0            2,930         4,102            1,708           2,394
Tobacco (oriental)                   0.21             0.7          50,000          7,350            2,237           5,113
Alfalfa                              0.18            10.4            1,800         3,370            1,068           2,302
Vegetables /2                        0.08            13.0           2,200          2,288              745          1,543
Summer Forage                        0.04            13.5              500           270              186              84
Miscellaneous /3                     0.07             NA               NA            737              269             468
Total                           2.86                                        35,806           14,165          21,641
With Project (at full development)
Wheat and Barley                     0.30             3.5            2,885         3,029            1,289           1,740
Maize (main crop)                    0.59             6.5            2,930        11,237            3,472           7,765
Maize (second crop)                  0.30             4.5            2,930         3,956            1,464          2,492
Tobacco (oriental)                   0.18             1.2          50,000         10,800            2,406          8,394
Alfalfa                              0.53            15.0            1,800        14,310            3,841         10,469
Vegetables /2                        0.17              -               -           9,010            3,545          5,465
Summer Forage                        0.06            25.0              500           750              309            441
Sugar Beets                          0.41            55.0              650        14,658            4,585         10,073
Groundnuts                           0.18             2.5          11,000          4,950            1,436          3,514
Winter Forage                        0.15             8.0            1,600         1,920              617           1,303
Hazelnuts                            0.08             2.0          34,500          5,520              869          4,651
Total                           2.95                                        80,140           23,833          56,307
Incremental income before payment of land and water charges:                               per farm   34,666
per ha      13,866
per ha ($)    462
Incremental income after payment of water oaarges at Dr 2,700 per ha:                      per farm   27,916
per ha      ii,i66
per ha ($)    372
/1   Average farm size 2.5 ha.
/2   Weighted average of several vegetables including melons, tomatoes, peppers, cucumbers and leafy vegetables.
/3   Weighted average of sesame, sunflower and poplars.



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs of Production - Yannitsa Subproject
Fertilizers,
Chemicals                                                           Total                          Total
Crop                                    and other                         Hired                            Direct        Interest       Production
Seeds       Materials    Machinery            Labor        Irrigation           Cost          @ 2.5%            Cost
------------------------------------------------------------     Dr/ha- ----------- - - ----------- ---------- ---------
Without Project
Wheat and Barley                  860            560         1,700               120              -               3,240            81            3,321
Tobacco (burley)                2,700         4,330           7,300            5,040            1,040            20,410           510           20,920
Cotton                            200          1,250         2,200            3,000               575             7,225           181            7,406
Maize (main crop                  200            900          2,230              240              212             3,782            95            3,877
Maize (second crop)               200            900         2,450               240              850             4,640           116            4,756
Sugar Beet                        460         1,900          5,300             1,320              575             9-,555          239            9,794
Beans                           2,400          1,450         1,790             1,440              340             7,420           186            7,606
Alfalfa                           600            600         2,880               960              435             5,475           137            5,612
Vegetables /2                   2,400         2,500          2,000             1,440              800             9,140           229            9,369
Peaches                         2,145         5,630          2,500            4,800               500            15,575           389           15,964
With Project (at full development)
Wheat and Barley                  860            860          2,410              120              -               4,250           106            4,356
Tobacco (burley)                2,700         5,030         10,600             7,200              -              25,530           638           26,168
Cotton                            200          1,900         3,400             5,400              -              10,900           273           11,173
Maize (main crop)                 250          1,450          3,780              360              -               5,840           146            5,986
Maize (second crop)               250          1,450          2,820              240              -               4,760           119            4,879
Sugar Beet                        460          2,200         6,850             1,920              -              11,430           286           11,716
Beans                           2,400          1,810          2,010            2,880              -               9,100           228            9,328
Alfalfa                           600            900         4,130             1,440              -               7,070           177             7,247
Vegetables /2                     -              -              -                -                -              19,173           479           19,652
Peaches                         2,575          7,930         3,500             7,200              -              21,205           530           21,735
/I   Irrigation charges in Yannitsa:  Dr 300 per applications + (an annual charge of Dr 250 for all crops, except for tobacco, peaches and
vegetables:  Dr 400).
/2   Weighted average of melons (200 ha), peppers (100 ha), tomatoes (200 ha), cucumbers (100 ha) and other vegetables (100 ha).



ANNEX 15
Page 4
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
/1
Farm Budget - Yannitsa Subproject
Crop                       Cropped Area       Yield         Price      Gross Value       Production      Net Value
per Farm      per Hectare    per Ton   of Production           Cost       of Production
ha             ton         -------------------------Dr--------------------------
Without Project
Wheat and Barley                     0.57            2.2           2,885         3,618            1,893          1,725
Tobacco (burley)                    0.36             1.8          28,000        18,144           7,531          10,613
Cotton                              0.28             1.7           9,200         4,379           2,074           2,305
Maize (main crop)                    0 23            2.6           2,930         1,752              892            860
Maize (second crop)                  0.03            3.0           2,930           264              143            121
Sugar Beet                          0.14           40.0              650         3,640           1,371           2,269
Beans                               0.08             1.2          10,600         1,018             608             410
Alfalfa                             0.03            10.0           1,800           540              168            372
Vegetables /2                       0.02            15.0           2,200           660              187            473
Peaches                             0.02            15.0           3,700         1,110              319            791
Total                     1.76                                       35,125           15,186         19,939
Rental of Land /3                                                                                                6,260
13,679
With Project (at full development)
Wheat and Barley                    0.21             3.8           2,885         2,302              915          1,387
Tobacco (burley)                    0.42             3.0          28,000        35,280          10,991          24,289
Cotton                              0.40             3.5           9,200        12,880           4,469           8,411
Maize (main)                        0.40             7.0           2,930         8,204            2,394          5,810
Maize (second crop)                  0.21            4.5           2,930         2,769            1,025          1,744
Sugar Beet                          0.23            60.0             650         8,970           2,695           6,275
Beans                               0.06             2.5          10,600         1,590             560           1,030
Alfalfa                             0.16            15.0           1,800         4,320            1,160          3,160
Vegetables /2                       0.09              -              -           5,252            1,769          3,483
Peaches                             0.03            25.0           3,700         2,775              652          2,123
Total                     2 21                                       84,342           26,630         57,712
Rental of Land /3                                                                                                6,470
51,242
Incremental income before payment of land and water charges:                             per farm   37,773
per ha      18,887
per ha ($)    630
Incremental income after payment of water charges  at Dr 3,000 per he:                   per farm   31,773
per ha      15,887
per ha ($)    530
/1   Average farm size 2.0 ha.
/2   Weighted average of melons, peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers and leafy vegetables.
/3   Land rent for acreage over 1.0 ha at Dr 5,000 per ha for all crops; at Dr 12,000 per ha for tobacco.



ANNEX 16
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices Used for Project Appraisal
1973 Farmgate Price /1   Economic Price /2
---------------Dr per ton--------------
Grains
Wheat                                    2,910                   2,520
Barley                                   2,860                  2,520
Maize                                    2,930                  2,130
Sorghum (seed)                           2,230                  2,020
Beans (dry)                             10,600                  7,000
Fibers
Seed Cotton                              9,200                  7,600
Oilseeds and Nuts
Groundnuts                              11,000                  8,500
Sesame                                  12,000                  6,600
Sunflower                               10,000                  4,400
Hazelnuts                               34,500                 30,000
Tobacco
Tobacco (oriental)                      50,000                 40,000
Tobacco (burley)                        28,000                 28,000
Sugar
Sugar Beets                                650                    650
Fruits
Peaches                                  3,700                  3,500
Fodder
Alfalfa (hay)                            1,800                  1,200
Winter Forage (hay)                      1,600                   1,200
Summer Forage (green)                      500                    500
Pastures (per ha net)                      600                     600
Sorghum (forage)                           600                    600
Vegetables
Peppers                                  2,700                  2,700
Cucumbers                                3,500                  3,500
Melons (yellow or water)                 2,300                  2,300
Tomatoes                                   650                     650
Other Vegetables                         2,200                  2,200
Forest Products
Poplar Wood                             Dr 400/m3              Dr 400/m3
/1   Farmgate prices for 1973 are derived from the average 1969-73 market
prices (including subsidies) and adjusted by 3% for annual inflation.
Prices of vegetables reduced by 20% to allow for perishability.
/2   Economic prices for grains, cotton and oilseeds are related to world
market prices as forecast by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department. For others, adjustments were made by the mission.






ANNEX 17
Page 1
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The project was evaluated by estimating its annual costs and
benefits over a 50 year period. The economic rate of return of the whole
project over this period is estimated at 13.7%. For Nestos and Yannitsa
aubprojects, the rates of return are 12.2% and 14.3%, respectively. If sunk
costs of Dr 82.0 million for main canals, main drains and dikes are included,
the economic rate of return of the whole project would drop by less than 1%.
Assumptions made in estimating costs and benefits are explained below.
2.        Prices.  Farmgate prices for grains, cotton and oilseeds are
based on those forecast by the Bank. For tobacco, sugar beets, peaches and
nuts, prices have been based on Bank projections and discussions with FAO
commodity experts. For vegetables, current prices (1969-73) have been
reduced by 20% to account for perishability. For fodder, hay and forest
products, current market prices have been used. All prices are in current
(1973) US dollars and converted to or from drachmas at the November 1973
exchange rate (US$1 = Dr 30). Actual prices used are in Annex 16.
3.        Development Period.  Project construction is assumed to start in
early 1975. Some crops would benefit from drainage during 1975 and all by
1978. Irrigation benefits would be available to a part of the area in 1977
and to the entire project area by 1980. The annual rate of drainage and
irrigation would be as follows (see Annex 4):
1975     1976      1977     1978    1979
------ :'ha
Nestos
Drainage             2,200    5,000    8,230       -       -
Irrigation             -        -       3,000    7,000   8,230
Yannitsa
Drainage             8,000   12,000   15,400       -       -
Irrigation             -        -       4,000   12,000  15,400
The projected level of annual benefits would be realized in the eighth year,
in 1982, when tree crops would be in full production. Most irrigated annual
crops would reach the projected level of yields in the sixth year when
drainage and irrigation systems would have been completed. Winter crops, which
would be rainfed and which at present suffer from the high water table in
Yannitsa, would attain projected yields in the third year of the project.
These expectations take into account that the project farmers would continue
to use production requisites and that these would be readily available. Cur-
rent yield of main crops and those to be gradually reached at full develop-
ment (1982) are shown below:



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Nestos Subproject   Yannitsa Subproject
Without    With      Without    With
Project   Project   Project   Project
---tons per ha---
Wheat and Barley                   2.2       3.5        2.2       3.8
Tobacco (burley)                    -         -         1.8       3.0
Tobacco (oriental)                 0.7        1.2        -         -
Maize                              4.2       5.5        2.8       5.8
Sugar Beet                          -       55.0       40.0      60.0
Alfalfa (hay)                     10.4       15.0      10.0      15.0
Seed cotton                         -         -         1.7       3.5
Peaches                             -         -        15.0      25.0
Vegetables (weighted average)   13.0        28.2       15.0      33.3
4.        Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at 1973 prices.  In-
cluded among these are physical contingencies, investment cost of the elect-
rical network within the project, extension services, operation and mainte-
nance, and replacement costs. For relatively short-life sprinkler equipment,
annual replacement costs amount approximately to Dr 4.9 million in Nestos
and Dr 8.9 million in Yannitsa. In addition, replacement of pumps, irrigation
equipment and transformers every 20 years from completion of irrigation
facilities would cost Dr 74.1 million in Nestos and Dr 115.5 million in
Yannitsa. Annual extension services cost would amount to Dr 1.8 million in
Nestos. For imported machinery and goods, the prices used are on a cif basis
net of import duties and taxes. For civil works, however, current unit prices
which include an element of taxes have been used for want of more detailed
information. Price contingencies are excluded from economic analysis. Pro-
duction foregone on land to be occupied by project structures has been re-
flected through a decrease in the net cultivated area.
5.        Production Costs.  Farm production costs are also at 1973 prices
and are unchanged for the project life. For economic analysis, the prices
used for farm machinery and production requisites are conceptually net of
taxes and subsidies for the following reasons. Government grants a subsidy
to large farms of about 20% on locally manufactured two-wheeled tractors.
The number of such tractors and the number of farms benefiting from this
subsidy are, however, very small especially in the project areas. On im-
ported tractors, there is a duty of 5%. On threshers which are no longer
imported, the rate of duty is 20%. If machinery is imported from EEC coun-
tries, the duty rates are again half of those quoted above. Diesel and
gasoline fuel, used in agricultural machinery, are either subsidized or
taxed or both, depending on their exact use. Custom rates have, therefore,
been used in this analysis on the assumption that subsidy and taxes would
offset each other and that these would include the cost of farm machinery
operators. Family labor has been shadow priced at Dr 60/person/day for rea-
sons given in para 2.03. Even if family labor was fully costed the economic
rate of return would be about 11%. All hired labor requirements have been
costed at the current wage of Dr 120 per day.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
6.        Net Value of Production.  Net value of production without the
project is assumed unchanged due to high base of current yields, the rela-
tively short development period, and drainage and irrigation constraints.
With the project, the incremental benefits would start in 1975 when 43% of
the project area would be served by drainage; these benefits would reach the
projected level in 1982, four years following the completion of drainage and
two years after completion of irrigation works, and the net value of incremen-
tal production to the economy would amount to Dr 306 million (US$10.2 million)
per year.
7.        Net Benefits.  The incremental economic value of net benefits at
full development in 1982, based on the above listed assumptions, would be
Dr 305.5 million. Details of costs and benefits are in the attached table.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        Estimated rates of return under various alternative conditions
would be as follows:
Rate of Return
Assumption                     Nestos   Yannitsa       Both
(a)  Inclusion of sunk costs                    10.2       13.1        12.9
(b)  Project costs increased by 10%             10.6       12.7        12.0
(c)  Project benefits decreased by 10%          10.5       12.5        11.9
(d)  Prices of tobacco (key crop)
decreased by 15%                           12.0       13.3        13.1
(e)  Price of sugar beets (second
major crop) decreased by 15%              11.3       14.0        13.1
(f)  (d) and (e) combined                       11.2       12.9        12.4






ANNEX 17
GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Cos ts-/                                 Benefits
Year              Nestos    Yannitsa    Nestos and           Nestos    Yannitsa    Nestos and
Yannitsa                                   Yannitsa
-----------------Dr million---------------------------------
1974                 0.5         2.2         2.7                -            -           -
1975               148.3       301.0       449.3              5.8          28.2        34-.
1976               230.8       503.6       734.4             25.3          71.6        96.9
1Q77               117.9       335.4       453.3             36.3          97.6      133.9
1978                34.4        83.5       117.9             70.9         164.9      235.8
1979                24.0        45.8        69.8             85.1         203.9      289.0
1980                24.0        45.8        69.8             85.6         209.6      295.2
1981-1998           2h.0        45.8        69.8             88.6         216.9      305.5
1999                98.1       161.3       259.4             88.6         216.9      305.5
2000-2018           24.0        45.8        69.8             88.6         216.9       305.5
2019                98.1       161.3       259.4             88.6         216.9      305.5
2020-2022           24.0        45.8        69.8             88.6         216.9       305.5
2023               (35.3)      (46.6)       (81.9)           88.6         216.9       305.5
Rate of Return:  Nestos:         12.17%
Yannitsa:      14-33%
Both:          13.67%
/1   Including investment, operations, maintenance and replacement costs, cost of sdditionalextensicn
services to be provided under the project, and physical contingencies but excluding price
escalation.






GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Labor Required per Hectare Without and With the Project
Cropped Area                                            Labor Requirement per Hectare
C   Nestos             Yannitsa                            Nestos                                     Yannitsa
Crop             Without    With       Without    With         Without Project         With Project        Without Project          With Project
Project   Project   Project   Project         Family    Hired       Family    Hired       Family    Hired       Family    Hired
----------------ha-----------------           ----------------------------------man-day.---------------------------------
Cereals               3,000      1,000      5,100      1,600         12         1          18         1          12         1           18         1
Tobacco                 600        600      3,200      3,200        310        15         438        20         230        42         307         60
Cotton                  -          -        2,500      3,100         -         -           -         -           49        25          69         45
Maize (main crop)   2,480        1,930      2,000      3,100         18         2          22         3          18          2          22         3
Maize (second crop) 1,000        1,000        300      1,600         16         2          20         2           16         2          20         2
Sugar Beets             -        1,350      1,200      1,800         -         -           50        15          48        11           52        16
Beans                   -          -          700        500         -         -           -         -           18        12           27        24
Alfalfa                 500      1,750        300      1,200         17         8          25        12          17          8          25        12
Vegetables /1           230        550        200        700        108        12          87        58         108         12          80        54
Peaches                 -          -          200        200         -         -           -         -           64        40           84        60
Summer Forage           100        200        -          -            8         4          12         6          -         -            -         -
Groundnuts              -          600        -          -           -         -           37        24           -         -           -         -
Winter Forage           -          500        -          -           -         -            6         3           -         -           -         -
Hazelnuts               -          250        -          -           -         -           70        35           -
Others                2,190 /2    -           -          -           16         6          -         -           -          -           -         -
Total          10,100      9,730    15,700    17,000
/1   Weighted average of melons, peppers, cucumbers, tomatoes and leafy vegetables.
/2   Includes 2,000 ha of pasture areas with no labor requirement.  Other crops include sesame, sunflower and poplars.
H



GREECE
NESTOS AND YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Total Labor Requiremients Without and With the Project /1
Nestos                                       Yannitsa                                                  Nestos and Yannitsa
Crop            Without Project        With Project           Without Project          With Project                      Without Project                      With Project
Family      Hired    Family    Hired         Family    Hired          Family    Hired         Family    Hired  Family & Hired  Family    Hired   Family & Hired
------------------------------_-__--    -------------------------------man-days '000--------------------------------------------------------------------
Cereals               36.0       3.0       18.0        1.0         61.2        5.1          28.8        1.6         97.2        8.1        105.3         46.8         2.6         49.4
Tobacco              186.0       9.0      262.8       12.0        736.0      134.4        982.4      192.0         922.0      143.4      1,065.4      1,245.2      204.0       1,449.2
Cotton                   -         -          -          -        122.5       62.5         213.9      139.5        122.5       62.5        185.0        213.9       139.5        353.4
Maize (main crop)    44.6         5.0      42.5        5.8          36.0        4.0         68.2        9.3         80.6        9.0         89.6         110.7       15.1        125.8
Maize (second crop)  16.0         2.0      20.0        2.0           4.8        0.6         32.0        3.2         20.8        2.6         23.4         52.0         5.2         57.2
Sugar Beets              -         -       67.5       20.3         57.6       13.2          93.6      28.8          57.6       13.2         70.8        161.1       49.1         210.2
Beans                    -         -          -          -          12.6        8.4         13.5       12.0         12.6        8.4         21.0          13.5       12.0         25.5
Alfalfa                 8.5      4.0       43.8       21.0           5.1        2.4         30.0       14.4         13.6        6.4         20.0          73.8       35.4        109.2
Vegetables             24.8       2.8      48.0       31.8          21.6        2.4         56.0       37.8         46.4        5.2         51.6         104.0       69.6        173.6
Peaches                  -         -          -          -          12.8        8.0         16.8       12.0         12.8        8.0         20.8          16.8       12.0         28.8
Summer Forage           0.8      0.4        2.4        1.2            -          -            -          -           0.8        0.4          1.2           2.4        1.2          3.6
Groundnuts               -         -       22.2       14.4            -          -            -          -            -          -             -          22.2       14.4         36.6
Winter Forage            -         -         3.0        1.5           -          -            -          -            -          -             -           3.0        1.5          4.5
Hazelnuts                -         -       17.5        8.8                 -           -           -           -                 -            -           17.5        8.8         26.3
Others                  3.0       1.1        -           -                     _              -          -           3.0        1.1          4.1           -           -            -
Total              319.7      27.3      547.7      119.8      1,070.2      241.0      1,535.2      450.6       1,389.9      268.3      1,658.2      2,082.9      570.4       2,653.3
/1   For details, see Annex 18, Page 1.
X x
MJ



IBRD 10294
GREECE                                                  24'45'                                                                    JANUARY 1973
NESTOS - YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nestos Subproject
Project area
Proposed main irrigation canals
---     Proposed secondary irrigation canals
'  *  * Existing dykes
Existing main irrigation canals
Existing main drains
:/~/; /,Coastal area
Roads                                                                                O
L==Future Egnatia Highway                                         TOXOTES
,  ,   Railroads                                                 11W1ERIR      /N
--20- --Cantours in melers
International boundaries
KILOMETERS                               0Ma  oni/
0~~~~~~/ =~                                                                                                 KayZ%l  Ooic ( 
- 414         5             i6_=~o- 1 .   _<<
-2~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
Erasmion~~qIon
AEGEAN          SEA                                                                 Med,terranean~~~~~~~~GO  BA
45'  ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ' ~S.Cr.te
2r45'          ~~~W.y4&.x,,.1  O5eO






22 15                                    22-30                                     22-45'                                    23
GR EECE
NESTOS - YANNITSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PAT KON MOUNTAINS
Yannitsa Subproject
-- Propse -aal
\j   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -  Existin,g irrigain- -anl
E E,I'ttog main dran-s
T                                                 C] ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_Schi- ps,,ping moro
Diversion weirs
\  Contours It mors
-I nternotiool2ond b..dnn'
2M30                                      4r                            6 Se_
Xw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANTAKLMTR



