Report No. PID9645
Project Name                     Yemen-Rural Access Program (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Rural Roads
Project ID                       RYPE70391
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
Address: Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: H.E. Abdullah H. Al Dafei,
Minister
Tel: 967-1-264144
Fax: 967-1-264070
Central Management Office for Rural Roads
Address: Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: Eng. Hakim Aghbari,
General Manager
Tel: 967-71104568
Email: rapcmu@yahoo.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 12 - March 1, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 7, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Country background: In Yemen, rural isolation is a key dimension of
poverty. Though poverty is widespread, with as much as 33 percent of the
rural population classified as being under the official poverty line, it
is primarily a rural phenomenon. Of the 18 rural Governorates in the
country, over half of Yemen's poor live in three Governorates (Sana'a,
Taiz, and Ibb), and an additional 28 percent live in Dhamar, Hodeida and
Hadramout. Although available data is limited, poverty appears also to be
concentrated in areas with the highest concentration of small farms.
Improving accessibility and rural infrastructure in these areas would
likely diminish unproductive travel time, and reduce the cost of
agricultural inputs and consumer products, while increasing farm-gate
prices for local production. Moreover, a broader definition of poverty is
now being accepted, which would include not only a family's expenditure
levels for food and non-food items, but also its deprivation of health,
literacy, mobility and productive assets. Surveys are showing that poor
people with inadequate access to a range of essential supplies, services
and facilities feel much poorer than poor people with good access, even
when the available income and expenditures on food are the same. In
Yemen, preliminary data on the links between poverty and access to
facilities indicate that the rural poor are more likely to lack reasonable



access to health centers and schools than the rural elite. The poor are
more often required to walk to reach such facilities. This particularly
impacts girls from poor rural households because their parents are not
willing to allow them to walk long distances to get health care or attend
school. In Yemen there are numerous signs that inaccessibility the
difficulty in gaining access is the key constraint to rural
development. Improvements to access for rural communities to reduce
isolation should therefore be looked upon as the facilitator for
development, rather than as individual sector interventions in transport,
water, energy, etc. Thus, provision of better access becomes a key
element in a strategy to alleviate poverty. In particular, the benefits
from a program to improve accessibility would be:fn substantial improvement
of access for the rural population to markets and services (both
administrative and social), in terms of reduced transport time, cost and
increased reliability;n improved access for seriously isolated areas of
the country, enabling the implementation of various types of poverty
reduction programs and of sector programs in agriculture, health and
education, all of which require reliable transport services and all-year
road access;f economic integration of the country and facilitation of
decentralization, through the linking of rural communities, District
centers and Governorates with the larger national economy;n support to the
decentralization process and strengthened public institutions, through
decentralized decision-making, implementation and monitoring; andn more
efficient use of public resources through the introduction of transparent
contracting procedures for infrastructure works, performance-based road
network management and maintenance arrangements, and the introduction of
poverty targeted prioritization and selection of rural access
investments.Sector background and issues: There are several institutional
issues which are summarized below in this section which affect rural
access in Yemen. Most of these are related to a weak institutional
capacity in an overly centralized Government.Decentralization: The new
Local Authorities Law (Law No. 4 of 2000) is the centerpiece of the
decentralization effort and the culmination of a political process which
started after Yemen's unification in 1990. Decentralization became a
political priority. In 1995, a series of public sector reforms began,
including the initiation of decentralization as a pilot initiative in the
Ibb Governorate. Yemen has a strong, historical tradition for local
self-governance through the system of local cooperatives in the North and
elected local councils in the South. This tradition includes community
contribution to local development projects and service schemes, a practice
which is maintained in part because of the often-insufficient transfers
from central government to the local sector ministries. The broad
political acceptance of decentralization reform can, in part, be
attributed to this tradition. With the passage of the Local Authorities
Law in early 2000, Yemen made a major step towards political, fiscal, and
administrative decentralization to the local level. Implementation of the
Law will eventually provide local authorities direct responsibility for
planning, development, finance, services and social affairs, all within a
limited budget envelope. Locally elected councils will have
responsibilities for budget preparation and accounting; preparation of
their own physical and economic plans; raising local revenues and
executing local public works. It is expected that this will help bring to
an end the present practice, under which tribal and other local groups
exert very strong pressures on central Government, without any concern for
budget constraints. Practical implementation of the new Law has not
- 2 -



begun, and the approval of regulations for its implementation is
underway. However, even after the Regulations will have been put in
place, the actual implementation of the Law is expected to be slow and
tedious, given the recent history of central Government control and a
limited local capacity.Institutional weaknesses. Since rural access is
closely linked to transport infrastructure, the existence of good
institutional capacity for the planning and management of rural road
networks is important. The Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
(MPWUD) is today the central Government ministry with almost exclusive
responsibility for Yemen's road network, including municipal and local
roads in the Governorates. MPWUD does, however, not have the capacity to
actually fulfill its responsibility adequately. The experience of the
last 2-3 years suggests it is unlikely that, with the scarcity of
qualified engineers and planners and under present civil service
employment conditions, MPWUD will be able to attract and retain sufficient
qualified Yemeni staff to efficiently manage all of Yemen's roads. In the
general context, it is expected that the Bank-supported Civil Service
Reform Project would help to rectify part of this problem by creating the
basic conditions which would enable the Government to hire and retain a
limited number of qualified professionals. Under-funding of
infrastructure maintenance. To remedy the under-funding of road
infrastructure maintenance, a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) was established
in 1996 with dedicated, off-budget funding for maintenance, mobilized
through a user fee on the price of gasoline. Since the user fee was
originally set at a rather low level, only a small part of the funding
needs for maintenance was actually mobilized. Despite this, the
Government has been slow in allocating much additional budget resources to
road maintenance. This policy has been causing: (i) a very significant
loss of infrastructure assets, (ii) large needs for the rehabilitation of
road infrastructure which had not been maintained; and (iii) an avoidable
increase in access costs which is far in excess of the funding gap for
maintenance. There seems to be increasing awareness of this problem at
the highest levels of Government, and very recently a law was passed that
increased the road user charges significantly. The law, however, is still
to be implemented.Procurement Management. Procedures commonly used for
public procurement in the road sector in Yemen are often not in accordance
with internationally recognized standards of transparency and
competition. For IDA-financed projects, the MPWUD, the High Tender Board
(HTB) and its Technical Committee sometimes have difficulties in following
IDA guidelines in procurement of works, goods and consulting services,
particularly where they differ from local laws and practices. This has
led to long delays in project implementation, as experienced in the
ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project and the Multi-Mode Transport
Project. MPWUD is for the most part not bidding local road works
contracts, and instead uses a system of direct negotiations with local
contractors, based on predefined unit prices for all major items in the
Bills of Quantities of road contracts. This procurement system has
weaknesses and may not give every contractor equal opportunity for
government work, as well as potentially increasing costs. However,
presently there are no plans to introduce competitive bidding for fully
locally financed road contracts. For all IDA financed contracts under the
Rural Access Program, standard bidding documents and competitive bidding
procedures will have to be used, in accordance with IDA guidelines.
2. Objectives
-3-



The Yemen Rural Access Program will consist of three phases covering a
total time period of approximately 10 years. IDA financing for the
program would be provided in the form of an APC (Adaptable Program
Credit). The overall purpose and long-term development objective of the
Program is an improved livelihood and reduced isolation for the rural
population. To achieve that objective, year-round access to markets and
services (both social and administrative) would have to improve through
the local, regional and national road networks. This will be done by
financing improvements to a "cluster" or "sub-network" of rural roads.
The centerpiece of this approach will be to improve intermediary rural
roads complemented by improvements to village access roads that link
isolated villages to the improved intermediary roads, thereby promoting a
continuous flow of goods and people to markets and services, and
strengthening the poverty reduction impact. The non-physical parts of the
Program would focus on capacity-building for better decision-making and
project monitoring at the local level in support of the government's
policies of decentralization.The Project described here is equivalent to
Phase I of the Program. The development objective of the Phase 1 Project
is to establish a sustainable foundation for large-scale improvements to
rural accessibility in areas severely affected by poverty, with good
prospects for rural development. This would put in place effective
institutional arrangements and appropriate technical standards and
implementation procedures for these large-scale improvements to be
achieved during subsequent phases of the Program. It is designed to
create the necessary base conditions for the entire Program, and test
newly-defined approaches through five or more pilot rural access road
projects. The process to be put in place will assimilate environmental
and social (poverty and gender ) policies, and eventually internalize
participatory planning aspects into its operations. The achievement of
those base conditions is expected 24 months after effectiveness of the
Phase I credit and will trigger a new and larger IDA credit for Phase II
of the Program, and hopefully also donor co-financing for that phase.
Phase II will then implement rural access improvements in most, if not
all, the Governorates, building their capacity for sustainable management
and maintenance, and fostering cooperation among beneficiaries,
decentralized Government agencies and decision-makers. Towards the end of
the second phase, or after 5 years of actual implementation of the
Program, a mid-term review of the Program will be carried out. This
review will detect conceptual and implementation weaknesses and prescribe
necessary adjustments for the subsequent phase of the Program. Depending
on the results of the review, and the progress in decentralized
capacity-building, the Program will start preparations to expand its
coverage of rural road improvements to the District level roads.Phase III
would expand rural access improvements and capacity building to tertiary
roads at the district level and critical intermediary access roads not
yet covered under Phase II. It would continue to support village access
road development. Capacity building to achieve sustainable management
and maintenance of rural roads, using the demand-driven and poverty-based
approach for identification and prioritization of rural road subprojects
as initiated in Phases I and II (rural accessibility planning) would also
continue under Phase III. The third phase would also start to undertake
access road projects at the District level, if the general implementation
of Yemen's decentralization agenda is sufficiently advanced. The overall
Government program would be supported by IDA credits and co-financing from
other donors.The Project and the Program would target the rural population
- 4 -



as main beneficiaries, a large proportion of which is poor. The Program
would be based on the concept of 'efficient' poverty targeting. This
rests on the principle that sustainable poverty alleviation is likely if
interventions lead to the creation of economic growth, as well as
appropriate institutional reform. Thus, within large poor areas emphasis
would be given to those places that are potentially productive or contain
exploitable resources, as well as building local capabilities to
sustainably plan and maintain the infrastructure. Within this context, the
Program also recognizes that the impact of improved access can vary among
men and women within different regions and cultures. For this reason, it
will specifically address gender-related dimensions of poverty reduction
and incorporate gender-related factors into the design of individual road
projects. A framework for a poverty oriented project identification and
prioritization system will be tested and made operational in Phase I of
the RAP.In particular, the Project will target:fn rural poor populations, a
disproportionately large fraction of whom are women living in areas which
currently suffer from a lack of access to facilities (social and
administrative) and economic developmental options;f women and children in
rural areas, through reductions in time and effort needed to meet basic
human needs, such as supplying water and accessing education and health
facilities; moreover, improved roads will facilitate the distribution of
gas cylinders to remote areas, thereby reducing the time spent on, and
demand for, environment-damaging collection of firewood;f rural
shopkeepers and traders, through improved access to wholesalers, through
more reliable transport and lower transport costs;f road users and small
transporters serving the rural areas, through improved travel conditions,
time savings and reduced vehicle operating costs. It is noted that these
short-haul carriers are already highly competitive; this makes it likely
that transport savings will actually be passed on to the consumer;f Public
Administration agencies at the central and local levels;n private sector
contractors and consultants, who will benefit from business opportunities
provided by the Program, more efficient and transparent contract
management and Project-sponsored capacity-building activities; andn the
rural population at large, through better access to markets and services
and lower transport costs.Improved Poverty Targeting. The definition and
location of poverty are fundamental questions when formulating a poverty
targeting strategy for the Program. This is because the identification
and ranking of rural access interventions are essentially spatial, and
require knowledge of where the poor are located and what their
accessibility constraints are. At the same time one seeks to know where
economic development potential lies among poorer areas, and to what extent
access improvements will play an effective complementary role in the
provision of basic social services or facilities. The Program will
address these issues through the development of the rural accessibility
planning methodology. This methodology will be further supported by a
comprehensive socio-economic data base residing at the Bureau of
Statistics, Ministry of Planning and Development, which includes
spatially-based poverty profiles disaggregated to the Governorate and
District levels based on a UNDP-sponsored household survey and poverty
monitoring program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Continued Bank support to the Program and the sector would catalyze
important external investment resources by other donors for rural access
improvement; here other donors can count on IDA to provide the policy
- 5-



support to the Government; assist the overall institutional strengthening
of the road sector, support and attract private sector development by
helping the Government to create an appropriate environment to attract the
private sector to become engaged in road network management and
maintenance; provide a lead for the donor community to follow a coherent
sector approach when deciding on sector investments; and improve the
country's growth and poverty-reduction prospects by providing needed
infrastructure. Furthermore, the financing and technical support by IDA
to introduce multi-year, area-wide performance-based road maintenance
contracts will give comfort to potential bidders with respect to the
payment and other sovereign risks that they may otherwise not be prepared
to take under the present circumstances. The Project would also integrate
well with the larger macro-economic approach to Yemen's development as
described in the CAS.Furthermore, IDA has a wide range of experts (among
its own staff and as consultants) upon which it can call to help the
Government as issues come up and problems need to be addressed. The World
Bank's Sana'a office provides a location for quick consultation and to
facilitate accessing the Bank's extensive knowledge base. Finally, IDA
resources available for supervision of the proposed Project also often
assists with the supervision of other donor's funds which are provided as
part of overall sector initiatives. Regular supervision, as well as the
preparation of project completion reports, will help to ensure the
Project's successful implementation and provide valuable lessons of
experience for future efforts.IDA is in a unique position to assist the
Government in the implementation of its decentralization strategy. As a
donor, IDA is involved in virtually every key sector in the country, and
an active participant in assisting the Government to reform its governance
structure. IDA assists the Government with civil service reform, public
expenditure reviews, macro-economic policy formulation, improving line
ministry efficiency, reform of the legal sector, providing urban
strategies, planning and financing infrastructure of various types, and
assisting with donor coordination. All of these activities are affected
by decentralization and this puts IDA in a position to act as the
Government's partner during project implementation.
4. Description
The project will have the following components:
Part A:
Pilot Rural Access Roads: The objective of this component is to
demonstrate, through six pilot roads, technical standards and
implementation procedures for infrastructure- related rural access
improvements, which are environmentally sound, socially accepted, and
cost-effective. Construction supervision services will also be required
and financed under this component. For this purpose, five intermediary
rural roads have been initially selected as pilot projects, which are
representative of the different types of terrain and social environments
present in Yemen. Allowance has been made for the selection of some
additional roads yet to be identified. The project roads which have
already been selected are summarized below:
Road
Governorate                    Length (km)
1. Thula-Amran                                                Sana'a -
Amran                  25.6
2. Kuhlan Affar-Al Maghrabah                      Hajjah
-6-



15.8
3. At Taffah-Awwin-Beyhan                         Al
Beyda                             42.3
4. At Turbah - Towr al Bahah
Taizz-Lahj                            8.8
5. Khamis Bani Sa'Alquetta'a-Al Mahwit       Al Mahwit
21.3
Total
113.8
Village Access Roads: At least 50 km of village access roads adjacent to
the pilot roads will also be identified and included, to test standards
for very low-volume roads and tracks (unpaved) and to enhance the
poverty-reduction impact of the investments in pilot roads. These would
enhance the accessibility improvements and poverty impact of the pilot
rural roads. As far as possible in the short time frame, the village
access roads to be financed in Phase I will be identified using the rural
accessibility planning methodology that will be tested during the first
phase. This will provide an objective selection process within the
limited budget resources available.
Preparation of Phase II of the RAP: The objectives of this component are
two fold: (i) to carry out a participatory process of rural access
planning for Yemen. The aim is to establish a solid basis for the
selection and evaluation of individual rural access improvements to be
carried out during the subsequent second and third phases of the program;
and (ii) to support the very substantial amount of technical preparation
work for the civil works to be executed during Phase II, including design
studies and bidding documents.
Institutional Strengthening and Support for Decentralization: The
objective of this component is to support the establishment of
institutional frameworks and capacity to carry out decentralized
management of rural access improvements. It will involve two
sub-components: (i) institutional strengthening; and (ii) support for
decentralization.
Supplemental operating costs and equipment: This component will finance
the operations of the central project management unit during Phase I,
including staff salaries, office equipment, vehicles and operating costs.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of Al Ahmer - Al Naqabah Road.
Background: The rehabilitation of the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road was a
component of the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP), but taken
out in a restructuring of this Credit to make room for a much needed
rehabilitation of the Aden airport runway and taxiways. The understanding
at the time of the restructuring as reflected in Aide-Memoires, was that
IDA would subsequently finance the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road
rehabilitation either through a supplemental credit to the TRP or as part
of a follow-up operation in the transport sector. It was agreed with the
Government that financing would be provided for this rural main road under
this Project as a separate Part B. To avoid any confusion on the role and
the responsibilities for rural access improvements, the Part B of the
- 7-



Project would be implemented by the PIU in MPWUD in charge of implementing
the TRP.
Objective: The project constitutes a section of the inland Aden- Mukhalla
highway.   It starts at the town of Al Ahmar and traversing a length of
114 km, terminates at the intersection with the other asphalt road to Ataq
at An Naqabah. The rehabilitation works will consist of repair works,
including short sections of reconstruction, drainage improvements and
protection works. The overlay on the existing pavement will not be
widened outside of existing shoulders.
Strengthening of the Road Maintenance Fund: This component will support
institutional development of the Road Maintenance Fund to improve its
operation and autonomy, and reinforce its ability to act as an independent
caretaker of the road network.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 52.6
The total project cost is estimated at US$52.6 million. The proposed IDA
credit would finance US$45.0 million and the Government would contribute
the remaining US$7.6 million.
6. Implementation
Project and Program implementation period: The Project (equivalent to the
first phase of the Program) would be implemented between the beginning of
the third quarter of 2001 and the end of the second quarter of 2004,
equivalent to 36 months. The second phase of the Program would start as
soon as the triggers are complied with; this could be as early as 24
months after credit effectiveness. The second and third phases of the
Program are expected to have a duration of 3 to 5 years each.Executing
Agencies: A central rural roads administration called the Central
Management Office for Rural Roads (CMO), will manage the overall Program,
coordinate between the Governorates, safeguard full compliance with IDA
fiduciary obligations and other required functions, such as financial
management, keeping of records, and provide overall coordination of all
activities within the Program. The CMO is being staffed with qualified
personnel recruited through an open and competitive process. Sufficient
experienced candidates are available in Yemen, mainly from the existing
staff of MPWUD, the Road Maintenance Fund and GCRB. Starting from the
second phase of the Program, the implementation of individual contracts
will be managed primarily at the regional level, through specialized staff
located there, dealing exclusively with rural roads.Program Coordination
and Oversight: Oversight of the CMO and the overall Program will be
assured by the establishment of a Steering Committee. The Minister of
Public Works and Urban Development will chair the Steering Committee
meetings initially. The Steering Committee would be composed of high-level
representatives of MPWUD, Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD),
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local Administration (MOLA), the Ministry
of Agriculture and Irrigation, and the Road Maintenance Fund. The
Implementing Agency for Part B of the Project (Al Ahmar - An Naqabah
road) will be the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) for the ongoing two
credits in the transport sector. The PIU will be in charge of managing
all activities related to the rehabilitation and upgrading of this road up
- 8 -



until these two projects are completed (end 2001). This would include
consulting arrangements, pre-qualification of contractors, the bidding
process for the works, and the monitoring and supervision of the works in
collaboration with the supervision consultantAccounting and Financial
Reporting:   The financial management function of the Phase I of the RAP
(Part A) will be the responsibility of the newly established CMO under the
supervision of a Steering Committee. An action plan is set-up and agreed
between IDA and the borrower for the establishment of a full financial
management system. Part B of the Project will be implemented by the
Project Imple-mentation Unit (PIU) for the Transport Rehabilitation
Project under the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development as if it
were a supplemental credit under that project. The PIU has an established
financial management system and is in compliance in the submission of
audit reports under the TRP. An action plan has been agreed upon with the
borrower for the PIU to establish separate project accounting records and
auditing arrangements. To meet the Bank's financial management
requirements, both action plans need to be fully implemented prior to
credit effectiveness. In order to ensure an adequate financial management
capacity of the new CMO, the Government will retain at a very early stage
the services of a reputable financial management consulting firm. The
services will comprise mainly the setting up of the accounting and
financial management system and the provision of regular backup support to
the CMO as necessary, for at least the first two years of the Program.
Auditing Arrangements: The project financial statements shall be audited
by an independent auditor. The CMO will appoint an auditor acceptable to
IDA to carry out an annual audit which should comply with the project
implementation manual including the financial management and accounting
manuals and with generally accepted auditing principles, i.e., the
International Standards on Auditing, the IDA's Guidelines and specific
Terms of Reference acceptable to the IDA. The auditor will express a
professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and
Special Account as well as submit to IDA an annual audit report within six
months after the end of the fiscal year. The selection of private auditors
would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.Procurement
arrangements: The Government will assure that the new CMO is staffed with
at least one senior professional with in-depth knowledge and practical
experience in procurement according to Bank/IDA procurement rules. If the
Government is unable to find and retain adequate staff for this function,
it will as an alternative recruit the services of an external procurement
expert or a specialized firm for a period of time until the right person
has been trained. During the entire length of the Program, the CMO will
have the overall responsibility for the compliance with IDA procurement
guidelines. The CMO will arrange for procurement training for MPWUD and
other staff involved in procurement. A detailed Procurement Plan for the
Project covering all procurement which is planned for the first half of
the project period has been prepared. The Procurement Plan will have to
be updated regularly by the CMO and will be the basis for scheduling and
monitoring all procurement activities under the Project. Monitoring and
Evaluation Arrangements: Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) would be
the responsibility of CMO, which will monitor progress against agreed-upon
performance monitoring indicators. Monitoring and Evaluation would be
guided by the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The outcome/impact
indicators will be collected by the CMO at several locations along each of
the five pilot roads. Baseline information has been collected for five
locations corresponding to the five identified pilot roads. The same
- 9-



information will then be collected once every six months after the road
improvements, to monitor changes. Three types of indicators are being
monitored at each location: (i) transport rates for goods and passengers,
for various types of transport available at the location; (ii) price of
essential commodities; and (iii) access time from the village to the
closest market and services. The commodities being monitored are: gas
cylinder, diesel, kerosene, cement, flour, and sugar.
7. Sustainability
Long-term Program benefits are dependent upon the sustainability of the
rural access improvements over time, especially after the completion of
the Program. The two most critical factors here are: (i) the ability to
mobilize stable and dependable funding for rural road maintenance; and
(ii) the necessity to build lasting technical and managerial capacity
and institutions to manage and maintain rural road networks
(institutionalization). Both funding and managerial capacity depend on the
following key factors:First, there must be considerable political will to
implement a more decentralized management of rural roads. Many
centralized line ministries, including the MPWUD, will experience a loss
of power and influence under the Local Authorities Law and the
accompanying bylaws and regulations and, therefore, may resist reforms
such as delegation of powers, outsourcing of road maintenance works,
decentralization and introduction of participatory planning activities at
village level. The degree to which there is sustained overall political
support for a more decentralized process and better management of rural
roads will in large part determine how well the long-term program
objectives are achieved over time.Next, the degree to which more
decentralized management of rural roads works will depend on how well
local governments are allowed to establish their financial foundation. In
this context, the way that central budget transfers work (e.g., the
amounts, the degree to which they are earmarked, etc.) is critical to
local government sustainability. Similarly, the success that Governorates
and local councils achieve in generating their own revenues will also play
an important part in whether or not rural access improvements are
sustainable. Specifically, rural road networks will require regular
maintenance, implying a locally raised revenue stream of sufficient amount
to finance the local component of this task. These local resources are in
addition to funding to be provided by the Road Maintenance Fund, which at
present only funds maintenance of the national highway network.
Maintenance of rural roads would require involvement of the decentralized
administrations and local communities under some cost sharing arrangements
between the central level (mainly RMF) and the Governorates and local
councils.The success and sustainability of local governments depend on the
capacity and incentive of its human resources. The civil service in Yemen
suffers from both low pay and a low skill base, a legacy of the turbulent
1990s. Reform of this sector is underway, with IDA's assistance and a
determined effort at the center of Government. However, in many ways
sustainability of both civil service reform and decentralization are
interdependent, and one cannot proceed much without simultaneous progress
being made by the other. A particular problem here is the lack of
experienced engineers and planners in Yemen, which is likely to put a
limit to the extent and speed of decentralization of the administration
of rural roads.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- 10 -



Implementation arrangements in the light of decentralization. Yemen's
civil service is undergoing considerable reform and strengthening, but its
capacity to efficiently implement IDA projects remains a challenge.
Therefore, a lesson of experience is that institutional strengthening will
be necessary. This proposed project provides for this. Predominance of
inadequate procurement procedures. Procurement of goods, works and
services has caused long delays to the implementation of donor-financed
projects in Yemen and even to the cancellation of some IDA-financed
project components. To avoid the occurrence of these types of problems,
it was agreed during identification that the Government will assure that
the new project management unit is staffed as early as possible with at
least one professional with in-depth knowledge and practical experience in
procurement according to Bank/IDA procurement rules. If the Government is
unable to find and retain adequate staff for this function, it will as an
alternative recruit the services of an external procurement expert or a
specialized firm to support the Unit.Tribal conflicts affect project
implementation. Tribal conflicts in some areas of Yemen have caused
implementation delays to projects. The decentralized planning and
implementation approach of the Program and the participatory methods to be
used in the design of specific interventions, should make it possible to
reduce this type of problems to a minimum.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The following are the major environmental issues
identified during the project design, the field environmental review
process and local consultations:The following are the major environmental
issues identified during the project design, the field environmental
review process and local consultations:Environmentally sound
infrastructure design standards. Rural Roads in Yemen play an important
role in rural access. Their typical designs in Yemen presently feature a
roadbed of 10 meter width, with a road surface 7 meters wide and shoulders
of 1.5 meters on each side. The Bank team considers that this standard is
far too high and expensive in most cases; it cannot be justified by
traffic volumes and also causes avoidable environmental damages.
Specifically in the case of mountain roads, this design requires rather
deep cuts into the mountainside to achieve the design width of the
roadbed, leading to the erosion of exposed slope surfaces and often to
slides of slopes onto the road. It was also observed that it is common
practice to simply take the cut material taken from the hillside and dump
it on the valley side of the road, often destroying terraces and leading
to erosion problems on that side, too. Built during several centuries to
provide arable land on the slopes of mountains, these terraces have proven
to be a very effective soil and water conservation measure. Rural road
improvements should not lead to the destruction of terraces, and the
traditional terrace-building technology could probably be incorporated in
the design of mountain roads. During the first phase, the Project will
address these issues by assisting the Government to revise the standard
designs for rural roads, so that they are environmentally sound and more
adapted to the actual needs of low-volume roads.Water harvesting and
mountain roads. Roads built on mountain slopes accumulate rainwater
runoffs. In Yemen, it is common practice that farmers construct simple
water harvesting structures on the road surface, similar to speed-bumps,
to channel runoff water to their terraced fields below the roads. This
- 11 -



action also tends to protect the road by slowing down runoffs and draining
water off the road, thereby reducing road surface degradations and
maintenance requirements. This important function, which has positive
environmental benefits, will need to be formally incorporated into the
revised standard design for rural roads in mountainous areas, jointly with
consultations with the population living along the roads during the
detailed road design. Procedures for such consultations will be applied
for the pilot projects during the first phase, and based on this
experience, specified in the Environmental Management Plan for Phases II
and III.Embankment design and wadi hydrology. For those roads passing
through wadis, the construction of an embankment for the road could alter
seasonal water flow patterns within the wadi. This could bring about:
(i) additional erosion within the wadi; and/or (ii) a disruption of the
traditional water harvesting practices of the farms on the surrounding
hillsides. This risk will be addressed through hydrological assessments
and appropriate engineering design measures and through local consultation
to avoid potential disruption to water harvesting practices.Involuntary
resettlement and land acquisition. For the Program as a whole, systematic
procedures, including public consultation and compensation, will be
included in the Environmental and Social Framework Agreements, developed
during project preparation and Phase I . Archeological, burial and
historical sites. Although the EMP has not identified such sites at the
project roads, the EMP also includes "chance find" procedures for the
pilot projects, as well as in the Environmental and Social Framework
Agreements and the Programmatic Environmental Assessment for the Program
as a whole.Local employment. Employment benefits are expected from the
road improvement works. Consultations revealed that local communities
will not insist on employment, yet they are keen to participate for
certain activities, such as security arrangements for equipment and
stonework. Mechanisms to ensure that local populations are the
beneficiaries will be defined as much as possible and realistic, within
the social and tribal context of each road.Institutional capacity. In
general, national institutional capacity in environmental planning and
management is considered weak. Although the Environmental Protection Law
of 1995 establishes the principle of environmental assessments, there is
no further legislation on the practical implementation of the Law.
Similarly, the Environmental Protection Council has rather limited staff,
budget and capability. For this project, the EMP for the first phase will
lay out and test a set of procedures that will ensure the systematic
identification and mitigation of potential environmental impacts by the
implementing agency. Based on this experience, the programmatic EMP will
more clearly define future roles and responsibilities related to the
environment, in the context of the decentralization process.Framework
agreement. Within the context of the APC, it is intended to carry out a
Sectoral Environmental Assessment. This would include that the Government
will sign with the Bank Environmental and Social Framework Agreements, in
which the Government of Yemen affirms its agreement to carry out all
future project activities in accordance with Bank environmental standards
and relevant safeguard policies.The EMP for Phase I roads specifies
mitigation and monitoring plan for each pilot road during the construction
and operational phases. These are summarized below:Improved and
environmentally-sound technical designs. These will be specified for each
road to be financed, according to its particular conditions.     Six main
design issues have been identified so far: (i) water harvesting on
mountain roads; (ii) narrower platforms, and related to this no need for
- 12 -



cutting into slopes and negotiate earth movements, (iii) road surfacing to
be stabilized on steep slopes to avoid erosion; (iv) slope stabilization
on sections of the roads where slopes are unstable; (v) controlled
disposal at designated sites of material cut from the hillside slopes; and
(vi) embankment design and wadi hydrology. During the first phase, the
Project will address these issues by assisting the Government to revise
the design standards for rural roads and try out new standards, so that
they are environmentally sound and more adapted to the actual needs of
low-volume traffic.Reduction of potential impacts of physical works.
Impact Reduction Measures. Specific measures to reduce potential impacts
of physical works will be taken; regarding the detailed design,
construction tenders, construction process and contractor performance
monitoring. Contracts will contain requirements for proper management of
construction waste; control measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants;
reduction of noise and dust levels; safety in blasting; and rehabilitation
of areas used for construction detours, and sites used to temporarily
store construction materials. Contractors will be required to provide and
maintain equipment with proper noise abatement controls. Contract
Provisions. Specific provisions will be included in construction
contracts to mandate the use of formal health and safety measures to
minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the construction process.
Pre-Tender Conference. To ensure full understanding of the above clauses
by the contractors, all pre-qualified contractors will attend a Pre-Tender
Conference, where they will be briefed concerning their responsibilities
to address environmental, health and safety issues. These briefings will
outline specific provisions of the construction tender documents and
contracts, as laid out in the Part II, Conditions of Particular
Application (COPA).Management of Operational Impacts. The Project will
address operational impacts identified earlier for each road. These may
be implemented through financial support from the Road Maintenance Fund to
avoid deterioration of the rehabilitated road and associated dust and
safety problems. Maintenance contractors will be required to follow
procedures similar to those for the construction contractors concerning
proper disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel,
oil and lubricants and adoption of health and safety measures for
personnel. Expected increases in traffic levels are not expected to be so
high as to bring about a significant increase in air pollution, and this
may in fact decrease due to smoother and less dusty roads and improved
vehicle standards. Suspended dust caused by vehicles will be reduced by
the rehabilitation of the roads, due to the large number of road
subprojects which include resurfacing and sealing
operations.Reduction/Enhancement of Social and Cultural Impacts. As part
of the final design of each road, a Social Framework Agreement will be
worked out. Within this context, the following mitigation measures will
be carried out during implementation of Phase I:Negotiations to Minimize
Tribal Tensions. Where appropriate, a specific plan for local
consultations and negotiations during construction will be drawn up to
ensure consensus among the tribes living along the roads on the
organization and achievement of the road improvement. This plan will
follow general procedures to be included in the standard design
manual.Safety and movement patterns in the wadis. The sitting of the
works passing through wadis should minimize disruptions to local movement
patterns for fetching water and water harvesting activities. Use of
Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. The construction contracts (COPA)
will contain procedures for archeological "chance finds," should they be
- 13 -



encountered during the course of construction activities. These
procedures have been developed in consultation with MPWUD and the CMO. The
provisions of these "chance find" procedures are normally included in Part
II (COPA) to the bidding documents for construction contractors and the
Terms of Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender
Conference will include provisions for a session on environmental and
social issues during which "chance find" procedures will be reviewed with
potential construction contractors.Archeological Field Support. The
government will make available (on demand) a qualified archaeologist to
conduct field investigations when important search work and new materials
sites are opened. The archaeologist would be paid by the RRMU and be
attached temporarily to the construction manager's team and provided with
logistical support when necessary.Involuntary resettlement and land
acquisition. As noted above, the Phase I pilot roads have been
purposefully selected to avoid this problem altogether. For Phases II and
III of the Program, systematic procedures, including public consultation
and compensation in accordance with the legislation, will be included in
the Sector Environmental Assessment and the related Social Framework
Agreement to be finalized during Phase I of the Program. Graveyards and
Burials. If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are found during the
course of construction activities, the CMO will contact and work with
local religious authorities within the Project area to allow for possible
identification of the remains and when appropriate properly undertake
relocation and reburial.Local employment. The mechanisms for maximizing
local employment benefits will be specified for each pilot road as part of
the bidding documents. Normally, the labor component of rural access
roads are quite high, 30-40w depending on the need for drainage protection
works and type of road surfacing used. Consultations indicate that local
populations are keen to participate particularly in security arrangements
for equipment and stonework.Gender-sensitive planning. As part of the
project design, a Gender Issues Study is being carried out, which involves
direct and separate consultations with Yemeni women along the pilot
roads. This will provide a basis for defining future involvement of women
and voicing of their concerns in the planning and implementation process
of the rural road improvements. This approach has been taken within the
particular cultural context on Yemen.The Environmental Monitoring Plan
will be implemented by Environmental Unit within the CMO.     The function
of this Unit will be: (i) review and approve Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA) and Environmental Management Plans (EMP) for all rural
roads to be improved under the Program, (ii) monitor the compliance with
the EIA and EMP by the various entities involved in the implementation of
the Program, and (iii) collect data to document that the agreed
performance criteria related to environmental and social aspects of the
Program are met. This unit will be staffed with qualified personnel (2
professionals) before project effectiveness. The staff of this unit will
receive training during Phase I of the Program as part of the TA provided
to the CMO.Status of any other environmental studies: A field
environmental review of all the roads to be improved during the first
phase was conducted in March 2001. This included local consultations and
has resulted in the completion of the Environmental Management Plan for
the infrastructure to be improved under the first phase of the Program.
Local groups and NGOs consulted: Consultation occurred during the
identification phase, through a national workshop and at road-specific
meetings. The participating organizations included: (i) Agricultural
Co-Operative Union, (ii) Social Fund for Development, (iii) Yemen
- 14 -



Environment Association, (iv) General Corporation for Roads and Highways,
(v) Road Maintenance Fund, (vi) Sana'a University.      Resettlement:   All
physical interventions during the first phase (pilot implementation of
technical and environmental standards) will be purposefully chosen making
sure that no resettlement will occur. The pilot rural roads to be
improved will be existing roads in bad condition. Since the new standards
for rural roads imply a narrower road surface than presently used, land
acquisition will not be necessary. Category A Environmental and Social
Assessment will be carried out for required projects for Phases II and III
in accordance with Bank's resettlement policies, environmental standards
and relevant safeguard policies.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Terje Wolden
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-3052
Fax: 202 477 0348/
E-Mail: twolden@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 15 -



