Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21735-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF AN
ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT FOR THE
RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM
May 11, 2001
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = YR
I YR = US$ 0.00625
US$ I = YR 163
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT            Average Daily Traffic
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CMO            Central Management Office for Rural Roads
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
FMS            Financial Management System
GCRB           General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
GOY            Government of Yemen
GOPP           Goal Oriented Project Planning
GTZ            German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HDM            The Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model
HTB            High Tender Board
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IRR            Internal Rate of Return
M & E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MPWUD          Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOLA           Ministry of Local Administration
MOPD           Ministry of Planning and Development
MOT            Ministry of Transport
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PCD            Project Concept Document
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMR            Project Management Report
PMS            Pavement Management System
PWP            Public Works Project
RAMP           Rural Access Master Plan
RAP            Rural Access Program
RED            Roads Economic Decision Model
RMF            Road Maintenance Fund
ROY            Republic of Yemen
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Standard Drawing Rights
SFD            Social Fund for Development
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
TRP            Transport Rehabilitation Project
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
VOC            Vehicle Operating Cost
YAR            Yemen Arab Republic
YRFB           Yemen Road Maintenance Fund, Board of Directors
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:    George Tharakan
Team Leader:     Terje Wolden



Republic of Yemen
Rural Access Program Phase I
CONTENTS
A. Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective ..........................................2
1. Program purpose and program phasing ............................,.2
2. Project development objective ............................4
3. Key performance indicators .......................4
4. Triggers for subsequent loans .....................5
B. Strategic Context .......................6
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project .....................................6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project .........................................................                      10
4. Strategic Choices ......................................................... I I
C. Project Description Summary .........................................................                                       12
1. Project components .........................................................                                                12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................................... 12
3. Benefits and target population .........................................................                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................                     16
D. Project Rationale .........................................................                                                 19
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................................     19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........................ 20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .........................................................               20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................................                   21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .........................................................                       22
E. Summary Project Analysis .........................................................                                          22
1. Economic ..................                                                                                                 22
2. Financial ..................                                                                                                25
3. Technical ..................                                                                                                27
4. Institutional ..................                                                                                             27
5. Environmental ..................                                                                                            28
6. Social ..................                                                                                                   32
7. Safeguard Policies ..................                                                                                       35
F. Sustainability and Risks ..................                                                                                 36
1. Sustainability .........                                                                                                    36
2. Critical Risks .....................                                                                                        37
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .....................                                                                        38



G. Main Loan Conditions ............................................................                                                                   38
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................................................                                                               38
2. Other ............................................................                                                                                  38
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................................................                                                           38
L. Compliance with Bank Policies ............................................................                                                          39
Annexes
Annex  1 Project Design  Summary  ............................................................ 40
Annex 2 Detailed Project Description ............................................................                                                      44
Annex 3 Estimated  Project Costs ............................................................ 51
Annex 4 Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ............................................................                                                      52
Annex 5 Financial Management Summary ............................................................                                                       57
Annex  6  Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangements ............................................................                                        65
Annex 7 Project Processing and Schedule ............................................................                                                    77
Annex 8 Documents in Project File ............................................................                                                          78
Annex 9  Statement of Loans and  Credits ............................................................ 79
Annex  10 Country  at a Glance ............................................................ 81
Annex  11 Letter of Development Program   from  the Government of Yemen ...............                                                 .................... 83
Annex 12 The Road Sector ............................................................                                                                   87
Annex  13 Environmental Management Plan  Summary  ............................................................ 3 ]02
Annex 14 Village Access and Poverty Surveys .                                     ............................................................ ]24
Annex 15 Rural Accessibility Planning Methodology and Draft Terms of Reference ................... 129
Annex  16  Sectoral Environmental Assessment, Draft Terms of Reference ................                                               .................... 139
Maps
IBRD No. 31405



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
RY-RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Date: May 11, 2001                                 Team Leader: Terje Wolden
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub          Sector Manager: George Tharakan
Project ID: 70391                                  Sector: TR - Rural Roads
Lending Instrument: APL                            Theme(s): Transport/Poverty
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   I xl Yes  [ ] No
i~~~~~~~~ , gEEE=        
IDA         Others    Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m      %     US$m    US$rm          Date          Date
APL 1         45.00    85.5      7.61     52.61   07/01/2001    12/31/2004     Government of Yemen
C redit  I_                                                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
APL 2         50.00    50       50.00    100.00   06/15/2003    12/31/2007     Government of Yemen
Credit
APL 3         50.00    50       50.00    100.00   12/15/2006    12/31/2011     Government of Yemen
Credit
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ X Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee     [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$ m): 45.00
Proposed terms:    [ To be defined      [] Multi-currency     [] Single currency
[X] Standard Variable   [] Fixed            [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):         10
Years to maturity:            40
Commitment fee:                0.50 %
Service charge:                0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan.   N/A
Government                                               7.61             0.00              7.61
IBRD
IDA                                                     22.55            22.45             45.00
Total:                                                  30.16            22.45             52.61
Borrower: Republic of Yemen
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, MPWUD
Estimated disbursements (CYIUS$M):                                                       .
Annual       2.40        16.30       15.00        11.30
Cumulative       2.40        18.70       33.70       45.00
Project implementation period: 2001 - 2004
Expected effectiveness date: October 31, 2001       Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agency: The Central Management Office for Rural Roads
Contact person: H.E. Abdullah H. Al Dafei, Minister, MPWUD, Chairman of the Steering Committee
Address: Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Tel: +967-1-264144            Fax: +967-1-264070            E-mail:



2
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing: (see Annex 1)
The overall purpose and long-term development objective of the Yemen - Rural Access Program  (the
Program) is an improved livelihood and reduced isolation for the rural population. To achie' e that
objective, year-round access to markets and services (both social and administrative) would have to
improve, especially in the rural areas where the large majority of the country's poor live. The Program is
designed to support the Government's decentralization process, which has recently been initiated, and it
would complement and enhance several community-based programs in Yemen, such as the Socia Fund
Project and the Public Works Project.
The Program would reduce isolation by ensuring that rural people have reliable access through the local,
regional and national road networks. This will be done by financing improvements to a "cluster" or "sub-
network" of rural roads. The centerpiece of this approach will be to improve rural access roads which
link larger centers in districts to the main road network, here referred to as "intermediary rural ,oads".
These rural roads carry a substantial level of traffic in Yemen, are generally in very poor condition and
are excluded from village-level infrastructure programs. These investments would be complemente d on a
limited scale by improvements to smaller access roads that link isolated villages to the improved
intermediary roads, thereby promoting a continuous flow of goods and people to markets and services,
and strengthening the poverty reduction impact. In subsequent stages the Program focus would gradually
expand the cluster approach with improvements of intermediary and tertiary roads', while continLing to
connect adjacent villages with improved village access roads. The non-physical parts of the Piogram
would focus on capacity-building for better decision-making and project monitoring at the local level in
support of the government's policies of decentralization.
The Program will address poverty by improving overall mobility in rural Yemen and reducing the
isolation of villages and communities. Between 1992 and 1998, Yemen's rate of poverty almost doubled,
growing from 19% to about 33%, with about half that in absolute poverty. The Interim Poverty Recuction
Strategy Paper of February 2001 identified a number of key factors contributing to poverty conditions,
including high population growth, low labor force participation, scarcity of cultivable land and water,
insufficient infrastructure and inadequate access to main social services. Isolation aggravates and s istains
these poverty conditions in the rural areas, which manifest themselves in illiteracy, poor health and low
employment and income. In 1994, the combined basic and secondary enrollment rate was just 55 percent,
with the overall rate of female enrollment at 24 percent. Due to isolation, only 50 percent of the
population had direct access to health services. The country's purchasing power parity (PPP) per capita
of income is half the average for all low income countries. In a 1997 study, 43 percent of mothers stated
that the reason they did not deliver their babies at a health clinic was due to reasons of access. A s-udy in
rural Taiz showed that transportation comprised 32% of the total cost of a health visit.
The critical constraint of poor access will be addressed based on knowledge about where the poor are
located and how well they are served by existing roads. Identification and selection of mobility and access
improvements under the Program will be carried out through improved planning and implementation
processes based on an agreed rural access policy framework to be developed as part of the program
activities. To this end, a methodology for rural accessibility planning has been formulated, and is
summarized in Annex 15. The Program will increase the efficiency of resource allocation tirough
improved planning, and enhance the performance of markets, thereby reducing the major obstacle to rural
economic growth caused by poor access. Poverty and gender issues will be taken into account, to the
extent possible, in the identification and prioritization process of individual rural road projects. The
sustainability of this process will be ensured through institutionalizing participatory activities engaging
' The terms 'rural access roads' and 'rural roads' used in this document include the intermediary (secondary) road
network, the tertiary road network and the village access roads, also termed quaternary road network. See Annex
12, Attachment IV, for a figure describing the functional classification terms used in this document.



3
communities and districts in accessibility planning at the central and decentralized levels.
The Program would be implemented in three phases: (i) Phase I of a relatively short duration will set up
the institutional and technical foundation for an efficient rural road improvement program and test this
approach through at least five pilot projects of rural road "sub-networks," or "clusters," which consist of
intennediary rural roads, combined with key adjacent village access roads. It will also prepare designs
and bid documents for projects to be financed in Phase II; (ii) Phase 11 will tackle access problems mainly
at the intermediary road level but also covering related village access roads, while setting up an
organizational and policy framework for gradually moving to the tertiary road network; and (iii) Phase III
will tackle access problems associated with tertiary road network (at the district level), while continuing
to support improvements and management of the intertnediate road network. The three phases are briefly
described below.
Phase I: Institutional strengthening and definition of appropriate standards. Phase I of the Program
(the Project) would focus on creating an adequate institutional, technical and participatory framework for
planning, prioritizing and implementing rural access improvements. With the purpose of testing the new
framework, Phase I would include the pilot implementation of physical access improvements of (i) five
or more highly justified intermediate rural roads located in several rural Govemorates, and (ii) key village
access roads located adjacent to those intermediate roads, using appropriate technical and
environmental/social standards. The selection of additional pilot roads and village access roads will be
made based on a combined assessment of access constraints, degree of poverty in the area of influence
and economic development potential. All Phase I roads, which have been or will be selected, will avoid
any resettlement or land acquisition. At the beginning of Phase I, baseline data on poverty and gender in
Yemen will be gathered, which will then be used in a detailed rural accessibility analysis and planning
exercise, the latter being an important element of this phase. Phase I will include the preparation of a
Sectoral Environmental Assessment and the development of framework agreements for land acquisition
and resettlement. Phase I would also include the preparation of the designs and bid documents for the next
phase of the Program and concludes with the adoption of a rural access strategy and a participatory
planning process for Yemen's rural Governorates, which will be poverty oriented and address gender
issues.
The Project will also serve as a vehicle to finance the rehabilitation of the Al Ahmer - Al Naqabah road
section of the Aden - Mukalla road. This road project was part of the Road component of the ongoing
Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP - Cr. 2819-Yem) and already appraised as part of the TR-P. The
road project had to be dropped from the credit to make room for a much needed reallocation of funds to
cover the costs of quickly addressing emergency repairs to the runway and taxiway of the Aden airport,
which had shown accelerated deterioration after suffering war damages during the 1994 civil unrest in
Yemen. A supplemental credit for the TRP to finance the 114 km long Al Ahmer - Al Naqabab road was
requested by the Government. It was agreed to include such financing in a follow-up operation in the
sector. The first phase of the Rural Access Program provides the first opportunity to make available the
necessary financing, and this road rehabilitation project is included as a separate Part B of this Project.
Part B of the Project is independent and unconnected to Phase I of the Program. It will be implemented by
the unit in the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development (MPWUD) responsible for the
implementation of the road component of TRP.
Phase Il: Access improvement and decentralized network management. Phase II of the Program would
focus on (i) physical rural access improvements to areas with widespread poverty, poor accessibility and
latent rural development potential, utilizing the planning (identification and selection) process to be
developed in Phase I; and, (ii) capacity-building at appropriate levels for the management and
maintenance of the intermediary rural road network, the monitoring of key indicators, the implementation
of environmental management plans, and the management of local participatory processes, with an
emphasis on local poverty and gender issues. This phase would also include the financing of some village
access roads adjacent to the intermediary project roads, the preparation of the third phase and a detailed
review and assessment of the first two phases.



4
Phase III: Expanding the coverage of access improvement and consolidation of gains. Phase II [ would
expand rural access improvements and capacity building to tertiary roads at the district level and critical
intermediary access roads not yet covered under Phase II. It would continue to support village access
road development. Capacity building to achieve sustainable management and maintenance of rural
roads, using the demand-driven and poverty-based approach for identification and prioritization 3f rural
road subprojects as initiated in Phases I and II (rural accessibility planning) would also continue under
Phase III.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of Phase I of the Program is to establish a sustainablefoundation for large-
scale improvements to rural accessibility in areas severely affected by poverty which at the sarne time
have good prospects for rural development. The project would put in place effective institutional
arrangements and more appropriate technical standards and implementation procedures for these large-
scale improvements to be achieved during subsequent phases of the Program.
The Project development objectiye relates mainly to the rural road networks. However, these cannot be
looked at in isolation; they must necessarily be seen in the context of the overall functioning of Yemen's
road sector. The Project must, therefore, to a certain extent also address issues of overall road sector
organization, management, maintenance and financing. These issues are discussed further below and in
Annex 12, The Road Sector.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
End of Program Indicators
*  Transport rates for goods and passengers reduced on average by 30%.
*  Price of essential commodities transported over improved roads (gas cylinder, diesel, kerosene,
cement, flour and sugar) reduced in average by 15%.
*  Access time from the village to the closest market and key services reduced by 30%.
*  Other poverty and gender indicators to be developed during Phase I.
OutcomelImpact Indicators:
*  Adequate institutional arrangements are put in place at the center and decentralized levels.
* Appropriate low-cost standards and procedures are adopted and applied.
*  Rural accessibility improvements have been achieved for at least four poverty affected areas.
Output Indicators:
The output indicators for the end of Phase I of the Program (the Project) are given below.
Pilot Application ofAppropriate Standards:
a manual for the design and implementation of rural roads has been adopted;
appropriate technical/environmental/social standards and implementation approaches have been
tested on the pilot rural roads and village access roads, and an evaluation of those standards has
been completed; and
* improvements have been effected for at least 1 15 km of rural access roads.
Rural Accessibility Planning and Road Feasibility/Design Studies:
rural accessibility assessments for at least 4 rural Governorates have been completed;
an objective and participatory methodology for planning and prioritizing investments in rural
access improvements has been adopted by the Government and tested in at least 4 Governorates;
this methodology must also address local poverty and gender issues; and
* the preparations for at least 25 percent of Phase II physical works and related maintenance
contracting has been completed, including feasibility studies, environmentalJsocial assessments,
detailed design and bidding documents.



5
Institutional Strengthening and Management:
*  roles and responsibilities in the road sector have been reviewed and assigned by the Government
involving a more decentralized management structure and a reclassification of the road network;
*  road maintenance funding has improved: New user charges introduced in 2001 mobilizing at least
YR 2.5 billion in 2002 for the Road Maintenance Fund;
*  an impact monitoring system for rural access improvements is in place and fully functional;
*  an early implementation assessment of the project is carried out about one year after project
effectiveness;
*  Sector Environmental Assessment carried out including environmental and social framework
agreements; and
*  Restructuring of the present Budget for Rural Roads and rationalization of the budget process.
Supplemental Operating Costs and Eguipment:
* Sufficient funding has been available for program management, and properly accounted for and
audited.
4. Triggers for Subsequent Loans:
The agreed triggers for the initiation of Phase II of the Program are:
(a)    Proposed technical and environmental standards for rural roads have been tested, verified and
adopted for Phase II through the completion of at least four pilot road projects;
(b)    Rational methodology for planning, prioritizing and budgeting of rural road investments has been
adopted. This will include a provision that the amount invested in any village access road may not be
higher than a threshold level set in US$ per inhabitant served by the same road. The threshold is to be
determined during Phase I based on experience, and the agreement on a threshold between IDA and GOY
will form part of the rational methodology;
(c)    An assessment completed for the current (2001) rural road project portfolio in the MPWUD and a
plan adopted for a reduction of the number of projects under construction, so as to allow their
completion within 4-5 years with the allocated budget funds.
(d)    Budgeting in the central management office (CMO) for rural road investments is based on a
rolling three-year plan to be updated annually;
(e)    Technical preparation and bidding documents completed for the first year (25%) of the Phase II
program of roads;
(f)    A legal reclassification of the road network enacted, and a long term strategy adopted by the
Government on the management and financing of secondary (rural) roads and roads under the
ownership of the Governorates and Districts;
(g)    Sector Environmental Assessment completed, and Category A environmental assessments for
roads in Phase II first year program completed; and
The Government expects these Phase II triggers to be achieved approximately 24 months after Phase I of
the Program is initiated.
Before initiating Phase III of the Program, the following triggers will have to be met:
(a)    Phase I of the Program completed satisfactorily;



6
(b)    At least two thirds of the civil works planned under Phase II of the Program completed;
(c)    Technical preparation and bidding documents completed for the first year (25%) of the Phase III
program of roads; and
(d)    Environmental Assessments for Category A roads or Environmental Management Plans for
Category B roads in Phase III first year programn completed.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Anne4x 1)
Document number: 19073-YEM               Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/25/1999
Yemen suffers from a land transportation challenge identified in the CAS: "Road infrastructure is
difficult to provide for a large proportion of the society living in tiny settlements in rough terrain
relatively far from trunk roads, holding back development of markets and suppressing business
opportunities." The CAS also emphasizes that currently "less than 10% of the road network is paved, the
network does not reach a large share of the population and most of it is in poor or very poor condition,
such that an alarming share of the rural population is cut offfrom participation in the market economy
and access to vital services."
The priority of IDA assistance to Yemen is to address, in a sustainable manner, the most binding
constraints to development and poverty alleviation. Towards this aim, the CAS focuses assistance on four
interdependent objectives, which are the pillars of TDA assistance. One of these pillars is: "To create an
early stream of social benefits, in education, health, and other most-valued services, which indirectly
address poverty and gender-gap, and fortify the benefits of the other objectives". It is this CAS
objective which will be supported through improved rural access to be provided through the Project and
the Program.
In addition, the Program will also contribute to address another pillar which deals with (i) improving
public administration; --in this case in the road transport infrastructure sector, and (ii) encouraging
private enterprise, --in this case in road management, by piloting multi year network wide road upgrading
and maintenance contracting to replace public provision of maintenance services, and in formal and
informal land transport services in rural areas by encouraging private provision of these services. Beyond
improving rural access, the Program would also take into account the recent passing of the Local
Authority Law and help elected councils at Governorate (and eventually District) level play an aclive and
positive role in fostering rural access.  The Law provides for direct responsibility for planning,
development, finance, services, and social affairs by locally elected councils. Although the CAS cloes not
specifically mention Bank support to the implementation of the Local Authority Law, there is an
understanding in principle that all new operations financed through the IDA would take into account the
new Law and support its implementation.
Among the fifteen strategic elements in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP)
(November 2000) is: "improve and upgrade infrastructure, in order to raise productivity, promote
investments, break isolation of rural areas, and expand markets and job opportunities, alonig with
improving human development. "
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Overview of sector. The road sector suffers from institutional weaknesses and an inefficient budget
allocation process. This has led to a situation where too many projects are started with small annual
allocations, and very few projects get completed, hampering achievement of access to basic servizes and
market opportunities for the poor, especially the rural poor. At the heart of the problem is the system of
making politically driven annual commitments for local road projects that are not fully funded. T'his is a
highly inefficient and wasteful process, since these budget allocations are insufficient to complete the
works and achieve the sought-after mobility improvements for the rural poor. Solutions for those sector



7
issues must be linked to a process of building institutional capacity at central and local levels, providing
management training and creating local ownership for rural access improvements, with broad support
from various donors including the Bank.
The Decentralization Context. The new Local Authorities Law (Law No. 4 of 2000) is the centerpiece of
the ongoing decentralization effort and the culmination of a political process which started after Yemen's
unification in 1990. Decentralization became a political priority in the face of a declining financial
situation and internal divisions. In 1995, a series of public sector reforms began, including the initiation
of decentralization as a pilot initiative in the Ibb Governorate. In spite of the presently high degree of
centralization, Yemen has a strong, historical tradition for local self-governance through the system of
local cooperatives in the North and elected local councils in the South. This tradition includes community
contributions to local development projects and service schemes, a practice which is maintained in part
because of the often-insufficient transfers from central govermment to the local sector ministries. The
broad political acceptance of the principle of decentralization can, in part, be attributed to this tradition.
With the passage of the Local Authorities Law in early 2000, Yemen made a major step towards political,
fiscal, and administrative decentralization to the local level. When the Law, Financial Bylaws and
Executive regulations are implemented, they will eventually provide local authorities direct responsibility
for planning, development, finance, services and social affairs, all within a limited budget envelope.
Locally elected councils will get responsibilities for budget preparation and accounting, preparation of
their own physical and economic plans, raising local revenues and executing local public works. For this
to work well, it requires strong local management capacity, sufficient financial resources and transparent
accounting and auditing arrangements. Whether a more decentralized government will help to bring to an
end the present practice, under which tribal and other local groups exert very strong pressures on central
Government, without any concern for budget constraints, is difficult to predict. It could even work the
other way, reinforcing present undesirable patterns of uneven development. Implementation of the new
Law has been postponed for two years until the present trial period is over. The Parliamentary approval
of regulations for its implementation is underway. However, even after the Regulations will have been
put in place, the practical implementation of the Law is expected to be slow and tedious, given the
reluctance of some officials to give up central Government control, and also because of limited capacity
at the local level.
Institutional weaknesses. Before 1997, the responsibility for road infrastructure (except municipal roads,
village internal roads and local roads under the Ministry of Local Administration-MOLA) was with a
semi-autonomous Highway Authority, which included decentralized offices in most Governorates. The
Highway Authority was also a Government force account contractor for road construction and
maintenance. In January 1998, a new law transformed the Highway Authority into a Government-owned,
commercially oriented contractor (GCRB - General Corporation for Roads and Bridges). The road
management responsibility and functions were transferred to a relatively new ministry, the Ministry of
Public Works and Urban Development (MPWUD). However, most of the staff of the former Highway
Authority working on road management functions was retained by GCRB, and MPWUD experienced
some difficulties capacity-wise in taking on this important function and in fulfilling its responsibility
adequately. This caused a disruption in the key tasks related to the management of the road sector, such
as planning, programming and budgeting. Later MPWUD also took over responsibility for other roads
in Yemen, in particular intermediary rural access roads and feeder/district roads, without getting much
additional resources for their management and maintenance. Recently, there has been some changes in
key positions (Director of Roads, Director of Maintenance) within the ministry, pointing towards a
problem of retaining qualified technical and managerial staff under present civil service constraints. This
was not a problem before when the Highway Authority was responsible, and judging from the last 2-3
years it seems unlikely that, under present conditions, MPW1D will be able to attract and retain
sufficient qualified staff to effectively manage all of Yemen's roads.
Government Strategy to address institutional weakness: In the general context, a Bank-supported Civil
Service Reform Project would help to create the basic conditions which would enable the Government to



8
hire and retain a limited number of qualified professionals. For the road sector, an institutional study will
shortly be undertaken, financed by the IDA supported Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP). This study
will provide guidance on the appropriate roles for the Ministries in charge of roads and road traftic, and
how the day-to-day administration of the road sector should be organized to better perform those roles.
However, no funding is presently available under the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project to support
the implementation of the recommendations of the study, which will likely include instilutional
restructuring, and capacity building. Therefore, this Project, and Phase II of the Program, would iave to
provide the necessary support for a better and more decentralized management of at least the intermediary
rural road networks in all of the 18 rural Governorates and possibly later also support to the management
of tertiary roads.
Under-funding of road maintenance. To remedy the under-funding of road maintenance, a Road
Maintenance Fund (RMF) was established in 1996 with dedicated, off-budget funding for maintenance,
mobilized through an increase in the price of gasoline. Experience has shown that for road maintenance
funds to serve the access needs of the poor and the road users, they need to have an independent so urce of
finance through a road user fee attached to the price of fuel, as well as meaningful participation by the
private sector on the RMF Board. The road use levy was originally set at YR 0.5 (UScentsO.30) per liter
of gasoline, with no levy on diesel fuel. This arrangement has been maintained and mobilized about YR
700 million per year in 1999 and in 2000 (US$4.2 million). This now corresponds to only a small part of
the funding needs for maintaining the main road network in a stable condition. The need for funding of
maintenance of all roads including municipal roads has been estimated by a consultant (see Annex 12)
and is in the order of YR 4.2 billion per year (US$ 25 million). However, due to the backlog of
maintenance which has accumulated during the past years, the estimated funding need for the next 7-10
years is considerably larger. Despite this alarming situation, the Government has allocated little budget
resources to road maintenance, in spite of a large overall size of the road sector budget, which is on the
order of YR 12 billion (US$ 72 million). This policy has been causing: (i) a very significant loss of road
assets, (ii) large needs for the rehabilitation of roads which have not been maintained; and, (iii) an
avoidable increase in vehicle operating costs which is far in excess of the funding gap.
In September 2000, the parliament adopted a new law which, when made effective, would allocate YR
1.75 (US cents 1.10) to the RMIF for every liter of gasoline sold, and YR 0.6 (US cents 0.36) per liter on
diesel fuel sold. In addition, the law introduces a new 2 percent "tax" on new road investments.. to be
allocated to the RMF. Once the law is made effective, it is expected to raise the annual RMF revenue to
an amount between YR 2.5 and 3.1 billion/year (US$ 15 to 19.3 million/year), depending on the
consumption of fuel. This is a large step in the right direction, but still insufficient to fully cover all
needs, especially when the backlog in road maintenance and the needs of the rural road networks are
considered. Budget resources will be needed to cover the cost of addressing past maintenance neglect,
which now is manifesting itself as a road rehabilitation backlog.
Government Strateg to address under-funding: As part of the Public Expenditure Review of the road
sector in 1998, and subsequent agreements with IDA as part of the preparation and implementation of the
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC), the Government agreed to a series of actions
which should increase funding for the maintenance of the road network to the necessary level. Unti I now,
compliance with the agreed measures is partial, and strict follow-up and monitoring of the agreements are
needed in order to improve the utilization of funds for the sector. The recent significant increase of the
resources to be managed by the RMF (described in the previous paragraph), which are included in the
price of fuel, is an important step forward (Annex 12 has details).
Road Budget Issues: In addition to the above problems, the Road Maintenance Fund has been lotally
controlled by the Government and overly dependent on budget allocations. Important deficiencies are
apparent in the MPWUD road sector budgets for the last 2-3 years:
* Lack of budget discipline: new road projects are started (works contract signed with local
contractors without bidding) irrespective of whether or not they are in the approved budget; also,



9
the Government has overspent the 1999 road investment budget by YR 6.8 billion (about 60
percent). There was a large backlog of payments due to contractors for works carried out in
1999, however, payments were gradually made out of the 2000 road investment budget, which
was increased for that purpose.
*  Lack of prioritization and budget focus:  far too many projects with far too little budget
allocations, in particular rural roads projects; many projects therefore do not show much progress
and stay in the budget for up to 10 years or more. Allocations for preparation and supervision of
new projects are inadequate, and quality of the works executed is suffering.
* Lack of inter-ministerial cooperation and coordination in the budget process.
This situation can be remedied with a budget restructuring to stop the most wasteful projects with little
potential, many of which are highways in remote areas with little traffic, and concentrate funding on the
best rural access road projects in the budget. A more transparent system of awarding contracts could
potentially reduce costs and better prioritize road investments, based on accessibility needs assessments.
This would provide a stronger basis for results-based budgeting and poverty-targeting of rural access
improvements.
Government Stratev to improve road sector budgeting: The Government intends to address the general
budget issues in the road sector in the following manner: (i) contracts are only signed for new projects for
which financing is assured in the approved budget; (ii) existing investment programs are rationalized as
agreed with IDA in the latest Public Expenditure Review (PER); (iii) a rolling multi-year investment
program is created with no new projects entering the first year program; (iv) in the first-year program,
funding is included for pre-feasibility studies for new projects which are to be implemented in the third-
year program, and for detailed design studies for projects starting in the second-year; and (v) funding is
concentrated on the highest priority projects to reduce implementation periods to between 2 and 4 years,
instead of more than 10 years as observed now. The Government has already started to follow this
strategy except that there is not yet a reduction in the number of projects (rationalization) due to
difficulties in cancellation of ongoing works contracts, and there is no increase in funding for studies and
design in the latest budget.
Procurement Management. Upon request by the Government, IDA has carried out a Country
Procurement Assessment. The overall outcome is that procedures commonly used for public procurement
in Yemen, and particularly in the public works sector, are often not in accordance with internationally
recognized standards of transparency and competition. While the 1993 Procurement Law is a significant
improvement over the previous 1991 law, it still has numerous gaps, and several aspects of it conflict with
international practice and the procurement rules of external donors. The result is that for IDA-financed
projects, the MPWUD, the High Tender Board (HTB) and its Technical Committee sometimes have
difficulties in following IDA guidelines in procurement of works, goods and consulting services,
particularly where they differ from local laws and practices. This has led to long delays in project
implementation, as experienced in the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project and the Multi-Modal
Transport Project. Under current practice, MPWUD is for the most part not bidding local road works
contracts that are fully financed from the regular budget, and instead uses a system of direct negotiations
with local contractors, based on predefined unit prices for all major items in the Bills of Quantities of road
contracts. This procurement system has weaknesses and may not give every contractor equal opportunity
for government work, as well as potentially increasing costs.
In the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR, September 2000) IDA proposed a series of
measures to improve the situation. The most important one is the publication of a comprehensive
National Procurement Manual, which should be prepared in simple language and give guidance and step-
by-step instructions. It was also recommended that the Government should also prepare national
Standard Bidding Documents, which do not exist today.



10
During negotiation of the Credit it was agreed between the Bank and the Government that for al; IDA-
financed contracts under the RAP, World Bank/IDA procurement guidelines will be applied and st;mdard
bidding documents and competitive bidding procedures will have to be used. It was also agreed to
include in this project a small technical assistance component to strengthen the High Tender 3oard.
Annex 6 provides the details of the procurement arrangements.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project:
Institutional Weakness: It is clear that the Program will need to make a significant contribution to
institutional capacity building and support the decentralization process, initially centrally and at the level
of the Governorates, and eventually also at the level of the Districts. The Program can provide a nmeans to
mitigate the uncertain nature and implementation pace of the decentralization process in the road sector.
Except for a central rural roads administration office, the proposed Program will work initially at the level
of selected Governorates (regionally), then later expand to other if not all of the 18 rural Governorates,
and finally (in Phase III) to the level of Districts (tertiary roads). It will build capacity for a more
decentralized management and maintenance of rural road networks, through a TA component. Moreover,
it will provide a practical framework for decentralized management to be applied via the physical
improvement of rural road networks, which local authorities must regularly maintain and repair. With
this strategy, IDA will attempt to establish a linkage between the (relatively straight forward) civil works
component and the more difficult and less predictable local government strengthening component v- ithout
being fully dependent on progress in the decentralization process. This linkage between th- two
components, and their relative financing amounts, will permit IDA to: (i) help the Government achieve
the maximum impact in implementing decentralization (by working at the localUregional level); anid (ii)
work on issues of local capacity-building within the framework of a "real" and physical project (the
improvement and maintenance of rural road networks).
While some Governorates and even Districts will be well able to set up their own capacity in the area of
rural access planning and management, others will not. It should not be forgotten that there are
significant socio-economic differences between the 18 rural Govemorates, and even more so betwe n the
approximately 300 districts in Yemen. All of them will not have the human and financial resources to
create the technical capacity for rural road management; and it may in some cases not be the best ise of
resources, either. One should also not forget that rural roads networks that are often crossing distric,t and
Governorate boundaries, may better be managed in larger decentralized units to avoid a too fragnented
rural road management and problems of network continuity in border areas. One option to be explored in
this project includes the creation of regional management offices which could combine two or more
Governorates.   These regional rural road administrations would fall under the control of a local
representatives from the relevant Govemorates for roads under the authority of the Governorates. They
could have the "critical mass" necessary to be able to hire and retain qualified staff. This option is not
affected if decentralization does not advance as originally envisioned.
Funding of rural road maintenance would be addressed by the Program through a close follow-up on the
measures which have been agreed with the Government. Besides the gradual increase of the funding for
road maintenance, which has already been addressed recently through an amendment of the Road
Maintenance Fund Law, the Government has also agreed in principle to the introduction of a weight-
distance charge on truck transport. This is under the Ministry of Transport, and therefore cannot easily
be part of the framework of conditionalities for this Program. By the end of Phase 11 of the Program, the
level of dedicated funding for upkeep of the road network managed by RMF shall have reached a level
sufficient to: (i) fully fund maintenance of the main highway network; and (ii) contribute to funding the
maintenance of the rural road network. It is thus clear that the Road Maintenance Fund will have a
significant role to play in rural road maintenance. It is therefore proposed that the Road Maintenance
Fund will participate in the Steering Committee for the Program and in the Central Management Office
for Rural Road. The project also includes a small TA component to support a strengthening and
reorientation of the RMF to take on this role.



I1
The Programn would also pilot area-wide performance-based rural access road maintenance concessions
in Yemen. It is proposed that these multi-year contracts will be introduced in Phase II and initially
funded jointly between the RMF and the Program. This will expand the role of the private sector, which
until now only carried out construction works for the Government, to include maintenance of rural road
networks to pre-defined performance standards.
MPWUD as well as other road agencies seem to have adopted road standards that are too high for the
existing and expected traffic levels, particularly in respect of the width of rural roads. Paved rural roads
have a width of 10 meters irrespective of traffic levels. Unpaved (gravel) rural roads are normnally 8.5
meters wide. Also, the criteria applied when deciding if a rural road should be of gravel or paved standard
may need revision. Further, the MPWUD has no policy for the use of one-lane roads in remote areas with
little traffic. The Ministry has also been reluctant in the past to use low-cost single or double bituminous
surface treatment (chip seals, slurry seals, Otta seals, etc.) to pave rural roads, and has instead used the
more costly asphalt concrete as a standard solution. There is also too little attention paid to environmental
considerations during road design and construction, in particular for cut and fill slopes that are often left
unstable, causing erosion and damage to adjacent farm-land in some cases. Narrow cement concrete road
pavements can also be justified on short and steep road sections of an otherwise unpaved road, this would
reduce the costs of drainage structures and road maintenance by allowing water to cross over the road.
The Project would review and pilot a range of options and establish more appropriate and economic
standards and criteria for the design and implementation of rural roads. These standards or guidelines
will be based on the classification of the rural access roads (its function) and traffic volumes, and take the
terrain factor, climate and available materials into consideration. The type of road surfacing to use, use of
natural rather than crushed materials in the base, and geometric standards for cross sections (lane widths)
and alignment under different conditions will be part of the guidelines. Under the Project some highly
justified intermediary roads (about 200 kin) and village access roads (about 100 kmn) would be
improved/upgraded within their right-of-way. This would demonstrate and fine-tune more appropriate
technical standards to be used under the subsequent phases of the Program, while providing the areas of
influence of the Phase I rural access roads with the benefits of better accessibility.
The Project and Program would also support: (i) a rationalization of the present MPWUD rural road
budget by concentration of funding on fewer ongoing contracts which would be completed quickly; (ii)
better environmental and social assessments of rural road projects; and (iii) technical assistance to the
High Tender Board to improve procurement management.
4. Strategic Choices:
The initial concept was that the Program would focus on various types of village infrastructure
improvements, small local feeder roads and access tracks to small settlements. Under this concept, the
Program would have pursued a "multi-purpose" approach, with rural road improvements being only one
element within an array of several types of non-transport accessibility-enhancing interventions, such as
the relocation of facilities and services. However, currently there are already several large projects
ongoing in Yemen which follow that same concept, such as the IDA-supported Social Fund Project and
the Public Works Project.
Moreover, further discussions between the IDA identification mission, the Government and other donors
revealed that due to funding ceilings for individual investments, none of those projects is able to intervene
on longer rural roads, which connect several Districts with each other and to the main highway network.
The lengths of those intermediary rural roads are between 10 and 60 km. Many of them are today only
partially completed without pavement structure, receive insufficient maintenance and are therefore in a
very bad condition. When access on those roads is interrupted during the rainy season, large areas with
dozens of villages are often left in temporary isolation. Therefore, during the first two phases of the
Program, physical interventions will focus on establishing reliable sub-networks, or clusters of rural
roads, which consist, in the first instance of intermediary rural roads linking District centers with each
other and to Govemorate capitals, and connecting rural roads with the main highway network. These will



12
then be complemented by key tertiary and village access roads, with the aim of establishing a contiguous
network of reliable access from isolated villages to the rest of the economy.  Once the intermediary
network is well established, towards the end of Phase II and in particular during the last (third) phase of
the Program, the main focus would shift towards providing support for key internal district roads (tertiary
road networks). A draft rural access planning methodology has been formulated for this purpose l Annex
15), which will be tested and adapted during the first phase.
The Program would foster the use of private contractors in undertaking routine and periodic maintenance
of the road network through multi-year, area-wide andperformance-based contracts, instead of limiting
itself to the traditional force account maintenance approaches now being used through GCRB. These
contracts would be administered by the regional rural road management offices at the Governorate level,
with technical and financial support from the Road Maintenance Fund.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown)
Bank-   % of
Costs   %of  finan.  Bank-
Project Component                  Sector       (US$M) Total (US$M) finan.
Part A:
1   Pilot Rural Access Roads      Rural Roads  31.60   60.07  26.81    59.58
2   Village Access Roads          Rural Roads   4.70    8.93   3.98     8.66
3   Rural Accessibility
Planning & Design Studies    Rural Roads   2.00    3.80   2.00     4.44
4   Institutional Strengthening   Inst. Dev.    1.17    2.21   1.03     2.29
5   Supplemental operating
costs and Equipment           Inst. Dev.    0.70    1.33   0.59    1.31
Part B:
6   Al Ahmar - An Naqabah
Road Rehabilitation          Transport    12.24   23.27  10.38   23.08
7   TA to the
Road Maintenance Fund        Transport      0.20    0.38   0.20    0.44
Total Project Cost                         52.61  100.00  45.00   100.00
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) The Program would seek to improve the funding of the road sector tc) finance, through the Road
Maintenance Fund, the full cost of maintaining the main highway network and the intermediary
and tertiary rural roads. The exact arrangements for sharing the cost of maintenance for other
rural roads between the RMF, and the decentralized Government units (Governorates and
Districts) are impossible to determine at present, since they involve the decentralized Government
units and the budgets allocated to them. It is expected that about 30 percent of the funds available
through the RMF eventually will be allocated for the maintenance of other rural access roads,
and that this should provide adequate co-financing for the Govemorates and Districts for rural
road maintenance. Because of the significant future role of the RMF in rural road maintenance,
the Road Maintenance Fund will participate, among other interested parties, in the Steering
Committee for the Project and the Program, and will receive support through the technical
assistance components of the Program.
(b) As for the institutional arrangements, the Program will seek to support the practical
implementation of a more decentralized planning, prioritization, implementation, monitoring and
maintenance of rural road investments. The Project will finance the establishment, at the central



13
level, of a rural access road administrative unit to coordinate and implement the program. At the
Governorate or regional level, the Program will finance a few technical units responsible for
rural access planning, targeting local poverty and gender-sensitive issues and the day-to-day
management and maintenance of rural access roads with its area of responsibility. These regional
offices will also supervise the implementation of the performance-based contracting of road
maintenance works which is expected to be introduced with support from the project.
(c) The Program would seek to further strengthen the Road Maintenance Fund and increase its
autonomy; this would include a possible restructuring of the RMF Board of Directors to include
representatives from the private sector and road users.
(d) Based on the Road Sector Management Study to be completed by June 2001, efforts will be made
to include the implementation of the agreed recommendations of that study in the various
components of the Project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Program benefits: The Project and the Program will contribute to the reduction of poverty in rural areas
throughout Yemen by reducing rural isolation, a key dimension of poverty. Though poverty is
widespread, with as much as 33 percent of the rural population classified as being under the official
poverty line, it is primarily a rural phenomenon. Over half of Yemen's poor live in three Governorates
(Sana'a, Taiz, and Lbb), and an additional 28 percent live in Dhamar, Hodeida and Hadramout. Although
available data is yet limited, poverty appears also to be concentrated in areas with the highest
concentration of small farms. Improving accessibility and rural infrastructure in these areas would likely
diminish unproductive time wasted on gaining access or traveling, and reduce the cost of agricultural
inputs and consumer products, while assuring higher farn-gate prices for local production. Moreover, a
broader definition of poverty is now being accepted, which would include not only a family's expenditure
levels for food and non-food items, but also its deprivation of health, literacy, mobility and productive
assets. Surveys are showing that poor people with inadequate access to a range of essential supplies,
services and facilities feel much poorer than poor people with good access, even when the available
income and expenditures on food are the same. In Yemen, preliminary data on the links between poverty
and access to facilities indicate that the rural poor are more likely to lack reasonable access to health
centers and schools than the rural elite. The poor are more often required to walk to reach such facilities.
This particularly impacts girls from poor rural households because their parents are not willing to allow
them to walk long distances to get health care or attend school. Annex 14 presents the results of an access
survey which was carried out for a random sample of 345 settlements of different sizes throughout Yemen
as part of the preparation of the Program in order to demonstrate the magnitude of the accessibility
constraints in Yemen.
In Yemen there are numerous signs that inaccessibility - the difficulty in gaining access - is the key
constraint to rural development. Improvements to access for rural communities to reduce isolation should
therefore be looked upon as the facilitator for development, rather than as individual sector interventions
in transport, water, energy, etc. Thus, provision of better access becomes a key element in a strategy to
alleviate poverty. In particular, the benefits from the Rural Access Program would be:
(a) substantial improvement of access for the rural population, to markets and services (both
administrative and social), in terms of reduced transport time and cost, and increased reliability of
access;
(b) improved access for seriously isolated areas of the country, enabling the implementation of
various types of poverty reduction programs and of sector programs in agriculture, health and
education, all of which require reliable transport services and all-year access;
(c) improved administrative and economic integration of the country and facilitation of



14
decentralization, through the linking of rural communities, District centers and Governorates with
the larger national economy;
(d) support to the decentralization process and strengthened public institutions, through more
decentralized decision-making, implementation and monitoring; and
(e) more efficient use of public resources through the introduction of transparent contacting
procedures, performance-based road network management and maintenance arrangemene:s, and
the introduction of transparent prioritization and selection procedures for rural access investments
at the Governorate level.
Target population: The Project and the Program would target the rural population as main beneficiaries,
a large proportion of which is poor. The Program would be based on the concept of 'efficient' poverty
targeting. This rests on the principle that sustainable poverty alleviation is likely if interventions iead to
the creation of economic growth, as well as appropriate institutional reform. Thus, within large poor areas
emphasis would be given to those places that are potentially productive or contain exploitable resources,
as well as building local capabilities to sustainably plan and maintain the infrastructure. Within this
context, the Program also recognizes that the impact of improved access can vary among men and women
within different regions and cultures. For this reason, it will specifically address gender-related
dimensions of poverty reduction and incorporate gender-related factors into the design of individual road
projects. The Terms of Reference for the consultancy on Rural Accessibility Planning in Annex 15 is
providing details on the methodology.
The Project will therefore target:
(a) rural poor populations, a disproportionately large fraction of whom are women living in areas
which currently suffer from a lack of access to facilities (social and administrative) and economic
developmental options;
(b) women and children in rural areas, through reductions in time and effort needed to meel basic
human needs, such as supplying water and accessing education and health facilities; moreover,
improved roads will facilitate the distribution of gas cylinders to remote areas, thereby reducing
the time spent on, and demand for, environment-damaging collection of firewood;
(c) rural shopkeepers and traders, through improved access to wholesalers, through more reliable
transport and lower transport costs;
(d) road users and small transporters serving the rural areas, through improved travel conditions, time
savings and reduced vehicle operating costs. It is noted that these short-haul carriers are already
highly competitive; this makes it likely that transport savings will actually be passed on to the
consumer;
(e) Public Administration agencies at the central and local levels;
(f) private sector contractors and consultants, who will benefit from business opportunities provided
by the Program, more efficient and transparent contract management and Project-sponsored
capacity-building activities; and
(g) the rural population at large, through better access to markets and services and lower transport
costs.
Improved Poverty Targeting. The definition and location of poverty are fundamental questions when
formulating a poverty targeting strategy for the Program. This is because the identification and ranking of
rural access interventions are essentially 'spatial', and require knowledge of where the poor are located



15
and what their accessibility constraints are. At the same time one seeks to know where economic
development potential lies among poorer areas, and to what extent road improvements will play an
effective complementary role in the provision of basic social services or facilities, and how to optimize
these benefits to poor women. A rural access survey in 345 randomly chosen rural settlement conducted
in 1999 by the Road Maintenance Fund for the Yemeni Government and funded by the IDA supported
Transport Rehabilitation Project indicated that access to transport, health and education facilities is worse
in the smaller settlements (less than 1000 population) where the majority of poor Yemenis live. Selected
results of the survey include: (i) the average vehicle per capita of about 0.05, i.e., one vehicle for every 19
people; (ii) the average distance to primary schools for boys varies from 0.6-5 km and for girls from 0.8-5
km; for secondary schools, the average distance for boys varies from 8-125 km (presumably includes
boarding) and for girls from 3-10 km; in both cases over 90% of transport is by walking. (iii) the average
distance to health and medical services range between 6- 18 km; and (iv) the average distance to daily and
weekly markets range between 9-11 km; (v) 33% of settlements are within 5 km from a two lane
highway; (vi) 36% of settlements are within 5 km of a public transport route; (vii) only 6% have direct
access to paved roads, 13% to gravel roads and 82% to earth tracks which are generally in extremely poor
condition and susceptible to regular disruptions. See Annex 14.
The Program will address these issues through the development of the rural accessibility planning
methodology, first at the Governorate level, and eventually moving down to the Districts. The
methodology will incorporate gender-related factors identified in a Gender Issues Study currently
underway. This methodology will be further supported by a comprehensive socio-economic data base
residing at the Bureau of Statistics in the Ministry of Planning and Development. This data base, which
includes spatially-based poverty profiles disaggregate to the Governorate and District levels, and which is
currently being completed through the UNDP-sponsored household survey and poverty monitoring
program.
The following table summarizes the target population and poverty status of the five intermediary roads
and cluster areas initially identified:



16
Summary of the population and poverty status for the five pilot road projects
Thula                         31,430         15-19%           15-19%
Amran             Amran              25.6        56,856        15-19%           15-19%
lyal Surayh                   39,757         15-19%           15-19%
2    Hajah              Kuhlan Affar       15.8        50,849        15-19%           15-19%
Al Maghrabah                  32,774         25-29%           30-39%
3    Al Beyda           At Taffah         42.3         30,267         50+%10           504%
_ _ _ _~ P ota V A   = _ _ _  _   __7
4    Taiz               Ashamaiatien       8.8        138,866        20-24%           20-24%
LSahi             Towr al Bahah                  38,974         15-19%           15-19%
5    Al Mahwit          Al Mahwit         21.3         56,468        25-29%           25-29%
Bani Sa'd                     47,375         20-24%          20-24%
f _     _   _  _  _    _ _ _ _ _     _ _     _     I                 _  _    _  _    _ __
Source: Central Statistics Office; average rates are weighted by population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project and Program implementation period: The Project (equivalent to the first phase of the Program)
would be implemented between the beginning of the third quarter of 2001 and the end of the se',ond
quarter of 2004, equivalent to 36 months. The second phase of the Program would start as soon as the
triggers indicated in section A.3 are complied with; this could be as early as 18-24 months after credit
effectiveness. The second and third phases of the Program are expected to have a duration of 3 to 5 y ears
each.
Executing Agencies:  The overall Program with its three phases will, over roughly a 10-year pe:^iod,
implement a relatively large number of works contracts to improve rural access throughout Yemen. A
central rural roads administration called the Central Management Office for Rural Roads (CMO), will
manage the overall Program, coordinate between the Govemorates, safeguard full compliance with IDA
fiduciary obligations and other required functions, such as financial management, keeping of records, and
provide overall coordination of all activities within the Program. The CMO is being staffed with qual fied
personnel recruited through an open and competitive process. Sufficient experienced candidates are
available in Yemen, mainly from the existing staff of MPWUD, the Road Maintenance Fund and GC RB.
Starting from the second phase of the Program, the implementation of individual contracts will be
managed primarily at the regional level, through specialized staff located there, dealing exclusively with
rural roads. The detailed institutional arrangements will be addressed in the Road Sector Management
Study awarded in early 2001.
The CMO, which is being established before Board presentation of the IDA credit for Phase I, will h ave
four units: Administration/Accounts; Procurement; Planning, Design and Supervision (monitoring); and
Environmental and Social Management. The function of the Environmental and Social Management lJnit
will be: (i) review and approve Environmental Impact Assessments (E1A) and Environmental
Management Plans (EMP) for all rural roads to be improved under the Program, (ii) monitor the
compliance with the ETA and EMP by the various entities involved in the implementation of the Program,
and (iii) collect data to document that the agreed performance criteria related to environmental and social
aspects of the Program are met. This unit will be staffed with qualified personnel (2 professionals) before



17
Project effectiveness. The staff of this unit will receive training during Phase I of the Program as part of
the TA provided to the CMO.
Program Coordination and Oversight: Oversight of the CMO and the overall Program will be assured by
the establishment of a Steering Committee. The Minister of Public Works and Urban Development will
chair the Steering Committee meetings initially. The Steering Committee would be composed of high-
level representatives of MPWUD, Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD), Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Local Administration (MOLA), the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Road Maintenance Fund.
The Steering Committee would further include the General Manager of the CMO and from time to time
representatives of the Social Fund Project and the Public Works Project, because of the linkage between
these and the proposed Project, as explained earlier in this document.
The duties and functions of the Steering Committee would include: (a) approval of rural road planning
and design criteria, staff service rules and manual of procedures; (b) sanction and termnination of contracts
for high level CMO staff, including the GM; (c) approval of annual budgets for operation of the RAP and
RAP investments; (d) review of quarterly and annual progress reports and the performance of the CMO;
(e) final approval of contracts below a value of US$1,000,000 and for contracts above US$1,000,000
make final approval in consultation with the High Tender Board; and (f) appointment of auditors and
review of auditor's reports.
Decentralization and Capacity Building: Presently there are no laws giving the Governorates and the
Districts ownership and authorities for specific classes of roads, all roads in Yemen except municipal
roads and private roads are under the MPWUD. Clearly, the secondary (intermediary) road network
linking Govemorates and Districts, may not lend itself to a too fragmented decentralized management.
Given that the next two years will be a trial period for the new decentralized governments at the
Governorate and Districts level, and that there will be new local elections in two years, there is
considerable uncertainty as to the future authorities for road management at the Governorate and the
District level. The Local Authorities Act and the Executive and Financial Bylaws also do not address
specific sectors such as the road sector. The Financial Bylaw is still to be passed. There is thus
considerable uncertainty surrounding the future management of secondary, tertiary and village access
roads. Given also that in the past there has been no experience in road management at the Governorate
and District level except for follow-up of road construction works by a local representative of the
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, it is understood that it may take many years before
rural road management can be effectively decentralized. With this background, it has been agreed to
establish a few (not less than 3 and no more than 6) regional rural road administrations headed by a
Provincial Engineer during Phase I. In this way the Government will gain experience in more
decentralized management, and this could pave the way for these units to possibly be integrated with the
Govemorate organizations once these are fully functional towards the end of Phase II of the Program.
Within the decentralization process now underway, there is a need to also strengthen the procurement
process in Yemen towards decentralized management of the tendering process.  This includes
strengthening the capacity of the central High Tender Board to monitor and oversee decentralized
tendering, as well as building local/regional tendering capacity. Given the regional nature of road
network management and the nascent capabilities of the Govemorates, the RAP in Phase I will also assist
in establishing a limited number of regional tendering offices, which would cover several Governorates.
These regional tendering offices could be housed in the office of the Provincial Engineer initially.
Accordingly, a small component of the Project will include institutional support for establishing regional
tendering entities, as well as technical assistance to the central High Tender Board for assuming its
revised functions.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) would be the
responsibility of CMO, which will monitor progress against agreed-upon performance monitoring
indicators (Annex 1). Monitoring and Evaluation would be guided by the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). The outcome/impact indicators will be collected by the CMO at several locations along each of the



18
five pilot roads. Baseline information has been collected for five locations corresponding to tie five
identified pilot roads. The same information will then be collected once every six months after the road
improvements, to monitor changes. Three types of indicators are being monitored at each location: (i)
transport rates for goods and passengers, for various types of transport available at the location; (ii) price
of essential commodities; and (iii) access time from the village to the closest market and services. The
commodities being monitored are:
*  gas cylinder
*  diesel
*  kerosene
*  cement
*  flour
*  sugar
The monitoring of these prices will be adjusted for changes in the prices of fuel, as well as the general
inflation rate. The methodology and terms of reference for conducting accessibility assessments in Phase
I will propose indicators that will be used to prioritize road investments at the govemorate and the district
levels. These indicators will be tested during the first phase and will provide an additional basis for
monitoring accessibility improvements in subsequent phases. In addition to the above, during Pilase I
purpose specific surveys will be developed and tested for use in Phase II and III to measure the poverty
effects and impacts associated with employment-intensive rural road projects. Cooperation with ILO will
be sought in this respect in order to modify their rapid assessment approaches to suite the investments
proposed in Yemen under the RAP.
The CMO would consolidate the M&E reports and include them in the semi-annual (January and July
each year) progress reports. The format for the reports would be finalized during the Project's Launch
Workshop. They would cover the status of project implementation, any problems that may have arisen
and the corrective actions being taken. They would also provide an updated procurement program,
disbursement and commitment tables. In addition to annual progress reports, M&E would be conducted
through (a) IDA supervision missions, and (b) an early implementation assessment review. CMO would
prepare a detailed report to serve as the initial basis for this early implementation assessment, which is
planned for one year after effectiveness. At completion the CMO will submit to the IDA a final project
evaluation report by December 31, 2004. The project will provide technical assistance for strengthening
M&E and the FMSIMIS System.
Reporting: (i) Semi-annual progress reports will be established by the CMO on the basis of the poject
implementation plan, which was agreed during Credit negotiations; (ii) Bank's supervision missions will
take place twice a year, with an Early Implementation Assessment 12 months after effectiveness; and (iii)
an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared at the end of the Project and presented
within six months of the credit closing date. Baseline and annual monitoring studies will assess the
impacts of the entire Program. The monitoring activities will verify if program and project objectives are
being achieved. In particular, advances towards the objective of improved livelihood of the rural
population and less rural isolation will be evaluated through regular (at least annual) data collection and
evaluation of both market rates for the transport of goods and passengers, and of market prices for
selected goods of basic consumption in both rural and urban markets. Of interest are both absolute price
levels and the fluctuation of prices between dry and rainy seasons. Accessibility indicators and profiles
piloted during the initial implementation of the pilot roads, will be further refined, developed and used in
the planning stage.  The same indicators can provide a basis for further monitoring of a3cess
improvements.
Procurement arrangements: The Government will assure that the new CMO is staffed with at least one
senior professional with in-depth knowledge and practical experience in procurement according to
Bank/IDA procurement rules. If the Government is unable to find and retain adequate staff for this
function, it will as an alternative recruit the services of an external procurement expert or a specialized



19
firm for a period of time until the right person has been trained. During the entire length of the Program,
the CMO will have the overall responsibility for the compliance with IDA procurement guidelines. The
CMO will arrange for procurement training for MPWUD and other staff involved in procurement. A
detailed Procurement Plan for the Project covering all procurement which is planned for the first half of
the project period has been prepared. The Procurement Plan will have to be updated regularly by the
CMO and will be the basis for scheduling and monitoring all procurement activities under the Project.
Details of the procurement arrangements including the Procurement Plan are presented in Annex 6.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During the project identification and design process, several concepts and strategies were considered, as
discussed under B.3, Strategic Choices.
(a) The concept of another multi-purpose village-level project, was rejected by local stakeholders and
Government officials participating in the project identification workshop (June 4/5, 2000),
strongly indicating that the new program should focus on those intermediary rural roads which:
*  are needed as a complement to small village access roads, and therefore to assure the overall
functioning of the rural road network;
e  carry more traffic than small village roads and therefore have a higher economic rate of
return;
*  are essential for evacuating rural production to provincial markets and bringing basic
manufactured goods to rural areas; and
*  receive little public funding and are not covered by any other project.
(b) Another option considered was to immediately emlbark on a large-scale rural roads improvement
program in Phase 1. However, considering the present absence of: (i) adequate institutional
arrangements and capacities; (ii) technical and environmental standards; (iii) sustainable
mechanisms for maintenance funding and execution; and (iv) adequate planning tools and
selection criteria for investments, it became clear that that option would carry a very high risk of
resource wastage and serious implementation difficulties. It was therefore decided to address
these concerns in an initial phase, which would lay the foundation for the subsequent large-scale
rural access road improvements.
(c) The option of using a large stand-alone 5-6 year project supported by an IDA credit was also
considered and rejected, on the grounds that: (i) the sheer size of the needs and the limited
implementation capacity requires a much longer implementation period; (ii) high up-front cost of
preparing such a project and the time required; and (iii) flexibility needs to be maintained so as to
adjust the Program to the gradual decentralization process, the speed of which is difficult to
forecast at this time. Given these conditions, a programmatic approach seems to provide the most
appropriate instrument to achieve the objectives.
(d) An initial option was to focus exclusively on the intermediary network. However, there is
growing evidence that isolated investments do not achieve their full impact unless incorporated
into a "sub-network" approach. Accordingly it was decided to introduce this network, or
"cluster" development model by including village access roads within the areas of influence of
the pilot internediary roads. This approach will be tested and developed further during Phase I as
a framework for assisting local governments to prioritize investments so as to assure minimum
access within their jurisdictions, as well as to the economy at large.



20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies: (completed,
ongoing and planned)
X-2.
Implementation Development
Progress (lP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Poor access, institutional       Multi-Modal Transport Project             S                S
weaknesses
Inadequate funding for           Transport Rehabilitation Project          S                S
Maintenance, low cost recovery,
and institutional weaknesses
Rural development                Social Fund for Development               S                S
Employment generation            Public Works Project                      S                S
Other development agencies
European Union                   -  Rural Roads Program        - Al
Mahwit (completed 199-5)         _~.::x~
Food Security Program                                        M.
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau  Shibam-Mahwit asphalt road
(KfW)                            construction (completed)
German Development Ass. GTZ      Rural Development Studies udgi    c
Kreditanstalt fiuer Wiederaufbau  Sanaa-Taiz asphalt road resurfacing  as
(KfW)                            (cmltd
UNDP Programs                    - Environment and Eco-Tourism       .f d          a
- Gmiovetmment Capacity and      proect. T      A       l
Institutional Reformn
- Poverty Alleviation and                              .
Employment Generation
UN Capital Development Fund      Dhamar feeder roads (75 k,n,
(UNCDF)                          completed) I
Government of China              Jihana-Mareb asphalt road
construction (suspended before
completion)                                *.<. .
FAO - IFAD                       Mahra Rural Development Project,        < ~
feeder roads construction (planned) 
Arab Fund  OPEC                 AI-Beidah-Mukeiras-Lowdar Road                              ..
Omani Government                 Roads in Mabra Govemnorate
lP/D0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), H-U (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Implementation arrangements. Yemen's civil service is undergoing considerable reform and
strengthening, but its capacity to efficiently manage rural roads has been a constant challenge in the past
when rural access roads were under the Ministry of Local Administration. After the responsibility for
rural roads shifted to the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, the situation ha-s not
improved as explained in Annex 12 on the road sector. Past practice for IDA financed projects in Ytemen
has been to set up a project/program management team within the Ministry of dedicated and capable
individuals recruited from outside civil service to implement IDA financed projects. The RAP would not
follow this approach. Instead, the project assists in establishing a permanent institutional structure to be
responsible for rural roads at the central level in Yemen (the Central Management Office for Rural Roads
- CMO). Tnitially, only IDA funds and a part of the govemrnment budget funds for rural access roads will



21
be managed by this office. But gradually, as the program expands, the CMO is expected to be responsible
for administering the central government responsibilities for all rural roads. The future role of this office
and its administrative linkages would be determined during Phase I when it becomes more clear which
Ministry will have the central responsibility for rural road programs in the future. The established
capacity should not collapse once the Project is completed, but continue to manage the future phases of
the Program, possibly as an external directorate to the Ministry in charge of rural roads and regional
development.
Difflculty in establishing sustainable institutions in the sector. One example is the former Highway
Authority which had the dual function of road network manager and force-account contractor for road
works. When the force-account functions were separated as a government-owned commercial contractor
(GCRB), the entire Highway Authority was dissolved and the capacity which had existed for road
network management and planning was largely lost because key staff did not want to transfer to
MPWUD. MPWUD was never able to fill these positions adequately. Another example is the GCRB
which is now struggling to survive as a commercial contractor. GCRB's problems are partly due to its
status of a Government-owned contractor, which makes it difficult to maintain purely commercial
relations with its clients, who are other Government institutions. The matter is complicated by the fact
that the Minister of Public Works and Urban Development is also Chairman of GCRB, raising questions
on the managerial autonomy of GCRB and conflict of interest when contracts are awarded to GCRB. The
Government also had initial cooperation difficulties between the former Highway Authority and the Road
Maintenance Fund when the RMF was established, resulting in a formal relocation (by law) of the RMF
to the Prime Minister's office. The design of the Project includes strengthening of the RMF to take an
active role in the financing of rural road maintenance. The Program will also introduce private sector
involvement in road network maintenance, through multi-year and area-wide maintenance contracts. The
introduction of these contracts in Yemen will: (i) help to fill the present vacuum in rural road
maintenance; (ii) strengthen the private sector by providing business opportunities, especially in rural
areas; and (iii) reduce the need to rely on GCRB and force account equipment owned by the MOLA.
Inadequate procurement procedures. Procurement of goods, works and services has caused long delays
to the implementation of donor-financed projects in Yemen in the past and even to the cancellation of
some IDA-financed project components. To avoid this, it was agreed that the Government will staff the
new CMO as early as possible with at least one professional with in-depth knowledge and practical
experience in procurement according to Bank/JDA procurement rules. If the Government is unable to
find and retain adequate staff for this function, it will as an alternative recruit the services of an external
procurement expert or a specialized firm to support the CMO.
Tribal conflicts affect project implementation. Conflicts among tribes, and also between tribes and the
central Government, have caused implementation delays to projects in some areas of Yemen. The
decentralized planning and implementation approach to be used in the Program, and the participatory
methods to be applied in the identification of specific interventions, should make it possible to reduce this
type of problems to a minimum.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is a very strong support for better rural access roads not only among Government officials in
various Ministries, but also among the rural population in general. There is also overwhelming evidence
through the annual budget discussions that better rural roads are probably the single most important issue
for the vast majority of members of Parliament from rural areas. It is worthwhile mentioning that a
member of the Yemen Parliamentary Committee on Services took part very actively in the 2-day
workshop organized during project identification to discuss and plan the Project. Further indications of
borrower commitment are: the willingness in principle by the Government to increase their share
(counterpart) of the financing of the Project beyond the typical five percent and the fact that the MOPD
and MPWUD have provided written comments to the Identification Mission's Aide-memoire and draft
PCD as well as to the Aide-memoire of the Appraisal Mission. The MOPD and MPWUD have also



22
carried out a selection process to identify 7-8 potential pilot project roads, and in a letter to IDA signed by
the two ministers, these roads are identified. Finally, the Government has indicated its intention to
mobilize substantial co-financing from other donors for the second and third phases of this Program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Continued Bank support to the Program and the sector would catalyze important external investment
resources by other donors for rural access improvement; here other donors can count on IDA to provide
the policy support to the Government; assist the overall institutional strengthening of the road sector,
support and attract private sector development by helping the Government to create an appropriate
environment to attract the private sector to become engaged in road network managemen: and
maintenance; provide a lead for the donor community to follow a coherent sector approach when
deciding on sector investments; and improve the country's growth and poverty-reduction prospects by
providing needed infrastructure. Furthermore, the financing and technical support by IDA to introduce
multi-year, area-wide performance-based road maintenance contracts will give comfort to potential
bidders with respect to the payment and other sovereign risks that they may otherwise not be prepa-ed to
take under the present circumstances. The Project would also integrate well with the larger miacro-
economic approach to Yemen's development as described in the CAS.
Furthermore, IDA has a wide range of experts (among its own staff and as consultants) upon which it can
call to help the Government as issues come up and problems need to be addressed. The World Bank's
Sana'a office provides a location for quick consultation and to facilitate accessing the Bank's extensive
knowledge base. Finally, IDA resources available for supervision of the proposed Project also often
assists with the supervision of other donor's funds which are provided as part of overall sector initiatives.
Regular supervision, as well as the preparation of project completion reports, will help to ensure the
Project's successful implementation and provide valuable lessons of experience for future efforts.
IDA is in a unique position to assist the Government in the implementation of its decentralization
strategy. As a donor, IDA is involved in virtually every key sector in the country, and an active
participant in assisting the Government to reform its governance structure. IDA assists the Government
with civil service reform, public expenditure reviews, macro-economic policy formulation, improving line
ministry efficiency, reform of the legal sector, providing urban strategies, planning and financing
infrastructure of various types, and assisting with donor coordination. All of these activities are afiected
by decentralization and this puts IDA in a position to act as the Government's partner during p-oject
implementation.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8 for details)
1. Economic: (see Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: Overall IRR 41 %, Total NPV US$40.9 million
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
The use of economic analysis for the program as a whole: Over the expected 10-year period of the
RAP, the program is expected to finance a large number of rural roads to improve access of rural
populations to markets and services (social and administrative). With the exception of the Pilot Roads to
be improved under Phase I, the identification of individual road clusters and sub-networks to be improved
will be carried out during the Program and will be based on a participatory screening process takingr into
consideration a variety of factors: poverty impact, social, economic, political, strategic, etc. It is,
however, clear that the inclusion of economic factors in the screening process is not equivalent to a full
and detailed economic evaluation of each road investment considered. During Phase I of the Program, the
methods and procedures to be used for the screening and identification of individual investments will be
defined.
Nevertheless, existing methods and tools of economic analysis, the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model and (HDM4) and the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), will be used to "test" all



23
intermediary roads proposed for improvement, as a result of the participatory process of rural accessibility
planning and screening. These tools utilize expected reductions in vehicle operating costs as the principal
economic benefits. It must be mentioned that it is now accepted that the traditional VOC-based economic
analysis is inadequate to capture the full benefits of low-volume rural road investments, in particular in
the context of poverty-targeted projects. On the other hand, a reliable quantification of all benefits of
rural roads, in particular social benefits, requires a large amount of data, which is rather expensive to
collect and to monitor. In poverty-targeted projects, the concept of "least-cost provision of basic needs"
is often applied, and may also be used for some of the "low-end" rural roads, such as access roads to
small villages in poor areas.
Given the overall country conditions and the relatively high traffic volumes on the intermediary rural
roads in most parts of Yemen, it is, however, reasonable to demand that all individual investments in
intermediate rural roads to be financed under the Program should have an IRR above a threshold of 12
percent. In the rural accessibility planning process and the identification and ranking of potential
projects, cost effectiveness analyses will be used as a tool to support decision-making and prioritization.
This type of analysis provides indicators allowing to compare alternative investments under a given
budget constraint. This is particularly useful for village access roads, where cost effectiveness indicators
may be used to prioritize and select the "best projects" among a large number of candidates. Indicators
are: (i) the cost per capita for access improvement, (ii) the reduction of access time between the village to
the next intermediate road, and (iii) threshold access times to specific markets and social services.
In exceptional cases, for areas with extreme poverty and low productive potential, where both the
traditional economic analysis and access indicators show results below the set thresholds, other evaluation
methods such as least-cost analysis may be used. Given the poverty focus of the Project and Program, it
is important to make sure that the limited resources to be made available shall actually target the poor.
However, as pointed out elsewhere in this document, the individual physical measures to be implemented
should be targeted to those geographical areas which present high poverty rates, but also a high economic
development potential, and extremely poor accessibility.
Approach to economic analysis of village access roads. Village access road improvements will mostly
be identified and improved during the second phase of the program, with the exception of a limited
number of village access roads linked to the pilot roads of Phase I. Because they will generally have low
traffic volumes, the application of strict economic rate of return criteria is unlikely to be appropriate.
Rather, they will be selected within the context of establishing a "cluster" or "sub-network" of roads that
complements and strengthens the impact of improvements to the intermediary roads. Under this
framework, the objective is not to achieve a certain minimum rate of return, but to provide minimum
access levels to isolated populations, with a focus on the most cost-effective ways of achieving those
minimum access levels. Consequently, the rural accessibility methodology will focus on developing a
participatory identification and prioritizing framework based on degree of poverty, isolation, traffic and
cost-effectiveness. This would involve the definition of appropriate road improvement levels (standards)
for different classes of roads and traffic. This will be developed and tested at the beginning of the first
phase, and based on this experience, used and refined in subsequent phases.
Criteria for Selection of Additional Intermediary Rural Roads and Village Access Roads. The
following criteria were agreed upon at Negotiations and are included in the legal documents:
For Village Access Roads:
-  Must be adjacent to any of the Intermediary Rural Roads included in Phase I of the RAP.
-  Final selection of the roads would include a cost effectiveness criteria and be subject to a public
consultation process.
For Intermediarv Rural Roads:
-  Investments in the improvement of intermediary rural roads must have a rate of return of at least 12
percent, based on an economic analysis carried out using the HDM model or the RED model.



24
For both Village Access Roads and Intermediary Rural Roads:
- The road improvements must not require any resettlement or land acquisition.
-  An Environmental Management Plan must be prepared, based on the generic outline agreed at
Negotiations.
In addition, the selected roads shall be located in different Governorates with high incidence of poverty,
provide access to areas with significant economic potential, and there can be nIo works contract in effect
for the selected road between the Government and a local contractor.
Economic analysis of investments in Pilot Roads under Phase I: Five intermediate-level Pilot Roads
have been selected for improvement under Phase I, to be complemented by a limited number of adjacent
village access roads. The main objective of the pilot improvement works is to test in practice the- new
technical, environmental and implementation standards for rural roads which will be utilized for all other
investments during the second and third phases of the Program.
The five Pilot Roads have been selected based on the degree to which they are representative of the
different types of physical and also social conditions which exist in Yemen. Although one could argue
that the economic rate of return is of a secondary importance in the case of the Pilot Roads, they
nevertheless need to be submitted to the same "test" in terms of threshold IRR. This "test" was carried
out during project appraisal, and the results are presented in Annex 4. Provision is also made, in terms of
financing, for additional roads to be selected, should they meet the basic criteria that: (i) they provide
representative access on the "intermediary road network"; (ii) they show an economic internal rate of
return of at least 12%; and (iii) they do not involve resettlement or land acquisition.
The appraisal mission carried out an economic analysis on the initially identified five pilot intermtodiary
rural roads using the RED model, based on the preliminary cost estimates and other data which was
collected before and during the appraisal mission, and complemented later by data provid; d by
consultants. The table below shows a summary of the results.
Economic Analysis Summary Table for Pilot Rural Roads
Thula - Amran    IRR     53%        43%        40%         32%   _         3.8
NPV    5.820       5.307     3.852        3.338   _              _
Kuhlan-AI        IRR     17%        13%        12%          8%              1.3
Maghrabah        NPV     1.442      0.258     -0.102      -1.286   _
Ad Taffah -      IRR     30%        23%        22%          17%   _        2.1
Awwin            NPV    3.710       2.880      1.953       1.123
At Turbah -      IRR     69%        56%        53%         43%             5.09
Towr al Bahah    NPV    12.259     11.511      8.446       7.697   _
Khamis Bani Sa'd  IRR    46%        37%        35%         28%             3.3
- Al Mahwit      NPV    17.673     15.748     11.330       9.404
NPV in US$ million, at a 12 percent Discount Rate
There are clearly two different groups of Pilot Roads. The first group consists of three roads ,vhich
besides their rural access function will also have the function of links between parts of the main road
network. Their economic rate of return is between 46 percent and 69 percent in the base case. The
second group consists of two roads which after their completion will provide rural access only, and which
will not play a "link" role, at least not until they are continued in Phase IT of the Program to points beyond



25
the present project length. Their economic rate of return is between 17 percent and 30 percent. In the
sensitivity analysis, only one of the five Pilot Roads falls under the typical 12 percent IRR threshold in
the worst case scenario. It is therefore clear that all five Pilot Roads are economically feasible.
Economic Analysis of Part B of the project (Al Ahmar - Al Naqabah road rehabilitation). The
ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project originally included the Am Ayn - Naqabah road section of
about 100 km length, and this sub-project was appraised and is included in the SAR for that earlier
project. HDM III was used for the 1995 economic evaluation. The RAP appraisal mission carried out a
revision of the basic parameters of this road and its economic evaluation, with the purpose to verify if the
satisfactory rate of return (IRR of 41.5%) which was calculated in 1995 is still valid.
In conclusion one can say that (i) the expected increase in the estimated rehabilitation cost is moderate,
and will in the economic analysis most likely be compensated for by increases in unit VOC savings, and
(ii) actual observed traffic growth rates between 1995 and 2000 are much higher than anticipated in the
original economic evaluation. These two factors make it certain that the economic rate of return of the
project (without widening) is significantly higher than calculated in 1995. The high traffic growth rates
also ensure that widening of the road to 7 meters pavement width is economically viable and justifiable.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Fiscal Impact: The total Project costs will be US$ 52.61 million, with IDA providing US$ 45 million and
the Government of Yemen the remaining US$ 7.61 million, equivalent to approximately 14.5 percent of
the total project amount. Assuming an even distribution of project costs over the three-year project
period, the US$ 2.5 million needed annually as counterpart funds would represent less than 4 percent of
current budget allocations to the road sector, which are in the order of US$ 72 million. This phase of the
Program is thus not expected to have major implications for the national budget. The longer-term fiscal
impact of the Program will be assessed during Phase I.
Other financial issues relating to the project are the: (i) current unsatisfactory system for allocating road
sector funds to individual road projects, many of which receive few funds and therefore stay in the budget
for many years; (ii) medium- and long-term sustainability of the Program, which depends on the
availability of resources at the Govemorate and District levels, which in turn depends on the approval and
actual implementation of relevant provisions of the new decentralization legislation (Financial Bylaw);
and (iii) financial sustainability of the sector determined by the level of cost recovery from the road users
and road network maintenance financing. These issues are addressed elsewhere in this document.
Accounting and Financial Reporting: The financial management function of the Phase I of the RAP (Part
A) will be the responsibility of the newly established CMO under the supervision of a Steering
Committee. An action plan is set-up and agreed between IDA and the borrower for the establishment of a
full financial management system. Part B of the Project will be implemented by the Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIJU) for the Transport Rehabilitation Project under the Ministry of Public Works and
Urban Development as if it were a supplemental credit under that project. The PIU has an established
financial management system and is in compliance in the submission of audit reports under the TRP. An
action plan has been agreed upon with the borrower for the PIU to establish separate project accounting
records and auditing arrangements. To meet the Bank's financial management requirements, both action
plans need to be fully implemented prior to credit effectiveness.
In order to ensure an adequate financial management capacity of the new CMO, the Government will
retain at a very early stage the services of a reputable financial management consulting firm. The services
will comprise mainly the setting up of the accounting and financial management system and the provision
of regular backup support to the CMO as necessary, for at least the first two years of the Program. The
financial management assessments and arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 5 and are
summarized below. To ensure that an appropriate financial management system is in place prior to



26
effectiveness, a consulting firm will be engaged based on terms of reference agreed with IDA (included
in the PIP). This will ensure that an accounting system capable of accounting for all possible expenses
related to the operation of a rural road administration with regional offices will be operational once the
first expenses are to be recorded. The action plans will be implemented in a timely manner, in paticular
the consulting firm will ensure that:
assistance is given to the CMO in the recruitment of its Finance and Accounting Staff (provide
TORs and establish minimum qualifications, and assist in the selection process);
accounting records are developed and will be maintained according to generally a. cepted
accounting standards, including the Chart of Accounts, Project Management and Financial
Reports, and accounting records consistent with the needs of a rural road administration and the
Development Credit Agreement's components and expenditure categories;
a Financial Management and Accounting Manual (FMAM  - included in overall Project
Implementation Manual) is prepared, which covers the financial policies and procedures and
internal control systems compliant with IDA's financial policies and guidelines.
The FMAM will describe the details of resource flow to the CMO, both of budget resources prov'ded by
the Government and of IDA resources. It would also cover the opening of the Special Accounts for IDA
funds and a Project Account for counterpart project funds, the processing of withdrawal application,
submission of Project Management Reports (PMR's) to the Bank, auditing arrangemen:s and
management reporting of project funds. A project implementation plan will be prepared prior to Board
presentation of the project; this will later be expanded (prior to effectiveness) to include the project's
financial management and accounting manual, staff rules, and administration and procurement guic.elines.
The Project is expected to build up the capacity which would enable it to adopt a PMR-based
disbursement system 18 months after project effectiveness. The CMO with assistance from the conisultant
would ensure that the appropriate computer software and hardware required for the PMB -based
disbursements system are operational within the first 12 months of project implementation.
The detailed Action Plan (shown in Annex 5) agreed upon between IDA and the borrower is a cor-dition
of credit effectiveness. IDA will undertake an assessment of the financial management system upon full
implementation of the action plan to evaluate its readiness for disbursement.
Auditing Arrangements. The project financial statements shall be audited by an independent auditor. The
CMO will appoint an auditor acceptable to IDA to carry out an annual audit which should comply with
the project implementation manual including the financial management and accounting manuals ar d with
generally accepted auditing principles, i.e., the International Standards on Auditing, as issued by the
International Federation of Accountants, the IDA's Guidelines [e.g., Financial, Accounting, Reporting
and Auditing Handbook ("FARAH')] and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the IDA.
The auditor will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and Special
Account as well as submit to IDA an annual audit report within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
In addition technical and financial audits will be carried out quarterly during the first 12 months of the
Project, for the internal control purposes, and will be submitted to IDA within 45 days from the quarter
end. Costs for all auditing services will be financed through the Project. The selection of private auditors
would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines (the TOR is filed in the PII').
For Part B of the Project, the auditing arrangements will be the same as those agreed between IDA and
the borrower for the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project. There are no audit issues on this project.
The Part B component will maintain the traditional disbursement system until the TRP credit is closed
(closing date June 30, 2002).
Disbursements. Disbursements from the IDA credit would be initially made using the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and direct



27
payments). The CMO would convert to the PMR-based disbursement system within 12 months and
based on a request by the Government. Before this can happen, IDA would carry out a financial and
procurement assessment with the objective of evaluating the readiness of CMO to adopt PMR-based
disbursement system, and issue a certification ensuring that a PMR-based disbursement system would
operate satisfactorily. The target date for this conversion is March 31, 2003.
Special Account: Two special accounts would be established under the project, one to be managed by the
CMO and another for the TRP PIU in charge of Part B component. These special accounts would be held
at the Central Bank of Yemen. For Part A of the Project (RAP- Phase I) the authorized allocation for the
Special Account would be $2.5 million. The authorized allocation would be US$ 600,000 for the Special
Account for Part B of the Project. However, the initial allocation for the Special Account for Part A of
the Project shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1.5 million until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from Part A of the credit exceeds SDR 7 million. The initial allocation for the Special
Account for Part B of the Project shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from Part B of the credit exceeds SDR 2 million. When withdrawals are made on
the basis of PMRs, the amount deposited in the Special Account should not exceed $4 million in respect
of Special Account for Part A of the Project and SI million in respect of Part B of the Project. The
special account would be audited annually by an independent private auditor acceptable to IDA.
3. Technical:
The main technical issue related to the Program is the establishment of appropriate technicalleconomic
standards for rural roads. The Project is addressing this by defining new standards for rural roads and
suitable criteria for the selection and planning of individual sub-projects. The standards to be revised
include road widths, type of surfacing/seal, pavement types, materials, and construction and maintenance
methods as a function of road type and traffic. These issues are treated in more detail in section B of this
document.
4. Institutional:
Institutional development and capacity-building are the central elements of the first phase of the Program,
and the related issues are treated in sections A, B and C of this document. There is, however, a specific
institutional issue which requires particular attention. The abolishing of the Highway Authority in 1998
and the refusal of managerial staff to transfer to the Ministry resulted in an institutional vacuum for
overall road network planning and management, both for main highways and rural roads. The MPWUD,
which is now formally responsible for those functions, is unable to attract and retain sufficiently qualified
staff to effectively carry out these tasks. This is mainly because of the constraints imposed by the civil
service employment conditions but also because of a general shortage of qualified engineers. For the
approximately 60,000 km of rural roads there is an absence of a formal organization at the central and
local levels to effectively manage these roads. It can, however, be safely assumed that the Local
Authority Law 2000, when implemented, will result in the transfer of some responsibility for
management of a reclassified road network to the Govemorates and possibly Districts. It could be
envisaged, that, when this happens, the new CMO to be created under the Program, would be transformed
into a Central Rural Road Administration and assist in establishing, in at least some Govemorates, formal
and permanent regional units not only responsible for the practical implementation of the Program, but
also for the general task of Rural Access Master Planning (RAMP) and Rural Road Management. This,
together with the introduction of maintenance by contracts for private firms to execute, would fill the
current vacuum for rural road management at the central and Governorate level.
The Road Sector Management Study, which is in progress, will address this issue, and also propose ways
and means to strengthen the capacity of the Govemment to manage the main road network. Once
agreement is reached on the recommendations of the consultant undertaking the study, the managerial
arrangements for rural roads under this program will be adapted.
A number of donors are assisting in the decentralization process. Under UNDP assistance, six new
regional planning institutions, consisting of one single local expert in each Governorate with limited



28
expertise and practically no funds, were to be set up in pilot Governorates, in the period 1997-2000 as the
existing offices had only rudimentary capacities [UNDP 1997a]. At the time of the appraisal mission the
process has progressed as far as having set up and equipped three offices. Implementation of the
program's objectives has not yet really commenced. Apart from planning, reforms have been initiated in
some other sectors, but even the most advanced - those in the health sector - are estimated to cover only
some 12% (40) of the current 333 Districts [Ministry of Local Administration/UNCDF/Worlc! Bank
20001 2
It seems clear that currently few if any of the Districts have the capacity to play a significant role in the
RAMP process. There are real doubts, in this respect, even about many of the Governorates. In this
situation building on the residual capacity that may have resulted from the various efforts to create
regional institutions, comprising groups of Governorates, seems the most sensible way forward. This does
not totally rule out a role for the Districts as and when it can be established that they have the necessary
capabilities. In this respect, the proposed rural accessibility planning approach (Annex 15) is First to
define the steps of the RAMP process, and then to indicate how, and ideally with whom, they m ght be
implemented. Actual implementation will have to be depend on a closer examination, on a case-by-case
basis, of conditions in the field at the time of execution.
5. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      []A  [X]B    [] C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental category and justificationlrationale for category rating: This Project Appraisal Document
primarily concems Phase I of a three-phased program to improve rural access in Yemen. The 2roject
(Phase I) has been placed in environmental screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of
Operational Policy 4.01 of the World Bank/IDA. The environmental category is justified for the P'roject,
since civil works will be limited to the improvement of existing roads in rural areas, and possibly some
periodic maintenance activities. The pilot roads in Phase I have been deliberately selected to minimize
adverse environmental and social impacts. In particular, resettlement and land acquisition will be avoided
altogether. The same selection criteria will be applied to any additional pilot roads, as well as the village
access roads to be improved during the first phase. The pilot and village access roads will be designed
with the specific objective of introducing in Yemen design standards for rural roads which are much more
environmentally-friendly and also cheaper than those which are currently practiced.
However, the potential for certain environmental and social issues, such as for resettlement and land
acquisition, indicate that Phases II and III of the Program should be placed in environmental category
"A". Accordingly, a sectoral environmental assessment (Road Sector EA) will be carried out during
Phase I. This Sectoral EA will lay out procedures for systematically determining whether candidate roads
would involve resettlement, land acquisition or other environmental issues, thus requiring full EIA
treatment and resettlement or other plans in accordance with Bank Safeguard Policies. The Sectoral EA
and Social Framework Agreement to be completed in Phase I will specify the requirements lor the
development and implementation of such plans during Phases II and Ill. Roads without such
requirements will still undergo an Environmental Management Plan, also as specified in the Secto:al EA.
The satisfactory completion of EMP's and/or respective detailed EIA's will be triggers (or
conditionalities) for the approval of IDA financing for Phases II and III of the program. See Annex 16 for
Terms of Reference for the Sectoral EA.
The Environmental Management Plan for five of the roads to be improved under the first phase of the
Program has been prepared. Also, a Social and Environmental Unit will be established in the CMO
2 This number has increased from 286 at the time of the 1994 census, and is expected to grow to about 360 due to
the splitting of some of the larger districts and those in cities [Central Statistical Organization 2000, Mintstry of
Local AdministrationfUNCDF/World Bank 20003.



29
before construction contracts are awarded to ensure that implementation of contracts are consistent with
the EMP.
Specific environmental issues related to the Program are described in the following paragraphs:
Environmentally sound design standards. Rural Roads designs in Yemen presently feature a generous
horizontal and vertical alignment and a roadbed of 10 meter width, with a road surface 7 meters wide and
shoulders of 1.5 meters on each side. These standards are too high and expensive for secondary roads
and cannot be justified by traffic volumes and also causes avoidable environmental damage. Specifically
in the case of mountain roads, this design requires deep cuts into the mountainside to achieve the design
width of the roadbed, leading to the erosion of exposed slope surfaces and often to slides of cut slopes
onto the road. It is also common practice to simply take the cut material from the hillside and dump it
on the valley side of the road, often destroying terraces and leading to erosion problems on both sides of
the road. Built during several centuries to provide arable land on the slopes of mountains, terraces have
proven to be a very effective soil and water conservation measure. Rural road improvements should not
lead to the destruction of terraces, and the traditional terrace-building technology can be formally
incorporated in the standard design of mountain roads.
Water harvesting and mountain roads. Roads built on mountain slopes accumulate rainwater runoffs. In
Yemen, it is common practice that farmers construct simple water harvesting structures on the road
surface, similar to speed-bumps, to channel runoff water to their terraced fields below the roads. This
action also tends to protect the road by slowing down runoffs and draining water off the road, thereby
reducing road surface degradations and maintenance requirements. This important function, which has
positive environmental and technical benefits, will need to be formally incorporated into the revised
standard design for rural roads in mountainous areas. The specific use of this feature will have to be
defined for each road during the consultations with the population living along the roads; these
consultations will have to be standard practice during the detailed road design. Procedures for such
consultations will be applied for the pilot projects during the first phase, and based on this experience,
specified in the Environmental Management Plan for Phases II and III.
Embankment design and wadi hydrology. For those roads passing through wadis, the construction of an
embankment for the road could alter seasonal water flow patterns within the wadi. This could bring
about: (i) additional erosion within the wadi; and/or (ii) a disruption of the traditional water harvesting
practices of the farms on the surrounding hillsides. This risk will be addressed through hydrological
assessments and appropriate engineering design measures and through local consultation to avoid
potential disruption to water harvesting practices.
During the first phase, the Project will address these and other technical issues such as use of marginal
materials and different surface treatments (seals) by assisting the Government to revise the standard
designs for rural roads, so that they are environmentally sound and more adapted to the actual needs of
roads with low traffic volumes.
Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition. This issue is discussed in detail in the previous section on
social issues. As noted below, the Phase I pilot roads will be consciously selected to avoid this problem.
For the Program as a whole, systematic procedures, including public consultation and compensation, will
be included in the Environmental and Social Framework Agreements, which are being developed as part
of the Sectoral EA during the first phase.
Archeological, burial and historical sites. For the roads identified, this issue has been dealt with through
field identification and "chance find" procedures in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the
pilot projects. For roads to be financed in subsequent phases of the Program the Sector Environmental
Assessment and a Social Framework Agreement for the Program as a whole will apply and address this
adequately.



30
Institutional capacity. In general, national institutional capacity in environmental planning and
management in Yemen is considered weak. Although the Environmental Protection Law of 1995
establishes the principle of environmental assessments, there is no further regulation on the practical
implementation of the Law. For this project, the EMP for the first phase has laid out a set of proc edures
and institutional strengthening measures that will ensure the systematic identification and mitigation of
potential environmental impacts by the Central Management Office of the project.  Based on this
experience, the Sectoral EA will more clearly define future roles and responsibilities related to the
environment, in the context of the decentralization process.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP for Phase I roads specifies mitigation and monitoring plan for each pilot road during the
construction and operational phases. These are deemed adequate and are summarized below:
Improved and environmentally-sound technical designs. The road widths for the pilot intermediary
roads will be 6 meters, and for the village access roads a 4.5 m width will be incorporated. There will be
occasional widening of these road width standards in sharp turns to allow vehicles to pass safely. Other
road standards will be specified for each road to be financed, according to its particular conditions 'traffic
load, road type, available materials, etc). In addition there will be test sections incorporated on tle pilot
roads and village access roads. Six main design issues have been identified so far: (i) water harvesting on
mountain roads; (ii) narrower platforms, and related to this a reduced need for cutting into slopes and
negotiate earth movements; (iii) more durable road surfacing on steep slopes to avoid erosion; (iv) slope
stabilization on sections of the roads where slopes are unstable; (v) controlled disposal at designated sites
of excess material cut from the hillside slopes; and (vi) embankment design and wadi hydrology. During
the first phase, the Project will address these issues by assisting the Government to revise the design
standards for rural roads and try out new standards, so that they are environmentally sound and more
adapted to the actual needs of low-volume traffic.
Reduction of potential impacts of physical works.
Impact Reduction Measures. Specific measures to reduce potential impacts of physical works will be
taken; regarding the detailed design, construction tenders, construction process and contractor
performance monitoring. Contracts will contain requirements for proper management of construction
waste; control measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels; safety in
blasting; and rehabilitation of areas used for construction detours, and sites used to temporarily store
construction materials. Contractors will be required to provide and maintain equipment with proper noise
abatement controls.
Contract Provisions. Specific provisions will be included in construction contracts to mandate the use of
formal health and safety measures to minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the construction
process.
Pre-Tender Conference. To ensure full understanding of the above clauses by the contractors, all pre-
qualified contractors will attend a Pre-Tender Conference, where they will be briefed concerning their
responsibilities to address environmental, health and safety issues. These briefings will outline specific
provisions of the construction tender documents and contracts, as laid out in the Part II, Conditions of
Particular Application (COPA).
Management of Operational Impacts. The Project will address operational impacts identified ear[ier for
each road. These may be implemented through maintenance contracts with financial support from the
Road Maintenance Fund to avoid deterioration of the rehabilitated road and associated dust and safety
problems. Maintenance contractors will be required to follow procedures similar to those ior the
construction contractors concerning proper disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste
fuel, oil and lubricants and adoption of health and safety measures for personnel. Expected increases in
traffic levels are not expected to be so high as to bring about a significant increase in air pollution, and



31
this may in fact decrease due to smoother and less dusty roads and improved vehicle standards.
Suspended dust caused by vehicles will be reduced by the rehabilitation of the roads, due to the large
number of road subprojects which include resurfacing and sealing operations.
Reduction/Enhancement of Social and Cultural Impacts. As part of the final design of each pilot road
to be financed the following mitigation measures have been incorporated, and will be carried out during
implementation of Phase I:
Negotiations to Minimize Tribal Tensions. Where appropriate, a specific plan for local consultations and
negotiations during construction will be drawn up to ensure consensus among the tribes living along the
roads on the organization and achievement of the road improvement. This plan will follow general
procedures to be included in the standard design manual.
Safety and movement patterns in the wadis. The siting of the works passing through wadis should
minimize disruptions to local movement patterns for fetching water and water harvesting activities.
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. The construction contracts will contain procedures for
archeological "chance finds," should they be encountered during the course of construction activities.
These procedures have been developed in consultation with the MPWUD and the CMO. The provisions
of these "chance find" procedures are normally included in Part II (COPA) to the bidding documents for
construction contractors and the Terms of Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender
Conference will include provisions for a session on environmental and social issues during which "chance
find" procedures will be reviewed with potential construction contractors.
Archeological Field Support. The government will make available (on demand) a qualified archaeologist
to conduct field investigations when important search work and new materials sites are opened. The
archaeologist would be paid by the CMO and be attached temporarily to the construction manager's team
and provided with logistical support when necessary.
Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition. As noted above, the Phase I pilot roads have been
deliberately selected to avoid this problem altogether. For Phases II and III of the Program, systematic
procedures, including public consultation and compensation in accordance with the legislation, will be
included in the Sector Environmental Assessment and the related Social Framework Agreement to be
finalized during Phase I of the Program.
Graveyards and Burials. If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are found during the course of
construction activities, the CMO will contact and work with local religious authorities within the Project
area to allow for possible identification of the remains and when appropriate properly undertake
relocation and reburial.
Local employment. The mechanisms for maximizing local employment benefits will be specified for each
pilot road as part of the bidding documents. Normally, the labor component of rural access roads are
quite high, 30-40% depending on the need for drainage protection works and type of road surfacing used.
Consultations indicate that local populations are keen to participate particularly in security arrangements
for equipment and in stonework and drainage protection works.
Gender-sensitive planning. A Gender Issues Study is being carried out, which involves direct and
separate consultations with Yemeni women along the pilot roads. This will provide a basis for defining
during Phase I future involvement of women and voicing of their concerns in the planning and
implementation process of the rural road improvements. This approach has been taken within the
particular cultural context on Yemen.
Framework agreements. Within the context of this Program, it is intended that the Government during
Phase I will sign with IDA Environmental and Social Framework Agreements, in which the Government



32
of Yemen affirms its agreement to carry out all future project activities in accordance wilth IDA
environmental standards and relevant safeguard policies. Prior to the first phase, the Gender Issues Study
will be completed, and will provide guidance on how to incorporate gender-related factors into the social
framework agreements. Compliance with the framework agreements and completion of a full Category A
Environmental Assessment for Category A rural roads to be improved during the first year of Phases II
and III would be a trigger for approval of IDA funding to support those phases.
Environmental Monitoring Plan. The Environmental Monitoring Plan will be implemented by
Environmental Unit within the CMO. The function of this Unit will be: (i) review and approve
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and Environmental Management Plans (EMP) for all rural
roads to be improved under the Program, (ii) monitor the compliance with the EIA and EMP by the
various entities involved in the implementation of the Program, and (iii) collect data to document that the
agreed performance criteria related to environmental and social aspects of the Program are met. This unit
will be staffed with qualified personnel (2 professionals) before project effectiveness. The staff of this
unit will receive training during Phase I of the Program as part of the TA provided to the CMO.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date and receipt of final draft: Completed during appraisal and received March 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on environmental impacts and proposed environmental management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During project identification a two-day workshop was held, which served as a scoping session.
Participants included representatives of: Parliament, the Agricultural Co-operative Union, the Yemen
Environmental Association, the Social Fund for Development, the Road Maintenance Fund, Sana'a
University, Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, Ministry of Local Administration, GCRB,
UNDP, the European Union and the World Bank. Participants are listed in Annex lB.
During project appraisal and the environmental review process, consultation meetings with local
stakeholders were held at each of the five Phase I pilot roads. Participants included local officials,
citizens, teachers, doctors, etc. They are listed for each road in the project EMP. Annex 13 has a
summary of this document, which is in the Project File.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project will address numerous social issues which are described below:
Local consultations and participation in planning process. The standard design manual for rural roads
(which is under preparation with IDA support) will include general procedures for local consultations
with, and participation of beneficiaries and local community leaders. For each rural access road lfinanced
under the Program, a specific plan for local consultations and negotiations will be drawn up to ensure
consensus on the organization and achievement of the road improvement, both between the Government
and community leaders (tribal and others), as well as among different local tribes living along the road.
Poverty targeting and gender-sensitive planning The project will introduce an accessibility planning
methodology (Annex 15) that will provide a transparent and systematic framework for identifying priority
rural road investments at the decentralized levels. This participatory methodology will include criteria
that focus on providing basic access to the poorer areas, as well as gender-related access concerns. A
scoping of these latter concerns is being carried out through a Gender Issues Study.



33
Tribal tensions. The social order in most parts of rural Yemen is still organized according to the tribal
system. This includes a social hierarchy, which gives commanding positions to local tribal leaders who in
some cases do not hesitate to stop by force the implementation of a larger Government project if they feel
that it does not seem to benefit them directly. Overall competition for scarce Government resources
involves competition between tribes to obtain basic services from the Government or from donors. This
often results in tensions and occasional armed clashes about the location of infrastructure improvements,
such as the alignment of a rural road going through the territories of various tribes. Changing relations
between leading individuals and tribal groups may result in a sudden deterioration of social relations in a
particular region and affect implementation of projects. As a consequence for the Program, it is necessary
that prior to any physical intervention in a rural road, an agreement must be reached among the tribes
involved, and between the Government and the tribes, on the characteristics of the intervention. It must
be clear to tribal leaders that resources of the Rural Access Program will not be allocated to local projects
unless such agreements are concluded successfully.  Government authorities at the District and
Governorate levels have an important role to play in this context. Each road section envisaged for
improvement under the project will be assessed in terms of actual and/or potential tribal tensions, and the
result of that analysis included in the planning process.
Land Ownership. Land ownership and sometimes aggressive requests for compensation for lost property
assets as a result of infrastructure projects are another social issue that must be addressed at an early stage
for any new road project in Yemen, with the active participation of District Councils and local/tribal
leaders. Written commitments are a useful tool, though their binding nature should not be overrated.
Land acquisition. Road improvements during the first phase of the Program will occur within existing
right-of-ways only. In addition, the road design standards to be applied will feature a reduction of the
typical width of rural roads, as compared to the standards presently applied. During Phase I of the
program, involuntary resettlement or land acquisition is therefore considered unlikely, but resettlement
actions as a consequence of road improvements are likely to come during subsequent phases. Rural
roads financed under the Program may at times pass through densely populated areas or require curve
reductions for safety purposes. In such cases, small parcels of land would have to be donated by their
owners, because of the existing Government policy which allow compensation only for assets located on
the land (trees, structures, etc.) but not for the land as such. This important issue will be clarified as part
of the Project through the development of a Social Framework Agreement, which will require prior
consultations at the local level, so as to identify and resolve any potential land acquisition questions, in
conformance with Safeguard Policy OP 4.3 (Involuntary Resettlement).
Archeological, burial and historical sites. This issue will be dealt with through the formalization of field
identification and "chance find" procedures in the manual, as well as in the Environmental and Social
Framework Agreement and the Sector Environmental Assessment for the Program as a whole.
Graveyards and Burials. The assessment of each road under the Program will identify any potential
graveyards and burial grounds. In addition, the Social Framework Agreement will include procedures to
manage situations when and if unrecorded graveyards and/or burial sites are found during the course of
road works. During Phase I of the Program, archaeological and historical sites as well as grave yards and
burials area unlikely to be affected because road works are expected to take place within existing right-of-
way and mostly use existing material sites and quarries.
Local employment. Employment benefits are expected from the road improvement works. However,
mechanisms to ensure that local populations are the beneficiaries need to be defined as much as possible
and realistic, within the social and tribal context of each road.
The issue of Qat. During their field work in Yemen, the project identification team perceived a very wide
range of opinions and positions on this question. It has been noted by some individuals that the
improvement of roads in certain areas could contribute to increased production and marketing of this
product, and that roads should not be improved under this Program in areas that are high Qat producers.



34
However, the practical implementation of such a policy would exclude large, highly productive, areas of
the country from the program.  Therefore, it is not recommended that the rural access improvement
program be made an instrument of the Government's policy to discourage the growing and use of Qat.
6.2. Participatory approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project would be the rural population in those areas which have poorer-
than-average access to markets and basic services. These areas generally coincide with areas with a high
concentration of rural poor of which women constitute a disproportionate fraction. The primary
beneficiaries will participate both directly and indirectly. Direct participation will occur during the design
phase of individual roads, where local consultations will take place and mitigation measures will be
coordinated between design consultants and the landowners adjacent to the road. Indirect participation
will be through elected District Councils, which will be involved in the decision-making process related
to accessibility planning and prioritization of individual interventions.
The design of the Program includes continuous and broad beneficiary participation:
  The ongoing preparation of the first phase of the program has featured a two-day participatory
workshop (see section 6.2 b. below). In addition, direct participation of beneficiaries will occur
during the design of the roads for the pilot application of new rural road standards.
*  An Environmental and Social Assessment Framework (detailing safeguards for land acquisition,
archaeological field support and procedures for "chance finds") will be developed and put in place
before and during implementation of the first phase.
*  During the first phase of the program, the country-wide accessibility assessment and planning process
for the Govemorates will involve processing of existing data (poverty-mapping, social indicators,
census data, road network information, etc.) and the use of standard sociological survey instbuments
(focus-groups, questionnaires). A methodology for accessibility planning has been prepared and will
be used in ten Governorates during Phase I (see Annex 15 for more details). This will involve
establishing a functional classification of the road network, as well as a participatory met.:Iod for
identifying priority investments based on socio-economic and poverty criteria. It will also include
procedures for assessing accessibility constraints and identifying priorities at the District level, which
will be tested in four Districts during Phase I. The methodology aims for eventual implementation by
the Governorate and District level staff who will work with local communities in determining access
constraints and investment priorities.
*  Procedures to ensure that communities and community leaders are involved in specific road projects
will be developed and tested to avoid the reoccurrence of present constraints such as disagreement
among tribes, or between tribal leaders and the Government, on road alignment, issues of land
ownership, requests for compensation, destruction of productive assets (terraces) and ignorance of
environmental issues. The private sector will also be offered specific capacity-building activilies that
would be designed to fit their own felt needs but also to assist them to adjust to the new procedures to
implement the new rural access policy.
*  During the second and third phases of the program, community participation will become a routine
feature of the rural accessibility planning mentioned above, as elected Councils will gradually
develop capacity to assume an active role in improving rural access roads and their management and
maintenance. In particular, local road users will be able to participate in the supervi sion of
performance-based road maintenance contracts for rural roads.
The project would draw as much as possible on the wide and successful experience of both the Social
Fund for Development (SFD) and the Public Works Project (PWP) to ensure that adequate instruments
are used to solicit the views and inputs of various segments of rural communities.



35
b. Other key stakeholders:
A two-day participatory workshop using the Goal Oriented Project Planning (GOPP) technique was held
during the identification mission, with the assistance of a professional workshop moderator made
available by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ). The outcome of that workshop is the
Logical Framework presented in Annex I a, and the list of stakeholders who participated in the workshop
is given in Annex lb. The participants collaborated very actively in the project planning exercise and
expressed satisfaction not only about the workshop itself, but also appreciation for the fact that actual
beneficiary participation started very early during the program design, and about the involvement of IDA
in a long term rural road program.
Specific gender issues were treated in the workshop, in particular the important burden on rural women
and girls for the provision of water, firewood and other services for the family. There is ample evidence
that better rural roads alleviate the workload of women and girls. If a road is available, small trucks
equipped with water tanks are often used to fetch water from the river beds (wadis), and women do not
have to spend several hours every day to carry water themselves or by donkey. Also, the use of natural
gas in cylinders becomes commonplace if a village has an access road or track. Villages with road access
generally have higher school enrollment rates, especially for girls. In general, most rural roads benefit
women at least to the same degree as men, and in some cases more. However, women's participation in
the decision-making process on roads may be affected in those areas of the country where the tribal social
organization dominates. Here the involvement of tribal community-leaders often reduce the scope for
broad community-participation, and women may often be excluded.
Other stakeholders are from the private sector, such as local contractors, design engineers, consultants,
transport service providers and traders. All those would benefit directly from the implementation of the
overall program, which will provide significant business opportunities during a 10-year period.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations.
The rural accessibility planning methodology will involve direct consultations with local beneficiaries,
which may include NGOs and other civil society organizations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The CMO will have a specialized unit to monitor the environmental and social management plans.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The CMO will assign specialized personnel to carry out the monitoring and evaluation survey concerning
changes in prices of transport and essential commodities as a result of the improvements in access.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?



36
S              _           P~1y___ __________
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01 BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                   Yes
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                          No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                           No
I Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                         No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                          No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                    No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                     No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)          No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard polici -s.
An individualized EMP has been developed for each pilot road, which will be implemen1ed and
monitored by the CMO Environmental Unit. For any additional intermediary or village access ioads in
Phase 1, an EMP will be carried out utilizing the general framework spelled out in the overall EM1' and in
accordance with OP 4.01, BP 4.01 and GP 4.01. Although no cultural property issues were identified on
the pilot roads, chance find procedures will be applied, in accordance with OPN 11.03.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Long-term Program benefits are dependent upon the sustainability of the rural access improvements over
time, especially after the completion of the Program. The two most critical factors here are: (i) the ability
to mobilize stable and dependable funding for rural road maintenance; and (ii) the necessity to build
lasting technical and managerial capacity and institutions to manage and maintain rural road networks
(institutionalization). Both funding and managerial capacity depend on the following key factors:
First, there must be considerable political will to implement a more decentralized management of rural
roads. Many centralized line ministries, including the MPWUD, will experience a loss of power and
influence under the Local Authorities Law and the accompanying bylaws and regulations and, therefore,
may resist reforms such as delegation of powers, outsourcing of road maintenance works, decentralization
and introduction of participatory planning activities at village level. The degree to which there is
sustained overall political support for a more decentralized process and better management of rural roads
will in large part determine how well the long-term program objectives are achieved over time.
Next, the degree to which more decentralized management of rural roads works will depend on how well
local governments are allowed to establish their financial foundation. In this context, the way that central
budget transfers work (e.g., the amounts, the degree to which they are earmarked, etc.) is critical :o local
government sustainability. Similarly, the success that Govemorates and local councils achieve in
generating their own revenues will also play an important part in whether or not rural access
improvements are sustainable. Specifically, rural road networks will require regular maintenance,
implying a locally raised revenue stream of sufficient amount to finance the local component of this task.
These local resources are in addition to funding to be provided by the Road Maintenance Fund, w.hich at
present only funds maintenance of the national highway network. Maintenance of rural roads would
require involvement of the decentralized administrations and local communities under some cost sharing
arrangements between the central level (mainly RMF) and the Governorates and local councils.
The success and sustainability of local governments depend on the capacity and incentive of its human
resources. The civil service in Yemen suffers from both low pay and a low skill base, a legacy of the
turbulent 1990s. Reform of this sector is underway, with IDA's assistance and a determined effort at the
center of Government. However, in many ways sustainability of both civil service reform and
decentralization are interdependent, and one cannot proceed much without simultaneous progress being



37
made by the other. A particular problem here is the lack of experienced engineers and planners in
Yemen, which is likely to put a limit to the extent and speed of decentralization of the administration of
rural roads.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I)
.~~~~~~~~ ........                                                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
From Objective to Purpose                            .
Local Authority Law is not    S         Use a flexible approach which allows for different types of decentralized
actually implemented.                   solutions, depending on the will and capacity which may differ from one
Govemorate to the other. If the Local Authority Law is not implemented as
intended, Phases II and III of the Program can still be redesigned in order to
reach the overall Program objective of improved rural access under the changed
circumstances.
Road Maintenance Funding      M         The 2000 law on the RMF passed by parliament will go a long way to ensuring
through Road user fee is not           that road maintenance funding through a fuel levy which is independent of the
sufficient to secure road asset         budgetary process. Further increases will be addressed in the follow up
conservation.                           operation under the ministry of transport.
From Outputs to Objective
Local leaders and decision-makers  M    Involving the local leaders and decision-makers closely in the planning and
do not recognize the value and          prioritization process. This should ensure that the results of that process is
therefore do not accept outcome of      supported by them.
planning and prioritization process
introduced through the Program.
Decentralization process does not  S    The project will support the implementation of the Decentralization Law 2000,
advance as planned.                     but without being overly dependent on it, in order to be able to implement the
project as planned.
Political resistance to the   M         During negotiations, agreement will be sought on a target date for
introduction of fuel surcharges to     implementation of the road maintenance fund law and the corresponding road
mobilize road maintenance funds.        user charges. This date would become a loan covenant.
Suitable staff are not available for  S  The recruitment and continued employment of suitable CMO staff, satisfactory
CMOs                                    to IDA, is a legal covenant of the project, included in the credit agreement.
From Components to
Outputs
Counterpart funds and co-     N         Strict monitoring of counterpart funding by Bank staff.
financing are not available as
planned.
Procurement problems causing   S        The CMO includes an experienced procurement specialist among its permanent
Implementation delays and               staff.
cancellation of Components.
Overall Risk Rating            S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



38
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no significant factors foreseen that might become controversial during implementation of the
Project.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Standard conditions.
(b) Bids received for first two packages of civil works.
(c) Completion of actions set forth in the FMS action plan (Annex 5) with due dates preceding
the credit effectiveness date.
2. Other:
(a) The Borrower shall maintain the central CMO with adequate numbers of professionals with
skills and experience and on TOR satisfactory to the Association including: (i) General
Manager of the Program; (ii) a minimum of two senior Road Engineers, one of which is a
professional with knowledge and experience in IDA procurement guidelines; (iii) Finance
and Accounting Officer and one accountant; (iv) an Environmental Engineer; (v) a Social
Planner; and (vi) two Assistant Engineers.
(b) CMO shall produce quarterly reports on implementation and progress indicators.
(c) No civil works to be undertaken on intermediary roads not included in the Program
Implementation Plan Manual unless and until the Borrower has submitted to IDA
documentation satisfactory to justify the implementation including, but not limited to, a
feasibility study report showing an internal rate of return of no less than 12%, and an EMP
where appropriate.
(d) No civil works to be undertaken on village access roads unless and until the Borrower has
submitted to IDA documentation satisfactory to justify the implementation.
(e) No civil works to be undertaken on intermediary rural roads and village access roads unless
the Borrower has submitted to IDA an EMP, where appropriate, satisfactory to IDA and
evidence that the works to be financed will not result in the involuntary resettlement of local
population.
(f) The Steering Committee will ensure that a technical audit is carried out annually on project
roads.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[] 1. b) Not applicable.
[x] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the ,tart of
project implementation.
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



39
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[]   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Terje Wolden
Sector Manager: George Tharakan
CSitutry Director: Mahmood A. Ayub



40
Annex la: Project Design Summary
Yemen: Rural Access Program
I'lMINN.                                                                         .
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:                     Sector/ Country        (from Goal to Bank
*   Various indicators of socioeconomic   Reports:           Mission)
To create an early stream of     well-being indicated in the CAS    The impact of specific   - There is sustained
social benefits, in education,  *   Reduced unit costs of infrastructure    policies and programs   political support for
health, and other most-valued    *   Quality of local services      will be analyzed on a    implementation 3f public
services, which indirectly                                          case-by-case basis by    sector reforms
address poverty and gender-    (Annex B. I of CAS, pages 5-7)       the Government, IDA    - There is no domestic
gap, and fortify the benefits of                                    or a designated third    conflict, diverting
the other objectives.                                               party.                 attention and fur ds from
(Page i of CAS summary)                                             (Page 20 of CAS)       the development strategy
(Page 22 of CA')
Program Purpose:             End-of program indicators:             Program Reports:       (from Purpose to Goal)
Improved livelihood and      a   Transport rates for goods and
reduced isolation for the rural  passengers reduced by 30%.         Annual monitoring      There are no ext, rnal and
population through improved  *   Price of essential commodities     reports and quarterly   intemal price shocks.
year-round access to markets     transported over improved roads (gas   progress reports will
and services.                    cylinder, diesel, kerosene, cement,    follow-up on the  Improvements ir
Phase 1-                         flour and sugar) reduced on average    agreed indicators  physical rural ac *ess are
Institutional Strengthening and  by 15%.                            during the entire     accompanied by
definition of appropriate    *   Access time from the village to the  Program.             complementary
technical and environmental      closest market and services reduced                      interventions in other
standards                        by 30%.                                                   sectors.
Phase 11                     *   Other poverty and gender indicators
Access improvement and           to be developed during Phase I
strengthened road network
management
Phase IHI.
Expanding the coverage of
access improvements and
consolidation of gains
Project Development          Outcome / Impact Indicators:           Project Reports:      (from Objective to
Objective:                                                          assessment report one   Purpose)
*   Adequate central institutional     year after            Dedicated fundin g for
Establish sustainable            arrangements are put in place.     effectiveness.        road maintenance under
foundation for large-scale                                                                 RMF control is s ifficient
improvements to rural        *   Appropriate low-cost standards and    Supervision Aide-   to secure road asset
accessibility in areas severely  procedures are adopted and applied.    Memoires and ICR.    conservation.
affected by poverty and with
good prospects for rural     *   Rural accessibility improvements   Assessment of the
development.                     have been provided to at least four  effectiveness of the
poverty affected areas.           selection process used
for the five pilot
access roads included
in the Project.     I
Continued on next page



41
Output from each         Output Indicators:                     Project Reports:      (from Outputs to
component:                                                                            Objective)
PART A                   A. 1 Manual for planning, design and   *   Quarterly
I .Rural Access Roads    implementation of rural roads has been     progress reports    Local leaders and
2. Village Access Roads    adopted                              *   Bank supervision   decisions-makers
3. Rural Accessibility and   A.2 Design and implementation standards  reports         recognize the value and
Design Studies           have been tested, and an evaluation has  *   Early           accept outcome of
4. Support for           been completed.                            implementation    planning and
Decentralized            A.3 Improvement of at least 114 km of      assessment report  prioritization
Management of Rural      intermediary rural roads and 50 km of      (12 months after   methodologies
Roads                    village access roads completed.            effectiveness)    introduced through the
5. Supplemental Operating  A.4 Rural accessibility assessments for  *   ICR for first  Program.
Costs                    five of Yemen's rural Governorates have    phase
been completed.                                              There is political will to
PART B                   A.5 An objective and participatory                           fully fund road
6. Al Ahmar - An         methodology for planning and prioritizing                    maintenance through a
Naqabah Road             investments, and addressing local poverty                    dedicated road fund .
Rehabilitation           and gender issues in rural access
7. Institutional Support to  improvements has been adopted by the                     Decentralization process
RMF                      Government and has been applied in each                      does not create obstacles.
of the five Govemorates.
A.6 The preparation of at least 25 percent                   Sufficient and timely
(first year program) of Phase II physical                    resources are assured for
works and maintenance concessions has                        program management
been completed, including feasibility
studies, design, environmental! social
assessment and bidding documents.
A 7 Clear roles and responsibilities in the
road sector have been assigned through a
reclassification of the road network.
A 8 An impact monitoring system for rural
access improvements is in place, including
the poverty focused baseline data and
quarterly impact reports are produced.
A.9 The CMO is in place and fully
functional.
A.10 At least one regional rural road
management unit is fully functional in one
of the Governorates.
A. 11 An early implementation assessment
of the Project, carried out one year after
project effectiveness, has been overall
positive and has not revealed major
weaknesses.
B.l Rehabilitation of 114 km of primary
rural roads.
B.2. Road Maintenance funding improved
by making the new RMF law effective and
at least YR 2.5 billion mobilized per year.
E. I At least US$ I million has actually
been available for program management at
central and regional level, and properly
accounted for.



42
Proj ect                 Inputs: (budget for each component)    Project Rteports,     (from Components io
Components/Sub-                                                                       Outputs)
components:
PART A
1. Rural Access Roads    1 $ 31.60 million                      Project Progress      Counterpart funds anil
2. Village Access Roads    2: $ 4.70 million                    reports (including pilot  co-financing are
poverty and gender    available as planned.
3. Rural Accessibility and   3: $ 2.00 million                  conscious baseline
Design Studies                                                  data development)     Procurement problems
do not cause
4. Inst. Support for     4: $ 1.17 million                                            implementation delays.
Decentralized
Management
of Rural Roads                                                                        CMO adequately staf.ed.
5. Supplemental Operating  5: $ 0.70 million                    Disbursement reports
Costs and Equipment
PART B
6. Al Ahmar - An Naqbah   6: $ 12 24 million
Road Rehabilitation
7. Institutional Support to   7: $ 0.20 million
RMF
Note: As described in the document, this Project Design Summary was the outcome of a participatory
workshop held during the identification mission, utilizing the GOPP methodology (Goal-oriented Proj ect
Planning). Minor additions were made afierwards during project preparation, in particular relating tc
quantifiable performance indicator and the costs of components.



43
Annex lb: Logical Framework, GOPP 2-Day Workshop Participants
Yemen: Rural Access Program
1.  Mr. Ahmed M.            Member of Parliament
Al-Kohlani
2.  Mr. Gianni Brizzi       Country Manager / World Bank    01-418 731
Yemen
3.  Mr. Rainer Freund       European Commission Technical  01 248 495
Assistance Office
4.  Ms. Paiivi Nikander     Programn Officer / UNDP        01 415 505
5.  Mr. Bob Fishbein        Consultant / World Bank        1 (202) 477 1234
6.  Mr. Renaud Detalle      Consultant / World Bank        01 275 417
7.  Mr. Mohammed Ali        Agricultural Co-operative Union
Al-Adrahi
8.  Mr. Andreas Schliessler   Staff / World Bank           1 (202) 477 1234
9.  Mr. Ali Alshami         Social Fund for Development    01 240 417
(SDF)
10. Ms. Raja'a A.           Yemen Enviromnent Association   01 268435, 7961057
Al-Masabi
11. Mr. Ezzi Al-Mansoob     Director of Contracting Dept.  01 250112
Ministry of Planning and
Development
12.  Mr. Yahya Al-Ashwal    General Co-operation for Roads   01 241758, 01 260420
and Bridges
13. Mr. Hakim Aghbari       Road Maintenance Fund (RMF)   7912203 , 01 500871
14.  Mr. Abdulkadus         Road Maintenance Fund (RMF)   01 262009, 01 500843
Alsharafi
15. Mr. Abdulla Al-Falahi    GD Technical Affairs, Ministry    01 227242, 01 279286
of Local Administration
16. Mr. Terje Wolden        StafflWorld Bank                1 (202) 477 1234
17. Mr. Radman Al-Qubati   Deputy Dir. of International    01 262613
Financed Projects Dept. MCHUP
18.  Ms. Khadiga Al-Haisani   Sana'a University            01 219339 (Office),
01 208070 (Home)
19.  Mr. Abbas Abu -Taleb    Manager of Foreign Funded
Projects Dept., MPWUD



44
Annex 2: Project and Program Description
Yemen: Rural Access Program
Summary Description of the Program:
The Yemen Rural Access Program (RAP) will be co-financed by IDA through an Adaptable Program
Credit and consist of three phases, which are briefly described below.
Phase I (the Project) will create the necessary base conditions for the Program. It will set ujp the
institutional and technical foundation of an efficient rural access improvement program, and test r ,ewly-
defined approaches through civil works. Initially, five or more pilot roads on the intermediate rural road
network and some adjacent village access roads located in eight Governorates will be upgraded. Five
roads have initially been identified and provision is made for other projects meeting the same selection
criteria to be included during Phase 1. The process to be put in place will assimilate environmental and
social (poverty and gender) policies, and internalize participatory planning aspects into its operations.
The achievement of those base conditions is expected after 18 to 24 months and will trigger a new and
larger IDA credit for Phase II of the Program, and hopefully other donor co-financing for that phase.
Phase 11 will then implement rural access improvements in most, if not all, the Govemorates, building
their capacity for sustainable management and maintenance, and fostering cooperation among
beneficiaries, decentralized Govemment agencies and decision-makers. Toward the end of the second
phase, or after 5 years of practical implementation of the Program, a mid-term review of the Prograin will
be carried out. This review will detect conceptual and implementation weaknesses and pre ;cribe
necessary adjustments for the subsequent third (and last) phase of the Program. Depending on the results
of the review, and the progress in decentralized capacity-building, the Program will expand its cox erage
of rural road improvements to include District level (village access) roads as well as Govenrorate
(intermediate) level roads.
Phase III will then continue with the: (i) practical implementation of rural access improvementi; (ii)
further strengthening of decentralized management and maintenance arrangements; and (iii) continued
and sustained institutionalization of poverty and gender issues in overall road planning and
implementation. The third phase would also begin to implement access road projects that are classifed as
District level roads. The overall Government program would be supported by IDA credits, as well as
through co-financing from other donors during the second and third phases.
Summary of the Pro ject Description
The Project is divided into two parts:
a) Part A includes all activities in Phase I of the Rural Access Program, and comprises five
components, namely: (i) Pilot Rural Access Roads; (ii) Village Access Roads; (iii) Preparation of
Phase [I of the Program (Rural Accessibility Planning and Road Feasibility/Design Studies); (iv)
Institutional Strengthening and Support for Decentralization; and (v) Supplemental operating costs
and equipment.
b) Part B includes all activities necessary to implement the Al Ahmer - Naqabah road rehabilitation,
and comprises two components: (i) Rehabilitation of Al Ahmer - An Naqabah road; and (ii)
Technical Assistance to the RMF to reorient its focus and strengthen its institutional capacity. This
part of the Project is unrelated to Part A and the Rural Access Program.
A short description of each component is given below.



45
PART A: Phase I of the Rural Access Program
Implementing Agency for the Program: A Central Management Office for Rural Roads (CMO) will be
the central responsible agency for all three phases of the Rural Access Program. The CMO will operate
under a Board of Directors which will be chaired by the Minister of Public Works and Urban
Development. Other members of the Board would be higher-level representatives of MPWUD, MOPD,
Ministry of Local Administration, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Transport and the RMF. The
CMO will have a General Manager and five small departments: Administration/Accounts; Procurement;
Planning, Design and Supervision; Environmental and Social Management; and Decentralization
Support/Regional Offices. During Phase I a few (not less than 3 and no more than 6) regional rural road
administrations will be established to gain experience in a more decentralized management of rural roads,
and pave the way for these units to possibly be integrated with Governorate organizations once these are
fully functional, which is expected near the end of Phase II of the Program.
Proiect Component 1:   Pilot Rural Access Roads (US$ 31.60 million)
Objective. The objective of this component is to test and demonstrate in Yemen new technical standards
and implementation procedures for rural access roads, which are technically adequate, environmentally
sound, socially accepted, equitable and cost-effective. For this purpose, five intermediary rural roads
have been initially selected as pilot projects, which are representative of the different types of terrain and
social environments present in Yemen. Allowance has been made for the selection of some additional
roads yet to be identified, which must meet the same criteria as those roads already identified. The Pilot
Rural Roads were selected based on the following criteria:
(i) they are located in areas which are representative of the different types of terrain and social
environment in Yemen;
(ii) they are located in different Govemorates with high incidence of poverty;
(iii) they provide access to areas with significant economic potential;
(iv) they have an economic internal rate of return of at least 12%;
(v) no land acquisition and involuntary resettlement is required; and
(vi) no ongoing works contract between the Government and a local contractor.
Project roads. The project roads which have already been selected are summarized below:
.~~~~~~~ ~.. ... ........erook00:                        7:         _
. Thula-Amran                            Sana'a - Amran         25.6
2. Kuhlan Affar-Al Maghrabah             HaJjab                 15.8
3. At Taffiah-Awwin-Beyhan               Al Beyda               42.3
4. At Turbah -Towr al Bahah    _Taizz-Lahj                      8.8
5. Khamis Bani Sa'd-Alquetta'aAl Mahwit  Al Mahwit              21.3
Total                                                           113.8
Thula-Amran: This road is located in the northern Yemeni H4ighlands, 52 km northwest of Sana'a. At
its southern point, the road starts from Thula at an elevation of 3,000 meters. For the first several km it
passes north over a rolling plateau, then descends through a rocky, mountainous and winding area. At
about km 12, the alignment passes through a rocky canyon and opens onto a wadi and an open plain, on
which Amran town is situated at an elevation of about 900 meters. The project will involve the
completion of works already begun, but which were terminated due to contractor non-performance.
Completed work includes earthworks and several partially constructed culverts. The project will consist
mainly of completing earthworks, drainage structures and protection works. It will also provide road
pavement layers, including bituminous surfacing.
Kuhlan Affar- Al Maahrabah - Aliamimah: The proposed road is located in the northern Yemeni
Highlands, 115 km northwest of Sana'a, about 12 km east of Hajiah. From Kuhlan Affar, it extends



46
northward from the main road between Sana'a and Hajjah. It first passes through the Kuhlan mart-et area,
then continues through rocky terrain and several villages with terraced farms. The road has been partially
constructed through an earthworks contract. The road is barely passable with four wheel drive vehicles.
The earthworks contract involves cross-drainage structures. The project will consist of completing the
earthworks, providing additional drainage structures, slope protection measures and provision of
pavement layers, including bituminous surfacing.
Al Taffah - Awwin - Beyhan: The project road is located in the Yemeni High Plateaux, some :230 km
south of Sana'a. At Al Taffah, the road extends northward from the main road between Dhamar and Al
Beyda, about 30 km north of Al Beyda. The road passes over rocky, rolling terrain, then proceeds along
the eastern side of a wide wadi. The roadbed has been opened up with an earthwoTks contract, ihat has
been terminated. The project will consist mainly of additional earthworks in the road alignment and
drainage structures, followed by the provision of pavement layers, including bituminous surfacing.
At Turbab - Towr Al Bahah: The road is located in the southern Yemeni Highlands, 78 km south of
Taiz. Starting from At Turbah, it begins at the edge of a broad and fertile high plateau which gives way
to a steep escarpment. The road immediately and sharply descends southward along the escarpment from
an elevation of 2,100 meters. The first nine kilometers are extremely narrow, steep and rocky, and
characterized by numerous hairpin turns. This section was selected as a pilot for implementation in Phase
I. The remainder of the road continues to a more gradual descent through a broad wadi leading up to
Towr El Bahah. The project will consist mainly of earthworks, including some rock blasting, drainage
structures and road pavement, including a wearing course that can withstand turning movements of small
trucks and reduce maintenance costs on the steep slopes.
Khamis Bani Sa'd - Alquetta'a - Al Mahwit: The project road is located about 150 km west of
Sana'a. The project road extends from Al Hahwit to the south down relatively steep and rocky
mountainside. It reaches a wadi with fairly dense farms at km 21. The continuation of the project runs
southwards to Khamis Bani Sa'd at the Sana'a - Houdaydah Road. The project will consist mainly of
installation of a regulating gravel layer under a sub-base and base course, followed by biturninous
surfacing.
Sub-components. There are two sub-components: Civil Works and Construction Supervision.
Civil Works. The technical standards and implementation procedures to be tested and demonstrated in
Yemen through the pilot projects will include the following features:
*  Road width and slope stabilization;
*  Different types of bituminous surfacing;
*  Embankment design and wadi hydrology;
*  Measures to prevent terrace destruction and erosion;
*  Mountain hydrology and water harvesting;
*  Reduction of potential impacts of physical works;
*  Planning and Implementation Procedures; and
*  Local consultations and participation in planning processes.
Works Supervision: The project will finance two contracts for the supervision of the civil works included
in this component. The supervision contract(s) for the Pilot Works should include the production of a
demonstration video for television broadcasting and other purposes. Most of the civil works w-ill be
carried out by contractors established in Yemen including local contractors.
Implementation arrangements. The implementing agency for the pilot rural roads component will be the
Rural Roads Central Management office (CMO) which is described in section C.4 of this document. The
responsibility of the CMO includes the design, planning and execution of works, and the administration
of financial resources. All physical works will be executed through private contractors which will be
retained under competitive bidding procedures according to World Bank / IDA procurement guidelines.



47
Budget
1. Pilot Rural Access Roads
1.1. Civil Works                          30.50
1.2. Supervision                           1.10
Total                                     31.60
Project Component 2: Village Access Roads (US$ 4.70 million)
Objective. At least 50 km of village access roads adjacent to the pilot roads will also be identified and
included, to test standards for very low-volume roads and tracks (unpaved) and to enhance the poverty-
reduction impact of the investments in pilot roads. These would enhance the accessibility improvements
and poverty impact of the pilot rural roads. As far as possible in the short time frame, the village access
roads to be financed in Phase 1 will be identified using the rural accessibility planning methodology that
will be tested during the first phase (see Component 3 below). This will provide an objective selection
process within the limited budget resources available.
Sub-components. This component is also composed of two sub-components: civil works and construction
supervision. The standards and implementation procedures to be demonstrated through the pilot projects
will include the following features: (i) consultations with beneficiaries and community leaders for
planning, implementation and monitoring; and (ii) technical designs with narrower platforms and less
expensive surfacing, (iii) the inclusion of water harvesting techniques in the road structure, to benefit
adjacent farms; (iv) slope stabilization; and (v) disposal at designated sites of material that is cut from the
hillside slopes, instead of the uncontrolled dumping of those materials as it is practiced today.
Implementation arrangements. This component will also be implemented by the CMO, which will
collaborate closely with the Govemorates and district councils in the identification of pilot roads and in
the participatory planning and implementation process.
Budget
2. Pilot Village Access Rtoads 
2.1. Civil Works                       4.50
2.2. Supervision                       0.20
Total                                  4.70
Proiect Component 3: Preparation of Phase n of RAP (US$ 2.0 million)
Objective. The objectives of this component are two fold: (i) to carry out a participatory process of rural
access planning for Yemen. The aim is to establish a solid basis for the selection and evaluation of
individual rural access improvements to be carried out during the subsequent second and third phases of
the program; and (ii) to support the very substantial amount of technical preparation work for the civil
works to be executed during Phase II, including design studies and bidding documents.
Sub-components.
Rural Accessibility Planning (Annex 15). The initial step in this sub-component will be the preparation of
Rural Accessibility Master Plans for at least ten of the rural Governorates, which will be used as a basis
for implementation during Phases II and III. The methodology to be applied will seek to establish a
participatory selection process, which is shaped by a rational framework for road network planning and
management at the Governorate level. This will involve the direct participation of beneficiaries, and the
participation of both the elected Governorate and District councils in the selection of priority intermediate



48
road investments and the assignment of maintenance responsibilities. Although this involves a 'higher
level" of network management than the district- and village-level feeder roads, the methodology will also
draw from approaches in rural accessibility planning. The ensuing establishment of the Governorate-level
network management process will lay the foundation for eventually applying lower level planning tools in
the Districts during Phase III.
Design and Feasibilityfor Phase 1I. The second output of this component will be the design, feasibility
studies and bidding documents for the numerous rural roads to be improved under Phase II, as wvell as
preparation of contract documents for piloting area-wide multi-year performance based road maintenance
contracting in Phase II of the RAP.
Implementation arrangements. The component will be implemented under the responsibility of the
CMO. Qualified consultants will be selected under ICB procedures to carry out the tasks. There are
likely to be two larger contracts, one for the Rural Accessibility Planning exercise, and a second cne for
the technical preparation of physical works, including the participatory stakeholder consultations for each
individual rural road to be improved. Smaller contracts with individual consultants may be used for
specific other tasks.
Budget
3. Rural Accessibility and Design Studies
- Rural Accessibility Planning                     0.40
- Design / Feasibility Studies for Phase II        1.50
- Training_                                        0.10
Total                                              2.00
Project Component 4: SUPPort for Decentralized Manaeement of Rural Roads (US$ 1.17 million)
Objective. The objective of this component is to support the establishment of institutional frameworks
and capacity to carry out decentralized management of rural access improvements. It will involx e two
sub-components: (i) institutional strengthening; and (ii) support for decentralization.
Sub-components.
4a) Institutional Strengthening: The objective of this component is to define and put in place the
institutional arrangements for decentralized implementation of rural access improvements.  rhese
institutional arrangements, together with revised technical and environmental standards and procedures,
will lay the foundation for the efficient identification and implementation of expanded rural road
improvements, which address poverty and gender-sensitive issues across Yemen during the subsequent
phases. The component will support the new institutional setup in numerous ways. Initially, ir will
involve the definition of adequate institutional arrangements for rural road management at the Regional
and Govemorate level to be implemented in Phase II of the Program. It will also provide support 10 the
MPWUD to analyze the national budget for rural roads (about 300 projects) in order to rationalize and
consolidate the national budget and transfer most slow-moving rural roads contract to the CMO for
financing under the RAP.
The component will also finance a mix of training, studies, workshops/seminars, and other tec nical
support. It would further include capacity-building for the private sector, specifically for contractor, and
local consultants, on the new design and implementation standards for rural roads, and to assure the fuill
understanding of procurement procedures used under the Program. The fuiture role and financing
arrangements for the Central Management Office (CMO) for Rural Roads) would also be addressed. The
component will also finance some limited technical support to establish regional tender boards and
develop procedures and guidelines for the interaction between the regional and the central tender boards.
Finally, technical and fimancial audits will be financed under this component.



49
4b) Support for Decentralization. The objective of this component is to support establishment of
(initially) a few regional offices or departments to be responsible for rural access planning and
prioritization and later oversee implementation of Phase II and Phase III roads. In addition, the project
will support the High Tender Board in establishing regional tender boards. Depending on the progress and
success in the decentralization process, these regional units may be transferred under the authority of the
Govemorates.
The component would assist the CMO in the definition of the work programs of these planning offices,
recruiting staff and financing logistical, personnel, administrative and equipment costs during the initial
phase, in order to ensure that qualified professionals for rural road management and maintenance are
working effectively in between three and six Regional Management Units (RMU) for rural roads.
Implementation arrangements. The CMO will be responsible for the overall execution of this
component. For the definition of institutional arrangements, the CMO will work closely with the MOLA
and other Govemment Ministries.
Budget
4a. Institutional Strengthening and Management
Financial audits of RAle                                  0.03
Technical audits of RAP                                   0.06
TA for CMO                                                0.25
TA for High Tender Board                                  0.10
Subtotal 4a.                                              0.44
4b. Support for Decentralization
Pr Vc Cmoehi te 5:r Sucntrliedmental     ( vehai~colts 4andE) net(   0.0 milin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.125
Furniture & Equipment for decentralized offices           0.10
IT equipment for decentralized of fices                   0.04
Consultant support                                        0.20
Trainig                         _0.06
Staff salaries                                            0.20
Subtotal 4b.                                              0.73
Grand Total                                               1.17
Proiect Component S: Supiplemental Overatinii Costs and Equipment (US$ 0.70 million)
Objective. This component will finance the operations of the Central and the Regional Management
Offices for Rural Roads for two years (Phase I,), including staff salaries, office equipment, vehicles and
operating costs.
5. Supplemental Operatingy Costs and Equipment
Furniture & Equipment for CMO                            0.1l25
Vehicles (3 vehicles 4x4)                             _0.065
Management/legal support                                  0.05
Staff salaries                                            0.35
Operation & Maintenance Cost                              0.1 l
Total                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.70



50
PART B: Rehabilitation of Al Ahmar - An Naqabah road.
Project Component 6:   Rehabilitation of the Al Ahmar - An Nagbah Road (US$ 12.24 million)
Background: The rehabilitation of the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road was a component of the ongoing
Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP), but taken out in a restructuring of this Credit to make room for a
much needed rehabilitation of the Aden airport runway and taxiways. The understanding at the lime of
the restructuring as reflected in Aide-Memoires, was that IDA would subsequently finance the Al Ahmar
- An Naqbah road rehabilitation either through a supplemental credit to the TRP or as part of a fol ow-up
operation in the transport sector. It appears that IDA guidelines do not allow supplemental credit to be
used for the TRP in this case; moreover a follow-on highway operation to finance this road would IIow be
contrary to the agreed new IDA Country Assistance Strategy for Yemen. Therefore, it was agreed with
the Government that financing would be provided for this rural main road under the Project as a separate
Part B. To avoid any confusion on the role and the responsibilities for rural access improvements, the Part
B of the Project would be implemented by the PIU in MPWTUD in charge of implementing the TRP
Objective. The project constitutes a section of the inland Aden- Mukhalla highway. It starts at the town
of Al Ahmar and traversing a length of 1 14 kin, terminates at the intersection with the other asphalt road
to Ataq at An Naqabah. The rehabilitation works will consist of repair works, including short sections of
reconstruction, drainage improvements and protection works. The overlay on the existing pavement will
not be widened outside of existing shoulders. No widening is envisaged.
Sub-components. There are two sub-components: Civil Works and Construction Supervision.
Implementation arrangements.  This part of the project, will be implemented by the IProject
Implementation Unit (PUJ) for the ongoing two credits (TRP and MMTP) until these two projects are
completed (mid-2002). This would include consulting arrangements, pre-qualification of contractors, the
bidding process for the works, and monitoring and supervision of the works in collaboration with the
supervision consultant. It has also been agreed that after the TRP and MMTP credits are fully disbursed,
the PIU for those projects will be dismantled and the RAP CMO will take over the management of any
remaining activities of Part B of the Project until it is fully disbursed.
Budget
6. Al Ahmar - An Naqbah Road
6.1 Civil Works                           11.65
6.2 Supervision                            0.59
Total                                     12.24
Proiect Component 7:  Technical Assistance to the Road Maintenance Fund (US$ 0.2 million)
Objective. Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the RMF and reinforce its ability to act as
an independent caretaker of the road network.
7. Technical Assistance to RMF
TA to RMF                                  0.20
Total                                      0.20



51
Annex 3: Estimated Project Cost
Yemen: Rural Access Program, Phase I
Part A, Rural Access
1. Pilot Rural Access Roads                           16.56        12.24         28.80
2. Village Access Roads                               2.80           1.90         4.70
3. Rural Accessibility Planning & Design Studies      1.00          1.00          2.00
4. Institutional Strengthening                        0.44          0.73          1.17
5. Supplemental operating costs and Equipment         0.52          0.18          0.70
Part B, Road Maintenance
6. Al Ahmar - Al Naqabah Road Rehabilitation          4.03          6.33         10.36
7. TA to Road Maintenance Fund                        0.04          0.16          0.20
Total Baseline Cost                                  27.83         20.89         48.72
Physical Contingencies                              1.14          0.76          1.90
Price Contingencies                                 1.20          0.80          1.99
Total Project Costs               30.16         22.45         52.61
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required          30.16         22.45         52.61
Goods                                                 0.18          0.28          0.46
Works                                                27.81          18.54        46.35
Services                                              1.51          3.48          4.99
Training                                              0.05          0.11          0.16
Other                                                 0.62          0.04          0.66
Total Project Costs               30.16         22.45         52.61
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required          30.16         22.45         52.61



52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Yemen: Rural Access Program
1.     General aspects.  The Appraisal Mission Team carried out the economic evaluation of the
physical investments to be financed under the RAP, in particular of the improvement of the fivy  Pilot
Rural Roads. The team also reviewed the economic analysis of the rehabilitation and widening of the Al
Ahmar - An Naqbah road; this analysis was carried out earlier as part of the appraisal of the ongoing
Transport Rehabilitation Project.
Economic evaluation of Pilot Rural Roads
2.     Methodologies applied and evaluation tools used. For the economic evaluation of the Pilot
Rural Roads, the team used the RED (Roads Economic Decision Model), which was developed by the
World Bank specifically for very-low-volume roads. The advantage of the RED model is that it wan be
used for the analysis of road projects where relatively little exact information is available. It is able to
substitute actual information on road roughness by estimating present road roughness as a function of
observed vehicle speeds. Although the RED model allows for the introduction of exogenous benefits
(such as social and other benefits), this feature was not used during the analysis. The economic benefits
taken into consideration are exclusively Vehicle Operation Costs (VOC) benefits from normal traffic,
generated traffic, and in some cases also diverted traffic. No savings are assumed in maintenance costs.
In the absence of any reliable information on accidents, road safety benefits were also excluded from the
analysis.
3.     Factors determining the economic role of the Pilot Roads. The mission team visited the Pilot
Rural Roads in order to gain a first-hand impression and to collect some basic data. It was confirmed that
the five Pilot Rural Roads are intermediate rural roads (as defined in the PAD), which link several
districts to each other, and to the paved main road network. They provide access to areas with very
significant populations and with economic potential, mainly in agriculture and fisheries. All of the Pilot
Roads are within one or two hours of major cities (Sana'a, Hajjah, Al Mahwit and Marib) where many
people from the project areas work during the week. Most of those workers try to travel back to their
home villages for the weekends and holidays. These cities are at the same time the outlet markets for
products from the areas of the Pilot Roads, and the source markets for manufactured goods used in the
areas of the Pilot Roads.
4.     Present traffic levels. On four of the five Pilot Rural Roads, traffic counts were carried out
during a five-day period (January 27 - February 1, 2001) by the staff of the Road Maintenance Fund. The
results are shown in the table below.
Project Saturd., 27 Jan. Sunday, 28 Jan.  Monday, 29 Jan.    Tuesday, 30 Jan. Wed. 31 Jan.   Thursday, 01 Feb.
Name  2001          2001          2001              2001          2001          2001
Mix Pick Truck Mix Pick Trucks Mix  Pick  Trucks Mix Pick  Truck Mix Pick Truck Mix Pick Truck
UP UP        UP  I -         UPS  I]        iU             VP            lpS 
At Turbab - 60  20   0 50  35      1   55   28    ]  18   22                        301 23   0
Tor Al
Balia
Thulla -    10  25    1 14  45    0  15    37253                               1 25 7 
Arnran 
Kohlan-A   23  50    1 J0  45    0    4 f              21   55   0 25  48   0  22  45 __
Magrabah  ___
Kham5is    10  75   0  1885        0    12  144    0  16  18    2  17  247   s        . E
Bani Waad                         ~~&
-AlMahwit
Note: Days marked (shaded) are Market days with higher-than-typical traffic volumes
The locations of the traffic counts for the Pilot Roads were at the beginning of each road, close to the
paved road where the Pilot Road originates. Traffic levels at those points are, however, much higher than



53
the average traffic levels on the entire road. In order to avoid distorted results of the economic evaluation,
it was therefore necessary to adjust traffic volumes significantly downwards. The traffic volumes used
for the economic evaluation are only between 30 and 50 percent of the traffic actually counted. It was
further observed during the field visits that almost all traffic on the road are utility vehicles, such as four-
wheel drive passenger vehicles and pick-up trucks (Toyota Landcruiser).  Therefore, the traffic
categorized as "mixed" and "pickup" during the traffic counts were combined and categorized as "pickup
utility" vehicles for the purpose of the economic analysis. The vehicles categorized as "trucks" during the
counts are almost exclusively light trucks (Mitsubishi Canter or similar) and were therefore categorized as
"light trucks" in the economic analysis.
In summary, the "normal traffic" (or "baseline traffic") used in the RED analysis, in the "without project"
scenario, is as shown on the following table:
Pilot Road               Pickup utility         Light trucks          Total Traffic
(No. of vehicles per  (No. of vehicles per    (No. of vehicles per
day)                   day)                 day)
Thulla - Amran                        28                      3                    31
Kuhlan-Al Maghrabah                   21                      0                    21
Ad Taffah - Awwin                     29                      3                    32
At Turbah-Towr al Bahah                51                     4                    55
Kbamis Bani Sad - Al Mahwit           40                      1                    41
5.     Vehicle fleet characteristics. The vehicle fleet characteristics used in the VOC analysis are
those used in the 1995 11DM  III analysis which was carried out in the context of the Transport
Rehabilitation Project. Some data was updated, such as the economic cost of vehicles, tire prices, labor
and crew costs, and vehicle service life. For fuel cost, the international border price of fuel (US$ 0.51
per liter for both gasoline and diesel) was used as economic cost of fuel, in light of the heavy subsidies for
fuel in Yemen.
6.     Traffic composition on Pilot Roads. Due to the very bad condition of the Pilot Roads, present
traffic is restricted to mostly smaller four-wheel-drive vehicles (Toyota Landcruiser passenger vehicles
and pickup trucks) and a few small trucks. The improvement of the roads, mostly to paved standard, will
bring about a significant change in traffic composition. Future traffic will include a wider variety of
vehicles. Many of the present 4-wheel drive vehicles will be replaced by passenger cars, small and
medium-size buses, and medium-size trucks. In particular, the generated and diverted traffic in the "with
project" scenario will be composed of all types of vehicles, except for very large trucks and buses.
Nevertheless, in the absence of a reliable basis for estimating the change in traffic composition, and to
simplify the analysis, traffic growth was applied to existing vehicle types, which adds to the conservative
nature of the analysis. This also means that the quantitative relationship between the two vehicle types
remains constant in the model during the 15-year evaluation period.
7.     Future traffic growth rates. In the RED analysis, future traffic is composed of: (i) normal
traffic, which is the existing traffic today; (ii) generated traffic, which is traffic that is suppressed today
because of the bad road conditions and the high VOC's; and (iii) in some cases diverted traffic, the latter
being traffic which today is using an alternative road, but which will switch to the new road because it is
shorter and/or better. For all of the above types of traffic, an overall growth rate is applied during the 15-
year period of analysis. Based on historical traffic growth data in Yemen, a 5 % growth rate has been
used in the analysis for the initial five years, while for the remaining period of analysis, a 2 % growth rate
was applied. This reduction after five years is based on the assumption that (i) a gradual reduction of fuel
subsidies will increase pump prices of fuel and somewhat discourage vehicle use, and (iii) increasing
problems of water availability in Yemen will cause an overall slowdown of economic development.
8.     Generated traffic. As mentioned above, generated traffic is defined as traffic which is presently
suppressed because of the very bad road conditions and the high Vehicle Operation Costs (VOC). Recent
studies carried out by consultants in Yemen show that generated traffic is very important and has



54
normally been underestimated in the past. Once roads are upgraded from unpaved to paved standard,
traffic growth rates of some 20 % per year are achieved over a 15-year period. For the pilot roads,
generated traffic is expected to materialize rather quickly after the completion of the road improvement.
The volume of generated traffic was calculated within the RED model as a function of the elalsticity
between transport cost (vehicle operating costs) and transport demand. Based on previous studies in
developing countries, the range of price elasticity is between 0.6 and 2.0. For the case of Yemen, and
based on the experience of earlier projects, the team assumed an elasticity of 1.5 . It should be noled that
that the resulting level of generated traffic is on the conservative side, especially when considering the
enormous improvement brought about by the upgrading of the Pilot Roads to a paved condition. Actual
generated traffic may be far greater than the value used in the analysis.
9.    Diverted traffic. Three of the five pilot road projects to be imnplemented under Phase I of the
RAP will link two paved roads of the main road network to each other. The importance of those Pilot
Roads therefore goes much beyond providing access to rural areas, since after their improvement they
will also have the important function of a link within the main road network. These are the following
three roads:
* Thula - Amran: This road will link the highly populated areas of Hajjah and Amran (north of the
Pilot Road) with the areas of Shibam and Al Mahwit (south of the Pilot Road). Connection is
presently provided by going through the Sana'a area. The estimated saving in travel distance is 60
km on average.
*  Al Mahwit - Khamis Bani Sa'd: This road will link the highly populated areas of Shibam and Al
Mahwit (north of the Pilot Road) with the main road between Sana'a and Hudaydah (south of the
Pilot Road). The road will divert almost all traffic between the Al Mahwit area and the coastal
lowlands of Yemen around Al Hudaydah. Connection between these areas is presently provided by
going through the Sana'a area. The estimated saving in travel distance is 120 km on average.
*  At Turbah - Tawr al Bahah. This road will link the highly populated area along the Taizz - At
Turbah road (north of the Pilot Road) with the cities of Aden and Lahj (south of the Pilot Road). The
road will divert almost all traffic between the At Turbah area and the coastal lowlands around Aden.
Connection between these areas is presently provided by going through Taizz. The estimated saving
in travel distance is 130 km on average.
For those roads, it is certain that some traffic will be diverted from other parts of the main road network to
the newly improved Pilot Road. An Origin-Destination survey was carried out in order to determ ine the
likely volume of diverted traffic for each of those three roads. Traffic was intercepted on the alternative
road, and drivers were asked if they would use the upgraded road if it existed. The results were as
follows: (i) for the Thula-Amran road, 9 passenger cars and 10 pick-up trucks per day would switch to
this road instead of the alternative road now being used; (ii) for the Al Mahwit - Khanis Bani Sa'di road,
7 passenger cars and 25 pick-up trucks per day would switch to this road; (iii) for the At Turbah - Tawr al
Bahah road, 6 passenger cars and 13 pick-up trucks per day would switch to this road. The traffic
volumes for the "with-project scenario" are summarized below:
< d ,~~~~~~~0L-             W.
Road                ......               77#a      5r    yer~i*           -~r t5y
Road         f..---  -.   *                            -  F--.
Thula-Arnran     33       39       48      40       48      58     19     23       28
Kuhlan-Al        22       26       32      22       27      33      -      -       -
Magrabah                                                                        _.
At Taffah-       34       41       50       7       8       10     -       -       -
Awwin                                     _____
At Turbah-Towr    58      70       85       67      81      99     19     23       28
al Bahah
Al Mahwit-       43       52       63       50      60      73     32      39      47
Khamis Bani Sa'd                                                                  _ -



55
It should further be noted that even the other two Pilot Roads are part of longer connections between
paved sections of the main road network, but it will take a number of years before those connections can
be actually completed. It is clear that their economic rate of return will be much enhanced once the entire
connection is completed, which is likely to happen during Phases II and III of the RAP.
10.   Costs of Pilot Road improvements. The estimated cost for the five pilot roads is as follows:
Unit Cost    Road Length  Total Cost
(US$/km)    (km)           (US$ million)
*  Thula-Amran Road:                     111.000      25.6          2.842
*  Kuhlan Affar - Al Maghrabah           134.000       15.8         2.117
*  At Taffah - Awwin                      85.000      42.3          3.596
*  At Turbah - Towr al Bahah             161.000        8.8         1.416
*  Al Mahwit - Khamis Bani Sa'd          138.000       21.3         2.939
These values have been used in the economic analysis. The investment phase (construction time) was
assumed to be one year, based on the experience made in earlier road construction projects in Yemen.
11.   Sensitivity analysis and switching value. The overall economic analysis included a sensitivity
analysis. The scenarios analyzed included: (i) costs increase by 25 percent; (ii) benefits decrease by 25
percent; and (iii) there is a simultaneous cost increase of 25 percent and a benefit reduction of also 25
percent. A switching value was calculated for the construction cost at which the NPV is zero. It is
expressed as a factor of the base construction cost.
12.   Summary of results for Pilot Roads. The table below summarizes the results of the economic
analysis of the Pilot Rural Roads. There are clearly two different groups of Pilot Roads. The first group
consists of three roads which besides their rural access function will also have the function of links
between parts of the main road network. Their economic rate of return is between 64 percent and 124
percent in the base case. The second group consists of two roads which after their completion will
provide rural access only, and which will not play a "link" role, at least not until they are continued to
points much beyond the project length. Their economic rate of return is between 25 percent and 41
percent. In the sensitivity analysis, none of the five Pilot Roads falls under the typical 12 percent IRR
threshold in the worst scenario.
YEMEN - Rural Access Improvement Program (Phase 1)
Economic Analysis Summary Table for Pilot Rural Roads
Thula- Amran    IRR      53%        43%        40%         32%             3.8
______ ______  NPV    5.820    5.307      3.852       3.338
Kuhlan-AI        IRR     1 7%       13%        12%          8%             1.3
Maghrabah        NPV     1.442      0.258     -0.102       -1.286
Ad Taffah -      IRR     30%        23%        22%         17%             2.1
Awwin            NPV    3.710       2.880      1.953       1.123
At Turbah -      IRA     69%        56%        53%         43%             5.09
Towr al Bahah    NPV    12.259     11.511      8.446       7.697
Kbamis Bani Sa'd  IRR    46%        37%        35%         28%             3.3
- Al Mahwit      NPV    17.673     15.748     11.330       9.404
NPV in US$ million, at a 12 percent Discount Rate



56
Economic analysis for Rehabilitation of Al Ahmar - Al Nagbah road.
13.    Summary of original economic evaluation. The ongoing Transport Rehabilitation 'roject
originally included the Am Ayn - Naqabah road section of about 100 km length, and the project was
appraised and is included in the SAR for that project. HDM 1II was used for the economic evaluation, and
the results were as shown below:
Am Ayn - Nagabah Road Rehabilitation         IRR (%)           NPV (US$ million
- Base Case                                    41.5                  31.51
- Cost increase of 20 %                        36.4                  30.0
- Benefit decrease of 20 %                     35.3                  23.7
- Combined: CotF increase of 20 % and          30.7                  22.3
Benefit decrease of 20 %
Note: NPV at discount rate of 10 percent
The switching value analysis revealed that if the costs increases by a factor of between 3.2 and 4.5
(depending on road section), the NPV would tum negative.
The RAP appraisal mission team carried out a revision of the basic parameters of this road and its
economic evaluation, with the purpose to verify if the satisfactory rate of return which was calculated in
1995 is still valid.
14.   Project characteristics and costs. The detailed technical studies carried out after 1995 showed
that the road section to be rehabilitated would need to be extended beyond Am Ayn and include an
additional section of 14 km length, of almost identical characteristics in terms of costs and traffic. The
road section for which rehabilitation is to be financed under the RAP is thus identified as Al A imar -
Naqabah, of a total length of 114 km. The unit cost which was used for the original economic ana lysis in
1995 was US$ 51,720 per km and did not include widening of the road from six meters to seven neters.
Present cost estimates are in the order of US$ 60,000 per km without widening, and US$ 75,001) if the
road is widened to 7 meter pavement width.
15.   Traffic volume. The 1995 economic evaluation was based on traffic counts carried oul at that
time, which indicated an average daily traffic of 1200 vehicles. The growth projection was six percent
per year, resulting in a projected traffic volume of around 2000 vehicles per day in the yeai 2003.
However, actual traffic growth has outperformed the projections by a wide margin. The 1999 traffic
count showed an actual traffic volume of which was already close to 2000 vehicles per day. This strong
growth is caused in part by a strong overall economic development during the recent years, in area
between Habban, Azzan and Mayfa'ah, and also in Al Mukalla.
16.   Overall conclusion. In conclusion one can say that: (i) the increase in the estimated project cost
is moderate, and will in the economic analysis most likely be compensated for by increases in un t VOC
savings; and (ii) traffic growth rates are much higher than anticipated in the original economic evaluation.
These two factors make it certain that the economic rate of return of the project (without widening) is
significantly higher than calculated in 1995. The high traffic growth rates also ensure that wide ling of
the road to seven meters pavement width is economically viable and justifiable.



57
Annex 5: Financial Management Summary
Yemen: Rural Access Program
A.    Organization Structure
1.     The overall responsibility for financial management and accounting of the Part A of the project is
with the Central Management Office (CMO) for Rural Road. A Rural Roads Steering Committee, chaired
by the Minister of the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, would provide the necessary
oversight, control and guidance to the CMO. The RAP organization structure for Phase I is presented
below:
Organization Chart
Rural Access Program
.................... ............................ ......... 
Other Steering Comnmte
Steering        ...... Members: Representatives fomnr
Steering              - Ministty of Public Works and
Committee               Urban Development
Minister of Public Works and  - Ministry of Planning and
Urban Development - Chairman    Development
- Minist,y of Finanoo
- Ministry of Local Adninistration
- Ministry of Ag,iacltute
Central              - Road MAintenance Fund
Managemin         MnGentera Manager CMO
Office (CMIO)
(General Manager)
|AdministrtoPocemetPlang                               Evionmn an           Reioa
and Accounts                           Design       |    Social            Offices
l Supervision       Managemen
B.     Assessment of Financial Management System
2.     Part A. For Part A components of the Project, the CMO would maintain books of accounts for
the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial management reports, and ensure
timely audit of the financial statements. The CMO is already established by a Prime Minister Decree, and
is headed by a General Manager appointed by a Ministerial Decree. A Finance and Accounting Officer
has been selected and appointed following IDA no-objection, and additional accounting staff will be
recruited as required before effectiveness and during project implementation. A detailed description of
the project's financial management arrangements, including the project's flow of funds, are found in the
Project Inplementation Plan (PIP) manual.
3.     The FMS to be developed for the CMO would be based on principles and procedures defined by
the legal framework applicable to the public sector, and more specifically to governmental institutions.
The main characteristics of the CMO's system are outlined below:
4.     Accounting system. Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on double-entry
bookkeeping principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized accounting
system, which would be developed and operational in the CMO. The accounting system, based on the
cash basis and the outline of budget components would be operational and reflected on official books
maintained manually within the first three months, until the computerized system is in place. The
accounting book would reflect the government contribution; the balances related to the amounts
disbursed, reflecting the transactions of the special accounts and the remaining balance at the end of each



58
period.
5.    Budgeting system. An annual approved budget for procurement and disbursement wculd be
issued by CMO based on the needs and actions to be undertaken. The annual budget would be submitted
to the Rural Roads Steering Committee, which would be in-charge of controlling the budget.
6.    CMO Disbursements. Payments to contractors and supplier would be authorized by the General
Manager and the Financial Accounting Officer of the CMO. Their budget would be prepared at the
central level and would be processed by the accounting staff who would be responsible for the issumce of
all the transactions according to the DCA. The CMO would also be responsible for the reconciliai ion for
all IDA transactions.
7.    Internal Controls. A fiduciary responsibility of control of the budget exe,cution and monLitoring
would rest with the Rural Roads Steering Committee. The Central Organization for Control and Audit
(COCA) will conduct an annual audit of the Government contribution to the Project. In accordmnce to
IDA requirements, appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA would be completed by
July 30, 2001, to allow the CMO to benefit from the added value of the external auditors' opinion during
the annual mandatory review of the adequacy of the financial management arrangements and its internal
control system. In addition to the issuance of an opinion on the project financial statements, the external
auditor would be required to submit an annual management letter highlighting its observations on the
internal control system as well as recommendations to improve the monitoring and execution of the
Project. The Terms of Reference (TOR) of such assignment would be submitted to IDA for no-objection
prior to inviting proposals from interested private auditors.
8.    ProjectMonitoring. The CMO will be responsible for project monitoring and reporting. T-uis unit
consists of several high level staff (General Manager, Finance and Accounting Officer, Proclurement
Officer, Environmental and Social Officer, Planning and Design Officer and Supervision Officer), and
will manage all rural access road projects with international financing. The CMO would issue the
quarterly monitoring reports based on information received from regional representatives. These reports
would combine physical implementation data, as well as financial information related to commitments,
disbursements and available balances from the credit. There is a need to explain in the PIP manual (i) the
roles of the Steering Committee, CMO, and the Regional representatives involved in the implementation
of projects; and (ii) examine whether it would be possible to integrate the MIS and accounting sy stem to
ensure the issuance of an efficient and comprehensive project management reporting system.
C. General Assessment and Scope for Improvement
9.    General Assessment. The FMS assessment of the CMO including its accountability would be
undertaken as soon as the Financial Management System (FMS) is in place. It should be noted that the
Government agreed to recruit a Consultant [(Consulting Firm) (agreed TOR for Computerized
Accounting and Management Information Systems is filed in the PIP)] to assist in the development of the
financial accounting and management information systems, to be financed from the Project.
10.   Scope for improvement. The initial assessment indicates that several actions would have to be
undertaken to finalize the whole process in order for the CMO to implement a comprehensive
management information and accounting systems. Except for the recruitment of the Finance and
Accounting Officer and the engagement of a finance consultant/consulting firm, these actions are mainly
related to: (i) the staffing of the CMO in order to operate according to its mandate; (ii) the purchas- of the
needed hardware; and (iii) strengthening of the CMO through training.
11.   Financial Management Svstem for the Project. Since the CMO will not be operating fully until
July 2001, there is a need during the transition period to set up special arrangements for the management
and monitoring of the proposed Project.
a Identiflcation of the CMO FMS staff headed by the General Manager, and assisted by the Finance



59
and Accounting Manager. Job descriptions and responsibilities should be issued in writing and
included in the Financial Management and Accounting Manual of Procedures (FMAM).
  Hiring of a specialized consultant in accounting, finance, and information system in order to issue an
FMAM for the project according to TORs acceptable to the IDA. This FMAM will define the flows
of funds, the internal control rules, the finance and disbursement procedures, the relationship between
all the internal and external entities involved in the project implementation, the chart of accounts, and
the reporting procedures and rules.
* Acquisition of the needed hardware for the CMO. This action will launch the training program and
improvement of the staffs skills on the hardware/software application.
*  Hiring of a short-term consultant to assist the CMO during the first 12 months. This highly qualified
accounting and finance consultant will review on a weekly basis the financial accounting, and
banking records related to the project and address the insufficiencies. This consultant would also play
a role of trainer for the CMO staff involved in project implementation. Specific TORs must be issued
and submitted to the IDA.
  Development of training program. This action would comprise specific training sessions for
procurement, disbursement, accounting, project and financial management, and generation of PMRs.
The program would include all staff involved in project implementation, as well as their backups. The
capacity, knowledge, background, and experience of each would be taken into account to meet the
needs.
D. Financial Management System Setup
12.   Organization Finance and Accounting. The CMO General Manager (GM) has been designated
officially as overall coordinator of the project. The GM is responsible for monitoring and evaluation as
well as procurement, finance, budgeting, and accounting functions. He is responsible for recruiting an
adequate number of qualified staff for the CMO. To establish a sound financial management system, the
GM and FAM will be assisted during a period of 12 months, by a qualified financial management and
accounting specialist (TOR for Computerized Accounting and Management Systems is filed in the PIP)
working part time on a weekly basis. The Consultant would install the computerized financial
management accounting system in the CMO. This short-term consultant is expected to demonstrate a
reasonable knowledge and understanding of World Bank procurement, disbursement, project accounting,
financial reporting and auditing guidelines and procedures.
13.   Selection of the Financial and Accounting staff will be based on the following criteria: (i)
University degree in accounting or finance; (ii) at least ten years experience, with preference given to
consultant whose qualifications include several combinations of the following: both public and private
sector accounting, banking, planning and budgeting, procurement and contract management, and previous
or current assignments with agency managing international financing; and (iii) knowledge of international
accounting standards and internal control procedures.
14.   Financial accounting and management information policies for the project have to be developed.
These policies are crucial for ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the
various stakeholders and finance staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies
inter-alia cover the following aspects: (i) expenditures that would be treated as project expenditures
including their classification; (ii) expenditures, which would be eligible for reimbursement from IDA
credit; and (iii) project accounting policies. These policies would be gradually expanded and refined to
include aspects such as efficient management and deployment of funds, internal control policies, etc. Sub-
area managers would comply with the financial and accounting policies of the project by signing a
memorandum of understanding.
15.   Project Accounting Svstem. The regional offices involved in the project implementation would
be coordinating with the CMO for any project planning and procurement at the regional level. The CMO



60
would maintain the books of accounts for the Part A components managed under their responsibility,
prepare and disseminate financial management reports, and ensure timely transmission cf these
documents to the Steering Committee. The Finance and Accounting Manager would be in charge of the
consolidation process and issuance of the annual project financial statements and the quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs), as well as the submission of these documents on a timely basis to t.he IDA
and to the auditors.
16.    The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)   Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on double-entry bookkeeping
principles. Project accounts would be maintained using a computerized accounting system,
which would be developed. For the future, the computerized accounting system v'ould be
developed as a networked system, which would eventually connect also the CMO r-egional
offices with the central office.
(ii)  Project accounting would cover all sources and utilization of project funds. This would
include payments made to and expenditures incurred. All project-related tran,3actions
(whether involving cash or not) would be taken into account in the reporting system.
Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account maintained by GOY
would also be included in the project accounting system. Funds received from c ifferent
sources would be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts.
(iii) Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other CMO activities.
This distinction would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance
for the project capturing all projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the
project would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project has to be developed. The
Chart of Accounts should conform to the classification of expenditures and sources of funds
as indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Aopraisal
Document). The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be captured in a manner to facilitate
financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure
categories; and (iii) disbursement categories.
(iv)  A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements/financial reports and
the legal books of accounts must be defined.
(v)   Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to f.nancial
costs would be identified and maintained as part of the project financial management
system. Initially, this would be maintained for some high cost items that represent a
significant portion of the project cost, and items for which data on physical activitie. can be
easily captured. These items have to be identified and indicated in the Internal Control
Guidelines under the FMAM. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
17.   Issuance of the accounting procedures manual for the project which will outline at a minlimum:
(a) job responsibilities within the CMO; (b) monthly and annually accounting ledger closing and
reconciliation procedures including the consolidation of data; (c) accounting policies; and (d) banking and
cash procedures. It is important that the writing of this manual of procedures be completed by September
1, 2001, for distribution to all CMO staff.
18.   Information Flow for Accounting Purposes. The information flow will be as follows:
(i)    The CMO would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for
expenditures on activities directly managed at their level. Project accounts will be issued
on a monthly basis as well as the project financial statements;



61
(ii)   Expenditures incurred by each regional office would be reviewed by the project auditors
following the International Standards on Auditing and the World Bank guidelines; and
(iii)   This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and modified
as necessary.
19.   Internal Controls.  The project financial management system should include the following
internal control mechanisms:
(i)    Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance
with budgets and targets;
(ii)   Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies
which would govern financial management of and accounting for the project. These
policies and procedures would have to be included in the Financial Management and
Accounting Procedures Manual;
(iii)   Establishment at the transaction level of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring
acceptable internal controls mechanism, such as checking of expenditures, appropriate
documentation, levels of authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation,
physical verification, easy access to supporting documents etc. These policies and
procedures would have to be reviewed and updated periodically; and
(iv)   Implementation of a comprehensive system aiming at: (i) the consolidation of data at the
central level; and (ii) the issuance of the project financial statements and the PMR.
20.    Guidelines for Internal Control Procedures. Internal control has traditionally been defined as all
the policies and procedures used by management to protect an organization's assets and to ensure the
accuracy and reliability of the accounting records. Its also includes controls that deal with efficiency and
adherence to management policies. The principles of an internal control system are as follows:
*  Authorization - All transactions and activities should properly be authorized by management;
  Recording transactions - All transactions should be recorded to facilitate preparation of the financial
statements and to establish accountability of the assets;
*  Documents and records - The design, use and maintenance of adequate document should help to
ensure the proper recording of transactions;
*  Limited access - Access to assets should be permitted only with the management's authorization;
*  Periodic independent verification- Accounting records should be checked against the assets by
someone other than staff responsible for the records and assets;
*  Separation of duties - The organizational plan should separate functional responsibilities
(authorization, operating, handling assets and keeping the records ); and
* Sound personnel procedures - Sound practices should be followed in managing the people who carry
out the duties and functions.
21.   This document should reflect the CMO's activity including a description of: (a) staff positions
and responsibilities; (b) transaction flows; and (c) relation with regional offices, as well as external
authorities/administrations such as MPWUD, MOPD and MOF. This system would be reviewed in the
light of implementing experience and modified as necessary.



62
E. Financial Management Reports
22.   Quarterly Project Management Report (PMR) for the project would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. These reports would be management-orientedi (i.e.,
summaries rather than transactional details) and would be used for project monitoring and implementation
by each sub-area unit and at the central level. The PMRs should include the three following parts:
(i)    Financial Statements include:
* Summary of sources and uses of funds
 Uses of funds by project activity
* Project balance statement of affairs
* Cash withdrawal
* Cash forecast
* Special account statement
(ii)   Project progress statements include:
* Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
* Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii)   Procurement management report includes:
* Contract expenditure report - Goods and works
 Contract expenditure report - Consultant
* Procurement management report - Goods and works
* Procurement management report - Consultant
Formats of the reports should be part of the Financial Management and Accounting Manual.
23.   Annual Reports. Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the IDA.
PFS would include: (i) a statement of sources and uses of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds
received from various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) sc[ edules
classifying project expenditures by pilot road (cluster of roads), components and expenditure categories;
(iii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on th- basis
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to the IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
24.   Part B Component. The Project Implementing Unit (PIU) of the TRP in the Ministry of Public
Works and Urban Development would manage the Project's Part B. This unit is headed by a l'roject
Director and has two accountants. The only road project in Part B is the Al Ahmar-An Naqbah Road
Rehabilitation. The PIU would maintain the books of accounts for Part B in the same manner as for other
TRP expenditures, except that separate accounts will be kept and a separate SA will be set up for Part B
as discussed above. An assessment of the PIJ's current financial management system indicates that this
meets the minimum requirement of IDA.
F.    Audit Arrangements
25.   Two separate annual project financial statements for Part A and Part B accounts will be audited
by independent private auditors acceptable to IDA and will be submitted within six months after the end
of each fiscal year. There will also be two separate audits of the Special Accounts managed by the CMO
and the PIU. The quarterly technical and financial audit would be submitted within 45 days from end of
the quarter for the first 18 months. The Terms of Reference are filed in the PIP.



63
26.   The audit would be comprehensive and would cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and
uses of funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit will be carried out in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing. Terms of Reference (TORs) for this assignment should cover an audit of financial
transaction, the SOEs, SAs, PMRs, and an assessment of the accounting financial management system,
including review of internal control mechanisms. The CMO and the PIU would provide the auditor with
access to project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit.
The Auditor would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention
any issues, which need to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate
early completion of the annual audit.
G.    Financial Management Risks - Financial Management Capacity
27.   The financial management capacity within Yemen is still evolving and has been mitigated for this
project by the use of the CMO for project implementation, including financial management, drawing upon
its experience of projects of this nature, and of international auditors for the audit of the project. The
specific weaknesses of the CMO in respect of its financial management capacity are currently being
addressed by the engagement of financial management consultants. However, these weaknesses neither
compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the Borrower nor the Association. The training of staff is
part of the terms of reference of the Consultant that would ensure a strong FM capacity.
G. Timetable
28.   Assuming Board presentation on June 7, 2001, the CMO and PIU will be committed to the
following schedule for implementing the financial management action plan over the next 12 months.



64
ACTION                         OUTPUT             RESPONSIBILrY   EFFECTrIE DATE
(TENTATIVE)
Preparation of TOR for the consultants    Detailed program for the  Chairman, GM and  April 2001
and job position descriptions       implementation of the action   Consultant     (Complied with)
plan, TOR
Organization of the project         Organization Chart and job    GM and Consultant July 2001
(consulting services - 2 SW)        description
Appointment of Auditor              Signed contract            GM and SC          October 2001
Appointment of Procurement Officer  Signed Contract            GM and SC          July 2001
Program of Training of the CMO's staff  Program: contents and  GM                 September 2001
timetable
Implementation of the MIS and PFS   Set-up of the system and   GM and Consultant October 2001
testing
Training program                    Report on the training     GM and Consultant October 2 001 to
(consulting services - 10 SW)                                                     June 2002
Accounting System for the project   Chart of account and       GM and Consultant August 24)01
(consulting services - 4 SW)        accounting manual
Internal control guidelines         AFM Manual                 GM and Consultant September 2001
(consulting services -2 SW)
Reporting System                    Format and content of the  GM and IDA         December 2001
(consulting services - 2 SW)        PMR
Implementation of the PMR and training  Set up of the out put and  GM and Consultant January 2002
of the staff                        testing_
Evaluation of Financial Management  Financial management       GM and Consultant January 2002
System                              assessment report
Staff training                      Training performance report   GM and Consultant January 2002
Issuance of the first PMR           Integrated Management      GM                 April 2003
report
Issuance of the second PMR, and review   PMR and assessment report   GM and IDA   September 2003
of the system



65
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursements Arrangements
Yemen: Rural Access Program
A. Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Yemen was carried out in 2000. It showed that
the present legislation (Law No. 3 of 1997 concerning Government Tenders, Auctions and Stores, and
corresponding Regulations introduced by Decree No. 234 of 1997) is a significant improvement over the
previous legislation of 1991, but is not up to international standards, notably in the following areas: (i)
gaps in the Legislation; (ii) absence of Standard Bidding Documents (SBD's); and (iii) conflicts with
procurement guidelines of donors, including IDA. Even where rules exist, they are not necessarily
followed. It is not clear whether the inconsistent application of the Legislation stems from a lack of
understanding of these national rules, or from a lack of discipline in the civil service in charge of
enforcing the rules, or perhaps both.
The CPAR recommends that to fill the gaps in the legal framework and to clarify those points which seem
to conflict with donor's guidelines, or which are ambiguous, national SBD's for goods, works and services
should be prepared, together with a comprehensive National Procurement Manual. The manual should
encompass the Law, the Regulations, the new SBD's and a plain language commentary. Where the
Legislation shows gaps or is open to different interpretation, and practice seems to be inconsistent, the
Manual should provide guidance with step-by-step instructions. Where the Legislation is in conflict with
donor's rules, the Manual would have to distinguish between provisions which are binding according to
national law, and which are yet unacceptable under the guidelines. In the latter case, the Manual would
have to provide acceptable step-by-step solutions to satisfy the Guidelines of donors, including IDA.
B. General
For the Rural Access Program (RAP), Civil Works and Goods financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). For procurement under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), Bank Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Evaluation Report will be used. For
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), in the absence of national SBD's the Bank's SBD's will be used,
with modifications acceptable to IDA, in English or Arabic language. For small works (under US$
500.000), National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out.
Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and
January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for
appointment of consultants. Simplified standard contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be issued in the United Nations Development Business, to
advertise for major consulting assignments and to obtain expressions of interest, and for any ICB for
works and goods. It will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement. A GPN will also be
published in the national press or official gazette for contracts under NCB and to obtain expression of
interest from national consultants. The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs,
and procurement methods are summarized in the attached tables. Also attached is the Procurement Plan
which includes all envisaged procurement for the first half of the project. The Procurement Plan will be
updated regularly during the project period. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement
methods and prior review are described below.



66
C. Civil Works
Civil Works contracts financed by IDA are estimated at US$ 46.35 million including taxes, duties and
contingencies. They will cover: (i) the improvement of Pilot Intermediate Rural Roads; and (ii) the
improvement of village access roads. It is expected that some works contracts will be below US$3
million, and it was agreed during preparation that these would be advertised only locally, but olherwise
applying Bank Procurement Guidelines for ICB and using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents.
Works contracts valued under US$ 500,000 may be procured using simplified Bidding documents
acceptable to IDA. The bidding processes for civil works contracts for the Pilot Rural Roads will be
managed by the CMO. The bidding process for the rehabilitation of the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road will
be managed by MPWUD, in particular by the PIU in charge of the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation
Project. Prequalification of contractors will be carried out for all works contracts (both NCB a.id ICB)
under the Program, using the IDA prequalification procedures. All responsive bids will be evaluated and
the qualification of the lowest evaluated bidder will be reconfirmed during bid evaluation and before
deciding on the contract award.
D. Goods
Contracts for Goods financed by IDA (totaling US$ 0.46 million) relate mainly to furniture, office
equipment, computers, and vehicles. ICB procedures would apply to grouped vehicles purchases above
US$ 300,000. The remaining contracts for goods, costing less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$0.5 million -- which are not likely to be suitable for ICB because of their small size, and
correspond to goods available locally at economical prices to be delivered over a period of three or four
years -- would be procured through NCB. Small items, which cannot be grouped into contracts of at least
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$0.2 million, may be procured through
prudent national or intemational shopping, on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three reputable
suppliers.
E. Consultant Services.
Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) studies, technical design, civil work supervision,
preparation of bidding documents, establishment of accounting systems, financial management support,
technical audits, and financial audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical matters and training. Consultants
financed by IDA, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selecr:ion and
Employment of Consultants (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999). Selection
would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the technical quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost
evaluation, by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The CMO would issue widely
publicized procurement notices to get candidacies from consultants (firms and individuals). lBased on
agreed upon criteria, the CMO will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to
establish short-lists.
Other methods would also apply. For services of a standard nature such as land surveys, the Least-Cost
Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being selected,
provided its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying mark.
Consultants services for institutional support (estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract) would
be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), based on the consultants' experience and cornpetence
relevant to the assigmnent.
Services for lectures, advisory services and small studies would be selected through comparison of
qualifications among Individual Consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment, or approached
directly. This would represent up to an aggregate amount of US$ 200,000.



67
F. IDA Reviews.
The review process would cover about 90 percent of the contract amounts for works, goods, and
consultants.
Contracts for works financed by IDA, above the threshold value of US$500,000 equivalent, will be subject
to IDA's prior review procedures. Contracts for goods financed by IDA, above the threshold value of
US$200,000 equivalent, will also be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Selective post-review of
contracts awarded below the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried
out by Bank staff-- using audits, and other consultants, as necessary.
Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants. Prior IDA review for the
selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, terms of reference, short-lists, selection
procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, proposals for contract awards, and negotiated
contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitmnent of consulting firms and
individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However,
the exception to prior IDA review will not apply, regardless of the contract value, to: (i) the Terms of
Reference of such contracts; (ii) to single-source hiring; (iii) to assignments of a critical nature as
determined by IDA; or (iv) to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the above-
mentioned prior review thresholds. For all consultant contracts subject to prior review (initial cost
estimate above US$100,000), opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the
Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrower
for ex-post reviews by auditors (technical and financial audits) and by IDA supervision missions at least
two years after the Project's closing date.
For training abroad and in-country, the training program -- containing names of candidates, costs
estimates, content of courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions -- will be reviewed
by IDA annually.
Frequency of procurement supervision. One supervision mission every six months will include a
procurement specialist to carry out procurement post-reviews. It will also review the technical audit
reports carried out by an independent consultant financed under the project. Those reports would have to
be issued at least twice a year.
Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase aggregate cost
by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA's
prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
G. Procedures Manuals and Agreements.
As part of the Project Implementation Plan, there will be a Procedures Manual on administrative
procedures and internal organization. This would include: (i) eligibility criteria for selecting sub-projects
for implementation under the proposed project; (ii) procedures for calling for bids, selecting contractors,
consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; (iii) internal organization for supervision and control of
works; (iv) financial management, budgeting, accounting, and disbursement procedures; and (v)
procedures for handing over completed works. The draft Project Implementation Plan will be reviewed by
IDA before it is formally adopted by the borrower. The formal adoption of the Procedures Manual will be
a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
During negotiations, the Government will also give assurance that it will: (a) use and apply the Procedures
Manual; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for
the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (c) update the procurement plan on a
regular basis before IDA supervision missions, or more frequently if needed, in order to compare target
times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA; and (d) carry out, during supervision missions, an
assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's



68
procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the
current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining corapliance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.
The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
7777.77 .7-.7 . -jf  by - '' .'   '..W..
Pr~~urenm~~t Th~~trn            Maxim,a r     iber.o  ek
Preparation of bidding documents for goods 4 (6 for large contracts)
and consultant services
Time given to bidders for preparation of bids 4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                           2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                   2 (after IDA non-objection)
Payments                                 3 (after submission of invoice)



69
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuremenxt Methofl J)
Civil Works              31.58     14.77                                        46.35
(26.56)   (12.42)                                     (38.98)
Goods                     0.13      0.22                   0.12                  0.46
(0.12)    (0.20)                 (0.11)               (0.43)
Consultinn Services                            4.70                              4.70
(4.70)                           (4.70)
Project Management                                                    1.11       1.11
(0.89)    (0.89)
Total                    31.70      14.98      4.70        0.12        1.11     52.61
(26.67)   (12.62)    (4.70)      (0.11)     (0.89)    (45.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
govermnent units.



70
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms        3.44     0.20     0.00     0.86     4.50
(3.44)   (0.20)   (0.00)   (0.86)   (4.50)
B. Individuals   0.00    0.20     0.00     0.00     0.20
(0.00)   (0.20)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.20)
Totals          3.44     0.40     0.00     0.86     4.70
(3.44)   (0.40)   (0.00)   (0.86)   (4.70)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
OBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.



71
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                  Above 500,000               ICB
All contracts above
500,000 and below            NCB                   500,000
2. Goods                  Above 200,000               ICB
All contracts above
200,000 and below            NCB                   200,000
50,000 and below           NS or IS
3. Services for Firms     Above 100,000              QCBS               Contracts above
100,000
100,000 and below    LCS/Single Source/CQ    Contracts above 50,000
Individual Consultants
20,000 and above        Single Source       Contracts above 50,000
Below 20,000          Single Source
) Terms of Reference for all consultants contracts, as well as single source appointments, irrespective of
dollar amount, are subject to prior review.



72
Disbursement
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Civil Works
-Five Pilot Roads                  12.40                84
- Unidentified Intermediary Roads  11.50                 84
- Village Access Roads      __      4.50                 84
Part B road (Al Ahmer - Nagabah)   8.90                 84
Goods
100% of foreign, and
Under Part A of the Project        0.40          90 % of local costs
100% of foreign, and
Under Part B of the Project        0.05          90 % of local costs
Consulting Services
- Under Part A of the Project       4.25                 100
- Under Part B of the Project                            100
Project Management Costs            0.80                 80
Unallocated                         2 20
Total           _    45.00
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): Allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement categories and
percentages financed by the loan are presented in Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring
the Bank's prior review would be submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for
contracts valued at less than US$500,000 for works, US$100,000 for the services of consulting firms and
US$50,000 for the services of individual consultants, and training, as well as disbursements for all goods
contracts costing less than US$200,000, would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOE). Documentation to support these expenditures would be maintained by the CMO. These documents
would be made available for review by visiting Bank missions and for project auditing.
Special Account and Funds Flow. The Borrower would establish two special foreign currency accounts
(Special Accounts) with the Central Bank, where IDA funds would be deposited - one to be managed by
the CMO for Part A of the project and another by the PIU in-charge Part B of the project. For Part A of
the Project (RAP- Phase I) the authorized allocation for the Special Account would be $2.5 million. The
authorized allocation would be US$ 600,000 for the Special Account for Part B of the Project. However,
the initial allocation for the Special Account for Part A of the Project shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $1.5 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from Part A of the credit exceeds
SDR 7 million. The initial allocation for the Special Account for Part B of the Project shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from Part B of the credit
exceeds SDR 2 million. When withdrawals are made on the basis of PMRs, the amount deposited in the
Special Account should not exceed $4 million in respect of Special Account for Part A of the Project and
S1 million in respect of Part B of the Project. The special account would be audited annually by an



73
independent private auditor acceptable to IDA.
In parallel with the Special Account, the Borrower would also open a special local currency account
(Project Account), to which the Government counterpart funds would be transferred. Both the Special
Account and the Project Account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Initially, the Project will adopt the traditional disbursement system. However, as soon as the Project
adopts the PMR-based disbursement system, the CMO would prepare and submit its cash-flow
projections for the first two quarters of the first year (of PMR-based disbursement). These PMRs,
together with the withdrawal applications, would be sent to IDA to request payments of advances to the
Special Account at the Central Bank. The CMO would be authorized to issue payments to the
beneficiaries from the Special Account, in accordance with the policies and procedures specified in the
Accounting and Financial Management Manual.
Disbursement Forecast (by Calendar Year)
Implementation Period
2001      2002       2003       2004       Total
Investment Costs   2.91     20.22      17.41      11.55      52.06
Recurrent Costs    0.05       0.23      0.21       0.06       0.55
Total             2.93       20.45     17.62      11.61      52.61
Financing
IDA               2.40       16.30     15.00      11.30      45.00
Government        0.53       4.15       2.62       0.31       7.61
Total             2.93       20.45     17.62      11.61      52.61



:Procurement Plan                     Page I (of 3)                   WOK                                                 Dae.Upae
'Project:                       .- Yemen Rural Access Prjct                                   .
Contract            Ardrevert.                                                                                                                  F    W ~ an                at.atCotat              ok
..e.c.....n     . m. ot    Amount    Qualifi-   Review by    Unit        Actual      Pols. complete   Non-Objank                                          Non-Obj.  Amourp   Sinaur           ~    ]n
Method      (Us$)    cation     Bank 7d (d)t(date                                                                                         (datea).              (d
2  KuinlM~rbh                    tB         u           Prqual.  jPnor Rev.             Plan                              IlJl-l2-Ot6    05-Nov-01  1-o-13De01   23Jn-20-Fb0                      18-Feb-01l 28-Feb-63
Road ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tVActual   -
3  Atlaffah - . ICB    o            Prequal.  Prior Rev             Plan          15-May-Cl  23-Aug-Cl  05-Sep-61  15-Sen-Cl 31-Oct-01   23-anNosv-01Aug00-Dec-01            18-Dec-01e   31-Dec-62
iAvwwn Road                                                                          Acua
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
06  Other Pilot Rpoads            IB        u           Prqo    Pror R ev               PlIa n        15M    123-Au   1  05 Sep-01  15-Sep-01 31 -Oct-61   23-Nov-01  04 Dec601 ____18-ec01  31 Dec6
(to bo defined                                                                  MMNFActual
lPlan        I4-~
lActual    j
PART i
-.i               i   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---    -  ------     -   -- -  -  - ---     ----                                                         ...........--- -. -- .- -- -
I ~Thula-Amran Road                                                  25 6        e           ontirera4                     f2.  m _
2JKuhlanAfMar- All Maghrabah                                         15     ...   o          u15.8km section offutur -roadtJA y hrabah and Al J2rnimah                                          -.._.___
G35 Eff    :r                                                      23          o           x42.3 km section ef future through road to Oayhan                                      ---------
4'At Turbah-Towral 8ahah                                             88          x           u                   .8ksectinnruffutuTethsro   roa  cnnectinaAtTurbah with Towrer l Bahah
6larios8am Sa'd-Aytta a -_!Al Mahwt                               21.3   . .....X2x1 .3 km section oftfuture th-rough road connecting Al Mawith Khsrmis Barn So'd
65there (to be defined)                        . .x                                                            !estimate         .-
.-.-.1138                                                                       -..        -.   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.----.. .....- ----
otwl-uch. RAlPP~~~~~~~~~~~~~otRaade_l~~~~~~~~~~~. ~ ~       ~- ~ ~ .........-____,.-. ...... .....-                                                                                            --..
ICEPackac                              -~~~~~~~~~~~   . ............. . .  ..... .       -      ...                         ....-------.-......                                                       -...... .
--                    -   y~~~~~~~1 = reen,   'Rouds to he iderrtitiadrjooeI    ~--.                                                                                     --
grey . ..............                                                                               . . . . .. . .   .. .         . ......



Procurement Plan                              Page 2 (of 3)                       GOODS                                         ;Date / Update:   |-May-01
............  .......................  ........  .-..........   ...................   . . ............................ ..................... .......................  ...........    ... .  .......I..........    ........... ............  ........  .   ................  .  ............ ..............  . . ............. . . ... ....................
Project:                              Yemen Rural Access Pro.ject
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... _.._. ......... ....... ....... ............ ........._....    ..... )..._. ..   - - ......._. _..._.....   .._...   .. . . . ..  .    .~........  ..     .._...
..........   ....~. .....    ..... 70-3 9,1                                                                                                                     ..........                  *......  .     -    .      . .....
~~~~~~~~~~~.._:...  ... _......     .     ._    ... ... ........ ............. ...............I......._ .... ._ . ...... .... .  ..,,_._ _...... .. .....
~~~~~~~...  _..__..    ..._ ....  ......... _ ._..      _          _    _  _ ....... :.._ .........                                                  ....... ........ . 5di  ouet......Sn3i dEvlaon_ ...: ............._.._.
......                           5..~..         ~.                  .    .
______________________________________________________________                           Bidinq Document            Send           Bid           Bid Evaluation
Contract          Ptocure-   Allcated          P os PDt Prcr Po    P!  urn           Pla  vs      Advert   Poumnent   _5ank             invitatin     oein e  r     erto          Bnk       C tat         Corct           Dlvy
............... ..Po      .u.t,LMRYtg]                     IP!t   2psf?!..-                              -        .       -
I     Description            m- nent    Amount    Qualifi-    Revyew by           Unt        Act           Pubi       complete   Non-Obj.    to bid                          Bank       Non-Ob.   Amount Sianaur                  o    e
... l                ~Method         (US$)  fcation   I   Bank 2                  .                    (date)      (date)       (date)       (date)        (date)        (date)      (date)       (US$)  ff (date)             (date) 
1 jlTEquipmentfor   lNationa!  |see PAD   |None                    fPost Rev.                   Plan         1-Apr-Ol  15-Ap r-Dr0-                                             N/A         VNA                     20-May-01   3D-Mav-l
Cmo                      Shopp.                {                                  .        Actual                                                                                    I             L
Vehic les fo r       _ICB            see PAD    PNone             no                        Plan          1-Jun-01  20-Jun-01  30-Jun-01   I -Jul-01             -          -Au -Dl  1
. CMO                                            iNono                                     Actual at
3  IOffiCe FUrnitUre         Natinal   see PAD    None              Post Rev.                  plan           1-Apr-D1  15-Apr-l         N/A       18-Ar-01   10-May-Dl    N/A              VNA                      20-Ma  0         Ma  -01
iifor Co                 iShopp.   AI              I                                     A ctual  J
4  IOfficeSulpies            National__ see PAD   tNonie           iPostRev.  .i            Pl an             1- l-Ar-D    15-A r-01     N/A      118-Apr-0l  101Ma-01r           N/A l       N/A A                  0Ap-Ma-D10     30-Ma-11 NA
.4_                    .___.___ ._   .... IN  t!R    _I .  PA  INn  Pst Ra.   @              Y aX                                                                                                                   I 20-May'    I 30M
and Equipment            Shopp.                               .                            Actual
5  Vehic'esfor               NC        |seaPAD    None             |PostRev.                 Pan           | -Apr115-Aprl                MIA       18-Apr-Ol  I0-May-01    N/A                N/A                     20MayOD| 30-May-Dl
IRegional offices                                                                            Atal            i1    11
t  t   |   l   l   |   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atual|                                                              f                                                                                                            I
7  Others                                                     . .7   P.a ___.__._ _._ _.__.__.__.__._.__.__.                                                                                                             __.    __
to ibe defned                                                                  *-l l     gkul                        lE E
o  l                        I           I             I            I             I            IPlan
1   I   l   l   l   l   lActual    |   ' E   l          -  II  I



'Procurement Plan                        Page 3 (of 3)   CONSULTING SERVICES                                          DateI Update:   |______
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .      ....    ....    .......  . ........       -............                  .    ....  ...................  ..........  ...    ...   ...     ...   ...                                        ...    ...   .   ...   ...    ...   
.Project:                    ';Yemen Rural AccessPrjeqct                                                             .
:   :      :                      Request             ;                     :                                 Peqee:
...............-.-                                         __   __             I          . ._.
.~~~~~~i Ex 5pr.    Tenms of Releence                                                                                            .
-_:                 -              -           -           -      of Interest    and Short Uit          Qe uest Tor Pro   sal      Opening    .*Enalatftn Tfchnicai (11 and Finajl   .
Aloi atd _               Procrurino   Prano    Arkm e    to Book     Bank    to Bank    Bank        Send out      of     T   Bank   TBank   Fto Bank                  Contract  Contra
Descriplion           m iert    or time-    Psoouot  Reaiew by    Unlit       Arin      PubbTf  fin N-Oh .  Non-3bj.  fur N-Obj.  Non Ohi    Rw         Proposals  t.,rN-0b    Noe-Obi  fbr N-Oh)   Non-Otq    Am.u.n.t. Srgn!atso     Delner    0
M. .-   liethod    based?  IllSS)  Benit  |date)    (date)..........................   =  (dte)g   (date)     (date)     (dote)     (dated   (date29)  (ete)         t (     [doted Lt)               (date)      (date)! |
1,____________S_____    7f~U |Pie RPen                                                                              1 23Ma-4 fiJul-41 j-  MW11 fi+1 22-Au o.Bl| 1@0cfX1 NOrIl| '! l9Ntl|                       2-N v2|1fl  Occ  4t i                 Fe
!  2 QCBS          oe-          700! PnoriRev. jRRMU           IPan 1 1-Ma -01   8Jull  23-JulOfI  -AuOlI 22-Aul 21-Au  i  10Oct-01  2-Oct-01   9No01  1-Nov-01  28NoOl                                      18-Dec-1       15Fe
{Pflet        p Roads                  Iboed      INo 1  .               I1                               1         1I                               !!-IIba! Id
_ 1551 antd eneroma)               based                                         Iktual
4  Fofai   RlAdlboFAP            WCeS                                                                                     u3 10-,N PloARr-    -AMa -0  22-Mav-01 294Ma -01   10-Jul-0    29-Jl -                 2-Au
I                                       Tune-           23)YJ)PoatRe.S                 Plan      NI/A        8-  n-O   23-  ir-Ol B-MN-01 22-OMac-01 j2Ma I -0   10-dFit9    28-Jeai>0    9-Au                                                    1 19-FAu   W4l 28SAu  lS_
Board                                  based                                          Antual  L           !
7  DeSi n8l In  D     for          CS       ime-    Ij           PrRev                    Pn       I  IFe -21 Maymi 1rjMani021  1-Jun.02) 15-Jun-02i 22-Jur0i lD-!g-0 31Aug-021 10-Sep02  20-Sep022-Sep0421                          It -
Pfha-se i wrade              I          basesd                                     a                                 !                                                                                       !                 --.              -!
ReralA.cceSblllly Plan.-I  -085    !am  Iour        4W~DJ Pent Pen.                                       0-Ma -01 23-Iota -01  8-J,1  22-JuI-0        -J      -   A     I          I 1  9-Se     19-Se   1 2    .-SeOc I      I          I   15-May-02
.    # TAfor Roa rd enance       0089      rie-     j   200alO Pror Rev.                  Plan         1     i 8Oct-0I1  23O-Ol-  8-No-011 22-0ct.Z1  28-Nqov01  10-Feb-02   12             9-Mar-02  19-Mar-2;                     t|    ri-        FIf
lFund    _                   g          asa       l          dd                        ;                  l                     l         l         -f !based                                                 28Mr0
roi~i  r;     j. --                    Rf            -   ~   :               --  -                                                         _ ----   -  --   - --:                           .
,                           ,:,, ,,,. ,    .. ...  ,., ,_W ,,, *, .......... , ,,, .,,,.,, _ ,___ , ........................ ,_ ,,,,,". ..... _ ,_' .........................  ...  ...  .1  ....  ....  ........  ...  .... ............... _ ._ . _ ..-.__............................__ ...



77
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Yemen: Rural Access Program
m8~~~~~~~~~~~0
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         9                    12
First Bank mission (identification)            05/28/2000           05/28/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    02/15/2001           02/08/2001
Negotiations                                   11/07/2000           05/07/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/3112001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
Preparation assistance:
Dutch Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Terje Wolden, MNSIF                           Senior Transport Engineer, Task Team Leader
Josephine Masanque, MNSIF                     Senior Financial Management Specialist
Andreas Schliessler, AFTTR                    Senior Transport Economist
Hadi Abushakra, LEGOP                         Senior Counsel
Thao Le Nguyen, LOAGI                         Disbursement Officer
Ramiz Al Assar, INFTD                         Senior Transport Specialist
Robert Fishbein, Consultant                   Environmental Specialist
Renaud Detalle, Consultant                    Political Scientist
Eugenia Dennis, MNSIF                         Program Assistant
Qualit Control
George Tharakan, MNSIF                           Sector Manager
Claude Archambault, MNSIF                        Senior Transport Specialist
Stephen Lintner, ENV                             Senior Adviser
Moctar Thiam, AFTTR                              Senior Transport Specialist
Anil Bhandari, INFTD                             Highways Adviser
Dieter Schelling, AFTTR                          Lead Rural Transport Specialist



78
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Yemen: Rural Access Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
- Project Implementation Plan, May 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
-  Identification Mission Aide Memoire, May 30 to June 11, 2000
- Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, September 29 to October 12, 2000
- Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, December 3 to 14, 2000
- Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, February 12 to March 1, 2001
C. Other
Road Fund Law no. 22, 1995 as amended Nov 2000.
Rural Access Improvement Project, Studies for the Five Pilot Roads - Dar Al Handasah
Transport Rehabilitation Project - SAR (Report No. 14403-YEM)
Rehabilitation of An Naqbah - Al Ahmar Road - Detail Project Report - Louis Berger
International, INC., USA - January 1998
COCA's Report on Auditing the Financial Statements of Road Maintenance Fund (MCHUJP);
December 31, 1999
Evaluating the Gender Impact of Bank Assistance - OED
Public Expenditure Review - Road Sector Annex
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) - May 25, 1999; Report No. 19073-YEM
Summary of the Household Expenditures, 1998; Ministry of Planning and Development - Central
Statistical Department (Arabic)
Poverty Information System- National Poverty Survey 1999; Two parts I and II - Ministry of
Planning and Development (in cooperation with the UNDP) - Central Statistical Department
(Arabic)
National Food Security Strategy- Final Report: Volume 1: Main Report and Volume II: Annexes
January 1998; ADE consultants (English)
Gender Issues in Transport in Yemen - Basma Al-Qubati/Renaud Detalle expected May 2001.
Colburn, Marta, A Situational Analysis of Gender Development in Yemen, Oxfam GB Yemen, July 2001.
Dingen, Rob and John Howe, Rural Accessibility Improvement Program - Yemen - Formulation of a
Methodology and Work Plan, April 2001.
Environmental Management Plans - Rural Access Program Phase I -Parts A&B, March 2001.
Government of Yemen, National Environmental Action Plan.
University of Manchester, Evaluation of Future Development of the EIA System in Yemen, Mediterranean
Environmental Technical Assistance Programme, February 2001.
*Including electronic files.



79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM
Jan-2001
Difference between
expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                        disbursementsA
Project ID   FY                  Purpose                   IBRD        IDA                          Cancel   Undisb      Orig    Frm Rev'd
P043255     2001  BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT              0.00     5600                            0.00    54.72      0.00      0 00
P062714     2001  RY - IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT                    0.00     21 30                          0.00     20.66      0 00      0.00
P049735      2000  RY-PRIVATIZATION SUPP.                        0,00     1090                            0.00    10.34       3 50     0.00
P050483     2000  RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT                           0 00     28.90                          0.00     27.26       1.72     0.00
P050706     2000  RY-CIVIL SERVICE MODERN                        000      30.00                          0.00     28.77       2.48     000
P068830     2000  RY-Second Social Fund for Development          0.00     75.D0                           0.00    74.34      1071       D.00
P050530      1999  RY-SANAA EMERG POWER                          0.00     5400                            000     33A6       2266      0.00
P057915      1999  RY-LEGAL & JUDICIAL DEV                       0.00      2 50                          0 00      1 66      0.33      0.00
P060132      1999  RY-PUBLIC WORKS 11                            0.00     50 00                           0 00    33.16      13.31      0.00
P005907      1999  RY-SANA'A WSISANITATION                       0.00     25.00                           0.00     12.75      0.63      0.00
P;039171     1998  SEEDS & AG. SERVICES                          0.00     12.50                           0.00      5.89      2 26      0.00
P005902      1998  RY-S.GOV AGRI PRIVATIZA                       0.00     24.70                           0.00     1956      1049       0.00
P041199      1997  SOCIALFUNDDEVPT                               0.00     3000                            000       2.23     -9.35      000
P048522      1997  FLOOD EMERGENCY                               0.00     30.00                           0.00     4 10       6 21      0.00
P043367      1997  RY-TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT                    0.00     1020                            000      3.59       4.36      426
P041267      1996  RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                   0 00     37.00                           0 00     13.91     17.81     13.86
P005912      1996  VOC TRAINING                                  0.00     24.30                           0.00     13.12     12.98      2.96
P005911      1994  EDUCATION SECTOR                              000      33.00                           0.00     17.46     16.48     10.50
P005904      1993  BASIC EDUCATION                               0 00      19.70                          0.00     2.48       2 34      2.14
P005836      1992  LAND & WATER CONSERV                          0.D0     32.80                           5.55      0.41      4 47     -0.45
P005806      1991  RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                       0.00     30 00                           0.00     4 07      4.03       1.37
Total:      0.00     637.80                         5.55     383.93    11935      34.65



80
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval              Company             Loan  Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi Partic
1999                    ACSM                12.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    8.00    0.00    0 00   0.00
1998                    Radfan               3.80    0.00    0.00       0.00    3.80    0.00    0 00   0.00
Total Portfolio:       15.80    0.00    0.00       0.00   11.80    0.00    000   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00



81
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM
M East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North     Low-
Yemen      Africa   income      Development dlamond-
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       17 0       291     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    350      2,060       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       5 9       599       988                       T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population f%)                                         2 9       21        19
Laborforce(%)                                          34        30        23      GNP                              Gross
per                         ' primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-S9)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (X of population below nahional poverty line)
Urban population (X of total population)               24         58        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       56         68        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               82         45        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under S)             46        1t         43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      39         71        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   55         36        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  70         95        96            -     Yemen, Rep
Male                                                100        102       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               40         88        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
GDP (US$ billions)                                               6 0       6 6
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                                   287       209
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                               28 8      36 9                     Trade
Gross domnestic savingslGDP                                     14 3      12 8
Gross national savingstGOP                                      29 1      22 9
Current account balancelGOP                                      -4 3      1 5     Domnstic
Interest paymentslGDP                                            07        1 0                                  Investment
Total debt)GDP                                                  691                 Savings
Total debt servicelexports                                       4 2
Present value of debtUGDP                                       52 4
Present value of debtlexports                                  104 9
Indebtedness
1979-8S  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           3 0      4 8       2 2       5 0             - Yemen, Rep
GNP per capita                              -1 6       5 0       -3 9      2 2             -     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                10 2     -5 2      21 1       0 6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(f t SOfGP)                                                                        Y
Agriculture                                                     20 2       161        ,
Industry                                                        35 4      46 2      is
Manufacturing                                                  122       1014
Services                                                        44 4   37 7  a Is0s
Private consumption                                             70 4      71 9     _15
General govemment consumption                                   15 3      15 3              -GOI    - w-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                   43 2      45 0
1979.89  1989-99      1999      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth7)1
Agriculture                                            S0       137        00      ea     A
Industry                                               7 8       1 8       2 9     40
Manufacturing                                        4 2        0 a       1 0    20
Services                                              -1 8       1 0       3 4
Private consumption                                    06        36        2 S    1-20       j        w9  97   De   99
General government consumption                        -1 4       8 3       0 3    F2       Y
Gross domestic investment                              7 7      10 9       -4 4    i-4
Imports of goods and services                          1 7       -1 6     14 5              -Exports   I- Imports
Gross national product                                 2 0       8 0       -1 3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the counTry (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



82
Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999    Finflatin --
Domestic pricesInito  %
(% change)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                                                  12 2       9 6     so
Implicit GDP deflator                                            -9 3      26 8     40
Government finance                                                                  20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                                  28 0      32 4     -209
Current budget balance                                            0 0       57                   GDP deflator  7CP
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -6 4       0 1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)-
Total exports (fob)                                             1,501     2,467     3.000
Crude oil (government share)                                    471       993         1
Crude oil (company share)                                       758     1,139    _._ 0
Manufactures                                                     87       144
Total imports (ci)                                              2,201     2,442
Food                                                            787       807     1,000
Fuel and energy                                                 117       176        0        _11_
Capital goods                                                   479       521        o
Export price index (1995=100)                                      79      102            93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Import price index (1995=100)                                      76       105                 * Exports     *lmports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                                        103        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(UJSS millions)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                   1,724     2,640      20 
Imports of goods and services                                   2,818     3,103
Resource balance                                               -,094        463                            l
Net income                                                       -412     -747
Net current transfers                                           1,250     1,314    .10
Current account balance                                          -256       104         I
Financing items (net)                                             -61       355
Changes in net reserves                                           317      -459    -30
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                            995     1,504
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                                135 9     155 8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999     C         
(US$ millions)                                                                       ComposltIon of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1.174    5,593     4,138
IBRD                                                                                              G: 213
IDA                                         109      546      1,075     1,216              F: 178
Total debt service                             58      262        125                                               075
IBRD
IDA                                           1        6         18        21
Composition of net resource flows                                                            4         
Official grants                             186      136        125                             __
Official creditors                          138      143         91                  E: 1,891
Private creditors                           142      228
Foreign direct investment                    23                -210
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                  47       31         60       138     A A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                20       44        122       173     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        2         11        12     C - IMF                     G - Short-teim
Net flows                                    20       41        111      161
Interest payments                             1        4          7         8
Net transfers                                19       38        104       153
Development Economics                                                                                                 9112/00



83
Annex 11: Letter of Development Program
Yemen: Rural Access Program
REPUBUC OF YEMEN
Ministry of Public Works               fh\Wf:l
& Urban Development
Minister's
Date:  S    
No.:                                                                             Jf  .
To:  Mr. Mahmood A. Ayub
Country Director for Yemen
The World Bank
Re:  The Rural Access Program
Basis for an Adaptable Lending Approach
Dear Mr. Ayub,
This is to confirm the Government of Yemen's intention to canry out a long-term
programn to address accessibility constraints in rural areas. We believe such a progran
is essential in a strategy to reduce isolation and poverty as well as in reducing
transport costs and spurring rural development. Below we set out the strategic context
and objectives for a proposed 10-year Rural Access Program, (the program) for
Yemen, the means by which they will be attained, how the program will be monitored
and our commitment to undertake certain policy and institutional actions to enhance
the efficiency of the road sector.
The overall purpose and long-term development objective of the program is an
improved livelihood and reduce isolation for the rural population. To achieve that
objective, year -round access to markets and services (both social and administrative)
would have to improve, especially in the rural areas where 80% of the population live.
The program is designed to support the Government's decentralization process, which
is in the process of being implemented.
The program would be implemented in three phases
Phase I is expected to have a relatively short duration and will set up the institutional
and technical foundations for an efficient rural access improvement program. It will
test this approach through a number of pilot projects on secondary rural roads and
village access roads. As such, the objective of phase I of the program is to establish a
sustainable foundation for large-scale improvements to rural accessibility in isolated
areas which are severely affected by poverty and have good prospects for rural
developments. Phase I will establish effective institutional arrangements and more
appropriate policies on technical and implementation standards and procedures for
ese large-scale improvernents to be achieved during subsequent phases of the
Al am.
./^. i i hase II objectives are to address access problems mainly on the secondary road
d viflage access roads in the area of influence of the secondary road network,



84
REPUBUC OF YEMEN                                                    .4
Ministry of Public Works
& Urban Development
Minister's
Date: It  Y-os_/ v    -F-P.Y.
No.:                                                                           Yf   -
and adjust the organizational and policy fraiework to consolidate and gradually
move into financing of tertiary, or district road network.
Phase Ill objectives are to address access problems related to district level road
network, while continuing to support improvements and management of secondary
road network and village access roads. The main institutional achievement in this
phase will be the increased capacity in the district administration to better plan and
implement access improvements.
The key performance indicators for the program is the reduction in access time from
village affected by improved road conditions to markets, services and facilities. This
together with improved access road condition will lead to reduction in transport rates
for goods and passengers, and a reduction in the price of essential commodities, The
program will monitor access time from village with improved access to the closest
markets and services, key transport rates and price of the following commodities in
key villages to track the effects of the program: gas cylinders, diesel, kerosene, flour
and sugar. During phase I of the program, the collection of data to track progress and
the preparatory nature of this phase will assist the government in developing lessons
from experience and adjust the detailed scope and institutional anrangements for the
remaining of the program.
Before the govermment initiates phase 11 of the program, the following key actions and
milestones will have to be accomplished:
Appropriate technical and environmental standards for rural access roads have been
adopted for phase U;
A methodology for planning and prioritizing rural road investments is adopted;
Budgeting for rural road investrnent is based on this methodology, and a rolling three-
year budget program for rural roads is established
Technical preparation and bidding docwnents completed for the first of the phase 11
program of access roads;
A legal classification of the road network enacted and a long term strategy adopted by
the government on the management and financing of secondary roads and roads
'/l         er the ownership of the Government and Districts; and
w           ?A'~fd Sector Environmental Assessment is completed.
2



85
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Ministry of Public Works
& Urban Development
Minister's                                                                         WI
Date: f f-a4/                                                              Y_O*C P   FLI
No.:    I/                                                                     f      p
The Government expects these phase 11 triggers to be achieved approximately 24
month after phase I of the program is initiated. The overall cost of the program is
expected to be on the order of US$ 250 million, with about US$5 0 million for phase I
and about US$ 100 for the subsequent phases of about 4 years duration each.
Eventually, the Government's entire budget for rural roads will be channeled through
this program as it expands to cover all rural govemorates. In phase I relatively large
technical assistance and goods components will help in planning subsequent phases
and in establishing the institutional infrastructure needed to manage the rural road
sector. In phase nI and III the investments will mainly be civil works and technical
assistance costs plan and implement the program. Overall, the Governnent intends to
request IDA to support Phase II and III with 50 percent of the financing needs, and is
planning to direct co-financing provided on concessionary terns from key donors to
cover the remaining 30 percent of the financing for the program.
Given the transitional and experimental nature of the decentralization process over the
next two-three years and the fact that phase I of the program will develop national
standards and procedures for subsequent phases, the Government has decided that
small but effective central rural roads administration will have to be established with
Board of Directors responsible for the overall program in phase I. To prepare for a
more decentralized management of rural access roads in phase II and III, phase I of
the program will also establish several regional rural road units to be located in key
govemorates. The decree establishing the Board of Directors and the central
management unit has been passed and is attached to this letter. Attached is also a list
of appointed board members and the list of key staff of the unit.
To increase effectiveness of resources provided by IDA and other donors to the rural
road sub-sector, the Government will address the following key issues affecting a
successful outcome of this program:
A. Planning and budgeting of rural roads
a) The past practice of awarding construction contracts for which there is
insufficient funding in the National budget is under review with the Ministry
of Finance and Ministry of Planning. A decision on this is expected shortly.
) Phase i of the Rural Access Program will identify all priority rural road
{i,AJ>L4I Eprojects of national importance. In case some of these are among the about
.  300 rural roads in the National Budget, the Governnent will explore if these
contracts can be terminated an accordance with Yemeni legislation. Any
..~       project terminated will be includcd in the Rural Access Program.
3



86
REPUBUC OF YEMEN
Ministry of Public Works
& Urban Development
Minister's
Date: (o4 / -                                                                  - hS-4/
No.:   -  f                                                                     /!      , j
c) The government intends to employ a consultant to evaluate all rural roads in
the national budget, in order to get an update on the likely final constrmction
cost, the completion rate, contractor performance in relation to the contract
requirements, and estimated final completion date. The purpose of this
exercise is also to eliminate un-viable or low priority projects from the budget
and concentrate the limited budget resources on roads nearing completion
and/or of strategic importance.
d) New rural road contracts will only be awarded after a competitive bidding
process so as to give an equal and fair chance to all qualified Yemeni
contractors, and obtain the lowest possible prices for adequate quality
whenever feasible.
e) All contracts to be awarded under this program will be supervised by
consultants to improve quality of works and train local contractors.
B. Road Maintenance Funding
The issue of inadequate funding for road maintenance has been addressed by the
Governnent, and a new law has been passed effectively increasing the dedicated
resources for road maintenance to sustainable level. The law will now be
implemented and the increased level of funding will partly be used for maintenance of
rural roads.
Under the Road Sector Review Study, there will be a review of the RMF operations,
and based on the recommendations of the review, the governnent will consider the
outcome.
Abduliah H. Al dafei,4
The Minister,
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development.
4



87
Annex 12: The Road Sector
Yemen: Rural Access Program
A. Road Network and Traffic.
1.    Over the decade 1980-90, the paved road network in Yemen grew rapidly from about 2,900 kms to
4,900 kms, and in early 1993, the length of the paved network, including projects under construction stood
at 5,734 kms. This growth has continued, albeit in a slower pace, and as of 2001 the paved road network
totaled 6,631 kms. The official gravel road network is only about 950 kms. However, another 1,826 kms of
gravel roads are in the budget and under construction. Most of these gravel roads are in a rudimentary state
with little or no gravel surfacing. In addition, there are about 60,000 kms of tracks and trails, some of which
are motorable most of the year with four-wheel drive vehicles. Average daily traffic (ADT) volumes on
asphalt roads range from around 14,000 ADT (near Sana'a) to just under 1,000 ADT on most of the
network. Traffic volumes in the north generally exceed 2,000 ADT, while in the south most roads cany less
than 2,000 ADT, with a few exceptions. Traffic volumes on the gravel roads are much less, typically
between 30 and 150 ADT. For the first few years after unification in 1990, traffic grew rapidly, at around 8
percent per annum, and is now about 4-5 percent, reflecting continued increase in trade and transport
among various parts of the newly unified country, and including oil exploration/production related traffic.
Rapid expansion of the road network however, has not been accompanied by a corresponding increase in
allocations for road maintenance. This has caused economic losses through increased vehicle operating
costs, as well as reconstruction costs of roads which have deteriorated beyond economic repair.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network has, therefore, become an urgent priority in the road
sector.
B.    Institutional Arrangements
2.    Within GOY, the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development (MPWUD) (formerly the
Ministry of Construction, Housing and Urban Planning) has overall responsibility for planning,
construction and maintenance of all roads in Yemen. Prior to 1998, this function was performed by the
General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB), a public sector authority under MIPWUD. In January
1998 a Presidential Decree (PD Nr. S of 1998) redefined the mandate of GCRB to exclusively act as GoY-
owned contractor and to perform work under contract for public or private sector agencies. The road
authority function of GCRB was moved to the MPWUD. However, none of the GCRB staff involved in
road management was transferred to MIPWUD, and this has left the Ministry with a much bigger work load
without much additional staff with the right kind of experience. To date, MPWUD has not managed to
build the institutional capacity to effectively manage the road network the way it was managed under
GCRB. The Ministry fuilly realizes this and has mobilized an international consulting firm to carry out a
road sector management study in Yemen, financed under the Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2819-
YEM).
3.    The ministry is also responsible for the administration of government tenders, which is carried out
by a High Tender Board for all Government procurement above US$ I million, whether foreign assisted or
not. The organizational structure of MPWUD is not yet clear since the Ministry's name and responsibilities
were changed at the beginning of April 2001. In the old Ministry of Construction, Housing and Urban
Planning, there was a Vice Minister in overall charge under the Minister, and under him there were four
departments headed each by a Deputy Minister. These were for Construction, Housing, Urban Planning and
Government Tenders. The Director of Roads reported to the Deputy Minister for Construction, and under
him there was a traditional departmental structure with directions for road planning/design, road
construction and road maintenance. There available information on the total staffing of the Ministry is given
in the below table. In 1996 the Ministry had a total staff of 750 based in Sana'a, and the increase in
employment has been considerable over the last 5 years. The budget for the Ministry for wages and salaries
and other administrative costs is steadily increasing, and was about YR 1.75 billion a year (US$ 10.5



88
million) in 1999.
Table 1: Staffing in the Road Sector (2001)
Sana'a Offices    All other offices    Total No. of Engineers
MPWUD              1,763             12,356                   369
GCRB                 450              3,320        _          101
RMF                   97                                       21
Source: MPWUD.
4.     The General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB) used to be the Highway Auth Jrity in
Yemen until three years ago. At that time it was transformed into an autonomous entity as a general road
contractor, under MPWUD, to implement construction and maintenance activities for central ard local
governments. In 1997, GCRB had about 3,200 employees, of which more than 2,000 employees worked
on new construction projects. GCRB staff increased after that, in spite of a reduced workload. but no
details are available on staffing by department. The staff are not part of the civil service, and are aldlowed
more competitive remuneration. Though GCRB depends on the government's budget for the contracts
which fund all its activities, no salaries or overhead costs are funded directly by the Government, thereby
seeking to ensure that GCRB operates like a corporate entity. GCRB operates with full financial
autonomy, and their accounts are audited annually. GCRB is not managerial autonomous, s nce its
Chairman is also the Minister of Public Works and Urban Development.
5.    Routine Maintenance of paved and gravel roads is undertaken by the Directorate General of
Maintenance located within GCRB, and the cost of this (YR 200 million a years) is funded by the RMF on
an annual basis. The General Manager for Maintenance is in charge of an organization of about 750
permanent staff and on average 200-250 laborers on daily wages (1998). The organization contains 9
regular Maintenance Divisions each headed by a Director. The decentralized divisions are responsible for
one or more govemorates, and are located at district centers. Maintenance teams within each division are
responsible for geographical sections of the road network. There are also specialized groups at headqjuarters
for road safety, traffic survey and road sign/marking works. All periodic maintenance work and pavement
strengthening and rehabilitation, is contracted out to GCRB and the private sector. The department, while
employing around a third of GCRB staff, is only managing a budget of about US$150,000. Further, most of
the funds are used for salaries, and as a result, little is actually spent on routine maintenance of paveil roads.
Consequently, very little regular maintenance activity is observable on the paved road network, and many
older paved roads, many of which are in the south of Yemen, show potholing over long sections thai are not
promptly repaired.
6.    A Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) was established (Law No. 22 of 1995) under IDA advocated
refonn to improve the maintenance of roads and to enhance cost recovery in the road sector. An additional
surcharge on the sale of petrol was introduced to provide on an annual basis about YR 700 million. After
some start-up problems the RMF was operating as planned towards the end of 1996 with an indeiendent
Board that reported to the Prime Minister. With technical assistance funded by IDA, the RMF has gradually
developed the technical and institutional capacity to plan and administer an effective annual maintenance
program. The technical and administrative staff of the RMF is now about 90, and they administer anL annual
budget of about US$ 4.5 million. The RMF originally was funding maintenance force account wcrks and
contracts through GCRB, but that changed in 1998 when the road authority finction was transferrid from
GCRB to the MPWUD. Since then, the RMF has not contracted out any work directly, all the contracting
necessary to implement their annual budgets is carried out by the ministry, and the RMF has reniained a
planning, budgeting and funding agency only.
7.    A significant amendment to the RMF law was passed by the Parliament in September 2000 and
signed by the President shortly thereafter. The revised law introduces new road user charges and takes a
large step towards putting the road network on a fee-for-service basis by recovering almost all
maintenance and operation funding needs directly from the road users. The new charges for road use are



89
set at 5 percent of the pump price of both diesel and gasoline, equivalent to YR 1.75 per liter for gasoline
and YR 0.6 for diesel. The new user charges have not yet been activated by the Ministry of Finance since
they were supposed to be followed by a corresponding increase in the price of fuel. The introduction of a
general fuel price increase is now expected before end June 2001, in which case the law amendment is
expected to be made effective. When this happens, the new charges are expected to generate about YR3
billion, depending on the consumption of fuel. This would go a long way towards full financing (for
O&M cost) for the road sector. See Attachment I for an overview of the estimated maintenance funding
needs for the next 5 years.
8.    While there are numerous improvements from the old law, there are significant weaknesses as
well:
(i)     The RMF has been moved from being under the Prime Minister's office to be under the
MPWUD, whose Minister appoints both the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman. This
reduces the autonomy and independence of the RMF.
(ii)    The Board is made up wholly of civil servants. A better arrangement would be to have 3-
4 additional members, representing the road users, appointed to the board as well.
(iii)    The Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the RMF are also deeply involved in the day-to-
day operation of the road fund. This dilutes the independence of the Board and the
accountability of the RMF General Director. The Chairman of the Board should not
oversee his own perfornance.
(iv)    Annual financial audits carried out by a private auditing firm have been undertaken in the
past, a practice that should continue. The law should include a reference to this.
Technical audits should also be introduced in the RMF law to allow regular verifications
on how the budgeted funds were spent.
9.    There are three budget issues: (i) the proposed allocations for routine maintenance is small and
should be considerably increased to arrest the ongoing potholing of strategic roads; (ii) the maintenance
priorities are based on visual inspection of roads and not on objective surveys and testing of the residual
strength of existing road pavements; and, (iii) although the RMF is undertaking axle load controls, there
is no enforcement yet by the police, and overloaded trucks are allowed to pass control stations with a
warning only. To address the above, the RMF is introducing a new unit in their organization for
Pavement Maintenance Management, to be set up and trained by a consulting firm, starting shortly.
Through purchase of specialized axle load control equipment just completed, the RMF is also introducing
more effective axle load controls and enforcement of axle load limits at 8 key points of origin of truck
transport (ports, cement factories, etc). By controlling at the points of origin of large truck loads, off-
loading of excessive loads is expected be become less problematic.
C.    Public Expenditure in the Road Sector
10.   Over the two decades 1980-2000, the road network in Yemen grew from about 2,900 kms to more
than 6,600 kms. This expansion of the network has caused public expenditures in the sector to stay heavily
concentrated on construction of new roads, and maintenance expenditures have come under increasing
pressure. During the last three years more than 80% of the total expenditures have been used for
construction of new roads, while less than 10 % have been used for rehabilitation and strengthening of
paved roads, and even less for ordinary maintenance. When converted to constant prices, maintenance
expenditures have shown a declining trend. Of the total maintenance allocation, about 30 % is spent on
routine maintenance (mainly carried out by GCRB), 15% for road safety and emergencies, and the rest on
periodic maintenance (re-graveling, resealing of paved roads).
11.   As part of the Public Expenditure review carried out recently for the Road Sector, a number of



90
deficiencies and constraints were reported, mainly affecting the last 3-4 road investment budgets:
(i)    a lack of budget focus: the high number of projects in the budget with small annual
allocations is not creating assets quickly, and projects stay in the budget for many years;
(ii)   there are too many small projects which are difficult to manage appropriately;
(iii)   projects are deliberately made difficult to terminate, by making them very L)ng and
signing contracts for the whole road, thereby committing future governments to ;,ontinue
to finance these contracts;
(iv)   a lack of adherence to agreed budgets; new projects are started irrespective of wftether or
not they are in the budget; the budget process is not used as the mechanism for
introducing and approving new projects;
(v)   the allocations for planning, feasibility studies, and detailed engineering of new projects
are grossly inadequate, and these important activities are, therefore, not carried outt before
construction starts; the cost estimates in the budget are therefore only indicative;
(vi)   funding for supervision is also grossly inadequate; this leads to inadequate ccntrol of
spending and quality of works problems, which results in delays and extra costs; and
(vii)  ability to undertake a budget rationalization is limited.
If one looks at the budgeting process, there are a couple of additional issues:
(viii)  MOF never requires the Ministry to frame its budget proposals in the context of a pre-
determined budget envelope. Therefore, the draft road budget proposals are mostly
unrealistic, with a proposed investment budget total that is often more than twice what is
available;
(ix)   There is no willingness by MPWUD to cooperate with the MOPD and the MOF in setting
priorities under budget envelope constraints. This is causing the MOF to make arbitrary
cuts themselves through a very secretive process, before the budget is forwarded to the
Parliament (and then cannot be changed by the Ministers);
12.    Road Budget 2001. The MPWUD proposed 2001 road investment budget clearly shows that
there are no improvements in the situation this year compared to previous years. The number of projects
keeps increasing, and is now 325 compared to 281 in last years' budget, and 225 in 1998. None of the
new projects in the 2001 budget are "new" in the sense that there is a choice for the Parliament wliether to
accept or reject them; the ministry has already signed contracts for these roads and committed the
government to undertake them, irrespective of funding availability and Parliamentary decisions. This is
in stark contrast to the budget arrangements for the Road Maintenance Fund, whose task is to preserve
and maintain the existing road network.
13.    Table 2 reports on the MPWUD budgets for 1999-2001. The budget is grouped as follows: (i)
Strategic road projects (27); (ii) Asphalt road projects (76); (iii) Gravel road projects (212); and (iv)
Foreign funded projects (10). The budgets for FY 2000 and 2001 show increases from 1999 due to
acceleration of projects during 1999 (additional costs of about YR6.8 billion, for which there were no
funds available in 1999). These additional expenditures in 1999 have caused the budgets for 2000 and
2001 to increase.
Table 2: MPWUD Proposed Road Budget for FY 2001
(YR million)
Road Sector         Local         Foreign       Total 2001
Maint.lRehah. RMF   2,931         1,280         4,211
Strategic/ Asphalt R.   8,505     0,823         9,328
Gravel Roads        1,940         -             1,940
Foreign Funded R.    0.455        3,238         3,693
Eng. Studies        0.135         0,070         0,205
Totals Road Sector   13,966       5,411         19,377



91
Table 3: MPWUD Road Budget for FY 2000
(YR million)
Road Sector         Local        Foreign       Total 2000
Maint./Rehab. RMF   1,700        -             1,700
Strategic/ Asphalt R.   5,577     1,900        7,477
Gravel Roads        1,755        -              1,755
Foreign Funded R.    0,430        1,180         1,610
Eng. Studies       0,030         -             0,030
Totals Road Sector   9,492       3,080         12,572
Table 4: MPWUD Expenditures for FY 1999
(YR million)
Road Sector         Local        Foreign       Total 1999
Maint.lRehab. (RMF) 760                        760
Asphalt Roads      4,584         2,153         6,737
Gravel Roads        1,932                       1,932
Foreign Funded Roads                           Incl. above
Eng. Studies       40                          40
Totals Road Sector   7,316       2,153         9,469
14.    With these low allocations for maintenance, paved roads are allowed to deteriorate until
strengthening by thick asphalt concrete (AC) overlays or reconstruction is required. As a result, about one
third of the paved road network is rated as being in poor or worse condition, and only half the paved
network is rated "good" or better. The poor condition of the network imposes very significant costs both
due to increased vehicle operating costs, and the need for expensive reconstruction of large sections of the
network. Past neglect of maintenance has created an immediate need to both increase funding of normal
(routine and periodic) maintenance, and to undertake a stabilization program over the next five years to
address the maintenance backlog. It is estimated that maintenance expenditures need to be increased to YR
4,200 million per annum over the next years in order to adequately provide for timely routine and periodic
maintenance, and additional funding is necessary for stabilization of the existing network (See Attachment I
for the detailed maintenance funding needs for the sector).
D.    Axle Load Control
15.   Law No.23/95 on Axle Load Control and its Regulation are designed to limit the damaging effect
of excessive axle loading to the road network in the Republic of Yemen. The legislation limits axle loads
to 13 tons for single axles and 21 tons for tandem axles. The recent amendment to the RMF Law assigned
the responsibility of operating, supervising and financing the operating expenses of the weighbridges in
the Republic of Yemen to the RMF.
16.   However, it has proven very difficult to control axle loads in Yemen, due to the tariff controls on
trucking operations, which is under the responsibility of another ministry, the Ministry of Transport. The
RMF has made several attempts to issue fines, leading to protests by the truckers, who have blocked the
main entrance roads to cities such as Hodeidah and Harad, where RMF has rehabilitated axle load control
stations to enforce axle load limits. Unless truckers are paid adequately to make a small profit on every
load, overloading is likely to continue. However, recent axle load surveys undertaken by RMF indicate
that the overloading at present is moderate and not excessive, possibly because of the old age of the
trucking fleet. Even so, a number of accidents are due to large truckloads that are inadequately secured
and large, leaving many trucks on the roads unstable and dangerous, and causing road crashes and loss of
lives, a common related problem in Yemen.



92
E.    Road Sector Strategy:
17.   The strategy outlined below for the road sector was earlier discussed and agreed with the
Government as part of the Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC). The underlined
proposed actions have largely been undertaken. The two first sets of actions (items (a) and (b) relates to
cost recovery, maintenance budget and the Road Maintenance Fund. The last two relate to MPN lUD and
the investment budget. The list of actions show that the Government has made considerable progress in
improving cost recovery, including passing new legislation to allow stepping up the furding of
maintenance and significant restoration of roads.
18.   In addition, the roles and responsibilities in the road sector, including the future role- of the
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, will be subject for detailed analysis in tVie Road
Sector Management Study recently awarded to the consultant Dar Al Handasah. Options will be prepared
for restructuring of road sector management including rural roads within the context of the
decentralization process.  The options will address: (i) deficiencies and constraints identified with the
present managerial, technical, and operational arrangements; (ii) adequacy of the current organizational
structure, legislation and regulations; (iii) advantages of a dedicated Road Authority for the total
management of road sector activities to complement the Road Fund; and (iv) identify the role of private
and public contractors and their role in the road maintenance including rural roads.
(a)    Improve sustainability of the road network by increasing the O&M allocation from all sources to
YR 1.7 billion in FY 2000 and by another YR 0.7 billion for every year thereafter until the
funding level is adequate to prevent further erosion of road assets (estimated at about YR 4.20
billion annually). Funds to be managed by an autonomous Road Maintenance Fund Board with
road user representation;
(b)   Improve efficiency of road transport by implementing a phased program to achieve full cost
recovery from road users within 5 years by identifying non-budgetar financial resources:
(i)    For FY 2000 and thereafter  increase the  surcharge on gasoline from Y RO.5 to
YR1 .0/litre yielding YR 1.4 billion for the Road Maintenance Fund;
(ii)    YR 0.3 billion to be allocated for the Road Maintenance Fund from the genera l budget
for FY2000;
(iii)   Establish the General Land Transport Authority (GLTA) to replace the freight folwarding
monopoly Ferzah;
(iv)   Introduce a weight/distance tariff on trucks to be collected by GLTA yielding no less than
YR 1 billion for FY 2001 for the Road Maintenance Fund; and
(v)    For 2002, the amount from truckers should be increased annually by increasing the
weight/distance tariff and/or introducing a diesel fuel surcharge until full cost recovery
from the trucking fleet is achieved;
(c)    Improve road budget focus and use of financial resources by the MPWUD;
(a)    Sign contracts only for projects already in the approved budget;
(b)    Rationalize existing investment program as agreed with IDA in 1998 as part of ihe Road
Sector PER;
(c)    Establish a rolling, three-year investment program with no new projects entering the first
year program;
(d)    The first-year program will fund pre-feasibility studies for new projects in the tllird-year
program, and detailed design studies for projects starting in the second-year program; and
(e)    Concentrate funding on the highest priority projects to reduce implementation periods to
between 2 and 4 years;
(d)    Increase financial resources for the road sector through borrowing to address the funding shortage.



93
19.   The lack of action by the responsible ministries (MOF, MOPD and MPWUD) on item (c) above
and the fact that new regional/rural road projects are still initiated and contracts signed outside of the
budgetary approval process, is a cause for serious concem. This issue will be addressed in the proposed
Rural Access Program by establishing a small agency (the CMO for Rural roads) outside the ministry,
which will gradually take over planning, programming and budgeting for rural roads. Agreed up front
policy actions related to rural roads are included in the Letter of Development Program (Annex 11).
Other issues not adequately dealt with would be subject for further discussions and addressed in another
transport operation (such as the Ferzah monopoly and the trucking industry).



94
Annex 12, Attachmeant I
The Road Sector
Expenditure RequirementI
A. Introduction
This report considers road maintenance expenditure as part of a network stabilization program. This will in.-lude all
rehabilitation and catch-up maintenance works necessary to bring the road network infrastructure up to a fair
condition and then preserve it at that level. Road network stabilization requires three primary activities to take place:
*  Increase in routine and periodic maintenance activities to preserve the current condition of the existing road
network.
*  Catch-up of the backlog of road maintenance works that have accumulated as a result of the deferment of
general maintenance for expenditure on new construction.
*  Carry out rapid response and emergency works as needed (Note: regular implementation of roiutine and
periodic maintenance works will reduce the amount of emergency works needed)
This section describes the various expenditure options and reports on the estimated cost associated with each for the
five-year period 1998 to 2002.
B. Maintenance Cost Identification
For the purpose of cost identification, road maintenance activities have been estimated for both rural and urban road
networks. Although both networks comprise both primary and secondary road sub-networks, they can and do incur
different unit costs for some of the same activities. For each network, activities have been costed and presented
separately for both bituminous and gravel roads. Additional to these two major road networks is a network of other
roads that is considered to take a lower funding priority to both highways and main roads. Other roads have been
included in the calculation of routine maintenance works only and not as part of either periodic or stabilization
works.
To meet the objectives of the study, the Consultant developed an indicative five-year, routine and periodic
maintenance program. This program has been based on indicative costs, and the Consultant's international
experience in road maintenance, planning, costing, and operations.
Routine Maintenance
Routine maintenance activities are undertaken to preserve the road and maintain the safety of the road network. The
basic routine maintenance activities include:
*  Drain clearance
*  Maintenance and minor repair of culverts
* Repair of roadside furniture
* Pavement patching
* Crack sealing and edge repairs
* Repair and replacement of signs, guard fences
* Line painting.
Figure 1 and Table 1 below summarizes the Consultant's expenditure estimates for routine maintenance for the five-
year period ending 2004.
l Source: Yemen - Road Maintenance Financing, Funding into the new Millennium,
Report dated December 1999, By SMEC consultants for the RMF.



95
2,400.0
2,100.0
1,800.0                   .                    Rural Roads:
2  1,500.0
1,200.0      K                                  Urban Roads:
600.0                           0~~~~~~~~~r Other Roads
300.0                                       OTotal Routine
-                     - ~~~~~~7W!~~ain'tenance
2000  2001   2002  2003  2004
Year
Figure I - Estimated Annual Network Routine Maintenance Expenditure (YR million)
Source: Consultant's estimates.
Table 1 - Estimated Annual Routine Maintenance Expenditure (YR million)
Annual Expenditure (YR million)
Category            2000            2001            2002             2003            2004
Inter-urban roads   976.0           1 073.6          1 181.0         1 299.1         1 429.0
Urbanroads          289.2           318.1           350.0            384.9           423.4
Otherroads          275.7           303.3           333.6            367.0           403.7
Total:             1 540.9         1 695.0         1 864.5         2 051.0          2 256.1
Source: Consultant's estimates
The Consultant has estimated that the average unit costs for the years 2000 to 2004 would increase at 10% per
annum. It has been assumed that the rural and urban road network lengths would remain constant, since new
construction or road upgrading would be limited until the desired road maintenance standard for the existing road
network has been achieved; and future funding is sustainable under efficient cost recovery programs.
Periodic Maintenance
Periodic maintenance includes all those recurrent activities that need to be undertaken at intervals of several or more
years. Basic works include the grading and re-sheeting of gravel roads or the surface dressing or asphalt overlay of
bituminous roads and road pavement marking.
Periodic maintenance requirements have been computed on the basis of the Consultant's best estimates. It was
assumed that a surface dressing treatment would be applied at an average of seven yearly intervals, and an asphalt
overlay treattnent at an average of twelve yearly intervals. These intervals are average estimates generated across the
entire network. The actual intervals may vary between road sections depending on volume and mix of traffic,
terrain, climate conditions, and previous treatments. Table 2 summarizes the expenditure estimates for periodic
maintenance for the period 2000 to 2004.



96
Table 2 - Periodic Maintenance Expenditure Requirements, 2000-2004
Annual Expendi ure (YR million)                                  =.
Category            2000            2001            2002            2003             2004
Inter-urban roads   2 065.1         2 271.6         2 498.8         2 748.7          3 023.5
Urban roads         620.0           682.0           750.2            825.2           907.7
Total:             2 685.1         2 935.6         3 248.9         3 573.8          3 931.2
Source: Consultant's estimates
Backlon Maintenance
Catch-up of backlog includes additional works required to bring the condition of the road network up to a point
where it is manageable, and sustainable, over the long term. These works are defined as those being over and above
the works required to maintain the road in an effective and efficient manner to meet the needs of road users and
society.
All roads in less than fair condition were included in the five year road maintenance catch-up program. Tables 5 and
6 show that the catch up program can be achieved by completing 706 km (558 km bituminous road and 14F km of
gravel road) per year over the five-year program.
The estimated yearly backlog results (Table 3) reveal that YR 2.4 billion will be required for rural roads in the first
year of the five-year program increasing to YR3.5 billion in the fmal year. For urban roads, YRI.2 billion will be
required in 2000 increasing to YR 1.7 billion in 2004. If the government does not carry out the suggested routine
miscellaneous and periodic maintenance, then the backlog of works will increase. The calculations presented in this
report form a basic figure only for the development of program budgets.
Table 3 - Estimated Annual Network Backlog Expenditure 2000-2004
Annual Expendi ure (YR millio
Category            2000            2001            2002            2003             2004
Inter-urban roads   2 404.7         2 645.2         2 909.7          3 200.7         3 520.8
Urban roads         1 182.8         1 301.1          1 431.2         1 574.4         1731.8
Total:             3 587.6         3 946.3         4 341.0         4 775.1          5 252.6
Source: Consultant's estimates
Emernencv Maintenance
Emergency maintenance works include rapid response and emergency activities necessary to keep the road open and
safe for traffic. Emergency works are also designed to prevent or minimize further damage to the road network.
These are non-programmed activities, but are estimated based on current road inspections and previous in country
experience.
The need to give absolute priority to emergency work is self-evident, and sufficient funds and materials must be
made available for this activity. Emergency work should be carried out inmmediately it is necessary and will not be
planned in advance. The Consultant recommends that an upper limit of 10% of total routine maintenance costs be
used in the calculation of this figure. The estimated costs for emergency maintenance are shown below in Table 4



97
(calculated at 3% of routine maintenance).
Table 4 - Estimated Emergency Maintenance Expenditure 2000-2004
Annual Expenditure (YR million)
Category            2000           | 2001          | 2002          | 2003          | 2004
Emergency works     32.2            35.4            38.9            42.8            47.1
Source: Consultant's estimates



98
Annex 12, Attachment II
The Road Sector
Road and Transport Statistics by Governorate
Road Length (km)                  Registered Vehicles
Governorate              Asphalted        Gravel         Trucks         Taxi     Cars (Priv.)
Al-Baidha                     163            329        12,665          1,275        5,975
Al-Dhaleh                       8             28           142              8          109
Al-Mahweet                    III             51           353          1,124        1,144
Amran                           2            125           956            226         227
Dhamar                        184            278        24,100          2,698        8,147
Ibb                           261            419        29,686          5,579       18,806
Sanaa                         851            781       136,152         42,445      107,039
Sanaa City                     na             na            na             na          na
Hajiah                        251            242        22,661            914        8,458
Sadah                         202            258        18,367            915        4,316
Taez                          384            562        55,315         19,905       45,039
Abyan                         520             33         8,697            962        3,715
Aden                           65              0        18,777          7,531       36,457
Al-Hodeidah                   524            227        27,644          6,341       15,643
Lahej                         350             46        12,806          1,522        4,539
Al-Jowf                        14             79         3,491            155          150
Al-Mahara                     243             10         6,350             31        1,624
Hadramout                     860            259        30,510          5,785       32,374
Marib                         477            212        16,224            348        3,917
Shabwa                        486             69        10,267          1,111        3,544
TOTAL                       5,956          4,008       435,163         98,875      301,223
Sources: "Rural Access Program-Yemen, Fornulation of a Methodology and Work Plan" by Rob Dingen and John Hcwe,
April 2000, and Yemen, Statistical Yearbook 1999.



99
The Road Sector                           Annex 12, Attachment III
Road Inventory for Yemen
A: Asphalt Roads                            B: Gravel Roads                              C: Gravel Roads, Under Construction
Sr.                               Length   Sr.                                 Length   Sr.                                  Length
No. Road Name                      (km)    No. Road name                        (km)    No. Road name                         (kn)
I Sana'a - Hodiedah                226      1 Tarim -Kasim                      32       1 Amnran As Sudah- Al Ahnoom         101
2 Sana'a - Taiz                    256      2 Asidrah-Baeet                     50       2 Al Udayn - Al Jarahee              120
3 Sana'a- Sadaah                   242      3 Ash shiher-Hays-Ghayl Bawazeer  55         3 Mitnah- Shibam -Bani Salam         83
4 Sanaa - Marib                    173      4 Asayerah-Maqnabah                 24       4 Raydah- Theefan                    30
5 Sanaa Jihana- Marib              157         lbb -Qatabha                     85       5 Hajah-Ash Shiraqi                  26
6 Sana'a-Shibam -Al Mahweet        108      5 Al Mansureyah-AI sukhnah          20       6 Tarqi Al Bayda -Az Zaher-Laboos   52
7 Sana'a-Arhab-Aljawf              156      6 Tariq Alaweeyah                   12       7 Dhatnar-Almaghrabah-Dhubah         47
8 wadi Al ajbar- Sud Shahiq        22       7 Al Kaedah-Dhi Sufal               10       8 Dhmar -Al Hussaineyah              234
9 Mafraq Jihana-Biet Al ahmer       18      8 Bajil -Al Kaden-Ad Dahi           50       9 Al Jarf-Bani qais                  23
10 Shibam -Thulla-Hababah           13       9 Hidran-Ar Rawnah                  26      10 Jabal saber Ad Dimnah              15
11 Shibam -Kawkaban                 6          Asahul -Hubaish                   14      11 tarqi Al Mash had -Al Madan       30
12 Rusabah-Hamam Ali                28      10 Anashamah-Kaduss                  35      12 Al Ma'mar-bayt Ad dafif            3
13 Ma'bar -Zirajah                  30      11 Tariq Gabal Habashi               26      13 Weilan-Hamam Jaref                22
14 Ma'bar-Bajil                    155      12 Tariq Al Jabeen                   42      14 Mitnah Jihamah                     35
15 Madinat Ashaarq -Ad Dalil       112      13 Suq Ar Rabuoo -Al Qabyath         19      15 HarfSufyan-Barat -Al Buqh         145
16 Dhamar-Rada'a- AL Baydah        167      14 Mabar -An Ness                    85      16 Ash Shizrah-AI Qibs                15
17 Yarim Eryan-Rehab                38      15 Al Barh - Al Wazecyah             38      17 Al Shmoor-BayDa'eq                24
18 Ibb- jiblah                      6       16 Tariq Bayt Ar Rwaishan            9       18 Masswar - Thilla                   22
19 Ibb-Al Udayn                     31      17 Thimnan-AtTafah                   10      19 MaribAl bayda                     175
20 Kitab As'adah -An Nadirah        40       18 Harad Sadah                     205      20 As'Sawady -Al Juriab N Bayhan    78
Yarim Katabah- Ad dale- Nawbat
21 Dukaim                           140     19 Harad -Midi                       30      21 Tariq Yafros                       4
22 Al Janad- Mawecyah               36      20 Toruq Al Qabaytah                 57      22 Shafar -Al Mahbishah               40
23 Al Mafraq - Al Makha             44      21 Shaybarah -Al Kalbayn             12      23 Zabid -At Tuhaytah                 10
24 Hays- Al Khwkhah                 29      22 At Tafah- Hunrah                  10      24 Taiz Shar ab - Arawnah             39
25 Taiz At Turbah Al Jaheeli        78          Total                           956      25 Ibb -Badan                         18
26 Ar Rahidah-Hayfan                13                                                   26 AlUdayn-Alhazm                     18
27 Taiz-Ar Rahidah-Nawbat Dukaim  101                                                    27 Al Qaeddah-Al Ja' ashen            37
Al Jubah-AI Jabal-Alsumairah-
28 Tiaz - Al Hudaidah              256                                                   28 Alrahbah                           60
29 Al Hudaidah -Harad              206                                                   29 Al Jalialh-Ashu aib                25
Al Hudaidah - As salif- Rass
30 Essa                            67 5                                                  30 Al wdaie -Musafsaf-Alkhubar        52
31 Al Hudaidah- Al Kateeb           14                                                   31 TariqFarRudm                       12
Al Murass - Az Zuhrah- Al
32 Luhayah                          60                                                   32 Ataq - Al Alalm                    52
33 Harad -Huth                      137                                                  33 Bawan- bayt Ar Raziqi              37
34 Hajah - Al Khushm                62                                                   34 Tariq Bani Basheer                 3
35 Ammran -Hajah                    74                                                   35 Amran Bayt Ad Duli                 23
36 Raydah - Theybeen                27                                                   36 Ad Dufair-Ain Ali                  14
37 Sadah- Dhahran - Al Junoob       84                                                   37 Asalbajah- Al Er                   22
38 SadahKitaff-AlBukh               155                                                  38 Al Mahweet- Al Qanawes             s0
39 Al Fardah- Hazm - Al Jawf        56                                                       Total                            1826
40 Al Baydah-Am Ayn                 62
41 Rada'a - Juban -Damth            84
42 Marib -Harib                     74
43 Harib - An Nuqoob                45
44 An Nuqoob- Markiz-Usialan        17
45 Ataq -Wasit-Bayhan               197
46 Al Habilain - Laboos             88
47 Nawbat Dukaim- Dar Sa'ad         52



100
Annex 12, Attachment 1I1
Road Inventory for Yemen (Cont.)
A: Asphalt Roads                           B: Gravel Roads                            C: Gravel Roads, Under Construction
Sr.                              Length   Sr.                               Length   Sr.                                 Length
No. Road Name                     (km)   No. Road name                        (km)   No. Road name
48 Aden Fuqoom- Ras Essa           46
49 Aden -Al Mukalla               620
50 Al Mukalla - Sayhut            264
51 Ash Shiher - Ghail Bawazeer     12
52 Ar Rayan -Sayun- Tarim         332
53 Al Ghuraf -Sa'ah                60
54 Nashtoon- Al Ghaydha            54
55 Marib - Safer- Hadramut        371
56 Saber- Al whaht-Tor Al Baha'a    83
57 Shuqrah- Ah war                116
58 Zinjubar- Batays                31
59 An Nuqabah - Ataq               34
60 Al Qutai -Wadi Sihan -Bajil     37
61 Al Ghaydah - Shuhen            299
62 Kihazah Sanhan                  18
63 Tariq Asa eed                   12
Total                         6631.5
Source: MPWUD



101
Annex 12, Attachment IV
The Road Sector
Functional Classification of the Road Network
A                 Capital and major cities
-   -  *   Governorate Centres
B,  ^             District Centres
c                 Sub-Districts
Villages
D     AMB: Piiiary~ Road Ndwork
C: kftenadiay Road Ni*wnK zso called
E          &cOndary Pd NiwFk
D: TerdliaRPad?NAlk
E: VfillageA cAe Roads
iSoo caled QU*tenwy Roa NI~ANk
Adapted from the Report by Dingen/lowe: "Rural Access Program - Yemen, Formulation of a Methodology
and Work Plan.



102
Annex 13: Environmental Management Plan Summary
Yemen: Rural Access Program Phase I
1. INTRODUCTION
Environmental Management Plans were completed for both Part A (Pilot Rural Access Roads) and Part B (Al
Ahmar - An Naqaba Road) of the Project. Below are presented a summary of the EMP for each Part. The fu.l EMP
is in the project files.
PART A
PHASE 1 PILOT ROADS
1.1 Context and Environmental Category
This Enviromnental Management Plan (EMP) concerns Phase I of a three-phased Adaptable Lending Program
(APL) to improve rural access in Yemen. The Project (Phase 1) has been placed in environmental screening
category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational Policy 4.01 of the World Bank/IDA. The environmental
category is justified for the first phase of the program, since civil works will be limited to the improvement of
existing roads in rural areas, and possibly some periodic maintenance activities. The pilot roads in Phase I have
been purposefully selected to niinimize adverse environmental and social impacts. In particular, resettlement and
land acquisition will be avoided altogether. The pilot roads will be designed with the specific objective of
introducing in Yemen design standards for rural roads which are much more environmentally-friendly and also
cheaper than those which are currently practiced.
Certain environmental and social issues, such as the potential for resettlement and land acquisition, indicate that the
longer term Program should be placed in environmental screening category "A". Accordingly, a sectoral
environmental assessment will be carried out during Phase 1, in addition to specific category "A" EIAs for roads to
be carried out in Phase II.  This Sectoral EA will take into consideration the results of the Environmental
Management Plan for the pilot roads in the first phase. Similarly, EIAs will be completed during Phase II for roads
to be improved in Phase III, in confortnance with the Sectoral EA.
The main text of this EMP provides an overall environmental assessment of the Phase I project, includ ng the
environmental and social review process, policy, legal and administrative framework, baseline conditions and
environmental issues pertaining to the pilot roads. The text also summarizes the RAP plans for mitigation,
institutional strengthening and supervision and reporting. Attachment 1 of the full EMP provides road-specific
enviromnental management plans, based on field-based reviews and consultations, while Attachment 2 presents a
summary of recommended measures for future development of the EIA system in Yemen.
1.2 Environmental and Social Review Process
Field-Based Reviews
As part of project preparation, the Government identified a list of candidate roads for the pilot period. These roads
were reviewed and visited by the Bank preparation team to ensure that they were suitable for the pilot activities and
conformed to the environmental criteria noted above. This review led to some alterations in the final list of pilot
road projects, presented in section 3.2.
Also during the preparation period, consultants have carried out a critical evaluation of the current environmental
regulations and procedures in Yemen, with respect to their conformance with World Bank requirements, a.nd this
work is incorporated in this EMP. A summary of their recommendations are presented in Attachment 2. Finally,
the preparation process has established the Terms of Reference for forrnulating an accessibility planning
methodology involving community participation that will be tested during the first phase.
Meetings and Site Visits
As part of the preparation process, the Bank preparation team and consultants have held meetings with the Ministry
of Public Works and Urban Development and the Environmental Protection Council to discuss the environmental
assessment process and requirements. As noted above, site visits were carried to the pilot road locations, to verify
their conformance with environmental criteria, as set out for Phase 1.



103
Public Consultation
Preparation of the project EMP included public consultations at each of the selected pilot road sites. A record of
these consultations is presented in Attachment 1 with each road-specific EMP.
2. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINSTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
2.1 Administrative and Legal Framework
The Republic of Yemen has established institutions and responsibilities for environmental management. It has
joined a number of international conventions and is in the process of developing environmental legislation and
procedures. These are summarized below:
Environmental Management
Overall responsibility for environmental management rests with the Environmental Protection Council (EPC), which
was created by decree in 1990. The EPC is an inter-ministerial council with broad responsibilities to manage the
nation's enviromnent. Its tasks include: (i) proposing general policies to protect the environment; (ii) coordinating
national, regional and international agencies involved with environmental protection; (iii) setting up standards for
control of air and water pollution and land degradation; (iv) formulate national regulations and legislation; (v)
monitor the nation's environment and report to the Cabinet; and (vi) promote environmental education. In addition
to its Financial and Administrative Directorate, the EPC is composed of a General Directorate of Environmental
Protection (including Environmental Protection and Environmental Training and Information Departments), and a
General Directorate of Planning and Data (including Planning and Studies, and Statistics and Data Departments). Its
chairman is appointed on a permanent basis and its members, representing various ministries, are appointed on an ad
hoc basis. While the EPC has the overall responsibility for implementing and monitoring the EP law, the line
ministries are responsible for conducting enviromnental assessment studies. The role of the EPC is to focus on
screening, scoping and final approval of the EIA study, as well as monitoring during the construction and operations
phases.
Strategies and Legislation
In 1995, Parliament enacted a comprehensive Environment Protection Law No. 26. The law is designed to
safeguard sustained use of the natural resource base, and provides a comprehensive framework for environmental
management and the establishment of sectoral legislation. It outlines the basic objectives and the roles of concerned
authorities in the protection of air, water and soil, and establishes controls on pesticide use, environmentally
damaging activities, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, environmental monitoring and
marine pollution. The law and regulations require EIA for new projects and extensions to existing ones. An annex
to the regulations gives a screening list of project types subject to EIA.
There is as yet no comprehensive regulatory framework for environmental management to support the Environment
Protection Law. Several new laws related to environmental management are in various stages in development. Of
particular relevance is the Land Use Law, which will address the environmental effects of automobiles and roads.
An assessment of the EIA system carried out during project preparation has resulted in a number of
recommendations to improve the current system and make it more compatible with international norms. These are
summarized in Attachment 2.
2.2 Participation in Conventions
Yemen has ratified numerous global and regional conventions. Among the most relevant to this project are:
Convention                                   Date Ratified
Framework Convention on Climate Change (New York 1992)                      3/12/95
Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio de Janeiro, 1992)                   3/12/95
Convention on the Control of Trans-boundary Movements of Hazardous           1992
Wastes and their Disposal ( Basel, 1989)
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (Montreal, 1987)  Approved by Parliament
Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (Vienna, 1985)             3/12/95



104
Convention Concerning of World Cultural and Natural Heritage (Paris, 1972)   7/1/81
Agreement on Civil Responsibility Concerning Damage from Oil Pollution       4/6/79
(Bnimis, 1969)
A number of global conventions have until now not been ratified by Yemen. These include: (i) Convention on the
Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (Bonn, 1979); (ii) Convention on international TrTde in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora - CITES, Washington, D.C. 1973); and (iii) Convention on Wtetlands
of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar, 1971).
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1 Background
The lack of overall mobility and isolation in rural Yemen has aggravated and sustained poverty conditions. S.-rvices
do not reach those that are isolated, keeping them illiterate (in 1994 the combined basic and secondary enrolment
rate was just 37), in poor health (in 1994, only 25 percent of the rural population had direct access to health services)
and out of contact with income-generating activities. The long-term assurance of access in Yemen is constraiiied by
the lack of an adequate institutional and planning framework for managing the nation's road network, of which the
rural road network is a part. The current framework involves little participation by the beneficiaries in the
identification of the road investments, nor does it involve any process to assess access priorities or technical options.
Current technical standards are expensive, given the levels of traffic, and seem to have some serious enviromnental
impacts.
The current movement towards decentralization provides an opportunity to bring the planning process closer to the
beneficiaries. This will involve developing institutional arrangements and methods for decentralized management of
the intermediate, Governorate-level, road network and the district level road network, while ensuring linkages and
coherence with the nation's overall road network.
3.2 Proposed IDA-Supported Program and Project
The Program will address poverty by improving overall mobility in rural Yemen and reducing the isolation of
villages and communities. The program will emphasize rural access roads that link district centers to each other and
to the main road network, here referred to as "intermediary roads" and related village access roads in the area of
influence of the intermediary roads. This intermediary type of road and the adjoining village access roads carry a
substantial level of traffic, are generally in very poor condition and are excluded from  communit -level
infrastructure programs. On the non-physical side of the program, the emphasis will be on decentralized capacity-
building for decision-making and project monitoring.
Phase I (the Project) will finance pilot implementation of physical interventions and create an adequate institutional
and participatory framework for planning, prioritizing and managing rural access improvements. Phase II will focus
on the improvement and maintenance of the intermediary road network as well as village access roads and expand
continue capacity-building at the Governorate level. Phase III will expand the physical rural access improvements to
cover areas not yet covered under the second phase. During the final phase, the program will continue to support the
Governorates in achieving sustainable management and maintenance of rural roads, and will extend the E,ccess
improvement program to the District level roads.
Phase I will include a pilot implementation of physical access improvements (intermediary and village access roads)
using appropriate technical and environmental standards. The objective is to develop and demonstrate in Yemen
appropriate standards and implementation procedures for rural roads which are environmentally sound and it the
same time cost-effective. The key pilot roads have been identified as:
1. Thula-Amran                               Sana'a - Amran           25.6
2. Kuhlan Affar-Al Maghrabah                 Hajjah                    15.8
3. At Taffah-Awwin-Beyhan                    Al Beyda                  42.3
4. At Turbah -Towr al Bahah                  Taizz-Lahj                8.8
5. Khamis Bani Sa'd-Alauetta'a-Al Mahwit     Al Mahwit                 21.3
Total                     113.8



105
In addition about 100 km of yet unidentified existing village access roads (motorable tracks) in the areas of
influence of these 5 roads will be upgraded under Phase I on a pilot basis. The standards and implementation
procedures to be demonstrated through the pilot projects will include the following features: (i) consultations with
beneficiaries and community leaders for planning, implementation and monitoring; (ii) technical designs with
narrower platforms and less expensive surfacing; (iii) the inclusion of water harvesting techniques in the road
structure, to benefit adjacent farms; (iv) slope stabilization; and (v) disposal at designated sites of material that is cut
from the hillside slopes, instead of the uncontrolled dumping of those materials as it is practiced today.
4. BASELINE DATA
4.1 National Project Setting
The Republic of Yemen is located on the southern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It has a total land area of 55.5
million hectares and a population of about 16 million (1997). The country is characterized by five major land
systems: (i) a hot and humid coastal Tihama plain, 30-60 kn wide along the Red Sea; (ii) the Yemen Highlands,
with elevations from 1,000 to 3,600 m. parallel to the Red Sea coast; (iii) the dissected region of Yemen High
Plateau and the Hadramawt-Mahra Uplands, with uplands up to 1,000 m.; (iv) the Al-Rub Al-Khali desert interior,
with a hot and dry climate; and (v) the islands, including Socotra in the Arabian Sea and more than 112 small islands
in the Red Sea. Yemen's coastal and marine eco-system, which includes extensive mangroves, coral reefs and
seagrass areas, are of major economic importance for fisheries and tourism.
Fifty-seven percent of the land is desert and 40 percent is rangeland and forest. About 3 percent of the land can be
used for agriculture, of which 75 percent is actually cultivated at present. Renewable fresh water is very scarce.
The availability per capita is only 130 cubic meters per year, compared to 7,500 cubic meters for the world and
1,250 cubic meters for MENA.
The differing topographic and climatic conditions provide a variety of challenges for providing affordable and
environmentally sound access to the rural communities. The project (equivalent to Phase I of the program) will
apply and test appropriate technical solutions under these various conditions, which will be expanded throughout the
country in future phases of the program.
Attachment I provides a summary of the current conditions for each pilot road, in terms of the biological,
topographic, hydrologic, climatic and humanlsocial milieu, and whether the road is in, or can affect,
environmentally sensitive or protected areas.
5. POTENTIAL IMPACTS
For each of the selected pilot roads, potential impacts resulting from the improvement works and the operation of the
roads are broken down as follows:
*  Land resources
*  Hydrology
*  Water quality
*  Biological
*  Socio-economic and cultural
*  Air quality
These are summarized in Attachment 1. During the preparation of the project, the following initial issues have been
identified, which will be addressed for each road, along with the other issues mentioned above.
5.1 Land Resources
Road width and slope stabilization. Rural roads designs in Yemen presently feature a roadbed of 10 meter width,
with a road surface 7 meters wide, and shoulders of 1.5 meters on each side. The Bank team considers that this
standard is far too high and expensive in most cases; it cannot be justified by traffic volumes and also causes
avoidable environmental damages. In the case of mountain roads, this design requires rather deep cuts into the
mountainside to achieve the design width of the roadbed, leading to the erosion of exposed slope surfaces and often
to slides of slopes onto the road.



106
Terrace destruction and erosion. It was also observed that it is common practice to simply take the cut material
taken from the hillside and dump it on the valley side of the road, often destroying terraces and leading to erosion
problems on that side, too. Built during several centuries to provide arable land on the slopes of mountains, these
terraces have proven to be a very effective soil and water conservation measure. Rural Road improvements should
not lead to the destruction of terraces, and the traditional terrace-building technology can probably be incorpc rated
in the design of mountain roads to be financed under the Program.
5.2 Hydrology
Mountain hydrology and water harvesting. Roads built on mountain slopes accumulate rainwater runoff<. In
Yemen, it is common practice that farmers construct simple water harvesting structures on the road surface, similar
to speed-bumps, to channel runoff water to their terraced fields below the roads. This action also tends to proten,t the
road by slowing down runoffs and draining water off the road, thereby reducing road surface degradations and
maintenance requirements. This infornal practice should formally be incorporated into technical design standards
for rural roads in Yemen, and such standards will be developed and refined during Phase I of the Program.
Embankment design and wadi hydrology. For those roads passing through wadis, the construction of an embankment
for the road could alter seasonal water flow patterns within the wadi. This could bring about: (i) additional erosion
within the wadi; and/or (ii) a disruption of the traditional water harvesting practices of the farms on the surrounding
hillsides. This risk will be addressed through hydrological assessments and appropriate engineering d -sign
measures and through local consultation to avoid potential disruption to water harvesting practices.
5.3 Social and Cultural
Tribal tensions. Each road section to be financed under the Programn will be assessed in terms of potential iribal
tensions. The social order in most parts of rural Yemen is still organized according to the tribal system. This
includes a social hierarchy, which gives a commanding positions to local tribal leaders who, in some cases, do not
hesitate to stop by force the implementation of a larger Government project if they feel that it does not seem to
benefit them directly. Overall, competition for scarce Govemment resources involves competition between tribes to
obtain basic services from the Government or from donors. This often results in tensions and occasional a-med
clashes about the location of infrastructure improvements, such as the alignment of a rural road going througli the
territories of various tribes. Changing relations between leading individuals and tribal groups may result in a sudden
deterioration of social relations in a particular region and affect implementation of projects. As a consequence for
the Program, it is necessary that previous to any physical intervention in a rural road, an agreement must be reached
among the tribes involved, and between the Government and the tribes, on the characteristics of the intervention. It
must be clear to tribal leaders that resources of the Rural Access Improvement Program will not be allocated to local
projects unless such agreements are concluded successfully. Government authorities at the District and Governorate
levels have an important role to play in this context under the Program.
Safety and travel patterns within the wadis. For those roads passing through wadis, the construction cf an
embankment for the road could disrupt regular patterns or introduce safety concerns for activities such as water
fetching by women and children. In these cases, local consultations with women should identify such concernm and
design measures, such as marked crossings, will be introduced.
Land Ownership. Land ownership and sometimes aggressive requests for compensation for lost property assets as a
result of infrastructure projects are another social issue that must be addressed at an early stage for any road prcject,
with the active participation of District Councils and local/tribal leaders. Written commitments are a useful tool,
though their binding nature should not be overrated.
Land acquisition. Road improvements during the first phase of the Program will occur on existing right-of-way
only. In addition, the road designs to be applied will feature a reduction of the typical width of rural roads as part of
the upgrading, as compared to the standards originally applied to the project road. During Phase I of the program,
the risk of involuntary resettlement or land acquisition is therefore considered to be extremely low. Nevertheless,
project roads may at times (Phases II & III) pass through densely populated areas or require curve reductions for
safety purposes. In such cases, very small parcels of land would have to be donated by their owners, because of the
existing Government policy which allow compensation for assets located on the land (trees, structures, etc.) but not
for the land as such. This important issue will be clarified through the development of a Social Framework
Agreement during project implementation, which will require prior consultations at the local level, so as to identify



107
and resolve any potential land acquisition questions, in conformance with Safeguard Policy OP 4.3 (Involuntary
Resettlement).
Archeological and historical sites. Field reviews revealed no direct impact of the roads on archeological, burial or
historical sites. However, the project will institute "chance find' procedures to ensure protection of such sites
during the construction and operational periods.
Graveyards and Burials. The assessment of each road has identified potential graveyards and burial grounds. One
such site was identified adjacent to the At Taffah - Awwin - Beyhan road, although it will not be disturbed by the
road improvement. The project will institute chance find procedures to manage situations when and if unrecorded
graveyards and/or burial sites are found during the course of road works.
The issue of Qat. During their field work in Yemen, the project identification team perceived a very wide range of
opinions and positions on this question. It has been noted by some individuals that the improvement of roads in
certain areas could contribute to increased production and marketing of this product, and that roads should not be
improved under this Program in areas that are high Qat producers. However, the practical implementation of such a
policy would exclude large areas of the country from the program. On the other hand, there is no consensus on the
long-term health effects of Qat. Although it is acknowledged that spending on Qat can represent a large expenditure
for the average household, improved access could bring the cost down. It may also be argued that improved access
could facilitate improved communication on the potential ill effects of Qat, and promote competing economic
activities in the Qat-producing areas of Yemen.
Local employment. Employment benefits are expected from the road improvement works. Consultations revealed
that local communities will not insist on employment, yet they are keen to participate for certain activities, such as
security arrangements for equipment and stonework. Mechanisms to ensure that local populations are the
beneficiaries will to be defined as much as possible and realistic, within the social and tribal context of each road.
6. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
Attachment I summarizes for each pilot road to be financed under Phase f, an analysis of alternatives, including the
"no action" alternative, is carried out, in terins of: (i) avoiding resettlement and/or land acquisition; (ii) means for
meeting local access needs; (iii) reduced standards adopted; and (iv) technical solutions (use of sub-standard
materials and different types of surface treatment). For each of these categories, the solution adopted is justified and
explained.
7. MITIGATION PLAN
For each pilot road, Attachment I describes specific measures to mitigate its potential negative effects and enhance
its positive impacts, both during initial physical works and during the normal operation of the road. They are
summarized in tables attached and will include, but not be limited to, the following:
7.1 Improved and environmentally-sound technical designs
These will be specified for each road to be financed, according to its particular conditions. Six main design issues
have been identified so far: (i) water harvesting on mountain roads; (ii) narrower platforms, and related to this no
need for cutting into slopes and negotiate earth movements; (iii) road surfacing to be stabilized on steep slopes to
avoid erosion; (iv) slope stabilization on sections of the roads where slopes are unstable; and (v) controlled disposal
at designated sites of material cut from the hillside slopes; and embankment design and wadi hydrology. During the
first phase, the Project will address these issues by assisting the Government to revise the design standards for rural
roads and try out new standards, so that they are environmentally sound and more adapted to the actual needs of
low-volume traffic.
7.2 Reduction of potential impacts of physical works.
Impact Reduction Measures. Specific measures to reduce potential impacts of physical works will be taken;
regarding the detailed design, construction tenders, construction process and contractor performance monitoring.



108
Contracts will contain requirements for proper management of construction waste; control measures for waste fuel,
oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels; and rehabilitation of areas used for construction detours, and
sites used to temporarily store construction materials. Contractors will be required to provide and maintain
equipment with proper noise abatement controls.
Contract Provisions. Specific provisions will be included in construction contracts to mandate the use of formal
health and safety measures to minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the construction process. The
following table summarizes the relevant clauses in the standard construction contracts.
C-s                      ir n          X - ' - -S-- S--:' -'' t'  ' ''
8.2      Site Operation and Methods of Construction
19.1      Safety, security and Protection of the Enviromnent
27.1      Fossils
42.1      Possession of Site and Access Thereto
42.3      Rights-of-Way and facilities
Part IT    Conditions of Particular Application (COPA)
Pre-Tender Conference. To ensure full understanding of the above clauses by the contractors, all pre-qualified
contractors will attend a Pre-Tender Conference, where they will be briefed concerning their responsibilities to
address environmental, health and safety issues. These briefings will outline specific provisions of the constluction
tender documents and contracts, as laid out in the Part II, Conditions of Particular Application (COPA).
7.3 Management of Operational Impacts.
The Project will address operational impacts identified earlier for each road. These may be implemented through
financial support from the Road Maintenance Fund to avoid deterioration of the rehabilitated road and associated
dust and safety problems. Maintenance contractors will be required to follow procedures similar to those tbor the
construction contractors concerning proper disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel, oil and
lubricants and adoption of health and safety measures for personnel. Expected increases in traffic levels are not
anticipated to be so high as to bring about a significant increase in air pollution, and this may in fact decrease due to
smoother and less dusty roads and use of smaller and lighter vehicles. Suspended dust caused by vehicles will be
reduced by the rehabilitation of the roads, due to the large number of road subprojects which include resurfacing and
sealing operations.
7.4 ReductionlEnhancement of Social and Cultural Impacts
As part of the final design, a Social Framework Agreement will be worked out. Within this context, the following
mitigation measures will be carried out during implementation of phase one:
Negotiations to Minimize Tribal Tensions.  Where appropriate, a specific plan for local consultations and
negotiations during construction will be drawn up to ensure consensus among the tribes living along the roads on the
organization and achievement of the road improvement. This plan will follow general procedures to be included in
the standard design manual.
Safety and movement patterns in the wadis. The siting of the works passing through wadis should minimize
disruptions to local movement patterns for fetching water and water harvesting activities.
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. The construction contracts (COPA) will contain procedures for
archeological "chance finds," should they be encountered during the course of construction activities. These
procedures have been developed in consultation with MOCHUP and the CMO. The provisions of these "chance
find" procedures are normally included in Part II (COPA) to the bidding documents for construction contractors and
the Terms of Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender Conference will include provisions for a
session on environmental and social issues during which "chance find" procedures will be reviewed with poi:ential
construction contractors.
Archeological Field Support. The governnent will make available (on demand) a qualified archaeologist to conduct
field investigations when important search work and new materials sites are opened. The archaeologist would be
paid by the CMO and be attached temporarily to the construction manager's team and provided with logistical
support when necessary.



109
Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition. As noted above, the Phase I pilot roads have been purposefully
selected to avoid this problem altogether. For Phases 11 and III of the Program, systematic procedures, including
public consultation and compensation in accordance with the legislation, will be included in the Sector
Environmental Assessment and the related Social Framework Agreement to be finalized during Phase I of the
Program.
Graveyards and Burials If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are found during the course of construction
activities, the CMO will contact and work with local religious authorities within the Project area to allow for
possible identification of the remains and when appropriate properly undertake relocation and reburial.
Local employment. The mechanisms for maximizing local employment benefits will be specified for each pilot road
as part of the bidding documents. Normally, the labor component of rural access roads are quite high, 30 40%
depending on the need for drainage protection works and type of road surfacing used. Consultations indicate that
local populations are keen to participate particularly in security arrangements for equipment and stonework.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN
The Environmental Monitoring Plan will be implemented by Environmental Unit within the Central Management
Office (CMO) for Rural Roads. This unit will monitor application of environmental measures for detailed design,
construction and bidding for rehabilitation contracts for each pilot road. The results of the monitoring activities will
be included as routine elements of reports prepared by the supervising engineer and the CMO. Key activities of the
Unit will include, but not be limited to:
8.1 Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts
The CMO, with support of the supervising engineer, will regularly monitor implementation of the mitigation
measures adopted for each pilot road to address impacts during the construction period.
8.2 Management of Operational Impacts
The CMO, with support of the supervising engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor implementation of the
mitigation measures adopted for each pilot road. These will be implemented in coordination with the Road
Maintenance Fund and those institutions responsible for road safety.
8.3 Management of Social and Cultural Impacts
Consultations and trihal negotiations. The CMO will oversee the implementation of these procedures, to be
specified in the Social Framework Agreement, for each pilot road.
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Application of the archaeological "chance find" procedures, if
required during the course of road rehabilitation, will be monitored by the supervising engineer, the CMO and the
Department of Antiquities in the Ministry of Tourism.
Archeological Field Support. The on-site work of the archaeologist from DOA will be monitored by the CMO and
the supervising engineer. A record will be maintained of the archaeologist's activities and information compiled on
sites located and/or materials found during this fieldwork.
Graveyards and Burials, The implementation of any actions to address issues related to unrecorded graveyards
and/or burials will be undertaken by the CMO in conjunction with the local authorities.
9. SUMMARY TABLES OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The following tables summarize the environmental management plan, for each road, during both the construction
and operational periods. This will provide a "checklist" for those responsible for implementation and monitoring of
the EMP. Although the EMP systematically considers all six categories of impact during both phases, the level and
nature of impact, and hence implementation and monitoring activities, will vary between phases. The impacts
shown below are illustrative and the final Environmental AssessmentlEMP will confirm the applicability of the



110
impacts for each proposed road.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR ROADS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
A. Construction Period
Impact                     Mitigation                        Responsi ility
(e.g. contract clause)    Implementation           Monitoring
1. Air Quality               Clause 8.2 and COPA
1.1 Dust & potential pollutants   Using water-spraying during    Supervision Consultant,   CMO-
from construction machinery  operation                   Resident Engineer (RE)   Environmental Unit
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (E U )
2. Land Resources
2.1 Road width & slope       Contract Document, Drawings  Design Engineer (DE),    CMO-EU
stabilization                                            and RE
2.2 Terrace destruction      Controlled disposal of cut  RE                      CMO-EU
material (Clause 19.1 and 8.2)
2.3 Erosion of Ditches, fill- and  Labor intensive protection  DE and RE         CMO-EU
cut-slopes                   work
3. Hydrology
3.1 Mountain hydrology and   Appropriate Road Design     DE & RE                 CMO-EU
water harvesting             Requirements
3.2 Cross Drainage           Inlet and Outlet Design     DE & RE                 CMO-EU
Appropriate
3.3 Flood protection in the    Appropriate Road Design   DE & RE                 CMO-EU
wadis                        Requirements                                _
4. Water quality
4.1 Diesel spill from        Clause 8.2, Special          DE & RE                CMO-EU
construction machinery impacts  arrangements for storage and
ground water                 protection in COPA     .=
5. Socio-economic and
cultural issues              Clauses 19.1/27.1/42.1/42.3                         CMO-EU
5.1 Tribal tensions. Clauses  Regular meetings
5.2 Land ownership  42.1 &   with Project
5.3 Land acquisition  42.3   Affected People                                   _
5.4 Archeological & historical   Archaeological Rescue   RE & DoA                CMO-EU
sites                        Surveys up front and 'Chance
Clause 27.1    Find' procedures
5.5 Graveyards & burials     Relocation of Road/Chance   RE                      CMO-EU
find procedures
5.6 Road Safety at construction   Proper temporary signs and  RE                 CMO-EU
sites                        marking, and manual
Clause 19.1    regulation of traffic       _



111
B. Operational Period
Impact                                Mitigation                        Responsibility
(e.g. regulations)    Implementation          Monitoring
Generally                    Through network wide         Generally the Road      Generally, the road
maintenance concessions the    Maintenance Fund and    users, local
project will attempt to involve  MOCHUP are         communities and
the private sector in providing  responsible for roads  NGO's will be
better maintenance services,    during operational  mobilized to make
according to easily         period.                 sure that
monitorable performance                             undesirable effects
specs.                                              are addressed
1. Air Quality
I. I Pollution from increased  Low volume roads, no       Not under the control of   NGO's
vehicles                     mitigation required          this project.
2. Land Resources                                            .
2.1 Slope stabilization      Regular maintenance          Contractor with local   CMO-EU
labor
2.2 Terrace destruction during    Regulated through the   Contractor with local   CMO-EU
maintenance                   maintenance concession      labor
2.3 Erosion. Ditches          Cleaning work by contract   Contractor with local   CMO-EU
blocked with materials from    according to performance   labor
unstable slopes              based contract.
3. Hydrology
3.1 Mountain hydrology and   Road Facilities are maintained  Maintenance Contractor   CMO-EU
water harvesting              regularly.
3.2 Blockage of cross        Road Facilities are maintained  Maintenance Contractor   CMO-EU
drains/culverts              regularly.
5. Socio-economic and cultural
Issues
5.1 Tribal tensions         Problems here during oper.   Maint.Contractor,       CMO-EU,
5.2 Land ownership            period addressed through    Road Maintenance        NGOs
5.3 Land acquisition          Amicable settlements        Fund, RRMU              Governor
5.4 Archeological & historical   Fence of protected sites  Maintenance contractor   CMO-EU and Dep.
sites                        (rescue work) to be                                  Of Antiq.
maintained as part of road
maintenance contract.
5.5 Graveyards & burials     Not a problem during
operation.



112
CONFORMANCE INDICATORS AND MONITORING RESPONSIBILITY
ROAD_
(The following tables will be used as a tool for monitoring the implementation of the EMP.)
A. Construction Period
Impact                     Mitigation                          Monitoring
(e.g. contract clause)   Indicator      Date of      Signatu re of
verification    verifier
1. Air Quality                Clause 8.2 and COPA
1.1 Dust & potential pollutants   Using water-spraying during
from construction machinery  operation
2. Land Resources
2.1 Road width & slope       Contract Document, Drawings
stabilization
2.2 Terrace destruction      Controlled disposal of cut
material (Clause 19.1 and 8.2)
2.3 Erosion of Ditches, fill-  Labor intensive protection
and cut-slopes               work
3. Hydroloxy
3.1 Mountain hydrology and   Appropriate Road Design
water harvesting             Requirements
3.2 Cross Drainage            Inlet and Outlet Design
Appropriate
3.3 Flood protection in the  Appropriate Road Design
wadis                         Requirements    _
4. Water quality
4.1 Diesel spill from        Clause 8.2, Special
construction machinery impacts  arrangements for storage and
ground water                 protection in COPA
5. Socio-economic and cultural
issues                       Clauses 19.1/27.1/42.1/42.3
5.1 Tribal tensions. Clauses  Regular meetings
5.2 Land ownership  42.1 &   with Project
5.3 Land acquisition  42.3   Affected People
5.4 Archeological & historical   Archaeological Rescue
sites                        Surveys up front and 'Chance
Clause 27.1    Find' procedures
5.5 Graveyards & burials     Relocation of Road
5.6 Road Safety at construction   Proper temporary signs and
sites                        marking, and manual
Clause 19.1    regulation of traffic                                    _ ___



113
B. Operational Period
Impact                     Mitigation                         Monitorin
(e.g. regulations)     Indicator      Date of      Signature of
verification    verifier
Generally                    Through network wide
maintenance concessions the
project will attempt to involve
the private sector in providing
better maintenance services,
according to easily
monitorable performance
specs. 
1. Air Quality
1. I Pollution from increased  Low volume roads, no
vehicles                     mitigation required
2. Land Resources                           _
2.1 Slope stabilization      Regular maintenance
2.2 Terrace destruction during    Regulated through the
maintenance                  maintenance concession
2.3 Erosion. Ditches blocked    Cleaning work by contract
with materials from unstable    according to performance
slopes                       based contract.
3. Hydrology
3.1 Mountain hydrology and   Road Facilities are maintained
water harvesting             regularly.
3.2 Blockage of cross        Road Facilities are maintained
drains/culverts              regularly.
5. Socio-economic and cultural
issues
5.1 Tribal tensions          Problems here during oper.
5.2 Land ownership           period addressed through
5.3 Land acquisition         amicable settlements
5.4 Archeological & historical   Fence of protected sites
sites                        (rescue work) to be
maintained as part of road
maintenance contract.
5.5 Graveyards & burials     Not a problem during
operation.



114
10. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Consistent with IDA environmental procedures, institutional strengthening activities will be necessary. These will
involve the creation of an environmental unit within CMO to implement and monitor the environmental mitigation
measures. The function of this Unit will be: (i) review and approve Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and
Environmental Management Plans (EMP) for all rural roads to be improved under the Program; (ii) monito- the
compliance with the EIA and EMP by the various entities involved in the implementation of the Program; and (iii)
collect data to document that the agreed performance criteria related to environmental and social aspects of the
Program are met. This unit will be staffed with qualified personnel (2 professionals) before project effectiveness.
The staff of this unit will receive training during Phase I of the Program as part of the TA provided to the CMO.
11. ESTIMATED COST AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Costs associated with the implementation of the physical mitigation measures in this EMP will be part ol the
construction cost of the rural road projects. Most of the proposed EMP mitigation activities will be assured under
provisions in the construction contracts, engineering supervision contract and for Phase II and III in the Social
Framework Agreement. In addition, the Project will include an implementation schedule that integrates the
activities of the EMP into the overall schedule. The cost of the institutional strengthening activity is included in the
technical assistance package to the CMO.
12. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
12.1 Reporting
As an element of Project reporting requirements, the CMO will include into their routine reports the status in the
implementation of the activities related to the EMP. These reports should note any contractor non-compliance with
the EMP and provide guiding remarks on the actions to be taken. The significance of the non-compliance should
also be noted. As necessary, supplemental reports with greater detail than the routine reports should also be
prepared.
12.2 Supervision
The Supervision Plan for the proposed Project will include provisions for the participation of World Bank
environmnental staff in supervision missions, as appropriate and subject to available funding, to review progress in
implementation of the EMP. The performance of the CMO in the implementation of these activities under the
Project will be a standard element of supervision mission reports, including these from the Early Implementation
Assessment, and the Implementation Completion Mission.
13. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
As part of the environmental assessment process, on-site consultations will be undertaken with a range of agencies
and stakeholders for each rural access road to be financed under the Program. Consistent with the procedures of
IDA, the Government of Yemen has agreed to make the EMP for each pilot road available to the public througk the
Info-Shop at the World Bank, in Sana'a and at selected locations relevant to each pilot road. The EMP will be
available in Yemen in English and Arabic.
PART B
AL AHMAR - AN NAOABA ROAD
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Context and Environmental Category
This Environmental Management Plan (EMP) concerns Part B of Phase I of the Rural Access Program (RAP). Part
B concerns the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road. The Project (Phase I) has been placed in environmental screening
category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational Policy 4.01 of the World Bank/IDA. The environmental
category is justified, since civil works will be limited to an overlay of an existing and well-established inter-city
road, where there will be no resettlement or land acquisition as a result of the project.



115
1.2 Environmental and Social Review Process
Field-Based Reviews and Consultation
During project appraisal, the existing road design study was reviewed and the road was visited to confirm the project
category.
Meetings and Site Visits
As part of the preparation process, the Bank preparation team and consultants held meetings with the Ministry of
Public Works and Urban Development and the Environmental Protection Council to discuss the environmental
assessment process and requirements.
Public Consultation
The EMP will be disclosed for public comment and will be discussed through on-site meetings with national
government agencies, local governments, beneficiaries and local non-governmental organizations. The Project
Implementation Plan will also contain provisions for periodic consultations during the physical works phase with
officials and residents along the road corridors to solicit their views concerning the environmental and social aspects
of the rural road improvement works.
2. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINSTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
Same as above.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1 Background
The rehabilitation of the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road was a component of the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP) but taken out in a restructuring of this Credit to make room for a much needed rehabilitation of the
Aden airport runway and taxiways. The basic understanding at the time of the restructuring as reflected in Aide-
Memoires, was that IDA would subsequently finance the Al Ahmar - An Naqbah road rehabilitation either through
a supplemental credit to the TRP or as part of a follow-up operation in the transport sector. It-was agreed to provide
financing for this project as a separate part of the Rural Access Project. To avoid any confusion on the role and the
responsibilities for rural access improvements, the rural access pilot program would form a separate Part A of the
new Project to be implemented by the RAP Central Management Office, while Part B of the Project would be the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the Al Ahmar - An Naqabah road
3.2 Proposed IDA-Supported Project
The project constitutes a section of the inland Aden-Mukhalla highway. It starts at the town of Al Ahmar and
traversing a length of 114 km, terminates at the intersection with the other asphalt road to Ataq at An Naqabah. The
rehabilitation works will consist of repair works, including short sections of reconstruction, drainage improvements
and protection works. The overlay on the existing pavement will not be widened outside of existing shoulders. No
widening is envisaged.
4. BASELINE DATA
National project setting. The Republic of Yemen is located on the southern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It has a
total land area of 55.5 million hectares and a population of about 16 million (1997). The country is characterized by
five major land systems: (i) a hot and humid coastal Tihama plain, 30-60 km wide along the Red Sea; (ii) the Yemen
Highlands, with elevations from 1,000 to 3,600 m. parallel to the Red Sea coast; (iii) the dissected region of Yemen
High Plateau and the Hadramawt-Mahra Uplands, with uplands up to 1,000 m.; (iv) the Al-Rub Al-Khali desert
interior, with a hot and dry climate; and (v) the islands, including Socotra in the Arabian Sea and more than 112
small islands in the Red Sea. Yemen's coastal and marine eco-system, which includes extensive mangroves, coral
reefs and seagrass areas, are of major economic importance for fisheries and tourism.
Land resources. The project is located in the Yemen High Plateau, characterized by rolling and rocky volcanic



116
terrain, with extraordinary sandstone fonnations in the distance.  Land use consists mainly of terraced crop
production. At km 60, the road passes through a lush wadi.
Biological resources: The project area is characterized by sparse vegetation on the rocky hillsides, consisting mainly
of grasses, euphorbia plants and acacia trees. There is little wildlife in evidence. The project road is not located in a
designated sensitive or specially protected area.
Socio-economic and culturaL The road passes about 8-10 villages, which are set back from the road. The road also
passes by several towns of historical interest, notably, Azzan and Mayfa'at. Along the road there is much evidence
of housing construction, which is apparently a result of former residents who fled during the socialist era and are
returning to their homes.  This suggests a growing population and economy. The following summarizes the
population and poverty situation of the districts through which the road passes.
Abyan         Al Mahfad       25,583            20-29%                  20-29%
Shabwah       Habban          23,309            10-19%                  20-29%
Total                         48,892
Source: Central Statistics Office
5. POTENTIAL IMPACTS
Because the road has been well established for twenty years, the improvements brought on by the project will have
little additional effect on environmental issues, such as land use and drainage, in the project area. Environmental
issues identified during the site visit were:
  Health and safety hazards of workers and population during construction period.
*  Environmental damage from cut material, borrow areas, detours and construction waste.
-  Additional dust and noise levels during construction
  Traffic safety and safe access points of villagers to the road during operational period.
6. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
This road currently provides the only main highway connecting Aden and Taizz with Al Mukalla and Ha6ramout.
In this corridor, there are no alternative alignments, that could provide equivalent access and facilitate thru-traffic
due to difficult terrain.
The no-action alternative would entail a gradual transformation of this highway to a gravel road and a complete loss
of road assets, thus incurring considerable road user costs.
The appraisal mission team visited the road in order to verify whether the technical solution, which was proposed by
the consultant, is still adequate. The team concluded that the proposed design, which involves a substantial
widening of the road, is difficult to justify given that there are insufficient budget funds, and the fact that the
remaining sections towards Mukalla will remain with the present cross section. Therefore, the proposed project will
involve no widening beyond the limits of the existing shoulders.
7. MITIGATION PLAN
Principal measures to address the potential impacts will involve:
7.1 Improved and environmentally-sound technical designs
These will particularly relate to: (i) adjusting the design to limit the pavement within the existing shoulder width;
and (ii) incorporating traffic safety designs and improved access points for villagers living along the road.
7.2 Reduction of potential impacts of physical works
Impact reduction measures  Specific measures to reduce potential impacts of physical works will be taken.
Contracts will contain requirements for proper management of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel,



117
oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and dust levels, and rehabilitation of areas used for construction detours and
sites used to temporarily store construction materials. Contractors will be required to provide and maintain
equipment with proper noise abatement controls.
Contract Provisions. Specific provisions will be included in construction contracts to mandate the use of formal
health and safety measures to minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the construction process. The
following table summarizes the relevant clauses in the standard construction contracts.
Cla~~  Hu{iie                           Wiita  I5:>:   <..
8.2      Site Operation and Methods of Construction
19.1      Safety, security and Protection of the Environment
27.1      Fosils
42.1      Possession of Site and Access Thereto
42.3      Rights-of-Way and facilities
Part II    Conditions of Particular Application (COPA)
Pre-Tender Conference. To ensure full understanding of the above clauses by the contractors, all pre-qualified
contractors will attend a Pre-Tender Conference, where they will be briefed concerning their responsibilities to
address environmental, health and safety issues. These briefings will outline specific provisions of the construction
tender documents and contracts, as laid out in the Part lI, Conditions of Particular Application (COPA).
7.3 Management of Operational Impacts.
The Project will address operational impacts identified earlier for each road. These may be implemented through
financial support from the Road Maintenance Fund to avoid deterioration of the rehabilitated road and associated
dust and safety problems. Maintenance contractors will be required to follow procedures similar to those for the
construction contractors concerning proper disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel, oil and
lubricants and adoption of health and safety measures for personnel. Expected increases in traffic levels are not
anticipated to be so high as to bring about a significant increase in air pollution, and this may in fact decrease due to
smoother and less dusty roads. Improved road standards can induce more use of non-diesel fuel vehicles, which are
in principle less polluting. Petrol in Yemen is unleaded. However, pollution is also caused by old and poorly-
maintained vehicles. The EPC is in the process of trying to improve enforcement of vehicle standards.
7.4 Reduction/Enhancement of Social and Cultural Impacts
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. The construction contracts (COPA) will contain procedures for
archeological "chance finds," should they be encountered during the course of construction activities. These
procedures have been developed in consultation with MOCHUP. The provisions of these "chance find" procedures
are nornally included in Part II (COPA) to the bidding documents for construction contractors and the Terms of
Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender Conference will include provisions for a session on
enviromnental and social issues during which "chance find" procedures will be reviewed with potential construction
contractors.
Archeological Field Support. The government will make available (on demand) a qualified archaeologist to conduct
field investigations when important search work and new materials sites are opened. The archaeologist would be
paid by the PIU of the MOCHUP and be attached temporarily to the construction manager's team and provided with
logistical support when necessary.
Graveyards and Burials. If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are found during the course of construction
activities, the PIU will contact and work with local religious authorities within the Project area to allow for possible
identification of the remains, and when appropriate, properly undertake relocation and reburial.
Local employment. The mechanisms for maximizing local employment benefits will be specified as part of the
bidding documents.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN
The Environmental Monitoring Plan will be implemented by Project inplementing Unit of MOCHUP. This Unit
will monitor application of environmental measures for detailed design, construction and bidding for rehabilitation



118
contracts for the project road. The results of the monitoring activities will be included as routine elements of reports
prepared by the supervising engineer and the PIU. Key activities of the Unit will include, but not be limited to:
8.1 Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts
The PIU, with support of the supervising engineer, will regularly monitor implementation of the mitigation measures
adopted for each pilot road to address impacts during the construction period.
8.2 Management of Operational Impacts
The PIU, with support of the supervising engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor implementatior. of the
mitigation measures adopted for each pilot road. These will be implemented in coordination with the Road
Maintenance Fund and those institutions responsible for road safety.
8.3 Management of Social and Cultural Impacts
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Application of the archaeological "chance find" procecures, if
required during the course of road rehabilitation, will be monitored by the supervising engineer, the PIU and the
Department of Antiquities in the Ministry of Tourism.
Archeological Field Support. The on-site work of the archaeologist from DOA will be monitored by the E'IU and
the supervising engineer. A record will be maintained of the archaeologist's activities and information compiled on
sites located and/or materials found during this fieldwork.
Graveyards and Burials. The implementation of any actions to address issues related to unrecorded graveyards
and/or burials will be undertaken by the P1U in conjunction with the local authorities.
9. SUMMARY TABLES OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The following tables summarize the environmental management plan for the project road.



119
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
AL AHMAR - AN NAQABAH ROAD PROJECT
A. Construction Period
Impact                    Mitigation                        Responsi nsi
(e.g contract clause)     Implementation           Monitoring
1. Air Quality               Clause 8.2 and COPA
1.1 Dust & potential pollutants   Using water-spraying during    Supervision Consultant,  PIU
from construction machinery  operation                   Resident Engineer (RE)
2. Land Resources
2.1 Road width               Redesign; contract document,  Design Engineer (DE),   PIU
Drawings                    and RE
3. Hydrology
3.1 Cross Drainage           Inlet and Outlet Design     DE & RE                 PIU
Appropriate
4. Water quality
4.1 Diesel spill from        Clause 8.2, Special         DE & RE                 PIU
construction machinery impacts  arrangements for storage and
ground water                 protection in COPA
5. Socio-economic and
cultural issues              Clauses 19.1/27.1/42.1/42.3                         PIU
5.1 Archeological & historical   Archaeological Rescue   RE & DoA                PIU
sites                        Surveys up front and 'Chance
Clause 27.1    Find' procedures
5.2 Graveyards & burials     Relocation of Road          RE                      PIU
5.3 Road Safety at construction   Proper temporary signs and  RE                 PIU
sites                        marking, and manual
Clause 19.1    regulation of traffic



120
B. Operational Period
Impact                               Mitigation                       Respons  ility
(e.g. regulations)    Implementation         MonitorinP
Generally                    Through network wide        Generally the Road     Generally, Ihe road
maintenance concessions the    Maintenance Fund and    users, local
project will attempt to involve  MOCHUP are        cornmunities and
the private sector in providing  responsible for roads  NGO's will be
better maintenance services,    during operational  mobilized to make
according to easily         period.                sure that
monitorable perfornance                            undesirable effects
specs.                                             are addressed
1. Air Quality
1.1 Pollution from increased  Improved implementation of   Not under the control of  NGO's
vehicles                     vehicle inspection.        this project.
2. Land Resources
N/A
3. Hydrology_
3.1 Blockage of cross        Road Facilities are maintained  Maintenance Contractor   PIU
drains/culverts              regularly.
5. Socio-economic and cultural
issues
5.1 Archeological & historical   Fence of protected sites  Maintenance contractor   PIU & Dep Of
sites                       (rescue work) to be                                 Antiquities
maintained as part of road
maintenance contract.
5.2 Graveyards & burials     Not a problem during
operation.



121
CONFORMANCE INDICATORS AND MONITORING RESPONSIBILITY
AL AHMAR - AN NAQABA ROAD
(The following tables may be used as a tool for monitoring the implementation of the EMP.)
A. Construction Period
Impact                     Mitigation                         Monitoring
(e.g. contract clause)   Indicator      Date of     Signature of
veriflcation    verifier
1. Air Quality               Clause 8.2 and COPA
1. I Dust & potential pollutants   Using water-spraying during
from construction machinery  operation
2. Land Resources
2.1 Erosion of Ditches, fill- and  Labor intensive protection
cut-slopes                   work
3. Hydrology
3.1 Cross Drainage           Inlet and Outlet Design
Appropriate
4. Water quality        ___
4.1 Diesel spill from        Clause 8.2, Special
construction machinery impacts  arrangements for storage and
ground water                 protection in COPA
S. Socio-economic and cultural
issues                       Clauses 19.1/27.1/42.1142.3
5.1 Archeological & historical   Archaeological Rescue
sites                        Surveys up front and 'Chance
Clause 27.1    Find' procedures
5.2 Graveyards & burials     Relocation of Road
5.3 Road Safety at construction   Proper temporary signs and
sites                        marking, and manual
Clause 19.1    regulation of traffic



122
B. Operational Period
Impact                       Mitigation                            Monitoring
(e.g. regulations)       Indicator       Date of       Signature of
_verification      verifier
Generally                       Through network wide
maintenance concessions the
project will attempt to involve
the private sector in providing
better maintenance services,
according to easily
monitorable performance
specs.
1. Air Quality
1I.1 Pollution from increased  Low volume roads, no
vehicles                        mitigation required
2. Land Resources
2.1 Erosion. Ditches blocked    Cleaning work by contract
with materials from unstable    according to performance
slopes                         based contract.
3. Hydrology
3.1 Blockage of cross           Road Facilities are maintained
drains/culverts                 regularly.
5. Socio-economic and cultural
issues
5.1 Archeological & historical   Fence of protected sites
sites                           (rescue work) to be
maintained as part of road
maintenance contract.
5.2 Graveyards & burials       Not a problem during
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ operation.



123
10. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Responsibility for implementing the EMP will rest with the PIU for the ongoing two Credits. This unit has
successfully managed similar projects. Should the unit require special assistance, it can call on the Environmental
and Social Management Unit, which will be created under the Rural Access Program Central Management Office.
11. ESTIMATED COST AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Costs associated with the implementation of the physical mitigation measures in this EMP will be part of the
construction cost of the rural road projects. Most of the proposed EMP mitigation activities will be assured under
provisions in the construction contracts and engineering supervision contract. In addition, the Project will include an
implementation schedule that integrates the activities of the EMP into the overall schedule.
12. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
12.1 Reporting
As an element of Project reporting requirements, the PIU will include into their routine reports the status in the
implementation of the activities related to the EMP. These reports should note any contractor non-compliance with
the EMP and provide guiding remarks on the actions to be taken. The significance of the non-compliance should
also be noted. As necessary, supplemental reports with greater detail than the routine reports should also be
prepared.
12.2 Supervision
The Supervision Plan for the proposed Project will include provisions for the participation of World Bank
environmental staff in supervision missions, as appropriate and subject to available funding, to review progress in
implementation of the EMP. The performance of the PIU in the implementation of these activities under the Project
will be a standard element of supervision mission reports, including these from the Early Implementation
Assessment, and the Implementation Completion Mission.
13. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
As part of the environmental assessment process, on-site consultations will be undertaken with a range of agencies
and stakeholders for each rural access road to be financed under the Program. Consistent with the procedures of
IDA, the Government of Yemen has agreed to make the EMP for each pilot road available to the public through the
World Bank Info-Shop, at the World Bank, in Sana'a and at selected locations relevant to each pilot road. The EMP
will be available in Yemen in English and Arabic.



124
Annex 14: Village Access and Poverty Surveys
Yemen: Rural Access Program
A rural access survey in 345 randomly chosen rural settlements conducted was conducted in 1999 by the
Road Maintenance Fund for the Yemeni Government and funded by the IDA supported Transport
Rehabilitation Project. The questions related to access, transport and public assets, available to the people
in their settlements. Indicators included: distances and costs to different access needs like schools, health
facilities, markets, transport services, and availability of public utilities (water, electricity, etc). The
prevailing mode of transport was given, as well as the number of vehicles in the settlement, by type. The
results are captured in an Excel spreadsheet. A preliminary review of this survey shows eleven questions
directly related to household access to services in terms of time and distance. An initial review of the
results show: (i) that the settlements are small in population; (ii) the predominant mode of transport used
to access markets and health facilities is by "car" (respectively 75% and 65 % approximately) and the
mode of transport to reach schools is walking (92%); and (iii) basic facilities are not present in many of
the settlements. The table below illustrates some distances to the nearest facilities:
Table 1: Some results from the village access survey
Distance in sample
To nearest facility:          Max (kmn)   Mean (kmn)
-Telephone                        5          2.5
-Highway / transport service      5           3
-Primary school                   5          0.5
-Secondary school                125          3
-Clinic                          65           5
-Hospital                        125         10
-Daily market                     69          5
Other key selected results of the survey include: (i) the average vehicle per capita of about 0.05, i.e., one
vehicle for every 19 people; (ii) 33% of settlements are within 5 km from a two lane highway; (iii) 36%
of settlements are within 5 km of a public transport route; and (iv) only 6% have direct access to paved
roads, 13% to gravel roads and 82% to earth tracks. See tables on the next pages for more detailed
information from the survey.
In 1998, the Central Statistical Organization (CSO) under the Ministry of Planning and Development built
a comprehensive GIS database and incorporated information they collected from a survey on household
budgets from about 15,120 households constituting 0.7% of the total Yemeni households (2,162,847) of
which 64% from the urban and 36% from the rural areas. Some of the key results indicated higher
percentages of illiteracy among populations less than 10 years in age in rural areas (80% for women and
32% for men) as compared to urban areas (40% for women and 15% for men). The average household
monthly expenditures in rural areas is about 30% less (US$170/month), as compared to urbar areas
(US$233/month). Between 1992 and 1998, poverty has almost doubled with the number of household
below the "food poverty line "rising from 9% to 19%. By factoring transport, food, clothes, housing,
education, and health into an upper poverty line", the percentage of household in poverty further ircrease
from 19% to 33%/62.
2 1998 Household Budget Survey (HHBS).



Access and Poverty Indicators
Access to Markets
..x,-.* .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ............
~~tW  Thial  ar~~t~  Mark~ta Weeldy Markets    ~ ~~  *i~4~$   ....... Tr~~n~po....M.. . o..
0-1000       238 90,400 26.28   10,055   69,000      8,546          80,000          50        21.01        186         78.15
1000-2000    67  84,130 24.46   7,863   38,000      12,538          60,000          29        43.28        38          56.72
More than 2000 40 169,400 49.25   4,735   30,000     31,305         150,000         14        3500          26         65.00
Total        345 343,930 100.00  8,991   6           11,106         150,000         93        2696         250         72.46
Access to Health
0-1000         238   90,400  26.28  6,981  65,000 18,778 90,000  8,716  80,000     73       30.67         3
1000-2000      67   84,130  24.46  5,650  30,000 14,059 125,000 8,848  125,000     33       49.25
More than 2000   40   169,400 49.25  5,638  45,000 31,542 120,000 12,359 120,000   19       47.50         1
Total          345  343,930 100.00  6,547  65,000 18,304 125,000 9,100  125,000    125      36.23         4



126
Access to Education
0-1000      238   90,400   26.28    719     4,000    1,117   2,200  1,063  9,000     230      96.64       7        2.94
1000-2000    67   84,130   24.46    422     1,500    450    1,500   888   5,000       63      94.03      4         5.97
More than
2000        40   169,400  49.25    775      5,000    994    5,000  1,357  15,000      39      97.50       1        2.50
Total       345  343,930  100.00    663     5,000    878    5,000  1,058  15,000     332      96.23      12        3.48
0-1000    238  90,400  26.28  8,329  65,000  3,687  10,000  1,365  10,000    218     91.60    3.00     1.26     17      7.14
1000-2000  67   84,130  24.46 12,639 125,000  1,725  3,000  1,150  5,000     59      88.06    1.00     1.49      7      10.45
More than
2000        40  169,400  49.25   592   3,000   960   3,000  1,850  15,000     38     95.00.     -        -       2       5.00
Total      345  343,930 100.00 7,808  125,000 3,060  10,000  1,377  15,000    315    91.30    4.00      1.16    26      7.54



127
Social Indicators
0-1000       238      90,400   26.28    53    22.27    85    35.71
1000-2000    67       84,130   24.46    21    31.34    27    40.30
More than
2000          40      169,400  49.25    21    52.50    25    62.50
Total        345     343,930  100.00   95    27.54   137   39.71
0- 1000      238      90,400   26.28   82    34.45    8 8   36.97    3 6    15.13  32  13.45
1000-2000    67       84,130   24.46   15    22.39    19   28.36    20    29.85   13  19.40
Mofre than
2000          40      169,400  49.25    1 8    45.00    10   25.00    2     5.00   10  25.00
Total        345     343,930  100.00  115    33.33   117  33.91    58    16.81   55  15.94
0-1000     238      90,400   26.28  11   4.62   26   10.92    201    84.45
1000-2000    67      84,130   24.46   4   5.97   11   16.42    52    77.61
More thanl
2000       40     169,400  49.25   4   10.00   7   17.50    29    72.50
Total        345     343,930  100.00  19   5.51   44   12.75    282    81.74
E.S. Electric supply, H.W.S. House Water Supply.



128
Summary of the population and poverty status for the six pilot road projects.
1                       Thula                         31,430        15-19%           15-19%
Amran             Amran               20         56,856        15-19%           15-19%
________                                         39,757        1' 19%           1519%/
2    Hajj ah            Kuhlan Affar       1 7        50,849         1 5- 19%        15- 1 9%
3    Al Beda            At Taiah           42            267         50+%             50+%
4    Taizz              Ashamaiatien       10         138,866       20-24%           20-24%
Lahj              Towr al                        38,974        15-19%          15-19%%
5    Al Mahwit          Al Mahwit          21       _56,468         25-29%           25-29%
~~~~~~a i Sad4,7                                           20-24       1 204
6    Sbabwah            Rodhoon            70         1610           15- l9%         15-l 9%
source: Central statistics Office



Annex 16: RURAL ACCESSIBILITY PLANNING METHODOLOGY
AND DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Yemen: Rural Access Program
Introduction
As part of the preparation activities for the RAP, a consultant in rural accessibility planning was engaged
to formulate a methodology and outline a work program for achieving Governorate level rural access
master plans (RAMPs). Based on this program, the consultant drew up detailed terms of reference and a
budget for a consulting firm to carry out assistance services during Phase I of the program. This annex
summarizes the principal conclusions and proposed rural accessibility planning methodology to be tested
during Phase I, as well as the terms of reference for the consultant. The consultant's full report is among
the available project document files listed in Annex 8 ("Rural Accessibility Program - Yemen,
Formulation of a Methodology and Work Plan, by Rob Dingen and John Howe).
Review of Current Situation
The. consultants' review of institutions, information, and relevant concept development in Yemen
indicated that implementation of the RAMP process will necessarily have to proceed through the CMO's
offices to be established in regional groupings of Governorates. Individual Governorates and Districts can
be selectively involved in the data acquisition and participatory network validation aspects of the process,
but greater involvement in the initial stages appears to be pre-empted by their present lack of capacity.
However, measures to expand their contribution are elaborated in the detailing of the TOR for the
consultants, who will provide technical assistance, with an emphasis on capacity building and training
activities.
Currently it can be concluded that in Yemen, there is little experience with either network-based road
management or access planning principles in the sense understood internationally. Poverty-focused
planning is also comparatively recent. Thus, the targeting of road investments based on these
considerations represents a significant innovation that needs to be reflected in information dissemination
and capacity building activities.
Existing socio-economic and poverty data is adequate for investment prioritization between Districts, but,
due to information limitations, within District conditions are more difficult to determine and likely to
require field observations. This also appears to apply to road network data as well. Poverty indicators that
are relevant to individual road schemes are most unlikely to exist, and their acquisition will have to be
included in special baseline and other studies undertaken for impact-monitoring purposes. To adequately
attribute poverty reduction changes to road investment requires statistically designed and executed
surveys, and these have been detailed in the report. Indicators for the access changes, contingent upon
road improvements, can be derived from baseline District-level accessibility surveys. The following
tables provide some initial Governorate-level data.



130
Table I: Administration and Area by Governorate
_ .S~rDrres)    IS           S            '5           I           1 4          1 4   .
Sub-Disit iczts    -       Cultivable   Cultivated
Total area    Districts   Quarters     Villages       Area         Area    Agro-Climatic
Governorate    (km2)         (No)         (No)         (No)          (ha)         (ha)       Zones 1)
Al-Baidha        8,673         21           119         1426        75,895       27,152         A
Al-Dhaleh        4,240         9            42          1631          na           na           A
Al-Mahweet       2,357         9           123          1224        29,168       26,610         A
Amran            7,484         20          127          1626          na           na           A
Dhamar           7,634         12          313          3288        138,220      87,076         A
lbb              5,340         20          253          2739        101,521      80,249         A
Sanaa           13,705         22          240          2968       380,726      214,062         A
Sanaa City       239           10           44            -           na           na           A
Hajjah           8,495         31          161          3776        124,594      57,113         B
Sadah           12,794         15           124         1109        61,030       53,227         B
Taez             9,994         23          236          1904        123,432      62,960         B
Abyan           16,561         11           11          2582        38,474       29,288         C
Aden             783           8            8            10         3,935        3,070          C
Al-Hodeidah     13,173         26          138          2288       336,613      302,812         C
Lahej           12,250         15           44          3841        32,017       19,898         C
Al-Jowf         37,739         12           97          422         69,594       48,320         D
Al-Mahara       65,723         9            12          306          1,449        984           D
Hadramout       169,363        30           34          3625        39,785       21,473         D
Marib           17,872         13           60          537         91,190       89,615         D
Shabwa          39,930         17           24          2982        21,215       9,001          D
TOTAL           454,000       333         2,210        38,284      1,668,858    1,132,910
Table II: Demography, Education and Health facilities
Percentage of
housebolds in
Absolute Adult Illiteracy                   Enrolment Prim.
Population         (Food)       ('99)       Unemployment    Sebool (6-14 yrs)   ('98-99)  ('98-99:
(projection Poverty Poverty    (>15yrs)        Rate (%)           Rite (%)       Primary  Health
Governorate  for 1999)                  Female  Male   Male  Female  Female          Male    Schools  Facilities
Al-Baidha         558,000 421%  351%   794%   40.1%   81%    33%    43.6%            704%        324        4
Al-Dhaleh         380,000 242 % 209 %  77 4 %  29.1 %   12 0%    80%    39 5 %       742 %       235        3
Al-Mahweet        428,000 28.P YAo 23.2%   86.7%   428%   30%    40%    36.9%        714%        361        5
Amran             886,000 24.1%  19.1%   846%   340%   4.0%    10%    322%           77.6%       710       na
Dhamar           1,106,000 28 3 % 214 %  861 %  41.9%   3.4 %    0.9%    28 8 %      68 8 %      835        1
Ibb              1,893,000 35 1% 28 1 %   79 2%  36.9 %   6 3 %    1.7 %    489 %    78 2 %      902       25
Sanaa            1,242,000 284% 238%   871%  402%   41%    08%    314%               716%        1,042     24
SanaaCity        1,373,000 20.8%  10.1%  42.1%   13.3%   11.8%   13.1%   82.9%       86.3%        134       6
Hajjah           1,409,000 37.5%  336%   87.8%   563%   106%    6.3%    26.7%        58.1%       982       22
Sadah             574,000 27.5 %  23 3 %   91.1 %   47 6 %   4 3 %    8 0 %    20.8 %  67.0 %    446       IS
Taez            2,157,000 41.1 % 32.9%   68.3 %  28.3%   9.5 %    0.9%    59.3%      80.7%       682        4
Abyan             404,000 349%  301 %  65.9%   25.8%   179%    2.2 %    47.8%        73 4%       273        9
Aden              471,000 32 0 %  16 6%   34 3 %   13 7 %  28 3 %   19.6%   85.6 %   89.0 %       65        4
Al-Hodeidah      1,994,000 39.4%  33.6%   774%   48.1%   9.0%    38%    370%         595%        928       37
Lahej             616,000 30.2%  26.2%   72.9%   27.2%   14.1 %   1.7%    53.8%      79.5%       365       31
Al-Jowf           499,000 37 1 % 31.4%   89 2 %   61.9%   112 %   15.8%   27.2 %     59 5 %      209        6
Ai-Mahara          64,000 19.7 %  15.9 %   65 9%   45 2%   10.9%   6 7 %    57 5 %   62.1 %       52        8
Hadramnout        862,000 50.1%  38.7%   595%   232%   13.7%   23%    572%           707%        426       26
Marib             240,000 218 %  15 4%   81 5 %   361 %   16.5%   9.7 %    42 1%     67 6%       289       13
Shabwa            520,000 34.8% 25.2%   83.2%   29.1%  25.2%   3.7 %    41.5 %       74.2%       263        9
TOTAL          17,676,000 33%    26%      75%     36%    36%       36%      45%       72%        9,523     261
1 Agro-climatic Zones: A: High-altitude Mountains (1 800-3000 m); B3 Medium-altitude (1000-2000 m) mountain chain east of
Tihama; C: Southern and Western Coastal Plains; D: The Eastern Plateau and Desert.
) Sources: 1: Statistical Yearbook 1999; 2: Economic Poverty Indicators by Governorate, UNDP/CSO, 2000; 3: Education
Survey report, CSO, 98199; 4.: Agricultural Statistical Book for 1998; 5: CSO officials; 6: unofficial figures: measured from
topographic maps;



131
Proposed RAMP Process
The situation confronting Yemen is unique. It needs, and is trying, to improve local level accessibility
while simultaneously developing a new system of decentralized Government that has significant
implications for the development of the main road system. New Districts cannot function if they remain
unconnected to the Governorates and capital. The uniqueness of the present situation is that the necessary
changes to the road system have to be superimposed on a network that seems to have an unclear
hierarchy.
The initial focus of the proposed approach to developing a RAMP for each Governorate, will be the
identification of a rationally-based road network hierarchy to complement the hierarchical pattern of
cities, towns, markets, and other centers of economic and social activity that already exist. That is, the
hierarchies in the road networks should be deliberately selected to complement the hierarchies in the
places that are the centers of administrative, commercial and social activity.
It is, therefore, proposed that the initial phase of the RAMPs will be derived from a functional
classification of the secondary road network and the improvement needs this reveals, as modified by
poverty-targeting of poor districts to determine the corresponding investment prioritization.
Subsequently, sample local-level access profiles will be determined as a means of identiffying longer-term
intra-District road investment needs. This dual strategy combines the best aspects of a top-down
approach necessary to respect the hierarchical manner in which rural communications networks function,
with a bottom-upwards appreciation of access and poverty alleviation needs that allows use of
decentralized and participatory approaches to decision-making. It also accords with the imperative created
by the government policy on decentralization.
Implementation Stages
The proposed RAMP process has been divided into two parts of four stages each. The first part focuses
on the secondary network and the second intra-District communications. They are deliberately separated
into two parts because: (i) of the need to learn from the first part of the process and feed this experience
into the second part; (ii) there are likely to be methodological differences in the approaches to the two
parts; and (iii) the volume of work resulting from the first part may well preclude action on the second for
the immediate future. Part II are also among the activities envisaged for Phase III of the RAP.
PARTII: SECONDARYNETWORKS
Initial identification, by functional classification, of core secondary level networks.
Validation and confirmation of core secondary level networks.
Core secondary level network physical condition assessment.
Core secondary level network improvement prioritization.
PARTII: TERTIRYAND QUATERNARYNETWORKS
Initial identification of core tertiary and quaternary level networks.
Validation and confirmation of core tertiary and quaternary level networks.
Core tertiary and quaternary level networks physical condition assessment.
Core tertiary and quaternary level networks improvement prioritization.
Governorate and District Involvement
Consideration of the proposed RAMP process shows that there is considerable scope for Govemorate and
District level staff involvement in: (i) the planning and conduct of the secondary road network
assessments, and subsequent analysis; (ii) the validation of network classification proposals; (iii) road
condition assessments and improvement costing; (iv) district-level accessibility surveys and functional
classifications; and (v) the short- and long-term monitoring of poverty and access changes. Their



132
involvement in these processes is indeed essential because of the need for local knowledge. However, the
extent to which the Governorates and Districts can own and/or lead these processes is uncertain until an
institutional analysis shows: (i) what level of responsibility for the road sector the Governora:es and
Districts will be entrusted with under the GOY's decentralization policy; and (ii) how many are in a
position to accept different levels of responsibility.
Contextualizing the RAMP Process
Because of the innovative nature of the proposed RAMP process it is vital at the earliest possible
opportunity for the technical assistance consultants to establish the context in which it is taking place. A
key issue is: 'how is this investment likely to be divided among the candidate Govemorates/Distriz,ts'? Is
there a specific intention to: (i) treat them all equally; (ii) make the allocation roughly in proportion to
population; or (iii) deliberately favor areas of high economic potential, or the most poor? etc. Special
considerations may apply to some areas by virtue of their positive or negative state of developnient, or
development potential. Even if there is no explicit policy on this issue, then one has to be elicited by
discussions with the major stakeholders. These decisions are important since they will influence the
initial selection of the 10 Governorates. They will also condition the prioritization of secondary road
investments.
Implementation Arrangements
A consultancy firm is to be appointed to provide technical assistance services. These will be focused on
the CMO of the RAP, Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development.
However, it is proposed to facilitate the production of the 10 Governorate RAMPs through the Regional
Rural Road Administrations, being the regional implementation offices of the CMO, which will be the
focus for capacity building, training, and co-ordination of local participation inputs into the "AMP
process. A minimum of 3 regional implementation offices should be established, each being the focus for
the production of 3-4 Govemorate RAMPs. Four Districts will be selected - one each to represent the
different agro-climatic zones - from the initial regional group of Governorates. These Districts will be
used to pilot an access planning process appropriate to the level of data that exists and incorporating such
participatory techniques as can be supported by the District structures.
The involvement of both Governorate and District staff, as available, is key to the process of functional
classification of the secondary road networks, and especially their validation and acceptance. Apprcpriate
participation arrangements will need to be evolved for this stage of the process, and subsequently for the
evolution of a suitable methodology for the access assessments and functional classification of the intra-
District road networks.
Allowing for mobilization, the main technical assistance (TA) inputs cover a period of 13 months.



133
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
Background
The Government of Yemen (GOY) is seeking to improve access to its rural areas as a means of
accelerating economic and social development, and combating poverty. The purpose of the corresponding
Rural Access Improvement and Management Programn (RAIP) is an improved livelihood for the rural
population and reduced rural isolation. The means to achieve that objective is through improved year-
round access to markets and services (both social and administrative) especially in the rural areas, where
the large majority of the poor live. The program is designed to support the Government's decentralization
process.
The program will emphasize rural access roads that link District centers to each other and to the main
road network, here referred to as "secondary roads" (intermediary roads). These types of road carry a
substantial level of traffic, are generally in very poor condition, and are excluded from village-level
infrastructure programs. On the non-physical side of the program, the emphasis will be on decentralized
capacity-building for decision-making and project monitoring.
The program will be carried out in three phases: Phase I will create an adequate institutional and
participatory framework for planning, prioritizing and managing rural access improvements; Phase II will
focus on the improvement and maintenance of the secondary road network, as well as capacity-building at
the Governorate level; and Phase III will expand the physical rural access improvements to cover areas
not yet covered under the second phase. During the final phase, the program will continue to support the
Govemorates in achieving sustainable management and maintenance of rural roads, and will extend the
access improvement program to the District level.
A start has been made in the form of an outline methodology and work plan for the rural access
improvement program, carried out by accessibility specialists. This forms the basis of the tasks and other
proposals detailed in these TORs.
Objectives
The main objective of the technical assistance to be provided under this TOR, is to assist the GOY to
initiate the development of Governorate-level rural access master plans. To attain this objective, it will be
necessary to create an adequate institutional and participatory framework for planning, prioritizing and
managing rural access improvements by appropriate capacity building and training activities.



134
Scope of work
To develop an appropriate methodology for road planning at different levels, the consultant is to provide
technical assistance for the conduct of a study, to be executed in conjunction with the Central Rvral Road
Management Office (CMO) of the MOPWUP, based on a staged work plan. The work plan will zomprise
three stages. At the completion of each, an evaluation is to take place that will assess the outcome, and
determine a detailed work plan for the next stage. The three stages will be:
A)    Inception
B)    Piloting and Execution
C)    Design and Completion
The Inception Stage will define the framework for the access planning (AP) methodology. It will consist
of: (i) a contextual review of all Governorates, based on data collection and analysis of socio-economic,
demographic, transport and poverty related data. The result will be a report that provides an initial
quantification of access in relation to the general socio-economic situation of the Governorates; mnd (ii) a
description of the present conditions and limitations of the current political and practical environment in
which the RAIP is to operate.
The Pilot and Execution Stage is to establish best practice AP for rural Yemen. It will consisi of: (i) a
review of the secondary road network in the 10 Governorates, chosen as the first batch (selected on the
basis of the initial review); (ii) the conduct of an intra-District road pilot access planning exercise in four
selected Districts; and (iii) the establishment of training needs for the local authorities.
The Design and Completion Stage will draw lessons from the two preceding stages and formulate
implementation plans for incorporation of the AP-methodology in the Governorates and Districts. The
main activities in this respect will be the design and drafting of planning guidelines, and training manuals
for the local authorities at both Governorate and District level.
Tasks
The Inception Stage will entail the following tasks:
A-I   Examining the functional classification of the road network, used in the 1984 Highway Master
Plan study, and determnining if it is suitable as the basis of a fully national system -should t not be
suitable, an alternative approach is to be proposed;
A-2   Collating information from secondary sources -reports, maps, policies, statistical pubLications,
etc. from Government, donors, NGO's- as the basis for assessing knowledge about Governorate-level
access characteristics;
A-3   Reviewing the policy framework, Government plans and strategies and donor initiatives focusing
on experience with road infrastructure provision and poverty targeting -to determine prior precedents;
A-4   Reviewing the studies conducted as part of the preparation for the RAIP, i.e. (i) the Road Sector
Review Study, (ii) the Appropriate Design Standards Study, (iii) the Gender study, and the RAIP
preparatory poverty and access base-line study conducted by the CMO, so as to coordinate acti- ities and
avoid duplication;
A-5   Assessing and agreeing with Government which 10 Governorates are to be chosen for the
development of the RAMPs and the basis for that choice;
A-6   Developing a strategy and detailed work plan for the conduct of the RAMPs in the 10
Governorates; based on the outline methodology of the accessibility specialists and the Inception stage
review;
A-7   Drafting an inception report; summarizing the outcome of this stage and giving the work plan for
the Pilot and Execution stage;
A-8   Organizing and facilitating a national level Initiation Workshop to present the inception report
and propose and agree on the strategy for further development of the AP methodology;
The Pilot & Execution Stage will include tasks that relate to (I) the assessment of the secondary road
network in the 10 Governorates; and (II) simultaneously conducting a local level access survey in 4



135
selected Districts. The tasks related to I and II are listed below.
Tasks related to I:
B-I    Reviewing the secondary road network in the 10 Governorates and proposing or confirming, as
appropriate, a comprehensive functional classification such that each District center is provided with basic
access to its corresponding Governorate HQ;
B-2    Validating  and  obtaining  agreement on the proposed  functional classification  with  key
stakeholders;
B-3    Defining a network development protocol suitable for conditions in the Yemen;
B-4    Conducting rapid condition surveys of the secondary roads in the 10 Governorates for which
satisfactory information is currently missing;
B-5    Costing any improvements necessary to connect all District centers to their Govemorate HQ;
B-6    Establishing relevant poverty targeting indicators for pre-selection of Districts;
B-7    Drafting criteria for selection of priorities for basic District access;
B-8    Preparing summary RAMPs for the 10 Govemorates. These will have to contain, but not be
limited to:
An assessment of the secondary core network: condition, and quantities;
Access related data: maps by District with its associated poverty classification, showing the location of
key socio-economic facilities;
Priority Ranking: based on appropriate criteria; poverty, service delivery, deprivation, demographic, cost-
effectiveness, and cost-benefit.
To undertake the foregoing tasks it will be necessary to conduct on-the-job and in-house training for
Governorate- and District staff; some training topics are suggested in paragraph 6.13 of these TOR.
However, the Inception stage review will determine the exact training needs.
Tasks related to Il
B-9    Collecting District (4) maps and verify the locations of relevant access needs (facilities and
services), to be used as the basis for further AP mapping;
B-10   Collecting information from  secondary sources on these facilities and services, in order to
establish the actual area of influence and the population served for each facility;
B-1 I   Determining the routes of travel to these relevant facilities and services, and plot this information
on District maps;
B- 12 Collecting travel times, mode of transport, frequency of travel, at village or sub-District level
during key-informant interviews;
B-13   Establishing the perceived access problems and proposed interventions for each village or Sub-
District in the key-informant interviews;
B-14   Ranking Villages or Sub-Districts in terms of access problems by sector;
B-15   Evaluating and recommending the following:
The minimum (efficient) set of data required to effectively conduct AP at an intra-District level;
The most effective level and method of participatory data collection;
A set of access indicators and the method of assessing the cost-effectiveness of interventions;
B- 16   Preparing Access Profiles' at Sub-District or village level and aggregated Access Profiles at
District level (for 4 Districts);
B-17   Conducting stakeholder workshops to validate the Access Profiles at (Sub-) District and
Governorate levels;
B-18   Proposing the most appropriate and effective interventions;
IThe Access Profiles will contain: (i) information on all access needs: the location of basic socio-economic facilities and the
catchments areas (maps); (ii) alignment, function and condition of the intra-District road network; (iii) information on travel and
transport: routes, purpose, travel time, distance, frequency and mode of transport; (iv) ranking of Villages or Sub-Districts in
terms of access deprivation, for instance expressed in Al; (v) perceived access problems and proposed access interventions, and
(vi) an analysis of all information summarizing and concluding on the access issues identified.; See also Annex 3 of the
"Methodology and work plan development report"[2001, Dingen, Howe].



136
B-19  Preparing the District level Rural Access Master Plans (RAMPs) for the pilot Districts;
B-20 Concluding on the methods of all phases in the AP cycle at District and Governorate level;
B-21  Conducting a training needs assessment for Govemorate (10) and District (4) staff;
B-22  Producing a stage completion report, summarizing the outcome of this stage and outliring the
work program for the next stage;
The Design and Completion Stage will include the following tasks:
C-i   Drawing lessons from the two preceding stages and fornulating implementation pLins for
incorporation of the AP-methodology in the Governorates and Districts;
C-2 Designing Planning Guidelines for the Governorate and District levels;
C-3   Drafting training manuals for the local authorities at appropriate levels;
C-4   Conducting Final Stakeholder Workshop, in close coordination with the CMO, to present and
discuss the final draft proposals for the AP methodology for Governorate and District level planning;
Training
The following Training Inputs are foreseen, and will have to be fitted into the work program by the
Consultant, as appropriate, and conducted in-house or on-the-job, during the three phases as described
above:
Introductory workshops on the RAMP process (G)
Functional Road Classification (G/D);
Rapid Road Condition assessment (D/G)
Key-informants Survey (GID)
Access Data Processing and -Analyzing (DIG)
Access Mapping (GIDNV)
Stakeholder workshops (G/D)
All the necessary instructions, survey forms and workshop materials will need to be translated into good
grammatical Arabic.
Outputs and Reports
The following reports are to be produced by the consultant:
Inception Stage
Report on the contextual review, including the policy and institutional considerations;
Inception report, including a strategy and work plan for the next stage;
Initiation workshop report;
Pilot and Execution Stage
Functional classification review report, including agreed methodology;
Network Development Protocol Report;
Condition Surveys Summary Reports (for 10 Governorates);
Cost estimates for road improvement interventions, based on the condition survey;
Technical Report on poverty indicators;
Technical Report on selection criteria for Basic District Access;
Summary Rural Access Master Plans (RAMPs) for 10 Governorates;
District level Access Profiles for 4 pilot Districts;
Sub-District Access Profiles for all Sub-Districts of the four pilot Districts;
RAMP for the four pilot Districts.
Technical Report on the proposed methodology for intra-District level AP, including recommendations on
the choice of indicators and selection and prioritization criteria;
Training Needs Assessment Report;



137
Design and Completion Stage
Summary Report on lessons learned on the methodology for access planning at Governorate and District
level;
Implementation plan for institutionalizing the AP methodology;
Guidelines for District and Governorate level access planning;
Training Manuals on AP, as appropriate;
Final Stakeholder Workshop Report
Timing schedule
The Inception Stage is envisaged to be completed 3 months after mobilization; the pilot stage will have to
be completed by month 10 after the start of the project; and thee final completion is at 12 months after the
starting date.
Monitoring and Evaluation
CMO, Governorate and District staff are to be trained in the monitoring and evaluation of poverty and
access changes related to the proposed road improvements. Both aspects require appropriate baseline
measurements to be made before - preferably a year - the intended improvements. Appropriate procedures
have to be defined and staff trained in their implementation.
Measurements intended to provide indicators of changes in access could be incorporated into the general
District-level accessibility surveys. However, due to the complexity of the poverty phenomenon special
surveys will need to be devised to suit Yemeni conditions.
Although techniques have been developed by the International Labor Organization (ILO) for the rapid
assessment of poverty impacts, these are still too extensive to be applied to all road improvements. By
collating Yemeni experience with poverty monitoring it may be possible to simplify the ILO approach
and reduce the number of indicators. Alternatively it will be necessary to select sample projects for
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation using the ILO design. From the results of these studies it may
then be possible to develop simpler procedures.
Competency and Expertise Requirements
The consultants team to undertake these TORs will need to include extensive experience of rural transport
infrastructure and its management in developing countries. Professional skills will include (accessibility)
planning, engineering, management, institutional, social development and economics. Experience should
include the planning and management of labor-based road rehabilitation and maintenance, and of
community and user participation in the selection and execution of works. The consultants should also be
able to demonstrate experience in preparing and running policy and strategy level seminars and
workshops for politicians and senior officials.
The team will also need to include people with good local knowledge and will need to include some
appropriately qualified Arabic speakers. The consultants are strongly encouraged to associate with
Yemen-based consultants.
Conduct of the Work
The consultants will be provided with copies of all official documentation of the RAIP and the
Accessibility Consultants' report They should obtain relevant reports and background documentation,
including the World Bank reports, on poverty alleviation and the transport sector.
Assistance will be provided by the CMO in Sana'a in making initial contacts with Government ministries



138
and departments and the consultants will remain to work in close collaboration with the CMO throughout
the undertaking of the study.
The consultancy will be completed in 13 months including the mobilization period. After three months,
the consultants will organize with the CMO, an Initiation Workshop to present the Inception report and
the initial findings of the first stage, and to discussing and agreeing on the direction of the work in the
following stages.
Reporting Requirements
Twenty sets of study deliverables in Arabic and twenty sets in English, as described above, will be
provided to the World Bank for distribution to the Yemen Government and other stakeholders. An
electronic copy in Microsoft Word for Windows 95 files on diskette will also be provided to the World
Bank. In addition, a brief study completion report will be provided, reporting activities undertaken and
resources used in the study.



139
Annex 16: SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Yemen: Rural Access Program
BACKGROUND
The purpose and long-term development objective of the Rural Access Program (Program) is an improved
livelihood for the rural population and reduced rural isolation. The means to achieve that objective is through
improved year-round access to markets and services (administrative, health and social) especially in the rural areas,
where the large majority of the poor live. The program is designed to support the Government's decentralization
process that has recently been initiated, and to complement and enhance several community-based programs in
Yemen, such as the Social Fund Project and the Public Works Project.
The Program would reduce isolation by ensuring that rural people have reliable access through the local, regional
and national road networks. This will be done by financing improvements on a "cluster" or "sub-network" of rural
roads. The centerpiece of this approach will be to improve rural access roads which link larger centers in districts to
the main road network, here referred to as "intermediary rural roads". These rural roads carry a substantial level of
traffic in Yemen, are generally in very poor condition and are excluded from village-level infrastructure programs.
These investments would be complemented on a limited scale by improvements to smaller access roads that link
isolated villages to the improved intermediary roads, thereby promoting a continuous flow of goods and people to
markets and services, and strengthening the poverty reduction impact. In subsequent stages, the Program focus
would gradually expand the cluster approach with improvements of intermediary and tertiary roads, while
continuing to connect adjacent villages with improved village access roads. The non-physical parts of the Program
would focus on capacity-building for better decision-making and project monitoring in support of the government's
policies of decentralization.
The Prograrm would be implemented in three phases: (i) Phase I1 of a relatively short duration, will set up the
institutional and technical foundation for an efficient rural road improvement program and test this approach through
at least five pilot projects of rural road "sub-networks," or "clusters," which consist of intermediary rural roads,
combined with key adjacent tertiary or village access roads. It will also prepare designs and bid documents for
projects to be financed in Phase II; (ii) Phase II will tackle access problems mainly at the intermediary road level
but also covering related tertiary/village access roads, while setting up an organizational and policy framework for
gradually moving to the tertiary and feeder road network; and (iii) Phase III will tackle access problems associated
with tertiary road network (at the district level), while continuing to support improvements and management of the
intermediate road network.
The Republic of Yemen has established institutions and responsibilities for environmental management. This is
embodied in the Environment Protection Law No. 26, enacted in 1995. The World Bank has ten Safeguard Policies,
through which environmental and social concerns are addressed. Of particular relevance to this program are
Environmental Impact Assessment (OP 4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30), Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
and potentially Natural Habitats (OP 4.04).
The Phase I pilot roads to be improved have been deliberately selected to avoid any major environmental issues. In
particular, they have been screened so as not to include any resettlement or land acquisition. As a result, Phase I of
the Program has been placed in World Bank Environmental Category B. However, Phases II and III will extend the
Prograrn on a sector-wide basis throughout the country and may include roads that have significant environmental
impacts, involve resettlement/land acquisition or other issues which would require a Category A Environmental
Assessment. Therefore, a Sectoral Environmental Assessment for Phases 11 and III will be prepared during Phase 1,
to address the wider range of potential effects in the sectoral program.
An Environmental Management Plan has been completed for the Phase I pilot intermediary roads, which will serve
as an initial reference for the completion of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment. For these roads, Social
Framework Agreements have been developed to be tested and validated during the first phase. In addition, Phase I
will include the testing of a Rural Accessibility Planning Methodology, which will be used for the selection of
program sub-projects in Phases II and III. Further, the project preparation has included a Gender Issues Study,
which will be used to clarify and incorporate gender-related social issues into the Program. Finally, an important
output of the first phase, and trigger for proceeding to Phases II and III, will be the adoption of General
Environmental and Social Framework Agreements, in which the Government and the Bank formally agree to



140
principles and procedures for ensuring the incorporation of environmental and social safeguards into th- program.
Annex I provides an initial list of relevant documents and studies.
OBJECTIVE
The objective of this assignment is to implement a Sectoral Enviromnental Assessment (EA) for the Ru al Access
Program in Yemen. This assessment will provide the Government of Yemen (GOY) and other stakeholdErs with an
operational planning tool for broadly incorporating environmental and social considerations into the planning and
implementation process of the rural road sector. This will include: (i) a review of environmental and social issues
and potential impacts related to implementation of rural roads in general and in particular, those considered for
support under the Program; (ii) an overview of environmental and social mitigation and monitoring measures related
to significant impacts, both at the sub-project and programmatic level; (iii) standard methods and procedures for
assessing environmental and social concerns as an input to the sub- project screening, program pla.ming and
implementation process; (iv) standard approaches and procedures for developing appropriate sub-project mitigation
and monitoring measures; and (v) Environmental and Social Framework Agreements, in which the Government and
the Bank agree on safeguard principles and the Government commits to establishing and implementing the standard
measures and procedures specified in the Sectoral EA.
SCOPE OF WORK
The Consultant will carry out the following tasks in close coordination with the responsible implementation agency,
the Rural Access Project Central Management Office (CMO), as well as with the Environmental Protecticn Council
(EPC) and other relevant agencies.
Task 1: Environmental Scoping and Preparation Process
Scoping Sessions. The Consultant will assist the Government, through a series of consultations and meetings, to
verify the scope of issues to be addressed, and obtain the views of local communities, NGOs and affected groups
(further described in Task 12). The Sectoral EA Report will include an Appendix providing a record of these
meetings, with a list of participants and the proposals and requests for inforrnation made in the course of the
meetings.   This would include comments from Government agencies, affected parties and national/local
nongovernmental organizations.
Interactive Review Process. To facilitate the draft versions of the Sectoral EA, an "interactive" review process will
be used by holding a series of meetings in selected sites throughout the country, at which the Consultant will present
the major findings and recommendations and planned next steps. The presentation would be followed by a
discussion session to allow for local input into the review process. The Sectoral EA will contain an Annex
providing a record of these meetings, which would include comments from Government agencies, citizens and
nongovernmental organizations.
Views of women. Special measures will be taken to directly solicit the views and address the concerns cf women.
It is anticipated that the Consultant would retain the services of a properly qualified female social scientist to
conduct meetings with women to assess their views and concerns and provide recommendations to add-ess these
issues. The work of this consultant will build upon the results of the Gender Issues Study, carried out c'uring the
project preparation phase. A summary of the findings of all these endeavors will be integrated into the Main Report
and summarized in an Annex.
Task 2: Description of Proposed Sector Program
Provide a brief overall description of the program, including its scope and phasing. The description of the program
will be based on the Project Appraisal Document and other documents in the program files, complemented by
additional information gathered by the Consultant through interviews and document review. Below is a brief
description of the Program's three phases.
Phase I: Institutional strengthening and definition of appropriate standards. Phase I of the Program would focus
on creating an adequate institutional, technical and participatory framework for planning, prioritizing and
implementing rural access improvements. With the purpose of testing the new framework, Phase I would include the
pilot implementation of physical access improvements of (i) five or more highly justified intermediate rural roads



141
located in about 9 rural Govemorates, and (ii) key village access roads located adjacent to those intermediate roads,
using appropriate technical and environmental/social standards. The selection of the pilot intermediate and village
access roads are made based on a combined assessment of access constraints, degree of poverty in the area of
influence and economic development potential. All intermediary and village access roads, which have been or will
be selected, will avoid any resettlement or land acquisition. At the beginning of Phase 1, baseline data on poverty
and gender in Yemen will be gathered, which will then be used in a detailed rural accessibility analysis and planning
exercise, the latter being an important element of this phase. Phase I will include the preparation of a Sectoral EA
and the development framework agreements of land acquisition and resettlement. Phase I would also include the
preparation of the designs and bid documents for the next phase of the Program and concludes with the adoption of a
rural access strategy and a participatory planning process for Yemen's rural Governorates, which will be poverty
oriented and address gender issues.
Phase II: Access improvement and decentralized network management Phase II of the Program would focus on
(i) physical rural access irnprovements to areas with widespread poverty, poor accessibility and latent rural
development potential, utilizing the planning (identification and selection) process to be developed in Phase I; and,
(ii) capacity-building at appropriate levels for the management and maintenance of the intermediary rural road
network, the monitoring of key indicators, the implementation of environmental management plans, and the
management of local participatory processes, with an emphasis on local poverty and gender issues. This phase
would also include the financing of some village access roads adjacent to the intermediary project roads, the
preparation of the third phase and a detailed review and assessment of the first two phases.
Phase III: Expanding the coverage of access improvement and consolidation of gains. Phase III would expand
rural access improvements and capacity building to tertiary roads at the district level and critical intermediary
access roads not yet covered under Phase II. It would continue to support village access road development and
capacity building in achieving sustainable management and maintenance of rural roads, using the demand-driven
and poverty-based approach for identification and prioritization of rural road subprojects as initiated in Phases I and
II (rural accessibility planning).
Task 3: Description of Baseline Environmental Conditions
Assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on environmental conditions relevant to the rural roads sector. The
Consultant should particularly avoid compiling irrelevant data, and include only the environmental baseline data
directly related to the significant anticipated impacts of the project. The following general categories of conditions
should, at a minimum, be addressed:
-  Land resources
-  Hydrology
*  Water quality
*  Biological
*  Air quality
*  Socio-economic and cultural
Task 4: Assessment of Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
Describe the most pertinent regulations and standards governing environmental quality, health, safety, protection of
endangered species, siting, land use control, resettlement, land acquisition, etc, as they relate to the rural road sector.
International treaties to which the country is signatory will be mentioned. Describe the institutional responsibilities
and capabilities within which the RAP will be carried out. Assess the adequacy of this institutional framework and
develop recommendations for strengthening this framework to ensure that environmental protection is integrated
into sector management. These recommendations should be embodied in the Environmental and Social Framework
Agreements (as described in Task 10) The Consultant should also refer to a recent assessment of EIA systems and
capacity in Yemen (Annex 1).
Task 5: Determination of Potential Impacts of Program
Identify and assess the major environmental issues of the rural road sector, with respect to the general categories
mentioned in the baseline conditions.  Assess these impacts as they are expected to occur during the
design/construction and the operational periods. Also to be considered are potential cumulative effects, both direct
and indirect. For the program as a whole, their significance should be assessed in terms of risk, that is their



142
likelihood and intensity. Emphasis should be placed on identifying potentially significant effects in various parts of
the country which are distinguished by topographic, ecological, socio-economic, cultural resources or other
characteristics. The methodology for this assessment will provide the framework for the detailed ass,ssment of
subprojects, as described in Task 8.
Task 6: Analysis of Alternatives
The Sectoral EA will consider alternatives to the proposed Program for achieving program objectives. This will
include a review of the "without project" or "no project" alternative. It will also assess alternative sector policies
under consideration in the Program and if there are any environmental implications. This analysis will be displayed
in a table that presents the principal altematives and a comparative analysis of these options, including a ,lescription
of the proposed alternatives, their capital and operational costs and their potentials for effective implementation
under Yemeni conditions.
Task 7: Development of Programmatic Environmental Management Plan to Mitigate and Monitor Potential
Impacts
Recommend a set of generic mitigation measures for the significant impacts (including enhancement of positive
impacts) identified in Task 5, to be implemented during both the design/construction and operational periods.
Specify the responsibility for implementing and monitoring these measures, also during the two periocis. To the
extent possible, these mitigation and monitoring measures should correspond to various parts of the country as
distinguished by ecological or other criteria identified in Task 5. For mitigation related to design, construction and
maintenance activities, cite the appropriate clauses to be incorporated in design and construction contracts. These
specifications should be clear and concise and emphasize the responsibility of the performance output goals of the
contractors. Particular attention will be paid to the process to be followed for compensation and/or donation where
there is potential for resettlement or land acquisition. The development of generic mitigation measures will provide
the framework for developing sub-project mitigation plans, as detailed in Task 8.
Task 8: Development of Guidelines for Subproject Screening, Selection and Management
Provide guidelines on the systematic procedures for the incorporation of environmental and social considerations for
all sub-projects. This will include: (i) scoping and assessment of potential impacts and screening for enviromnental
category (either A or B) of individual sub-projects; this will be an input to the sub-project selection and
prioritization process, to be implemented through the rural accessibility planning methodology (see Annex 1); (ii)
analyses required to establish baseline conditions and assess the types and significance of impacts commensurate
with the environmental category; (iii) issues to consider in analysis of alternatives (including alignment, and rural
accessibility alternatives); (iv) incorporation of mitigation and monitoring measures during the design/construction
and operational phases; these would include standard formats, checklists and specifications; with regard to social
issues, a standard community-based social framework agreement has been developed for the Phase I pilot roads,
which will be validated by the Sectoral Environmental Assessment; (v) design of environmental management plans
(mitigation and monitoring, as well as institutional arrangements); and (v) participatory, consultation and public
disclosure processes.
Task 9: Development of Environmental Monitoring Plan
Prepare a detailed plan for monitoring the implementation of the Program. This will specify respomibility for
ensuring that sub-projects conform with the sub-project guidelines (including means of verification and reporting),
as well as monitoring overall or cumulative environmental issues at the sectoral level.
Task 10: Formulation of Environmental and Social Framework Agreements
The standard procedures, methods and approaches for incorporation of environmental and social concerns into the
selection, planning and implementation processes will provide the basis for the formulation of the Environmental
and Social Framework Agreements, in which the GOY and the Bank agree to basic environmental and social
safeguard principles and procedures, and the GOY affirms its agreement to carry out all future project activities in
accordance with these procedures. These General Framework Agreements will specify, among others, the
Community-based Social Framework Agreements that have been developed for Phase I roads and to be validated
during the Sectoral EA. To this end, the Consultant work with the GOY and the Bank to achieve a consensus on the



143
content and format of these agreements and assist the GOY to draft the agreements.
Task 11: Development of Institutional Strengthening and Training Needs
Summarize organizational responsibilities for implementing the environmental mitigation and monitoring measures,
both at the sectoral and sub-project levels. Based on this, assess capabilities and recomnmend a program to
strengthen institutions at all levels, including the national government, local government and professional
organizations involved in the roads sector.
Task 12: Consultation
Prepare and canry out a plan for public consultation and communications. The Consultant should describe the
approach, frequency and substantive issues to be discussed with elected officials, NGOs and other community
groups. The Consultant will also assist the Government in keeping recoTds of meetings and other activities,
communications and comments and their disposition. The consultation process will be a means though which the
Government will reinforce its commitment to environmental and social management and build public confidence in
the anticipated program design and implementation. This needs to be done through a well designed communications
and participation program. The consultation process will involve initial scoping sessions and an interactive review
process, as described in Task 1. Also, as specified in Task 1, separate consultations with women will be carried out
to permit their views to be heard. Allowance is made for supplemental scoping and interactive review sessions,
should they be required.
Task 13: Disclosure
The Sectoral EA will be made available for public comment in the country and to the World Bank Info Shop.
Task 14: Reports
Progress Reports. Progress reports should be submitted in English to the Client every 30 days following contract
signature. The progress report should present a very brief overview of progress in completion of tasks and issues in
implementation. It is anticipated that the progress reports would be I to 3 pages. At the completion of the
Assignment, a summary report will be submitted including an overview of expenditures for the study. In addition,
the Consultant will submit the following technical reports:
Inception Report. The Consultant will submit within 30 days of starting work an Inception Report, providing a
statement of its approach to the assignment and including a detailed work plan and schedule.
Draft Sectoral EA Study. This report will be prepared in English and Arabic. In addition to the text it would
include drafts of all figures, tables and maps. It will be prepared in the number of copies suitable for its review.
Draft Final Sectoral EA Report. This report will be prepared in English and Arabic. In addition to the text it
would include drafts of all figures, tables and maps. It will be prepared in the number of copies suitable for its
review.
Final Sectoral EA Report. This report will be prepared in English and Arabic and will include both the Executive
Summary and Main Report. The Executive Summary will be printed in 200 copies in English and 200 copies in
Arabic. The Main Report, including annexes, would be printed in 100 copies in English and 100 copies in Arabic.
Executive Summary. The Consultant will develop a concise Executive Summary providing an overview of the
findings and recommendations. It would include a set of tables that summarize potential impacts, mitigation
measures and responsibilities, as well as the principal aspects of the Environmental and Social Framework
Agreements.
Format for Sectoral EA Report. The Sectoral EA Report should be concise and limited to significant
environmental issues as they relate to the rural road sector. The main text should focus on findings, conclusions and
recommended actions, supported by summaries of the data collected and citations for any references used in
interpreting the data. The Report should be in a format similar to the following:



144
Main Report
Executive Summary
Environmental Assessment Process
Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
Description of the Program
Environmental Baseline Data
Environmental Impacts
Analysis of Alternatives
Environmental Management Plan
Environmental Mitigation
Environmental Monitoring
Institutional Responsibilities and Strengthening Activities
Public Disclosure and Record of Consultations
Sub-project Guidelines
Appendices
List of EA Preparers
Bibliography
List of Persons Contacted
Record of Scoping and Interactive Review Sessions
Views of Women
Other Appendices
SUPPORT F ROM THE GOVERNMENT
The Government, through the CMO, will ensure that the consultant has access to all necessary project descriptions,
data, drawings and other relevant documents. The Government will also ensure access to project areas an1 provide
the Consultant with all necessary introductions and letters requesting cooperation with all stakeholders, including
government agencies, NGOs and research organizations.
ESTIMATED TIME SCHEDULE
The following is a tentative time schedule for the Consultant services. The Consultant may propose their awn time
schedule, if they do not agree with the proposal. The Consultant should propose a clear schedule with critical
milestones. The following is an illustrative schedule.
*  Submission of proposals:
*  Negotiation of contract:
*  Signature of contract:
  Commencement of work:                      Day 1
*  Initial field visits                      Month 1
*  Initial scoping sessions                   Month I
*  Review inception report                    Month 2
*  Continued field visits                     Months 2-3
*  Continued scoping sessions                Months 2-3
*  Draft Sectoral EA Study                   Months 4-5
*  Interactive Review Process                 Month 6
*  Supplemental Field Visits                  Month 7
*  Supplemental Interactive Review            Month 7
*  Draft Final Sectoral EA Report             Months 8-9
*  Interactive Review Period                  Month 10
*  Distribution of Final Report               Month 12



145
ESTIMATED EXPERTISE REQUIRED AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
Specialist                                                   Approx. no. of weeks
Environmental Specialist                                              20
Sr. Social Scientist                                                  15
Social Scientist/Gender Specialist                                    15
Ecologist/Environmentalist                                             8
Legal and Resettlement Specialist                                      4
Hydrogeology/Soils/Road Engineering                                    8
Cultural Resources Specialist                                          4
Total                                                                 74
The Consultant will appoint a Team Leader and Deputy Team Leader, one of which should be Yemeni. The Team
Leader/Environmental Specialist will have substantive experience in completing Environmental Assessments for
road projects in conformance with the World Bank directives. Preference also for experience with Sectoral
Environmental Assessments. Experience in Yemen desirable for all experts.



146
ANNEX I
INITIAL LIST OF RELEVANT DOCUMENTS AND STUDIES
Dar El Handasah, Study for Phase I Pilot Roads (including environmental assessment and draft social framework
agreements), May/June 2001.
Colburn, Marta, A Situational Analysis of Gender Development in Yemen, Oxfam GB Yemen, July 2001.
Dingen, Rob and John Howe, Rural Accessibility Improvement Program - Yemen - Formulation of a Methodology
and Work Plan, April 2001.
Environmental Management Plans - Rural Access Program Phase I -Parts A&B, March 2001.
Gender Issues Study, expected May 2001.
Government of Yemen, National Environmental Action Plan.
University of Manchester, Evaluation of Future Development of the EIA System in Yemen, Mediterranean
Environmental Technical Assistance Programme, February 2001.
World Bank, Environmental Sourcebook (Arabic and English), including updates.
World Bank, Road Maintenance and the Environment, August 1994.
World Bank Yemen, Enviromnent Building Block Paper.



I                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 31405
42                                    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                48W                                50                                  52IBR' 545
RURALACCESS PROGRAM-PHASE I ROADS                                                                               SAUDI ARABIA
PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS UNDER FOOD POVERTY LINE                                                                                _.-*
FOOD POVERTY           0   TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                _                                                                             /
RURAL ROADS PROJECT IPART A)        1  - 14%                GOVERNORATE CAPITALS          ,                                                                                                          RE
*00 0  RURAL ROADS PROJECT (PART B)        1250 - 1E9                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                  ..-            '5                                                                            -I----
PRIMARY ROADS                       20D - 24%        t        AIRPORTS ,
18           - --  - SECONDARY ROADS                    25% 2-2%             .    PORTS
3  -0 300 Q-    GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES   /                                                         ...
-- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES.!                                 Tloom47 -                                    /      HobozrE\
*       7                                                                           AP-keA M                                                 ----7- ,   20 km.
.                                                                                                                                                       47t  j i c    3' ffi L ,t: ,}  \  X  L   \  f,/  3 At Taffoh-Awwin-Beyhan, 42 km.
*A :    o   f  d e ny44                                                                                              RAl  l-                              r b '-  . - -       B    Alh,                                          1 60'k
t                                                                                                                             5   75           MoR'oyr
Part A(IIO kmi);
ETHIOPIA l~*  Hod e. i d.oe B.:                         u    dI; ^ E Sl:                                         m           0      25      50      75    100MILES ,ThuI-Amran, 20 km.
42 / DilO UTI    ori SS , yo   ; ,I>.- D hon,1{.4 ....  0 r  ,  "\  w   Ne                                                                 2   K u h la n - A I   M a g r a6 ah - A l  J a m im a h ,   1 7   k m .
3 At Taffah-Awwin-Beyhan, 42 km.
AoNoqboh                                            ~~~~~~~~~4 Al Turbah-Towr al Bahah, 10 km.
fad                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~5 Khamis Bani Sa'd-Alquett'a--Al Mahwit, 21 km.
14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Part B  (115 kin):
6Al Abmar-An Naqbak, 11 5 kmn.
Soc otra
0   F,.                                                               Zho.-podaooby RMp oapCi   oU.I.Th. V,,bW Btk        25  512  75  100 KILOMETERS                                                   ToY-nl
ETHIOPIA  '..  ~ ~  ~         ~         ~          ~          ~             Bh~~4~~I~~                                                                        10,0.01                 TIe Bood'orsWaao  ~h
~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                TRen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aoI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
42  /       DJIBOUTI                                                      4'-                                                                       ST512'                                                                     54.-
MAYS 2051



