                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No:ICR0000128




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-35140)




                                      ON A

                 CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.40 MILLION

                       (US$ 52.95 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                    FOR THE

                 RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM - PHASE I PROJECT

                                   May 28, 2007




Sustainable Development Group
Djibouti, Egypt, Yemen Country Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 04/26/2007 )
                               Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial
                            Yemeni Rial 1.00 = US$ 0.0057
                                   US$ 1.00 = Yemeni Rial 195

                                       Fiscal Year
                                January 1 - December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DCA      Development Credit Agreement
GCRB     General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
GOY      Government of Yemen
IDA      International Development Association
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
MOLA     Ministry of Local Administration
MOPIC    Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MPWH     Ministry of Public Works and Highways
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMMR     Performance Based Management and Maintenance of Roads
RAMP     Rural Access Master Plan
RAPCMO Rural Access Program Central Management Office
RED      Road Economic Decision Model
RMF      Road Maintenance Fund
RMS      Road Management System




        Vice President: Daniela Gressani
      Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi
       Sector Manager: Hedi Larbi
   Project Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet
     ICR Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet

                                              Yemen
                        RY-RURAL ACCESS PROGRAM
                                   PHASE I PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.......................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................ 18
6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners... 22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    RY-RURAL ACCESS
Country:                Yemen                 Project Name:         IMPROVEMENT
                                                                    PROGRAM
Project ID:             P070391               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35140
ICR Date:               05/30/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:
                                                                    YEMEN
Original Total
                        XDR 35.4M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 32.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Rural Access Program Central Management Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/21/2000    Effectiveness:       03/18/2002         03/18/2002
Appraisal:             02/12/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/07/2001    Mid-term Review:                        12/10/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2004         11/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                3                 3
Roads and highways                                              97                97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                              Secondary       Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Emmanuel Mbi                      Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:           Hedi Larbi                        G. George Tharakan
Project Team Leader:      Jean-Charles Crochet              Terje Wolden
ICR Team Leader:          Jean-Charles Crochet
ICR Primary Author:       Khaled F. Al-Khaled



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the overall purpose and long-term
development objective of the Rural Access Program was to improve the livelihood and
reduce the isolation of the rural population. The specific development objective of the
project (that is Phase I of the Program) was to establish a sustainable foundation for
large-scale improvements to rural accessibility in areas severely affected by poverty and
simultaneously hold good prospects for rural development. This was to be achieved
namely through: (i) the establishment of adequate institutional arrangements at the central
and local levels, (ii) the adoption and application of appropriate technical standards and



                                              ii

implementation procedures, and (iii) the improvement of rural accessibility in at least
four poverty affected areas.

  Because of their qualitative nature, the PAD did not establish specific outcome
indicators for monitoring achievement of the institutional and technical improvements.
On the contrary, achievement of outcomes regarding accessibility improvements were to
be monitored by the following key indicators:

  ·     Reduction in transport rates for goods and passenger over improved roads.
  ·     Reduction of average prices of essential commodities transported over improved
roads.
  ·     Reduction of access times for the villages to the closet market centers and
services.
  ·     Other poverty and gender indicators to be developed during implementation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   The establishment of adequate institutional arrangements at the central level

                Inefficient management    To create an
Value                                     efficient institution
quantitative or of rural access roads     solely responsible                 Achieved
Qualitative)    under MOLA &
                MPWUD                     for rural
                                          accessibility
Date achieved 06/07/2001                  12/31/2004                         11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The RAPCMO is established, functions efficiently and effectively, and is now

achievement)    ready to absorb an increased scale and scope of responsibilities.

                The adoption and application of adequate investment planning and prioritizing
Indicator 2 :   methodologies, and appropriate technical standards and implementation
                procedures
                                          To adopt and

Value                                     apply such

quantitative or None existed              methodologies,                     Achieved
Qualitative)                              standards and
                                          procedures for
                                          rural roads
Date achieved 06/07/2001                  12/31/2004                         11/30/2006
Comments        All intended planning methodologies, design standards, and implementation
(incl. %        procedures have been adopted and are now applied, including various manuals
achievement)    and plans.
Indicator 3 :   Rural accessibility improvements have been provided to poverty affected areas



                                               iii

Value           Lack of accessibility and   To provide cost-

quantitative or high poverty prevalence     effective                       Achieved
Qualitative)    in targeted areas           accesibility
                                            improvements
Date achieved 06/07/2001                    12/31/2004                      11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Impact studies have shown that accessibility improvements have yielded positive

achievement)    results.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                 approval        Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values   Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Manuals for planning, design, and implementation of rural roads have been
                adopted and evaluated

Value           Inadequate technical        To produce and
(quantitative   standards and               apply such                      Achieved
or Qualitative) implementation
                procedures                  manuals

Date achieved 06/07/2001                    12/31/2004                      11/30/2006
Comments        All required manuals (including appropriate technical/environmental/social
(incl. %        standards and implementation approaches) have been produced, applied and
achievement)    evaluated
Indicator 2 :   Methodology for prioritizing rural roads investments adopted and applied
                                            Prepare objective

Value           Inefficient, wasteful and   rural access master             16 rural access
(quantitative   highly politically driven   plans for 10                    master plans were
or Qualitative) process                     Governorates
                                            based on sound                  produced

                                            methodology
Date achieved 06/07/2001                    12/31/2004                      11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Exceeded target. Not only the plans were produced, but now form an integral

achievement)    part of the rural access planning process

Indicator 3 :   The establishment of an impact monitoring system for rural access improvements

Value                                       To design the

(quantitative   None existed                system and collect              Achieved
or Qualitative)                             baseline and
                                            follow-up data
Date achieved 06/07/2001                    12/31/2004                      11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Monitoring Unit established in the RAPCMO and baseline data collected. Impact

achievement)    studies on the 6 completed road subprojects were also conducted.

Indicator 4 :   The improvement of intermediate rural and village access roads based on
                predifined screening and selection criteria
Value           None                        244 km                          397 km



                                                 iv

(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/07/2001                 12/31/2004                        11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Exceeded target by 63%. Selection criteria included technical adequacy,

achievement)   environmental soundness, social acceptance, and cost effectiveness

Indicator 5 :  The rehabilitation of 114 km of primary roads
Value
(quantitative  None                      114 km                            235 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/07/2001                 12/31/2004                        11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Target exceeded by 106%
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/10/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     04/03/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     07/18/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.50
  5     02/28/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     3.45
  6     07/16/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.59
  7     12/31/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    10.38
  8     06/01/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    15.50
  9     06/30/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    17.62
  10    11/11/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    23.19
  11    04/05/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    28.42
  12    11/22/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    38.23
  13    05/08/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    43.26
  14    12/21/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    50.22



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Between 1992 and 1998, poverty rates in Yemen almost doubled from 19% to about 33%.
An Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in February 2001 identified a
number of key factors contributing to poverty conditions including high population
growth rates, low labor force participation, scarcity of cultivated land and water,
insufficient infrastructure and inadequate access to main social services. Isolation further
aggravates these poverty conditions in the rural areas, which manifest themselves in high
illiteracy rates, poor health and low employment and incomes. In 1994, the combined
basic and secondary school enrollment rate in Yemen was just 55%, with the overall rate
of female enrollment at only 24%. Due to isolation, only 50% of the population had
direct access to health services. A country-wide survey conducted in 1997 found that
43% of mothers did not deliver their babies at a health clinic due to reasons of poor
access. Another study in rural Taiz showed that transportation cost alone accounted for
32% of the total cost of a health visit.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period 2000-2002 emphasized
these findings and described the land transportation challenge that Yemen suffers from
accordingly: "Road infrastructure is difficult to provide for a large proportion of the
society living in tiny settlements in rough terrain relatively far from trunk roads, holding
back development of markets and suppressing business opportunities". The CAS also
emphasized that "less than 10 percent of the road network is paved, the network does not
reach a large share of the population and most of it is in poor or very poor condition,
such that an alarming share of the rural population is cut off from participation in the
market economy and access to vital services".

It is under this context and conditions that the operation under review was formulated.
The Rural Access Program (RAP) was designed to address poverty by improving overall
mobility in rural Yemen and by reducing the isolation of villages and communities. The
Program would reduce isolation by ensuring that the rural population has reliable access
through local, regional and national road networks. In addition, the Program would also
support the Government's decentralization process, and would further complement
several concurrent community-based IDA programs in Yemen such as the Social Fund
Project and the Public Works Project.

The rationale for Bank assistance as described in the PAD was the following: (i) its
ability to assist the overall strengthening of the road sector; (ii) its unique position to
catalyze important donor support and provide the lead for the donor community to follow
a coherent sector approach to rural accessibility in Yemen; (iii) its extensive knowledge
base and ability to make it available to the Government as well as donors; and (iv) its
potential to assist the Government in the implementation of its decentralization strategy.



                                              1

The Program would be implemented using an Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
instrument, spanning ten years and consisting of three Phases; (i) institutional
strengthening and definition of appropriate standards, (ii) access improvement and
decentralized network management, and (iii) expanding the coverage of access
improvement and consolidation of gains. This Implementation Completion and Results
Report pertains to Phase I of the RAP.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

As stated in the PAD, the overall purpose and long-term development objective of the
Rural Access Program was to improve the livelihood and reduce the isolation of the rural
population. The specific development objective of the project (that is Phase I of the
Program) was to establish a sustainable foundation for large-scale improvements to rural
accessibility in areas severely affected by poverty which simultaneously held good
prospects for rural development. This was to be achieved through; (i) the establishment of
adequate institutional arrangements at the central and local levels, (ii) the adoption and
application of appropriate technical standards and implementation procedures, and (iii)
the improvement of rural accessibility in at least four poverty affected areas.

Because of their qualitative nature, the PAD did not establish specific outcome indicators
for monitoring achievement of the institutional and technical improvements. On the
contrary, achievement of outcomes regarding accessibility improvements were to be
monitored by the following key indicators:

  · Reduction in transport rates for goods and passenger over improved roads.
  · Reduction of average prices of a few well specified essential commodities
     transported over improved roads.
  · Reduction of access times for the villages to the closet market centers and services.
  · Other poverty and gender indicators to be developed during implementation.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary target group of the project as defined in the PAD was the rural population, a
considerable proportion of which is poor. The main beneficiaries of the project and the
ways by which they would benefit from it are: (a) women and children through
reductions in time and effort needed to meet basic human necessities, (b) rural
shopkeepers and traders through improved access to wholesalers, (c) road users and small


                                              2

transporters serving the rural areas through improved travel conditions, time savings and
reduced vehicle operating costs, (d) public administration agencies at the central and
local levels, (e) private sector contractors and consultants through the business
opportunities provided by the program's more efficient and transparent contract
management and project sponsored capacity building activities, and (f) the rural
population at large, through better access to markets and services and lower transport
costs.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprised the following seven components:

Component 1 Pilot Intermediate Access Roads1 (US$ 31.60 million). This component
was to test and demonstrate in Yemen new technical standards and implementation
procedures for rural access roads, which are technically adequate, environmentally sound,
socially accepted, equitable, and cost-effective.                For this purpose, five intermediate
access roads of about 114 km in total length and which are representative of the different
types of terrain and social environments present in Yemen were selected as pilot projects.
Allowance was also made for the selection of some additional roads yet to be identified
which had to meet the same criteria as those that have been already selected. As noted in
the DCA, it was expected that these roads would total around 80 km in length.

Component 2 Village Access Roads (US$ 4.70 million).
                                                 2                               The objective of this
component was to test standards for very low volume roads and tracks and to enhance the
poverty reduction impact of the previous component by identifying and improving at
least 50 km of village access roads that are adjacent to the pilot intermediate rural roads.

Component 3 Rural Accessibility Planning & Design Studies (US$ 2.00 million). This
component would: (i) establish a solid basis for the selection and evaluation of individual
rural access improvements to be carried out during subsequent phases of the Program
through the preparation of Rural Accessibility Master Plans (RAMP) for at least ten
Governorates, and (ii) produce the detailed designs, feasibility studies and bidding
documents for more road improvements under the Phase II project, as well as prepare
contract documents for piloting performance based road maintenance programs under
Phase II.

Component 4 Institutional Strengthening & Support for Decentralization (US$ 1.17
million). The objective of this component was to support the establishment of the
institutional framework and capacity to carry out decentralized management of rural
access improvements. This would be done namely through; (i) the definition of adequate
institutional arrangements for rural road management at the regional and governorate
level to be implemented under the second phase of the Program, (ii) the establishment of



1Intermediate (or tertiary) access roads are those linking District centers and main rural towns with each
other and/or with the Governorate capital and the national (primary) road network.
2Village access roads are mainly those linking villages to the intermediate access roads.


                                                      3

regional offices to be responsible for rural access planning and later implementation
under subsequent phases, (iii) technical support for the establishment of regional tender
boards and the development of procedures and guidelines for the interaction between the
regional and the central tender board, (iv) capacity building for contractors and local
consultants on the new design and implementation standards for rural roads, (v) technical
and financial audits of the project, and (vii) a mix of training, studies, workshops and
other technical support.

Component 5 Supplemental Operating Costs & Equipment (US$ 0.70 million). This
component would finance the operations of the Rural Access Program Central
Management Office (RAPCMO) during the first phase; including staff salaries, office
equipment, vehicles and operating costs. The RAPCMO would manage the overall
Program, coordinate between Governorates, ensure full compliance with IDA fiduciary
obligations and other required functions, and provide overall coordination of all activities
within the Program.

Component 6 AlAhmar ­ AnNaqabah Road Rehabilitation (US$ 12.24 million). This
component involved rehabilitation of a 114 km section of the Aden ­ Mukalla Highway
between Al Ahmar and An Naqabah; including reconstruction, drainage improvements,
and land protection works. It should be noted that this component was independent and
unconnected to the Program's objectives or design. It was part of the previous Transport
Rehabilitation Project (TRP) but had been taken out in order to provide funding for the
much needed emergency repairs of the Aden Airport runway and taxiway following the
1994 civil unrest. It was therefore agreed with the GOY that financing would be
provided for these works under the RAP as a separate component. Implementation of
this component was to be carried out by the PIU in the MPWH in charge of implementing
the TRP until its dismantlement upon project closing, after which RAPCMO would take
over the management of any remaining activities under this component.

Component 7 Technical Assistance to the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) (US$ 0.20
million). This component involved the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
RMF and reinforce its ability to act as an independent caretaker of the road network.

1.6 Revised Components

Project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Delay in Credit effectiveness: The project experienced delays early during the startup
phase. It was approved by the Board on June 2001 and declared effective only in March
2002, nine months later. This resulted from setbacks in satisfying the following
effectiveness conditions:




                                             4

  (i)   the Legal Opinion was submitted to the Bank two months after the DCA was
        ratified by the Parliament early November.
  (ii) the establishment of an acceptable Financial Management System (FMS) and
        completing the requirements set forth in the FMS Action Plan agreed during
        appraisal was not fulfilled until February 2002.
  (iii) submission of the bids for the first two packages of civil works was delayed by
        five months. Preliminary design and bidding documents were not ready before the
        end of December and consequently the bids from contractors were not evaluated
        till March 2002.

Credit reallocations and extensions: Two reallocations of the Credit proceeds among
categories as well as two extensions of the closing date were effected at the request of the
Borrower. The first extension approved by the Country Director (CD) on June 2004
prolonged the closing date by one year from December 2004 to December 2005 allowing
for an increased scale of civil works and a larger program of consultancy services
including feasibility studies and design documents for subprojects to be funded by other
donors. This was mainly made possible by the steady appreciation of the SDR against the
US$ since project preparation, and the conservative estimates of project costs during
appraisal. Indeed, the results of bidding showed that prices for civil works were lower
than expected during appraisal. Concurrently, Credit proceeds were reallocated among
disbursement categories and funds were moved from the "civil works" and "contingency"
categories to the "consultancy" category. A second extension of eleven months was
approved by the CD on December 2005 and further prolonged Credit closing to
November 2006. This extension was necessary in order to fill the disbursement lag that
resulted from the initial delays encountered during project startup and the slower than
expected progress in civil works execution and delivery of major consultancies. A second
reallocation was approved by the Regional Vice President (RVP) on January 2007 in
order to realign the sources and uses of funds among disbursement categories up to the
closing date. It should be noted that the period of about 3.5 years from Board approval to
credit closing was not realistic by far and was largely the source of the two extensions of
the closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Although no formal Quality At Entry (QAE) assessment was conducted for the project at
the time of Board approval, this ICR rates it as satisfactory for the following reasons:

First, the objectives of the project were consistent with the priority pillars of the Bank's
assistance strategy in Yemen as spelled out in the CAS of 1999, namely in creating "an
early stream of social benefits in education, health and other most valued services, which
indirectly address poverty and gender-gap". Indeed, the linkages between poverty and
the lack of mobility are well established and documented, and the project was designed to
address in a sustainable manner, this most binding constraint to development and poverty


                                                5

alleviation. Moreover, the project was also well aligned with the priorities of the
Borrower as elaborated in Yemen's Interim PRSP of 2001, which aspired to "improve
and upgrade infrastructure in order to raise productivity, promote investments, break
isolation of rural areas, and expand markets and job opportunities".

Second, the project was well prepared and made good use of the lessons learned from
previous Bank financed operations in the transport and other related sectors in Yemen,
particularly the Multi-Modal Transport Project, the Transport Rehabilitation Project, the
Public Works Project, and the Social Fund for Development Project. For example, past
practice for IDA in Yemen had been to set up project management teams within line
Ministries responsible for implementing IDA financed projects. These units along with
their acquired capacities would usually dissolve after these operations were completed
leaving little in terms of institutional improvements. The project instead aimed at
establishing a permanent institutional structure through the RAPCMO, that would
initially be responsible for implementing IDA financed rural roads at the central level,
and as the Program gradually expands, was expected to eventually administer all donor
funded projects as well as these funded only by the central government for all rural roads
in Yemen. This way, the established capacity would be preserved. Furthermore,
procurement of goods, works and services in the past had caused long delays to the
implementation of donor financed projects in Yemen and even led to the cancellation of
some IDA financed project components. To avoid this, it was agreed that the new
RAPCMO would include as early as possible professional staff with in-depth knowledge
and practical experience in procurement according to Bank/IDA procurement rules. Also
important was the acknowledgment of conflicts among rural populations and between
rural populations and the central Government which often had caused implementation
delays to projects in some areas in Yemen in the past. The decentralized planning and
implementation approaches to be used and the participatory methods to be applied in this
project, including the signing of Social Framework Agreements between the concerned
populations and the local authorities, were expected to significantly contribute to
diminishing problems of this nature.

Third, the level of Government's commitment was adequate. Indeed, there was
overwhelming evidence during project preparation of the strong commitment and support
for better rural access roads among Government officials in various Ministries, members
of Parliament, and the rural population. Some indications of this commitment were the
Government's willingness to increase its share of counterpart funding beyond the typical
five percent used for similar projects in Yemen, the Government's prompt initiation of
the selection process for identifying potential pilot project roads, and its efforts to
mobilize substantial co-financing from other donors for the second phase of this Program.

Fourth, alternative design options were contemplated and thoroughly analyzed during
project preparation. In particularly, the concept of another multi purpose village level
project (similar to the Social Fund Project or the Public Works Project) was considered
and rejected by the various stakeholders and Government officials. The alternative of a
large-scale stand-alone project was also considered and rejected for lack of adequate
institutional arrangements and capacities. Considering the institutional weaknesses and



                                            6

the uncertainty surrounding the decentralization process, the need for maintaining
flexibility throughout project implementation was well recognized, and the
"programmatic" approach chosen provided the most appropriate instrument to achieve
the project's objectives. Moreover, all potential risks that might undermine the successful
implementation of the project were identified and adequate measures were designed
during preparation to mitigate these risks.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The number and lengths of subprojects: In addition to the four pilot projects identified
during appraisal, 18 more road subprojects were started under the project totaling some
560 km in cumulative length. The total length of intermediate access and village access
roads upgraded with the Credit funds were 365 km or 188% and 58 km or 116% of the
amount initially anticipated during project preparation. This expansion was enabled by
the following three main factors:

  (i)   the availability of additional financing as a result of the gradual increase in the
        US$ amount of the Credit throughout project implementation due to the steady
        appreciation of the SDR. At the time of the ICR, the total amount of the Credit
        was approximately US$53 million, which is US$8 million more than the original
        amount.
  (ii) The overestimation of the costs of road works during project appraisal
        (approximately US$157,000 per km3 with reference to the PAD's cost table,
        versus US$115,443 actual cost).
  (iii) the agreement between the Bank and the Government to maintain a steady
        buildup of activities in order to engage and develop the local contracting and
        consulting industries. Consequently, some contracts for road projects which
        would have been constructed under Phase II were let under Phase I, on the
        understanding that the remaining works which did not get completed would be
        carried over to the Phase II project.

Most subprojects experienced significant cost overruns. Almost all civil works contracts
for road improvement experienced significant cost increases as a result of large variation
orders and contract amendments. This was mainly due to the way the contracts were
designed and tendered. In order to save on costs and accelerate project implementation,
contracts were tendered without full detailed designs, and the tender documents for the
first 15 road projects were based on line diagrams, plan and profile drawings, and an
estimated bill of quantities that was generally incomplete as far as protection works and
drainage was concerned. For Group4 I roads, these were done by foreign consulting firms



3Excluding the cost of supervision
4For identification purposes, project roads are grouped under 5 clusters. Group 1 contain the four pilot
roads A1-A4, Group 2 contain subprojects A5-A8, Group 3 contain subprojects A9-A15, Group 4 contain
subprojects A17-A22, and Group 5 contain subprojects A23-A29.


                                                     7

while local consultants were hired for Group II and III roads with the support provided by
the RAPCMO staff. Final detailed designs were then carried out by the contractors as in
Group I subprojects or by the supervising consultants as in Group II and III subprojects,
in parallel to the execution of works. This formula could give good results because it was
both cost-effective and time-saving. However, the critical issue is to provide initially
good line diagrams, plan and profile drawings and realistic quantity estimates for the
bidding documents, and only experienced engineers can provide this. For example, for
some of Group I roads, the divergence between quantity estimates of the line diagrams
prepared by the consultants and the final designs was relatively high for some items of
the bill of quantities, especially for earthworks. The road works generally required
significantly larger quantities for protection works and drainage, as well as increased
earthworks due to some required changes in alignment. Moreover, in a number of cases,
the improvement of additional village access roads was included in the contract after its
start which increased quantities. It should be emphasized, however, that despite the
contract cost increases, the final per km cost of rural road rehabilitation was much below
the appraisal estimate as mentioned in the above paragraph.

Most subproject were characterized by extended implementation periods. Almost all civil
works contracts also suffered significant delays and long implementation periods as
evident by the numerous extensions granted. This resulted mainly from an overestimation
of the capacity of local contractors to execute these contracts and therefore unrealistic
contract execution periods (estimated at 8-10 months). Indeed, it was later discovered that
most contractors were deficient in several critical competencies, especially contract
planning and management and they needed much more time to complete works. In
addition, some construction contracts were extended to accommodate changes in the
scope and design of the subprojects, especially for Group I roads. Moreover, the
preliminary designs for the pilot roads were not specific enough for the implementation
of test sections to try out several options for low-cost design standards as intended and
these special designs had to be completed during contract implementation. Despite these
difficulties, the entire project was implemented in 5.5 years from Board approval to final
closing date which may be considered a major achievement. Indeed, no other
infrastructure project in Yemen has had such a fast implementation period

Three regional offices were created only to be closed shortly after. As stated in the PAD,
the reason behind establishing these regional offices was two fold. They would initially
contribute to the production of the proposed Rural Access Master Plans (RAMPs). Then
they would assist the Government in its decentralization process by adopting and
applying these RAMPs from within these offices. Three regional offices were indeed
opened and adequately staffed and supplied. They worked closely with the consultant on
producing sixteen RAMPs. However, the assumptions underpinning the Government's
decentralization process were overoptimistic and after the production of these plans was
concluded, the offices no longer had a sufficient work load. It soon became obvious that
it would be much more efficient to shut them down and reorient their staff back to the
RAPCMO in Sana'a. Decentralization has been an important subject on the
Government's agenda during the project implementation period but not much has been
achieved in any sector because many detailed policy issues (regarding, for example,



                                             8

revenue sharing, responsibility for expenditures, and capacity development at local level)
have not been resolved. As such, it is not surprising that little decentralization could be
achieved under the project.

AlAhmar ­ AnNaqabah Road Rehabilitation: The road section described in the PAD was
originally 114 km stretching from AlAhmar to AnNaqabah. However, this road section
was extended by an additional 115 km to cover the length between AnNaqabah and
AnNushaimah. This was made possible because of the very low cost of rehabilitating the
first 114 km due to: (i) design optimization during the detailed design stage, (ii) contract
unit prices being much lower than estimated during project appraisal, and (iii) efficient
use of resource materials during project implementation, whereby the application of
leveling course material was limited to the minimum.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The monitoring and evaluation system that was designed and agreed upon during project
preparation involved two types of measurements of project achievement. The first type
involved a qualitative monitoring system of progress against project outputs/outcomes
whereby reviews would be conducted regularly, including: (i) quarterly progress reports,
(ii) technical audits, (iii) a midterm review, and (iv) regular supervision missions. These
were intended to monitor project implementation and advances towards achieving the
first two project outcomes, namely: (i) the establishment of adequate institutional
arrangements at the central and local levels, and (ii) the adoption and application of
appropriate technical standards and implementation procedures. This setup was adequate
and proved useful in revealing important issues throughout project implementation which
helped the Government and the Bank respond to them in appropriate timing and manner.

Achievement towards the third outcome, improvement of rural accessibility, was to be
monitored by a set of quantifiable indicators that would measure direct benefits attained
from the physical improvement of rural accessibility in project areas. For each road
improved under the project, three types of indicators would be monitored: (i) the price of
thirteen deemed "essential" commodities in villages along the road, (ii) transport rates for
goods and passengers from the villages to the main town centers, and (iii) access times
also from the villages to the main town centers. It was expected that the physical
improvements to the roads would lead to the reduction in the values of these indicators
and a target rate of decrease was agreed upon for each one. However, it should be noted
that, typical of most transport projects like the RAP, this system serves well as an impact
evaluation tool and less as an implementation monitoring tool, since it could only be used
after each subproject was completed and not before. Nevertheless, the RAPCMO
adequately collected all baseline data for each road rehabilitation subproject started under
the project, established a database for such indicators, and developed standard formats for
data collection, data entry and reporting for any additional roads under RAP. It was
planned that these would be followed by surveys conducted one year after the completion
of each subproject to measure the impact of the road improvements on the values of the
above indicators. As of the date of the ICR, follow-up surveys have been conducted for
six road subprojects. In conclusion, this quantitative system for measuring the impact of



                                               9

accessibility improvements was also well designed for the purpose, and was implemented
in an acceptable manner.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguards compliance: Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies were adequately
addressed during project preparation and remained thoroughly adhered to throughout
implementation. No significant deviations or waivers from Bank policies and procedures
were required. Pilot roads were deliberately selected to minimize adverse environmental
and social impact, in particular, resettlement and land acquisition were totally avoided
and civil works were limited to the improvement of existing roads along their current
right-of-way or with minor deviations. Consequently, the project was placed under
environmental screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of OP 4.01. The
same prerequisites were applied to all additional intermediate and village access roads.
Moreover, Environmental Management Plans (EMP) were prepared for the five pilot
roads projects identified in the PAD as well as all intermediate access roads selected at
later stages. For that, a specialized Social and Environmental Unit within the RAPCMO
was established and its main functions were to; (i) review and approve Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIA) and Environmental Management Plans (EMP) for all rural
roads to be improved under the Program, (ii) monitor the compliance with the EIA and
EMP by the various entities involved in the implementation of the Program, and (iii)
collect data to document that the agreed performance criteria related to environmental
and social aspects of the Program were met. The Unit was initially staffed by two
professionals who received training and technical support from the Bank's team. The
Unit remained competent and adequately staffed throughout the project, and has
produced all the required reports specified in the PAD, including the screening reports,
social framework agreements and women consultation reports for each road subproject
under investigation. The reports were of high quality and significance.

Financial Management and Procurement compliance: From a financial management
perspective, the RAPCMO has managed the implementation of this project in an
acceptable manner. Indeed, the RAPCMO has employed an experienced and competent
financial manager, used appropriate accounting software to record and report its financial
transactions, sent to the Bank on an annual basis unqualified audited financial reports,
and managed the Special Account in an effective and efficient manner. Comprehensive
Financial Management Reports (FMR) were also issued and sent to the Bank on a
quarterly basis. These reports have consistently met Bank requirements and proven useful
tools for project management. The RAPCMO has also remained in compliance with all
IDA procurement guidelines throughout project implementation. All procurement
activities were conducted in a transparent and competitive manner, and the review
process described in the PAD was consistently adhered to. The RAPCMO prepared a
detailed procurement plan early during project preparation and it was regularly updated to
reflect changes in project implementation. Reviews of statement of Expenditure (SOE)
and past procurement were conducted regularly by Bank staff and these were consistently
found acceptable. Overall, the documentation was complete with all supporting
documents (including no-objection letters, contracts, invoices, etc.) properly filed and


                                                10

organized, and adequate control systems were maintained. Overall, it has seemed at times
during project implementation that both the procurement and financial management units
were understaffed and thus overloaded. Staffing was increased, but this will need to be
kept under constant review and further adjustments made, in view of RAPCMO's
increasing work program.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Under the APL setup, the project was designed to be followed by two successive phases
based on the satisfactory achievement of clearly defined triggers spelled out in the PAD.
Project implementation and management arrangements would not cease after the closure
of Phase I, but instead would continue throughout the Program albeit at an enhanced level
to accommodate the increased scale of activities. Therefore, post completion operation is
not really an issue of concern for the project. The management capacity developed to date
is being maintained by adequate funding, proper staffing levels, and the provisions for
training and development in the follow-up project. The issue of long term sustainability
of the RAPCMO beyond IDA funding is also expected to be addressed under the follow-
up project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Both project objectives and their associated outcome targets remain relevant to the
Borrower's current priorities and consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for
Yemen. Indeed, the project conforms with the first two pillars stated in the Bank's CAS
for the period 2006-2009 calling for "diversifying growth, better governance, and better
delivery of public services" and for "accelerating human development through more
efficient service delivery". This is done namely by: (i) reducing the transport costs of
agricultural inputs and outputs and therefore stimulating agriculture production, (ii)
improving the Government's capacity to implement major expenditure programs in the
rural roads sector, and (iii) improving access to social services like health and education.
Furthermore, the project is also fully consistent with the development objectives and
strategies spelled out in the Government's 3rd Five Year Development Plan for the period
2006-2010; which is a comprehensive document encompassing the Government's
poverty reduction plan, calling for "developing the road network ­ with emphasis on the
rural roads ­ and constructing them according to well-though technical specifications"
and "improving the institutional performance of the sector [transportation] in the areas
of planning, regulation and implementation".

The project's design and implementation arrangements also remain relevant today.
Project design, in its mix of road rehabilitation works, technical assistance activities,
training, and studies was very closely aligned with the objectives of the project and


                                                11

experience showed that there were no significant gaps. The flexibility left in project
design (for example for adding new road projects and adjusting supervision
arrangements) served well the project objectives since it made experimenting possible.
Furthermore, the institutional arrangements that were established were also appropriate
for implementation purposes and remain relevant for the future management of the
Program. The conscious decision of establishing the RAPCMO as a parallel institution,
alongside the Ministry's roads department, for implementing rural access roads in the
country proved successful as it allowed a rapid change to modern and efficient ways to
design and implement civil works. The RAPCMO is now playing a role model within
Yemen for the efficient and effective management of rural access roads. It has also been
able, with the project's support, to scale up its activities and provide a vehicle for other
donors to commit additional funds to the rural roads sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project substantially achieved its objective of establishing a sustainable foundation
for large-scale improvements to rural accessibility in Yemen through the creation of
adequate institutional arrangements, the adoption of appropriate standards and procedures,
and the improvement of rural accessibility in at least four poverty affected areas. The
overall achievement of the PDO is rated Satisfactory based on the following outcomes:

(i) The establishment of adequate institutional arrangements (achieved)

The RAPCMO was established in early 2002 to prepare and implement the Program. The
size and structure of the RAPCMO (with eight professionals only) was that of a typical
project management unit, responsible for implementing and managing a limited number
of road projects. The RAP had only one external financing source (IDA) contributing
US$ 45 million. Today, the dimension of the Rural Access Program has changed
dramatically. The RAPCMO is now responsible for the management of a large-scale
program with presently four external donors (IDA, Arab Fund, European Union and
USAID) who are contributing in the order of US$ 200 million. Additional contributions
are also expected in the near future. While in 2002 there were some 8 road contracts
under preparation or execution, today the RAPCMO project list includes some 43
contracts covering approximately 1207 km. To adjust to this increasing work load, the
RAPCMO has recruited additional staff, maximized the use of local engineering
consultants and developed systematic review procedures for design of works and
supervision, adopted standard methods for procurement, established a management
information system, and, finally, incorporated in its operations, the results of three
technical audits carried out over the project period by highly skilled international
consultants. Through these efforts, the RAPCMO has developed into a competent and
effective agency with sound work methods and procedures.

(ii) The adoption and application of appropriate technical standards and implementation
procedures (achieved)



                                                12

At the time of appraisal, it was evident that the MPWUD and other agencies responsible
for the rural road network in the country had adopted road standards that were too high
for the existing and expected traffic levels, particularly in respect of the width of rural
roads. Specifically, paved rural roads had widths of 10 meters irrespective of traffic
levels, the criteria applied when deciding if a rural road should be of gravel or paved
standard was rather ambiguous, and there was no clear policy for the use of one-lane
roads in remote areas with little traffic. Furthermore, the Ministry was also reluctant in
the past to use low-cost single or double bituminous surface treatments to pave rural
roads, and had resorted instead to the more costly asphalt concrete as a standard solution.
There was also too little attention paid to environmental considerations during road
design and construction, especially for cut and fill slopes that were often left unstable,
causing erosion and damage to adjacent farmland.

The project was designed to review and pilot a range of technical options and to establish
more appropriate engineering and economical standards for the design and
implementation of rural roads. This was achieved by: (i) developing and compiling new
documents which included a standard design manual (RAP-SDM), standard drawings
(RAP-SD), standard technical specifications (RAP-STS), and a unified supervision
manual (RAP-SM) for rural roads, and (ii) testing the appropriateness of these standards
by applying them to pilot road projects. These documents defined suitable criteria for the
design and implementation of individual subprojects, including, for example, a maximum
7-meter width for intermediate roads (with a 6-meter pavement), slopes that can go up to
18% in mountainous areas, standard designs for drainage structures, greater attention to
protection works, material requirements, a standard bill of quantities, standard
specifications, construction and contract management methods, etc., which are suitable
and economically justifiable for rural access roads. These procedures and standards
developed for the project have been and continue to be modified and improved over time,
so as to reflect the lessons of experience and to better suit the evolving environment.

Environmental, social and safety considerations in road design and construction were also
addressed. The RAPCMO has now established a formal process for screening candidate
subprojects and incorporating local consultations and participation into the design and
implementation process, including through the signing of a social framework agreement
between local authorities and the beneficiary population for each sub-project. For
example, women consultations are now systematically carried out by female consultants
on all roads selected for improvement. Most of the concerns expressed by women
focused on safety and proximity of houses to the road alignments, with possible solutions
including speed reduction measures, retaining walls and access paths. Such concerns are
incorporated as much as technically and economically feasible in the design of each road.

Since all donor funds for rural roads are now channeled through the Rural Access
Program, the improved technical standards and implementation procedures are used for a
large proportion of the Government's rural roads projects. They have not been adopted,
however, for rural road works fully financed by local resources. Yet, following the
leadership of the Minister of Public Works and Highways who took over in March 2006,




                                             13

standards and procedures for the Ministry are being overhauled and the RAPCMO is
clearly viewed as the role model.

(iii) The improvement of rural accessibility in at least four poverty affected areas
(achieved)

The project financed the rehabilitation and/or construction of some 365 km of
intermediate access roads and 58 km of village access roads in 13 different Governorates.
This is a considerable achievement in itself given that the project was able to improve
almost twice the length of intermediate access roads estimated at appraisal, and at a lower
average unit cost as well (actual US$115,443 versus US$157,000 in PAD). By
comparison, its was estimated during appraisal that the project would improve around
194 km of intermediate access roads and 50 km of village access roads in four poverty
affected areas. Ten subprojects in ten impoverished Governorates were actually
completed by the credit closing date, and the total population living within a 2 km buzzer
zone along these projects amount to proximately 326,000 inhabitants. On the average, the
percentage of the population falling below the food poverty line in these areas range
between 14 and 54 percent. As discussed earlier, socioeconomic surveys were conducted
on six of these completed roads, and they have all demonstrated tangible positive impacts
as a direct result of accessibility improvements in these areas in regards to the three
indicators that were monitored (see Annex 5). Transport rates along the improved roads
for goods and passengers were reduced by 34% and 32% respectively, as compared to the
initial target of 30% reduction for both. Also, access time from the villages along the
improved roads to their nearest market centers was reduced on the average by 63%, as
opposed to the 30 percent target established during appraisal. In addition, an average of
7% reduction was achieved in the prices of selected commodities in the villages along the
improved roads in 2007 compared to what the prices would have been there at the same
time, had the road remained unimproved. Although the reduction achieved is only one
half of the 15% target, it is in fact a considerable achievement since in many cases it is
more than half the percentage differential that originally existed between the village and
the nearest market center, which would likely have remained without the project. Given
the above, and since the beneficiary population has almost doubled, it can be concluded
that the project has met its monitored targets for accessibility improvements satisfactorily.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

To assess the economic efficiency of the road works (by far, the project's largest
investments), ex-post economic analyses were conducted following the same
methodology as described in the PAD for the identified road segments under Part A
(Thula ­ Amran, Kuhlan ­ AlMaghrabah, AtTaffah ­ Awwin, and AtTurbah ­ Tor
AlBahah). An update of the economic analysis also was also prepared for the two
completed road segments that were selected after project appraisal (AlKhadra ­ Bani
Shadad and Abyan Rural Roads). Although the Khamis Bani Saad ­ AlMahwit road
segment was identified as a pilot in the PAD, it was not implemented under the IDA
Credit and therefore was not included in this re-assessment. As for the AlAhmar ­


                                             14

AnNaqabah road rehabilitation project under Part B, an ex-post economic analysis could
not be conducted because the initial study carried out in 1995 was not available, and
therefore only a qualitative assessment of its economic efficiency is presented below.

PART A

At project appraisal, the Bank team carried out an economic evaluation on the initially
identified pilot road projects using the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), based on
preliminary cost estimates, traffic levels and composition, vehicle fleet characteristics,
and other data collected before and during the mission. A minimum IRR threshold of 12
percent was established for the economic viability of these roads. Under these
assumptions, all pilot intermediate roads were found feasible, with their respective IRR
ranging from 17 to 69 percent in the base case scenario, and only one of the five roads
fell below the threshold in the worst case scenario under the sensitivity analysis.

                         Ex-post Economic Evaluation Summary

                                            Initial Values              ICR Values
     ID         Project Name            IRR             NPV         IRR           NPV
                                        (%)         (million US$)   (%)       (million US$)
   A1     Thula - Amran                  53             5.820        46          7.338
   A2     Kuhlan - AlMaghrabah           17            1.442         27          1.634
   A3     AtTaffah - Awwin               30             3.710        31          4.135
   A4     AtTurbah - Tor AlBahah         69            12.259        10          -0.240
   A7     AlKhadra - Bani Shadad         39             4.151        26          2.700
   A13    Abyan Rural Road               48             0.768        45          0.740

The ex-post economic analysis revealed that except for subproject A4, all subprojects
investigated yielded a positive net present value and considerable internal rates of return,
way above the 12% "hurdle rate" established in the PAD. In evaluating the economic
efficiency of each project relative to the expected values estimated initially, one could
group these projects under two main categories: those that exceeded the planned
economic benefits and those that did not. The former category includes subprojects A2
and A3 while the latter includes subprojects A1, A7 and A13. Overachievement could be
attributed mainly to the substantial increase in traffic volumes witnessed along the A2
and A3 road projects, which were more than enough to compensate for the fact that the
actual capital costs were higher than those in the original economic analysis. Although
similar, yet to a lesser extent, increases in traffic volume have occurred in subprojects A1,
A7 and A13, these did not fully compensate for the higher capital costs. As for subproject
A4, a combination of underestimated project costs and overoptimistic traffic growth rates
have contributed to the modest IRR and negative NPV. However, it should be noted that
the cost estimates in the original economic analysis were significantly below those in the
PAD's cost table. Had those costs being taken into account (as they should have, since
they were the true appraisal costs), the original IRRs would have been lower and the
comparison with the actual IRRs would be more favorable to the project.

The analyses conducted at appraisal also took a conservative approach, since it is now
widely accepted that the traditional VOC based economic analysis is insufficient to


                                               15

capture the full economic and social benefits of low-volume rural road investments, in
particular in the context of projects in poor areas. In addressing this limitation, one can
develop a clearer picture of the project's viability by comparing its per capita investment
cost with accepted norms for similar roads in comparable settings. Accordingly, and
using GIS data of populations served along a 2 km buffer zone around the project,
calculations show that the actual investment cost of subproject A4 amount to around
US$167 per beneficiary. This seems highly satisfactory when measured against
international norms for comparable projects; which suggest per capita investment costs in
the range of US$200 ­ US$300.

PART B

The original economic evaluation for this road was conducted in 1995 under an earlier
IDA project (Transport Rehabilitation Project) using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). The project was justified based on its
sufficient internal rate of return, ranging from about 42% in the base case scenario to
31% in the worst case scenario. The Bank team re-evaluated the project's economic
justification during project appraisal based on updated traffic counts and increased cost
estimates. This qualitative evaluation concluded that the economic rate of return of the
project would likely be significantly higher than calculated in 1995 because: (i) the
increase in the project cost estimate was moderate, and would in the economic analysis
most likely be compensated for by increases in VOC savings, and (ii) traffic growth rates
were higher than anticipated in the original economic evaluation.

Since neither economic evaluation of 1995 nor the Bank's qualitative review at project
appraisal are available, this project component could not be reevaluated. However, there
are indications that the order of magnitude of the economic rate of return of this
investment remained the same since (i) the actual cost was much below the appraisal
estimate (US$6.58 million versus US$12.24 million for the original 114 km), but (ii) the
actual traffic after completion did not reach by far the expected levels (1,293 ADT versus
2,415 ADT).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

Given the above, the overall outcome rating is satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Already covered in Section 3.2

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)



                                               16

Institutional change and strengthening was indeed one of the main impacts of the project
as noted above in Section 3.2

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Since the intended development outcomes of the project were attained as discussed above,
the main risks are related to the preservation and sustainability of these achievements.
These risks were found moderate and are identified as the following:

  (i)   One risk concerns the sustainability of the RAPCMO as an institution along with
        its well devised operational systems and procedures. In that sense, two threats
        may be identified, namely (a) the adequacy of the financial resources provided to
        the RAPCMO in order to allow it to continue its operations and attract/retain high
        quality staff, and (b) the potential for political pressure and interference
        demanding relaxed standards and less than rigorous procedures. In the short term,
        these risks are limited as the operational costs of the RAPCMO (including staff
        salaries) are funded 80% by donors (including IDA under the follow-up project)
        and standards and procedures are under the scrutiny of these donors. In the long
        term however, these risks are real. They are rated moderate in this ICR because
        (a) all procedures and standards needed for the sound performance of the
        RAPCMO have been put in place (design manual, supervision manual,
        environmental and social manual), (b) the benefits of RAPCMO's rational
        approach have been demonstrated (to the beneficiaries, the implementers ­
        consultants and contractors, and the local leaders and politicians), which has
        created a strong constituency for its sustained operation, (c) RAPCMO has
        developed a culture of excellence that may be expected to endure, and finally (d)
        mechanisms for sustained financing are expected to be established under the
        follow-up project.

  (ii) Another risk concerns the possibility of accelerated deterioration of the physical
        infrastructure executed under the project due to the lack of proper maintenance.
        Indeed, in order to fully draw the expected social and economical benefits from
        the improved road subprojects, it is of great importance that they meet their
        expected useful design life. This risk is rated moderate mainly because: (a) the
        quality of the works carried out is satisfactory and with adequate maintenance
        should meet their expected design life, and (b) the RAPCMO has already


                                                17

         developed a scheme whereby all completed roads are systematically handed over
         to the RMF for routine and periodic maintenance. However, it should be noted
         here that the subject of adequate maintenance funding at the national level is still
         being contemplated without general consensus. For this reason, the follow-up
         project includes a covenant that commits the Government to minimum funding
         levels for road maintenance. This covenant was fulfilled in 2006. The project was
         also able to approach this issue by introducing innovative and sustainable
         maintenance schemes (performance based road maintenance contracts) and these
         schemes will be piloted under the follow-up project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

In the whole, the project's quality at entry is satisfactory, especially when the moderate
level of development in Yemen in the road sector is taken into account. The Bank was
able, in particular, to set up an institutional framework that was both relevant in the
country context and flexible enough to adapt to the evolving environment. Without
jeopardizing in anyway the quality of the project, the Bank and the Government were
also able to prepare the project very fast (it took exactly one year from identification to
Board presentation on June 2001). There were only minor shortcomings. For example,
the estimated implementation period for the project was unrealistically short (three years)
and therefore the disbursement plan overoptimistic. Output targets were also expressed in
a somewhat confusing manner in the PAD and should have been streamlined to ensure a
clearer focus in implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory:

In addition to the numerous audio and video conferences that occurred throughout project
implementation whenever required, the Bank team carried out field supervision missions
regularly every six months. BTO reports reveal that these missions where of adequate
durations and contained all relevant expertise including procurement, financial
management and technical expertise as required. Also, the Bank team proved highly
responsive to the evolving environment surrounding the project and rigorous site
supervision resulted in timely recommendations. A case in point of this flexibility was the
Bank's approval of the extension of the AlAhmar ­ AnNaqabah road section. Given that
this road section was found highly economical and was of great priority for the
Government, the Bank team worked closely with the Client and the consultant to
optimize the design of the project and by doing so was able to accede to the



                                                18

Government's request by extending this section by an addition 115 km. Similarly, the
Bank team was found consistently alert and addressed relevant issues proactively and in
adequate manner. For example, thorough site supervision revealed that in many cases,
local contractors were not well organized as they should be, did not have enough capacity
and resources on site, and did not fully appreciate the time needed for works execution.
And although the local construction industry had improved over the course of the project
and the number of road contractors in the country had increased, it was feared that there
may not be enough capacity to perform all pipeline projects anticipated in the near future.
Therefore, training was timely organized for local contractors to build up the lacking
capacity, especially in the areas of project management and contract administration, and
as a direct result of this learned lesson, additional provisions were provided under the
follow-up operation to formally assess the construction industry in Yemen and build up
the capacity of the local contractors and consultants. Changes were also made in field
supervision and in the terms of future works contracts. Furthermore, the quality of project
supervision could also be seen in the Bank's response to the poor performance of some of
the supervision consultants hired throughout project implementation. Namely, by
applying and testing different construction supervision setups and assessing their
adequacy for the implementation of the Program, the Bank team proved highly attentive
to the requests of the Client in addressing this issue and the BTO reports clearly
document an extensive dialogue in this area. In the case of one subproject (Khamis Bani
Saad ­ AlMahwit road), the Bank supervision team was able to realize that it was not
built in accordance to standards and requested that it be dropped from the list of IDA
financed subprojects. Lastly, the Bank team extended strong support to the establishment
and later operations of the Environmental and Social Unit. Bank missions regularly
monitored implementation of the M&E system, especially progress towards baseline data
collection and follow-up surveys.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Given the above, overall Bank performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the Borrower remained satisfactory throughout project
implementation. The Government proved highly committed to the project during the


                                             19

preparation   phase     and    consistently   maintained      its  commitment      throughout
implementation. In particular, the Government was able to effectively deliver the
necessary implementation arrangements in a timely manner, including: (i) the initiation of
the selection process for identifying candidate pilot roads, (ii) the submission of a
comprehensive Development Policy Letter, and (iii) the selection and appointment of key
staff members. Beyond project preparation, the Government proved supportive in
providing an enabling environment for the RAPCMO throughout implementation,
remained in compliance with all project covenants, and was able to meet the triggers for
initiating Phase II. Basically, the Government understood the quality of the work done by
the RAPCMO and gave it the autonomy it needed, although the Steering Committee may
have at times made the decision process less efficient than desirable. On the other hand,
the RAPCMO management and staff members implemented the project in a highly
competent and professional manner and it consistently followed Bank procedures and
guidelines. The RAPCMO proved vigilant throughout project implementation and
resolved issues firmly transparently and in a timely manner. Especially noteworthy is its
consistent adherence to the established design standards and implementation procedures
and its steadfast resistance to the political pressures to deviate from them.
Notwithstanding the initial delays, the physical components of the project were
effectively implemented. Works contracts were awarded in a transparent and competitive
manner, and were supervised adequately by the RAPCMO engineers. The TA
components were also managed and implemented properly by the RAPCMO staff.
Overall, the studies conducted under the project were of good quality and proved useful,
and the training was well developed and comprehensive.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Key lessons learned from the project include:

  (i)   The road construction industry in Yemen is relatively young due to a number of
        economic and historic reasons. There are no large construction companies in
        Yemen. The RAP was instrumental in helping to develop this sector and a number
        of good contractors have emerged. A significant number of local contractors have
        adequate financial capacity and can mobilize equipment and resources if they
        manage their resources properly. It has been generally observed that contract
        management is at present the main weakness of local contractors. This should be
        carefully considered when designing future projects in Yemen, especially when
        assessing the capacity of the local construction industry and estimating the
        contracts' implementation periods.

  (ii) The environment in Yemen is in general very difficult for contractors and small
        works in isolated rural areas are unlikely to be financially attractive, even for
        large Yemeni contractors, because of the high mobilization and administration
        costs of contracts and the high risks. There is little chance therefore that rural
        roads projects like the ones implemented through the Rural Access Program can



                                             20

     be attractive for foreign contractors and this is what the experience of the project
     has shown. A forceful program to develop the local road maintenance and
     construction industry is necessary. This lesson has been taken up by the follow up
     IDA-financed Second Rural Access Project since it has as one of its intermediate
     objectives the identification of constraints to the industry and the design of
     remedial measures. The Second Project also includes a training program for local
     contractors interested in rural road works.

(iii) The use of preliminary designs (and not final designs as was done for this project
     for two thirds of the contracts) should be limited as much as possible. The
     experience gained from the implementation of Phase I has shown that bidding
     should be launched only after the detailed engineering designs are completed with
     clear and final quantities of works. In this case, there were numerous increases in
     quantities which raised costs by a third or more, which is not good practice
     (although it should be noted that the final costs of contracts were still below
     appraisal estimates). This is especially true for works to be executed in difficult
     terrain, as in Yemen, for which drainage and slope protection works need to be
     carefully designed.

(iv) Local consultation and participation in the design and implementation process
     have proved to be highly effective in making designs more relevant and in
     facilitating implementation. The use of Social Framework Agreements (SFA)
     helped significantly in reducing implementation difficulties and work stoppages
     caused by the local communities, which were commonplace earlier. It was also
     clearly documented that incorporating environmental and social considerations
     into the design process had a positive impact and helped optimize project impact
     for the local population. For example, pedestrian access and steps were built in
     numerous subprojects as a direct response to requests from women's consultations.
     Similarly, as a result of local consultation, small earthen dams were created with
     dumped material by the contractors in some project locations, which are now
     being used as water harvesting structures by the local communities. At other
     locations, dumped materials were also utilized for the creation of new terraces for
     crop cultivation on previously uncultivated land. It should also be emphasized that
     this was made possible to a large extent by the existence within RAPCMO of a
     competent and motivated environmental and social unit which was established for
     the project.

(v)  The experience of this project has shown that it is a rather complex exercise to set
     specific outcome targets and that it should be done on a case by case basis with a
     careful analysis of potential improvements. The blanket target of 15% decrease in
     the price of commodities was somewhat simplistic and not feasible since in many
     cases the price of commodities in the villages at the end of the road was less than
     15% above their price at the supply center (i.e. even before the road). It was
     therefore impossible to achieve the set decrease. A careful analysis should have
     been carried out and targets set in a different way (for example as a percentage
     decrease of the premium paid by isolated villagers).



                                           21

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The main sections of the Borrower's ICR are in Annex 7 below. Also included are the
comments provided by the Director of RAPCMO on the Bank ICR.

No comments are necessary on this document and statement.

(b) Cofinanciers

(Not Applicable)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

(Not Applicable)




                                           22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal
           Components               Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                         M)          Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

PILOT RURAL ACCESS ROADS                     31.60                43.68        138.23
VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS                          4.70                 1.80         38.30
RURAL ACCESS. PLANNING &
DESIGN STUDIES                                2.00                 1.82         91.00

INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                                 1.17                 0.68         58.12

SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING
COSTS & EQUIPMENT                             0.70                 1.87        267.14

AL AHMAR-AN NAQABAH
ROAD REHABILITATION                          12.24                10.55         86.19

TA TO THE ROAD
MAINTENANCE FUND                              0.20                 0.16         80.00

               Total Baseline Cost           52.61                60.56
Physical Contingencies                        0.00
Price Contingencies                           0.00
               Total Project Costs           52.61                60.56
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                0.00          0.00

        Total Financing Required             52.61                60.56


(b) Financing
                                         Appraisal
    Source of Funds         Type of                      Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                          Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                             M)       Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

 Borrower                                        7.61               7.61       100.00
 International
Development                                    45.00              52.95       117.67
Association (IDA)




                                           23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Component 1: Pilot Rural Access Roads (US$ 31.60 million PAD, US$ 43.68
                           ICR)

Objective. The objective of this component was to test and demonstrate in Yemen new
technical standards and implementation procedures for rural access roads, which are
technically adequate, environmentally sound, socially accepted, equitable and cost-
effective. For this purpose, five intermediary rural roads totaling about 114 km in length
were selected as pilot projects. Allowance was also made for the selection of some
additional roads yet to be identified, totaling approximately 80 km in length, which had to
meet the same criteria as those roads already identified. The pilot roads were selected
based on the following criteria:

(i) they were located in areas representing different types of terrain and social
environments in Yemen;
(ii) they were located in different Governorates with high incidence of poverty;
(iii) they provided access to areas with significant economic potential;
(iv) they had an economic internal rate of return of at least 12%;
(v) no land acquisition and involuntary resettlement was required.

The technical standards and implementation procedures that were developed and tested
through these pilot road projects included:

(i) Reduced road width and better slope stabilization;
(ii) Different types of bituminous surfacing;
(iii) Embankment design and wadi hydrology;
(iv) Measures to prevent terrace destruction and erosion;
(v) Mountain hydrology and water harvesting;
(vi) Reduction of potential impacts of physical works; and
(vii) Local consultations and participation.

Pilot roads (Group I).       The road project which were initially selected as pilots are
summarized below:
  Gro                                                         Intermediate   Village Total
   up     ID           Project Name           Governorate        Access      Access  (km)
    I     A1   Thula - Amran                 Sana'a - Amran        26          13     39
    I     A2   Kuhlan Affar - Al Maghrabah   Hajjah                16          8      24
    I     A3   AtTaffah - Awwin              AlBayda               42          3      45
    I     A4   AtTurbah - Towr AlBahah       Taiz - Lahj           9           10     19
    I      -   Khamis Bani Saad - AlMahwit   Mahwit                -            -     -
                             Total                                 93          34    127


Thula - Amran (A1): Construction was completed in December 2004 and civil works
included earthworks, drainage structures, protection works, and road pavement at a total



                                              24

cost of US$3,212,705. Total length of the road includes 26 km of intermediate access and
13 km of village access roads.

Kuhlan Affar - Al Maghrabah (A2): Construction was completed in August 2004 and the
civil works contract involved earthworks, cross-drainage structures, slope protection
measures and road pavement at a total cost of US$1,999,336. Total length of the road
includes 16 km of intermediate access and 8 km of village access roads.

AtTaffah - Awwin (A3): Construction was completed in December 2004 and included
earthworks in the road alignment, drainage structures, and road pavement at a total cost
of US$3,476,150. Total length of the road includes 42 km of intermediate access and 3
km of village access roads.

AtTurbah - Towr AlBahah (A4): The project was completed in December 2005 and civil
works included mainly of earthworks, including some rock blasting, drainage structures
and road pavement at a total cost of US$3,637,432. Total length of the road includes 9
km of intermediate access and 10 km of village access roads.

Khamis Bani Saa'd - AlMahwit: This road project was dropped from the list because the
Government later decided to upgrade this road to primary road standards (10 meter
pavement), which clearly falls beyond the context of the RAP.

Additional roads projects. 18 more road projects were started under Phase I of the
Program. Out of these, 6 were completed (A6, A7, A9, A11, A12, A13) by the project
and the remaining 12 will be carried over to Phase II. The completed road projects are
summarized below:
 Gro                                                     Intermediate  Village  Length
 up     ID          Project Name         Governorate        Access     Access    (km)
  II   A5   AzZaher - AlRibat          Hadramout              47         0        47
  II   A6   Seham - Bora'a             Hodeidah               29         0        29
  II   A7   AlKhadra - Bani Shadad     Sana'a                 27         6        33
  II   A8   Akamt AlAgoud - Mudykhira  Ibb ­ Taiz             36         0        36
  III  A9   Qratiel Hamdan             Sana'a - Amran         0          4         4
  III  A10  AlQawanis - AlKadan        Hodeida                34         0        34
  III  A11  AlUdien - Mudykhirah       Ibb                    17         0        17
  III  A12  Bayhan - AlKurra'a         Shabwah                22         0        22
  III  A13  Abyan Rural Road           Abyan                  14         6        20
  III  A14  AnNadirah - Damt           Ibb - AlDallea         14         6        20
  III  A15  Jabl AlDar - Ribad         Dhamar                 14         0        14
  IV   A17  Orod - Souq AlHoriah       Taiz                   31         0        31
  IV   A18  AlMisqah - AlHaqlain       Ibb                    17         4        21
  IV   A19  AlDhabab - AlManaom        Taiz                   20         0        20
  IV   A20  AlMadn - AlShabareeq       Hodeida                23         0        23
  IV   A21  Rusabah - AlQubah          Dhamar                 11         0        11
  IV   A22  Lawder - Jisr Malihah      Abyan                  18         5        23
  V    A23  Maswer District Center     Amran                  28         0        28
                           Total                             402         31      433




                                           25

Seham - Bora'a (A6): The project was completed in late 2006 and civil works included
earthworks, drainage structures, protection works, relocation of water pipes and road
pavement at a total cost of US$3,698,458. Total length of the road includes 29 km of
intermediate access and no village access roads.

AlKhadra - Bani Shadad (A7): The project was completed in August 2005 and civil
works included earthworks, drainage structures, protection works, relocation of water
pipes and road pavement at a total cost of US$3,077,549. Total length of the road
includes 27 km of intermediate access and 6 km of village access roads.

Qratiel Hamdan (A9): This project involved village access roads only. The project was
completed in August 2004 at a total cost of US$148,485. Total length of the road is 4 km.

AlUdien ­ Mudykhirah (A11): The project was completed late 2006 and civil works
included earthworks, drainage structures, protection works, and road pavement at a total
cost of US$2,655,562. The total length of the road includes 17 km of intermediate access
and no village access roads.

Bayhan ­ AlHarajah - AlKura'a (A12): The project was completed in August 2006 and
civil works included earthworks, drainage structures, protection works, and road
pavement at a total cost of US$1,839,756. The total length of the road includes 22 km of
intermediate access and no village access roads.

Abyan Rural Road (A13): This project is located in Abyan Governorate and comprised
two parts (i) several roads in and around Zunjbar city (ii) several roads in and around
Lawder district. The project was completed in April 2005 and civil works included
earthworks, drainage structures, protection works, and road pavement at a total cost of
US$1,090,940. The total length of the project includes 14 km of intermediate access
roads and 6 km of village access roads.

Actual Achievement. The output target of this component was more than achieved with
the successful improvement of 202 km of intermediate access roads in 10 different
Governorates. Two of the project's desired outcomes are duly served by the successful
achievement of this output. Specifically, the implementation of these subprojects (i)
allowed for the application and testing of the various technical standards and
implementation procedures, which are now all compiled in a Standard Design Manual
and a Supervision Manual and (ii) helped in reducing the isolation and enhancing the
accessibility of the population under these projects' areas of influence, as documented in
the socioeconomic impact monitoring reports. Moreover, although only 10 out of the 22
road projects started under Phase I were totally completed at the time of the ICR, the
remaining 12 were progressing satisfactorily under the follow-up project with execution
rates ranging from 30% to 91%. Calculations show that if the lengths of roads were
allocated to the two phases in proportion of their funding, about 365 km of intermediate
access were improved under the Phase I.




                                            26

Project Component 2: Village Access Roads (US$ 4.70 million PAD, US$ 1.80
                            million ICR)

Objective. At least 50 km of village access roads adjacent to the intermediate access
roads were to be identified and improved, to test standards for very low-volume roads
and tracks, and to enhance the poverty-reduction impact of the investments in
intermediate access roads. The standards and implementation procedures to be
demonstrated were to include the following features: (i) consultations with beneficiaries
and community leaders for planning, implementation and monitoring; and (ii) technical
designs with narrower platforms and less expensive surfacing, (iii) the inclusion of water
harvesting techniques in the road structure, to benefit adjacent farms; (iv) slope
stabilization; and (v) disposal at designated sites of material that is cut from the hillside
slopes, instead of the uncontrolled dumping of those materials as was previously
practiced.

Actual Achievement. The objective of this component was achieved. The project was
successful in identifying and improving 50 km of village access roads to address the
above mentioned issues. Moreover, calculations show that if the lengths of roads were
allocated to the two phases in proportion of the funding, about 58 km of village access
roads were improved under Phase I. It should be noted here that the figures presented in
the project cost table are not representative of the true actual cost of this component. This
is because some of the village access roads were included within the civil works contracts
for the intermediate roads and did not have their own independent contracts.

Project Component 3: Preparation of Phase II of RAP (US$ 2.0 million PAD, US$ 1.82
                            million ICR)

The objectives of this component were (i) to establish a solid basis for the selection and
evaluation of individual rural access improvements to be carried out during the
subsequent phases of the program, (ii) to support the technical preparation for the civil
works to be executed during Phase II, including design studies and bidding documents,
and (iii) to assist in the preparation of contract documents for piloting Performance Based
Management and Maintenance of Roads (PMMR).

Rural Accessibility Planning. As described in the PAD, the first output of this component
was the preparation of Rural Accessibility Master Plans (RAMP) for at least ten of the
rural Governorates, which were to be used as a basis for implementation during Phases II
and III. The methodology to be applied sought to establish a participatory selection
process, shaped by a rational framework for road network planning and management at
the Governorate level. For this purpose, an international consulting firm was hired and
mobilized on September 2003. The consultant established an office in the MPWH
building and eleven counterpart staff were assigned by the Government and worked
fulltime with the consultant initially on field surveys, base mapping and data collection.
This study proved difficult and was delayed significantly. Early drafts of the outputs were
unsatisfactory, mainly due to the inadequate methodology applied. However, the
consultant eventually strengthened his team and developed a sound methodology for



                                               27

planning and prioritizing for rural roads investments. RAMPs for five Governorates were
completed by the consultant and additional plans for eleven Governorates were prepared
by counterpart staff with his support. They were of good quality and a workshop was held
on April 2006 to present and disseminate the reports to the various stakeholders.

Design and Feasibility Studies for Phase II. The intention was to prepare technical
designs, feasibility studies and bidding documents for the numerous rural roads to be
improved under Phase II, whether these road improvements were to be financed by IDA
under the subsequent phase or by other donors. In essence, the project component was
used to try to leverage a large amount of funding from other donors. This was largely
successful as the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) agreed to
provide US$ 85 million for rural roads improvement and further funding is under
discussion with other donors. The RAPCMO did the formal screening of a long list of
rural roads and on that basis, the MPWH selected 1,740 km of roads located in 15
different Governorates. These roads were selected based on poverty and food maps
provided by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) of the Ministry of Planning and agreed
upon with local councils. After long delays in the procurement process, eight consultancy
contracts were signed for the detail engineering design and feasibility studies of these
roads with five international and three local consulting firms. Work progressed well
under the project (about 650 km are ready for implementation) but could not be
completed by the closing date because of the delays in procurement. The remaining
activities are being completed under the follow-up Phase II operation.

Performance Based Management and Maintenance of Roads (PMMR): The intention was
to prepare contract for performance based management and maintenance of about 950 km
of roads that would be implemented by the RMF under Phase II. A consultancy contract
in that effect was awarded to an international consulting firm in May 2006. Work has
progressed satisfactorily under Phase I. As agreed, this activity is being completed under
Phase II.

Project Component 4: Institutional Strengthening and Support for Decentralization
                          (US$ 1.17 million PAD, US$ 0.68 million ICR)

The objective of this component was to support the establishment of proper institutional
frameworks and build up capacity to carry out the efficient execution of the Program and
the decentralized management of rural access improvements. The following outputs were
achieved under this component:

Sectoral Environmental Assessment: All Phase I road projects were deliberately selected
to avoid any major environmental issues. In particular, they were screened so as not to
include any resettlement or land acquisition. As a result, Phase I of the Program was
placed in World Bank Environmental Category B. However, it was clear that subsequent
phases would extend the program on a sector-wide basis throughout the country and
might include roads that involve resettlement, land acquisition or other issues, which
would require a Category A Environmental Assessment. It was therefore decided to
prepare a Sectoral environmental assessment that would provide a sector-wide



                                            28

operational tool for systematically incorporating environmental and social considerations
into the planning and implementation of rural roads. An international consultant was
recruited for this purpose and his assignment included (i) a general assessment of
Program impact (ii) the establishment of standard mitigation methods to be adapted to
individual projects and (iii) the establishment of a procedural framework for
implementing environmental and social management processes for all roads within the
program. The consultancy was completed satisfactorily, incorporating comments from
several Bank reviewers, and it was disclosed to the InfoShop on January 2005.

Technical Assistance and support to local consultants: This component involved
consultancy services for (i) the preparation of the construction design and supervision
manuals for rural roads in Yemen, taking into consideration the newly introduced
technical, environmental and social aspects in road design and construction and (ii)
conducting extensive practical training for local consultants who were already retained
under the RAP to carry out services or who had been pre-qualified to carry out such
services in the future. For this purpose, an international consulting firm was hired on
February 2004 and two Specialists were mobilized to update the standards for design,
construction and supervision of roads under the RAP and train and support local
consultants. The consultant carried out a three-day training workshop for local
consultants on May 2004 covering various topics in engineering design and construction
supervision that were of direct relevance, like the subject of asphalt pavement mixes. The
updated design and supervision manuals were completed in 2006 and a workshop was
held in November 2006 to disseminate these documents among the various participants.

Technical Audit: An international consulting firm was hired for this task. Three technical
audits were conducted throughout the project on June 2003, June 2004, and March 2006.
These were thorough and well documented and both the RAPCMO and the Bank team
acknowledged the wealth of the recommendations provided by the consultant.

Financial Audits: These were conducted regularly on an annual basis by an independent
accounting firm throughout the project.

Training: A 10 day procurement training course was conducted successfully in April
2004 and was attended by 25 participants from various Ministries, the RAPCMO, RMF
and the Government's force-account contractor, the General Corporation for Roads and
Bridges (GCRB). The course focused mainly on civil works procurement, including
claims management and arbitration. This component also financed various training
activities including, among others, four MPWUD staff members attending a two week
training course in Jordan for "Road Design and Studies" and "Material Testing and
Supervision", and two RMF staff members attending a two weak training course on
"Advanced Procurement" in Italy.

Technical Assistance for the Higher Tender Board: The PAD described the support the
project would provide to the HTB as including (i) the provisions of procurement training
and (ii) the creation of regional tender boards. However, support for the creation of
regional tender boards was provided through other activities, including another Bank-



                                             29

financed project, and the support to the HTB was therefore reduced to the participation of
some of its staff members in the above mentioned procurement training.

Support for decentralization: The objective of this component was to support the
establishment of initially a few regional offices to be responsible for rural access
planning and prioritization and later oversee implementation of Phase II and III roads.
The component would basically finance the operations of these envisaged offices,
including staff salaries, office equipment, vehicles and operating costs. Three regional
offices were indeed opened and adequately staffed and supplied. Their staff worked
closely with the consultant on producing the sixteen RAMPs mentioned in the discussion
of project component 3 above. It was later realized however that these offices did not
have any comparative advantage in overseeing the implementation of rural roads
improvement works. Indeed, given that all road projects are relatively easily accessible
from Sana'a, it proved more efficient to have contractors and supervision consultants
overseen by RAPCMO's senior engineers based in Sana'a with frequent field visits and
regular contacts by telephone. Therefore, after the production of the RAMPs was
concluded, the offices were closed and their staff were reoriented back to the RAPCMO
in Sana'a.

Project Component 5: Supplemental Operating Costs and Equipment (US$ 0.70 million
                           PAD, US$ 1.87 million ICR)

This component was to finance the operations of the RAPCMO during the planned
project implementation period which was unrealistically set at two years in the PAD,
including staff salaries, office equipment, vehicles and operating costs. It did just that.
However, actual implementation took more than four years and the increase in the
cumulative cost is inline with the increase in the scale of the RAPCMO activities and
credit extensions.

Project Component 6: Rehabilitation of the Al Ahmar ­ An Naqabah Road (US$ 12.24
                           million PAD, US$ 10.55 million ICR)

The output under this component was twice the target mainly because of low unit costs.
The road section described in the PAD was originally 114 km stretching from AlAhmar
to AnNaqabah. However, the original contracts prices (US$ million) was much lower
than planned. The Government therefore proposed and the Bank agreed to extend the
rehabilitation works by an additional 115 km to cover the length between AnNaqabah
and AnNushaimah. This was highly justified from an economic point of view since the
new section is also part of the Aden ­ Mukalla road which links Mukalla, the main
economic center of the eastern part of Yemen to the rest of the country. Beyond these
interregional transport aspects, the road is also important to ensure that the rural
population in its vicinity has access to the main towns in this poor and sparsely populated
part of the country. The rehabilitation works were completed by the contractor early 2006
and consisted of     repair works, including short sections of reconstruction, drainage
improvements, protection works, and pavement overlaying.




                                             30

Project Component 7: Technical Assistance to the Road Maintenance Fund (US$ 0.20
                           million PAD, US$ 0.16 million ICR)

Under this component, technical assistance was to be provided to the RMF to strengthen
and reinforce its ability to act as an independent caretaker of the road network. The PAD
did not contain a specific description of such TA. Nevertheless, there was an obvious
problem of truck overloading throughout the network in Yemen and a strongly felt need
for axle load control. Therefore, and at the request of the Client, the funds under this
component were used for an axle load control study. This consultancy involved (i)
technical studies and bidding documents for the rehabilitation and modernization of
existing weighbridges (ii) technical studies and bidding documents for the installation
and operation of new weighbridges and mobile weighing stations and (iii) training of
weighbridge personnel. An international consultant was commissioned and the study was
completed late 2006. The study was satisfactory and provided valuable information and
recommendations for the development of a National System of weigh stations.




                                             31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

To assess the economic efficiency of the subprojects executed, ex-post economic
analyses following the same methodology described in the PAD were conducted for the
completed road projects under Part A (Thula ­ Amran, Kuhlan ­ AlMaghrabah, AtTaffah
­ Awwin, and AtTurbah ­ Tor AlBahah) and an update of the economic analysis for the
two completed road projects that were selected and executed after project appraisal
(AlKhadra ­ Bani Shadad and Abyan Rural Road) was performed. Although Khamis
Bani Saad ­ AlMahwit road project was identified as a pilot in the PAD, it was not
implemented under the IDA Credit and therefore was not included in this exercise. As for
the AlAhmar ­ AnNaqabah road rehabilitation project under Part B, an ex-post economic
analysis could not be conducted because the initial study carried out in 1995 was not
available, and therefore only a qualitative assessment of it's economic efficiency is
proposed below.

Part A

The Bank appraisal team carried out an economic evaluation of the initially identified
pilot road projects using the Roads Economic Decision (RED) Model, based on
preliminary cost estimates, traffic levels and composition, vehicle fleet characteristics,
and other data collected before and during the mission. The same model was also used for
all subsequent projects selected including projects A7 and A13. Aside from the unique
parameters of each subproject summarized below, all projects were evaluated for a period
of 15 years, using a discount rate of 12%, and assumed an upgrade to bituminous surface
standard as a project alternative. Works cost figures for each of the completed road
projects are summarized below.

                                 Table 1. Project Capital Costs5

                                                                                Actual Values 000 US$
   ID         Project Name           Length     Estimated Values 000 US$

                                       km        Total Cost         Cost/km       Total
                                                                                   Cost      Cost/km

   A1    Thula ­ Amran                  26           2,886             111        2,912         112
   A2    Kuhlan - AlMaghrabah           16           2,144             134        1,856         116
   A3    AtTaffah - Awwin               42           3,570              85        3,360         80
   A4    AtTurbah - Tor AlBahah          9           1,449             161        3,042         338
   A7    AlKhadra - Bani Shadad         27           2,430              90        3,078         114
   A13   Abyan Rural Road6              14            882               63          770         55

Excluding project A4 which resulted in a significant deviation from its expected cost
estimate, most of the projects' actual costs were within their estimates in the economic
analysis. Although it should have been anticipated and accounted for during project



5The per km road works costs on the basis of which the economic analysis was prepared at appraisal were
much lower than those included in the total project's cost table in the PAD (on average US$ 157,000/km).
6The values expressed here are the average for all roads under the Abyan Rural Road subproject.


                                                    32

preparation, the deviation for project A4 could be explained by the project's acute
remoteness and its harsh geotechnical and topographical conditions. Especially
significant were the considerable amount of earth and protection works required.

Baseline traffic counts were conducted for projects A1 to A4 in 2001 during a five day
period from January 27 to February 1 by the staff of the RMF. Because of their very bad
condition, traffic composition on these roads was restricted mostly to four-wheel-drive
vehicles and a few trucks, hence vehicle types were grouped under these two main
categories. However, it was noted that more vehicle types were naturally expected to
traverse these roads once they were improved. Based on historical traffic growth data
observed in Yemen, a 5% annual growth rate was used in the initial analysis for the first
five years, while a 2% annual growth rate was applied for the remaining period. Projected
vehicular volumes in the initial analysis consisted of (i) normal traffic, (ii) generated
traffic, and in some cases (iii) diverted traffic. Generated traffic was defined as that which
is presently suppressed because of very bad road conditions and high Vehicle Operating
Costs (VOC), and was calculated within the RED model as a function of the elasticity
between transport cost and transport demand. For that purpose, a value of 1.5 was
assumed in the analysis for the price elasticity of demand for transport. Origin-
Destination surveys were also carried out to determine the likely volume of diverted
traffic which could be expected from road projects that have the dual purpose of
providing access to rural areas and serving as links to the main road network. For
subprojects A7 and A13, baseline traffic counts were conducted along these roads in
2004 and vehicles were grouped under four different categories. Expected vehicular
volumes under the different types of traffic followed the same parameters described
above, and for traffic projections, annual growth rates of 4.3% were used for the period
2004-2008, 4.5% for the period 2009-2013, and 4.6% thereafter. No diverted traffic was
included in the analysis for these two roads since they were unlikely to play the function
of links within the main road network.

Updated traffic surveys for the completed seven road projects were carried out in 2007,
and the grossed up Average Daily Traffic (ADT) figures for all vehicle categories and
traffic types are presented below.

                                Table 2. Project Traffic Data

                                        Baseline      Estimated       2007
    ID            Project Name           Traffic      ADT for        Traffic      Actual/

                                          Count         2007         Count       Estimates

   A1      Thula - Amran                    31           111          371           3.34
   A2      Kuhlan - AlMaghrabah             21           54           226           4.18
   A3      AtTaffah - Awwin                 32           49           223           4.55
   A4      AtTurbah - Tor AlBahah           55           174          135           0.78
   A7      AlKhadra - Bani Shadad          125           142          181           1.27
   A13     Abyan Rural Road                292           331          350           1.06

With the exception of subprojects A7 and A13, it can be seen from the previous table that
there is a significant divergence between the traffic levels estimated in the PAD and the
subsequent traffic count of 2007. Although it was acknowledged that the impact of


                                               33

upgrading these roads would be especially significant for augmenting generated traffic,
and that more vehicle types would traverse these roads once they were improved, the
growth rates assumed in the initial analyses were off by a wide margin. For example,
actual average daily traffic volume for 2007 along subproject A3 was 4.55 times the
expected value.

As stated above, all pilot road projects and subsequent roads selected thereafter were
evaluated using the RED model. The principal economic benefits taken into consideration
in the initial analyses were exclusively the expected reductions in Vehicle Operating Cost
(VOC) along the subject roads for normal, generated, and in some cases diverted traffic.
In the absence of any reliable information on accidents in Yemen, road safety benefits
were excluded from the analyses, and although the RED model allows for the
introduction of exogenous social benefits, this feature was also understandably not used.
For each of these roads, two project alternatives were evaluated against each other: (i) a
"without project" scenario whereby the existing situation is preserved by standard
maintenance works, which usually entailed grading every 90 or 180 days depending on
the roads' initial situation, and (ii) a "with project" scenario in which the subject roads
would be upgraded to bituminous surface standards.

Ex-post economic evaluations were performed for each road project using the RED
model and following the same methodology that was used in the initial analyses. All
previous assumptions and evaluation parameters were upheld, with the exception of
updated traffic figures and actual capital costs.

The following table outlines the revised Economic Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and the
Net Present Value (NPV) for each road project and compares them with the expected
results under the base case scenarios obtained from the initial analyses.

                    Table 3. Ex-post Economic Evaluation Summary

                                           Initial Values              ICR Values
    ID           Project Name           IRR            NPV         IRR          NPV
                                        (%)        (million US$)   (%)      (million US$)
   A1      Thula - Amran                 53            5.820        46         7.338
   A2      Kuhlan - AlMaghrabah          17           1.442         27         1.634
   A3      AtTaffah - Awwin              30            3.710        31         4.135
   A4      AtTurbah - Tor AlBahah        69           12.259        10         -0.240
   A7      AlKhadra - Bani Shadad        39            4.151        26         2.700
   A13     Abyan Rural Road              48            0.768        45         0.740



The ex-post economic analysis revealed that except for subproject A4, all subprojects
investigated yielded a positive net present value and considerable internal rates of return,
way above the 12% "hurdle rate" established in the PAD. In evaluating the economic
efficiency of each project relative to the expected values estimated initially, one could
group these projects under two main categories: those that exceeded the planned
economic benefits and those that did not. The former category includes subprojects A2
and A3 while the latter includes subprojects A1, A7 and A13. Overachievement could be


                                             34

attributed mainly to the substantial increase in traffic volumes witnessed along the A2
and A3 road projects, which were more than enough to compensate for the fact that the
actual capital costs were higher than those in the original economic analysis. Although
similar, yet to a lesser extent, increases in traffic volume have occurred in subprojects A1,
A7 and A13, these did not fully compensate for the higher capital costs. As for subproject
A4, a combination of underestimated project costs and overoptimistic traffic growth rates
have contributed to the modest IRR and negative NPV. However, it should be noted that
the cost estimates in the original economic analysis were significantly below those in the
PAD's cost table. Had those costs being taken into account (as they should have, since
they were the true appraisal costs), the original IRR would have been lower and the
comparison with the actual IRRs would be more favorable to the project.

The analyses conducted at appraisal also took a conservative approach, since it is now
widely accepted that the traditional VOC based economic analysis is insufficient to
capture the full economic and social benefits of low-volume rural road investments, in
particular in the context of projects in poor areas. In addressing this limitation, one can
develop a clearer picture of the project's viability by comparing its per capita investment
cost with accepted norms for similar roads in comparable settings. Accordingly, and
using GIS data of populations served along a 2 km buffer zone around the project,
calculations show that the actual investment cost of subproject A4 amount to around
US$167 per beneficiary. This seems highly satisfactory when measured against
international norms for comparable projects; which suggest per capita investment costs in
the range of US$200 ­ US$300.

Part B

The original economic evaluation for this road was conducted in 1995 under an earlier
IDA project (Transport Rehabilitation Project) using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). The project was justified based on its
sufficient internal rate of return, ranging from about 42% in the base case scenario to
31% in the worst case scenario. The Bank team re-evaluated the project's economic
justification during project appraisal based on updated traffic counts and increased cost
estimates. This qualitative evaluation concluded that the economic rate of return of the
project would likely be significantly higher than calculated in 1995 because: (i) the
increase in the project cost estimate was moderate, and would in the economic analysis
most likely be compensated for by increases in VOC savings, and (ii) traffic growth rates
were much higher than anticipated in the original economic evaluation.

Since neither economic evaluation of 1995 nor the Bank's qualitative review at project
appraisal are available, this project component could not be reevaluated. However, there
are indications that the order of magnitude of the economic rate of return of this
investment remained the same since (i) actual cost was below the appraisal estimated
(US$6.58 million versus US$12.24 million for the original 114 km), but (ii) actual traffic
after completion did not reach by far the expected levels (1,293 ADT versus 2,415 ADT).




                                               35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
        Names                 Title                Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Abdelghani Inal      Consultant
Akram Abd El-Aziz    Sr Financial
Hussein El-Shorbagi  Management Specialist  MNAFM

Andreas Schliessler  Sr Transport
                     Economist              ECSSD

Azeb Yideru          Program Assistant      MNSSD
Elena Gagieva        Program Assistant      MNSSD
Ghada Youness        Sr Counsel             LEGMS
Hisham Labadi        Consultant
Hyacinth Brown       Sr Finance Officer     LOAG2

Jean Charles Crochet Sr Transport.
                     Economist              MNSSD

Jerome Leyvigne      Transport. Specialist  MNSSD

John Bryant Collier  Environmental
                     Specialist             AFTNL

Josephine Masanque   Sr Financial
                     Management Specialist  MNAFM

Khaled F. Al-Khaled  Transport. Economist   MNSSD
Mikael Sehul         Sr Procurement
Mengesha             Specialist             MNAPR

Robert Fishbein      Environmental &
                     Social Specialist
Terje Wolden         Consultant



b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                    consultant costs)

Lending
                    FY00                                     14                  90.72
                    FY01                                     38                 193.79
                    FY02                                       5                 15.78
                    FY03                                                          0.00


                                           36

                FY04                      0.00
                FY05                      0.00
                FY06                      0.00
                FY07                      0.00
                        Total:    57    300.29

Supervision/ICR
                FY00                      0.00
                FY01                      0.00
                FY02              12     83.78
                FY03              18     94.57
                FY04              15     87.68
                FY05              12     78.01
                FY06              14     96.15
                FY07              14     58.70
                        Total:    85    498.89




                            37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Socioeconomic Impact Monitoring Report

A simple yet effective monitoring and evaluation system of the Program's socioeconomic
impacts was established and agreed upon during project preparation. In particular,
advances towards the objectives of improved livelihood of the rural population and less
rural isolation were evaluated through measuring specific indicators before the
improvement of each subproject and comparing them with the results after such
improvement. Three types of indicators were monitored and they included: (i) the prices
of 12 essential commodities7, (ii) transport rates for goods and passengers, and (iii)
access times from the villages to the closest market center, medical facility and other
social services. Baseline indicators were to be collected at several locations along each
road and compile in a database at the RAPCMO. Achievement targets established in the
PAD were a 15% reduction in the prices of the selected commodities in the villages along
the improved roads8, a 30% reduction in the transport rates for goods and passengers
along the improved roads, and a 30% reduction in the access times from the villages
along the improved roads to their closest market center and social and medical facilities.
Standard formats for data collection, data entry and reporting were developed and
improved during the initial stages of project implementation, and this task was entrusted
to the Environmental and Social (ES) Unit at the RAPCMO. The Unit conducted all
initial surveys adequately and in a timely manner and developed a satisfactory database
for the purpose. The plan was to conduct follow-up surveys one year after the completion
of each road project to investigate the evolution of these parameters and draw up
pertinent conclusions concerning the ex-post socioeconomic effects of each investment.

For the ten road projects that were completed under Phase I, only six roads were
evaluated because a year had not yet elapsed since their completion. A consultant was
recruited to compile and analyze follow-up data, and the following was drawn from his
report.

Thula ­ Amran (A1)

This road is 26 km long and connects the city of Amran with the town of Thula. The road
serves two districts directly, which are Amran and Thula and one district indirectly,
which is Ayaal Surayh. It connects two main roads and serves three governorates (Amran,
Sana'a and AlMahwit). GIS data reveal that around 89,000 inhabitants (2006 est.) are


7These commodities include wheat, flour, sugar, rice, water bottle, cooking oil, Ghee, cement, gasoline,
diesel, kerosene, and gas cylinder.
8The reduction in the price of essential commodities was assessed by comparing the actual 2007 price in
each village to a projected 2007 price deemed to reflect the situation, had the road not been improved. This
projected price is equal to the 2007 actual price in the nearest supply center, usually downstream from the
improved road, multiplied by the multiplier that existed before road improvement between the village and
the supply center.




                                                      38

within a 2 km buffer zone along the road and are therefore directly benefiting from its
improvement, and that 38 villages, 51 education facilities and 3 health facilities are
located in the project's area of influence.

For subproject A1, three villages were selected for the investigation from a representative
sample of all villages served prior to the construction of the road and following its
completion. These villages include (1) Hijrat AlAyn (2) Karyteen Dayan and (3) Najr,
and their averaged results are the following:

    · Commodity prices for the 12 essential items monitored were reduced by an
        average of 8%. Compared with the initial target established for this indicator, the
        project only achieved 52% of the target.
    · Passenger transport rates and transport rate for full cars (for goods transport) were
        reduced by an average of 44% and 54% respectively. Compared with the 30%
        reduction rate established for this indicator, the project achieved 164% of the
        target.
    · On the average, access times to the nearest supply center, health and other social
        facilities was reduced by 73%. Compared with the 30% reduction rate established
        for this indicator, the project achieved 244% of the target.

Kuhlan ­ AlMaghrabah (A2)

This road is 16 km long and connects the town of Kuhlan with the village of
AlMaghrabah east of Hajjah city. GIS data reveal that around 24,000 inhabitants (2006
est.) live within a 2 km buffer zone along the road and are therefore directly benefiting
from its improvement, and that 63 villages, 22 education facilities and 3 health facilities
are located in the project's area of influence.

Seven villages were selected for the investigation and they include the villages of (1)
AlHma'a (2) Sabarah (3) AlKarh (4) Maghrabah Affar (5) AlSayah (6) Hadyan and (7)
Maghrabah AlHaresh. Their averaged results are the following:

    · Commodity prices for the 12 essential items monitored were reduced by an
        average of 10%. Compared with the initial target established for this indicator, the
        project only achieved 64% of the target.
    · Passenger transport rates and transport rate for full cars (goods) were reduced by
        an average of 33% and 34% respectively. Compared with the 30% reduction rate
        established for this indicator, the project achieved 111% of the target.
    · On the average, access times to the nearest supply center, health and other social
        facilities was reduced by 72%. Compared with the 30% reduction rate established
        for this indicator, the project achieved 239% of the target.

AtTaffah ­ Awwin (A3)

This road is 42 km long linking the two villages of AlAreef and AlHaad west of AlBaida
city. The road is located in the AlBaida Governorate and serves mainly one district which



                                               39

is AlMalajeem. GIS data reveal that around 8,900 inhabitants (2006 est.) live within a 2
km buffer zone along the road and are therefore directly benefiting from its improvement,
and that 33 villages, 7 education facilities and 1 health facility are located in the project's
area of influence.

Four villages were selected for the investigation and they include the villages of (1)
Hadwan (2) AlManghor (3) Markha and (4) AlHaad. Their averaged results are the
following:

    · Commodity prices for the 12 essential items monitored were reduced by an
        average of 7%. Compared with the initial target established for this indicator, the
        project only achieved 49% of the target.
    · Passenger transport rates and transport rate for full cars (goods) were reduced by
        an average of 33% and 31% respectively. Compared with the 30% reduction rate
        established for this indicator, the project achieved 107% of the target.
    · On the average, access times to the nearest supply center, health and other social
        facilities was reduced by 64%. Compared with the 30% reduction rate established
        for this indicator, the project achieved 212% of the target.

AtTurbah ­ Tor AlBahah (A4)

This road is 9 km long linking the city of AtTurbah with the village of AlMhragh in the
region southwest of the city of Taiz. The road is located in the Lahj Governorate, and
serves two the main districts of AlMaratera and Tor AlBahah. GIS data reveal that
around 24,000 inhabitants (2006 est.) live within a 2 km buffer zone along the road and
are therefore directly benefiting from its improvement, and that 27 villages, 14 education
facilities and 5 health facilities are located in the project's area of influence.

Five villages were selected for the investigation and they include the villages of (1)
AlMuseged (2) AlMhajer (3) AlNubh (4) AlMhdh and (5) AlMhragh. Their averaged
results are the following:

    · Commodity prices for the 12 essential items monitored were reduced by an
        average of 9%. Compared with the initial target established for this indicator, the
        project only achieved 63% of the target.
    · Passenger transport rates and transport rate for full cars (goods) were reduced by
        an average of 40% and 40% respectively. Compared with the 30% reduction rate
        established for this indicator, the project achieved 133% of the target.
    · On the average, access times to the nearest supply center, health and other social
        facilities was reduced by 78%. Compared with the 30% reduction rate established
        for this indicator, the project achieved 261% of the target.

AlKhadra ­ Bani Shadad (A7)

This road is located in the Sana'a Governorate. It is 27 km long linking the two villages
of Maswar and AshShab southwest of the capital Sana'a. GIS data reveal that around



                                                40

33,000 inhabitants (2006 est.) live within a 2 km buffer zone along the road and are
therefore directly benefiting from its improvement, and that 49 villages, 41 education
facilities and 4 health facilities are located in the project's area of influence.

Three villages were selected for the investigation and they include the villages of (1)
Gadhia (2) Wadi Milaja and (3) AshShab. Their averaged results are the following:

    · Commodity prices for the 12 essential items monitored were reduced by an
        average of 11%. Compared with the initial target established for this indicator, the
        project only achieved 74% of the target.
    · Passenger transport rates and transport rate for full cars (goods) were reduced by
        an average of 33% and 38% respectively. Compared with the 30% reduction rate
        established for this indicator, the project achieved 117% of the target.
    · On the average, access times to the nearest supply center, health and other social
        facilities was reduced by 74%. Compared with the 30% reduction rate established
        for this indicator, the project achieved 246% of the target.

Abyan Rural Roads (A13)

This project consists of two intermediate access roads located in the Abyan Governorate.
The first road is 6 km long and serves the district of Zinjobar by linking the city of
Zinjobar with the village of Sheikh Abdullah. The second road is 8 km long and links the
village of AlJeezah with the village of Zarah west of Lowder town. GIS data reveal that
around 40,000 inhabitants (2006 est.) live within a 2 km buffer zone along the road and
are therefore directly benefiting from its improvement, and that 61 villages, 22 education
facilities and 6 health facilities are located in the project's area of influence.

Two villages were selected for the investigation and they include the villages of (1)
Sheikh Abdullah and (2) AlJeezah. Their averaged results are the following:

    · Commodity prices for the 12 essential items monitored were reduced by an
        average of 4%. Compared with the initial target established for this indicator, the
        project only achieved 27% of the target.
    · Passenger transport rates and transport rate for full cars (goods) were reduced by
        an average of 29% and 37% respectively. Compared with the 30% reduction rate
        established for this indicator, the project achieved 109% of the target.
    · On the average, access times to the nearest supply center, health and other social
        facilities was reduced by 57%. Compared with the 30% reduction rate established
        for this indicator, the project achieved 188% of the target.

General Notes and a Summary of the Findings

The project only partially met its target for reducing the prices of essential commodities
by 15% in villages along the subject roads. The average reduction was between 4% and
11%. It should be noted however that the initial assumption underpinning this objective
needs to be re-examined. Specifically, by establishing a 15% reduction target between the



                                                41

supply centers and their respective villages, one accepts that the price differential is
greater than 15% before the roads were improved. However, baseline data reveal that this
was not the case along the project roads, since the differences in commodity prices
between the supply centers and their respective villages were in many cases less than
15%. The target should therefore have been selected after a more careful analysis.

Field surveys revealed that significant changes in the transport rates along these roads
have occurred twice after the collection of their baseline data and prior to their
completion. The first change was an initial reduction in costs following the pavement of
these roads and the second was a sharp increase in costs following the rise in gasoline
prices in July 2005. Therefore, transport rates were calculated for the purpose of this
analysis by excluding any increases that were attributed to the 2005 rise in fuel costs.
Accordingly, the road projects investigated yielded remarkable results, with average
transport rates for passengers falling between 29% and 44% and that for goods between
31% and 54%. It was also observed that these results depended mainly on the following
factors:

   (i)     The geographical characteristics and initial conditions of the original road;
           specifically, the impact was much more pronounced for projects in hard
           mountainous terrain and bad initial conditions.
   (ii)    The number of beneficiaries served by the road whereby the larger the number,
           the greater the impact.
   (iii)   The function of the road and whether it links large communities or not. If so,
           traffic becomes more dense, diverse and regular which leads to lower fares
           and transport costs.
   (iv)    The availability of big souqs (markets) also tend to amplify the impact of road
           improvements.

As for access times from the villages to their nearest supply center and social facilities,
the project achieved the targets sought by impressive margins. Average travel time
between villages and their nearest supply center along all the roads investigated was
reduced by about 70%, to their nearest healthcare facility by about 80%, and to their
nearest education facility by about 74%.




                                           42

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

(Not Applicable)




                                  43

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Below are the main sections of the Borrower's ICR

7.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1   Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

       Initially the implementation progress at site suffered due to lack of proper
       design in respect of the details related to road alignment and design criteria.
       While implementation it took long time to develop these design details in
       order to proceed with the construction. This has resulted in initial delay in
       commencement of works of the road. Furthermore, the local Contractors
       were not so much experienced and familiar with the design criteria adopted
       for the project which created initially some confusion and problems. Later
       on, it was sorted out and complete design documents were prepared before
       commencement of execution of new contracts. The lesson learnt from Phase-
       I projects have been reflected and incorporated in the design of Phase-II
       projects. The lessons learnt are:

       Firstly, institutional performance can be substantially improved if it takes
       place within a transparent framework of well defined procedures and
       technical guidelines, if staff is recruited on the basis of merit, adequately
       motivated and remunerated, and offered sound work conditions, and if the
       institution can perform its daily tasks without outside interference. This has
       been the case for the RAPCMO and will be continued under Phase II;

       Secondly, the Yemeni road maintenance and construction industry and
       consulting profession have shown that they can develop relatively fast and
       reach satisfactory quality levels if they perform under a competitive and
       transparent selection process and professional supervision. At the same time,
       capacity constraints are expected to be binding in the near future as the RAP's
       size is greatly expanded with the participation of other donors. The project
       therefore includes significant activities for the development of local
       Contractors and Consultants. Some contracts will also be procured in larger
       packages in order to attract international Contractors;

       Thirdly, the rural population has shown that it is interested mostly by access
       and that high technical standards only have marginal benefits. In addition,
       the costs of improving rural roads may be lowered substantially if appropriate
       design and implementation methods are selected. On this basis, continued
       attention will be paid under Phase II to appropriate standards, taking also into
       account the future costs of road maintenance; and

       Fourthly, social frame work agreements have shown of high practical value
       in rural road projects to maximize net benefits and avoid conflicts. These
       written and signed agreements initiated under Phase I between the RAPCMO


                                           44

     and the local beneficiaries of each road improvement project, which involve
     significant community participation in project design, have almost
     completely eliminated the difficulties and work stoppages which were
     common place earlier. The use of social framework agreements will be
     further strengthened in Phase II of the RAP.

7.2 Implementation (including any project changes/ restructuring, mid-term review,
    project at risk status, and actions taken as applicable)

     The project has been implemented by RAPCMO with the assistance of
     Consultants both for design and Construction Supervision.

     One of the reasons for the delay in project start-up activities is due to
     incomplete design documents. Furthermore, the local Contractors did not
     have the earlier exposure of executing such international contracts and hence
     there was some delay in negotiations and signing the contract.

     The main reason behind the delays on some contracts was due to the fact that
     implementation was slow for changes in design, rain and erosion, and steep
     increase in the prices of fuel and bitumen. As a remedial measure, RAPCMO
     renegotiated contract completion dates and agreed when to apply liquidated
     damages for further delays. It was agreed to let all contractors compensate
     the RAPCMO for the cost of supervision when adjusted completion dates are
     not met and that all contracts have to have an agreed completion date after
     which it is understood by all parties that liquidated damages would be
     imposed.

     For new contracts exceeding duration of 18 months, escalation formula for
     rise in cost of bitumen has been included.

     For contracts beginning group 4, bidding has been done only after detailed
     engineering.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

     RAPCMO has designed standard proforma and charts for entering monitoring
     details and for evaluation.       Monitoring information is provided by the
     supervision consultants, RAPCMO field offices and by head office officers
     during their site visits.

     Traffic Count Surveys on seven Rural Roads and one Main Road was
     conducted and the traffic data analyzed shows that growth of traffic has
     occurred. Further, Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Net Present
     Value (NPV) for each rural road were derived which is presented below.
      Project Name                    Economic Internal Rate    Net Present Value
                                         of Return (EIRR) %          (NPV) in
                                                                   US$ Million
      Thula-Amran                               42                     7.054



                                          45

 Kuhlan-Al Maghrabah                       23                        1.341
 At Taffah-Awin                            30                        4.024
 At Turbah-Tor Al Bahah                     9                       -0.494
 Al Khadra-Beni Shadad                     32                        3.187
 Zunjbar-Shiekh Abdullah                   42                        0.698
 Zarah-Al Jouf                             43                        0.748

The table shows that all the rural road projects have Economic Internal Rate of
Returns well above 12% except At Turbah-Tor Al Bahah road project with 9%
EIRR and this is due to the low volume of traffic which used the extremely
rough and dangerous road before improvement to bituminous surface. Only 8
vehicles per day traveled before against 135 vehicles after improvement. This
road has made a tremendous change to the life of the local people and is
expected to have the highest social benefits accrued. With the social benefits in
addition to the economic benefits the IRR is definitely above 12% threshold.

Also, studies were conducted to evaluate the following issues:

The objective of this study is to evaluate the following issues:
- The rate of change in transportation cost for the people and goods to and
  from the nearest market, due to the paving of the road surface.
- The rate of change in the prices of the basic consumer goods due to the
  paving of the road surface.
- The rate of change in the transportation time that is needed for traveling to
  markets and to the areas where the services are available.
- To compare these rates of changes that have been actually achieved with the
  primary goals which are:
  ·  Reducing the prices of the basic goods in the beneficiary villages by 15%.
  ·  Reducing the transportation cost to and from the beneficiary village by
     30%.
  ·  Reducing the transportation time to and from the beneficiary villages by
     30%.

This study compares between two situations: the situation of the beneficiary
villages before the pavement of the road and the situation after road
improvement. The impact of road pavement represents the independent
variable, while the other items represent the dependent variables. The
dependent variables are:
· The rate of change in the prices of the basic consumer goods due to the
  paving of the road surface.
· The rate of change in transportation cost for the people and goods to and
  from the nearest market, due to the paving of the road surface.
· The rate of change in the transportation time that is needed for traveling to
  markets and to the areas where the services are available.

In order to achieve the correct results, elimination of factors that affect the
aspects under study, i.e. the increase in prices due to inflation, and the increase


                                    46

     in transportation costs due to the rise in fuel prices, which occurred in July 2005
     has been taken into account. To achieve the above, the following steps were
     followed:
     - A field visit was earlier conducted to the area to collect prior to the
        construction of the road. The same data was re-collected for comparison
        following road construction.
     - During the field visit, other factors other than the pavement of the road that
        may have affected the prices of the goods and the transportation costs were
        determined in order to exclude it during the final analysis.
     - In order to show the effect of pavement on consumer goods prices,
        calculation on the multiplier was done and then the prices of the good in the
        village at the date of visit assuming that the road was not paved, this in turn
        gave us the actual decrease in prices due to the paving of the road surface
        which has been compared later with the required target.
     - Analyses of the rate of change in transportation costs for people and goods to
        and from the nearest market resulting from paving of the road surface was
        done. Also, the rate of change in the basic consumer goods due to the paving
        of the road surface, as well as the rate of change in the transportation time
        that is needed for traveling to markets and to the areas where the services are
        available was taken into account in order to evaluate the impact of paving in
        numbers and percentage values.
    - Transportation costs and fares were used as a unit of comparison.
        Specifically, being that the Toyota Land Cruiser pick-up truck is the most
        commonly used vehicle on un-paved roads in Yemen, it was used as the unit
        of comparison for this study of transportation costs prior and following
        paving of the road surface.
    - Results from the field visit show that a change in transportation fares only
        occurred twice after the initial data collection prior to paving of the road
        surface. The first change was an initial reduction in costs following paving of
        the road surface and the second was a rise in costs following the rise in prices
        of Gasoline products in July 2005. Since the study aims to determine the
        amount of reduction in transportation fares following paving of the road
        surface, the amount of increase due to the rise in oil prices was excluded.
        Based on this, the fares were determined.
     - The rate of change in all villages was summarized, and a comparison was
        made between the actual results achieved due to the paving of the road
        surface and the goals that were set prior to the paving, in order to find out the
        rate of achievement compared with the expectation.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution as
    applicable)

     The safeguard policy applicable to the project relates to Environmental
     Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP4.01)

     In this regard, Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been



                                          47

     completed and notified for the project. Besides, for all individual projects,
     EIA and EMP have been developed which have been implemented and
     monitored by the CMO Environmental Unit.

     The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.

     There were no financial management issues/ weakness and procurement
     issues. However, there were minor problems in disbursement due to the fact
     that the local Contractors had limited capabilities and therefore, disbursement
     could not be achieved as planned.

7.5 Post Completion Operation /Next Phase (including transition arrangement for
    post-completion operation of investments financed by present operation,
    Operation and Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
    capacity, and new phase/ follow up operation, if applicable).

     For the next phase, i.e. Phase II, Credit 4121-YEM has become effective as
     of June 7, 2006. This Phase II will have the main components of Rural
     Roads, Institutional Strengthening and Road Maintenance.

     The arrangements/ provisions put in place with respect to staff, office,
     infrastructure,  management      system,  etc    is  adequate    for   effective
     implementation of the follow-up operation.

     All eligible contracts remaining under Phase I will be migrated to Phase II no
     later than three weeks after November 30, 2006. Expenditure of RAPCMO
     including staff salaries beyond November 30, 2006 will be met by the Phase
     II Credit.

     As a measure of preparation of Phase II of RAP, Phase I included the
     preparation of NHMP and RAMPs which have been completed. Preparation
     of designs and bidding documents for eight groups of rural roads totaling
     about 1600km, including screening and review for improved quality is in full
     swing.

     A Decree from the Ministry of Public Works and Highways redefining the
     role and membership of the Steering Committee was prepared and signed on
     May 20, 2006 in line with IDA's special effectiveness conditions for the new
     Credit.

     The Al Ahmar-Al Nushaymah road rehabilitated under Part B of the project
     has been formally handed over to RMF for maintenance. As regards rural
     roads,    all  preparatory   work    for  implementing      performance-based
     management and maintenance (PMMR) for 950km of roads has been
     completed. It is expected that work on this would commence in the first
     quarter of 2007.



                                         48

8.  Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and
    global priorities, and Bank Assistance Strategy)

     The Objectives, Design and Implementation have been highly relevant to
     current country and global priorities and Bank Assistance Strategy.

     A Rural Road Design Manual has been prepared. The manual provides
     valuable guidance for the design of roads, both for the program and for
     higher traffic levels. As with the Supervision Manual, improvements and
     amendments are required, specifically in relation to road widths and
     pavement surfacing.      Greater consideration needs to be given to using
     narrower pavement widths and the specification of surface treatments needs
     to be reintroduced.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (or Global Environmental
    Objectives, including brief discussion of casual linkages between outputs and
    outcomes, with details of outputs in Annex 4)

     Construction of over 500km of Rural Roads and Village Access Roads in
     more than four poverty affected areas has made significant positive impacts
     on accessibility and reduced cost of transportation besides spurring rural
     developmental activities. Preparation of NHMP and RRMPs, as also the
     Road Design Manual and the Supervision Manual, has provided the
     RAPCMO with the basic tools for systematic planning, design and
     management of Rural Roads. The institutional strengthening of RAPCMO
     has enabled it to gear up for taking up larger quantum of work during
     phases II and II of RAP.

     Casual link between outputs (Access Road construction) to intended outcome
     reduction cost/ time and better accessibility to social services has been
     described under 7.3 which are based on post construction beneficiary survey
     result.

8.3 Efficiency (Net Present Value/ Economic Rate of Return, Cost Effectiveness, i.e.
    unit rate norms, least cost and comparisons, and financial rate of return)

     The Economic Rate of Return for the Rural Roads varied between 17% and
     69% (for the base case). Details are provided in Annex 5.

     The unit rate, i.e. cost per km of road has been highly variable from about
     US$.50,000/- per km to over US$.300,000 per km depending on the severity
     of the terrain and the needed protection works.




                                         49

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of
    PDOs [GEO] and efficiency

     Rating                               6

     The project has addressed all the PDOs, and achieved the physical and
     financial targets. The result of post construction survey justifies the rating.

8.5 Overreaching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not
    previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

     Reduced vehicle operation cost, mobility to look for better work
     opportunities, easier access to health, education and other social work needs
     and better participation of women in social development have been positive
     impacts.

(b) Institutional Change/ Strengthening (particularly with reference to impact on
    long-term capacity and institutional development)

     RAPCMO has imbibed the principles of autonomy, decentralization,
     competent staffing and transparent decision making for successful
     functioning. Additional qualified staff have been recruited for long-term
     capacity building and for taking up larger volumes of work during Phases II
     and III of the project.
(c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive and negative)

     The overall success of the project and good performance of RAPCMO has
     spin offs in the form of the number of donors including the Arab Fund,
     IFAD, EU and USAID committed to or considering committing to further
     supporting the national program for rural roads.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/ or Stakeholder Workshop
    (optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


     Beneficiary Surveys have been completed for some of the roads, and the
     results thereof are under analysis/ review.

     Stakeholders Workshops and the findings thereof are provided in Annex 9.


9.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

     Rating                               4

     The risks to Development Outcome are:


                                         50

      · Ability to mobilize stable and dependable funding for rural road
        maintenance
      · Necessity to build lasting technical and managerial capacity and
        institutions to manage and maintain rural road network
      · Adaptability of PMMR by local contractors

10.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design,
     implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank Performance
(a)  Bank Performance in ensuring quality at Entry (i.e. performance through lending
     phase):


      Rating                              5

      Bank performance in all respect has been excellent and worth mentioning
      through landing phase.

      The Bank has assisted the Government in the implementation of its
      decentralization strategy. As a donor, Bank is involved in virtually every key
      sector in the country, and an active participant in assisting the Government to
      reform its governance structure. The Bank assists the Government with civil
      service reform, public expenditure reviews, macro-economic policy
      formulation, improving line ministry efficiency, reform of the legal sector,
      providing urban strategies, planning and financing infrastructure of various
      types, and assisting with donor coordination. All of these activities are
      affected by decentralization and this puts Bank in a position to act as the
      Government's partner during project implementation.
(b)  Quality of Supervision (including fiduciary and safeguards policies):


      Rating                              5

      The Bank through its Supervision Missions has been closely monitoring the
      quality and progress of the project and has provided the needed advice and
      support from time to time.

      Furthermore, Bank has a wide range of experts (among its own staff and as
      consultants) upon which it can call to help the Government as issues come up
      and problems need to be addressed. The World Bank's Sana'a office provides
      a location for quick consultation and to facilitate accessing the Bank's
      extensive knowledge base. Finally, Bank resources available for supervision
      of the proposed Project also often assists with the supervision of other
      donor's funds which are provided as part of overall sector initiatives. Regular
      supervision, as well as the preparation of project completion reports, will



                                         51

      help to ensure the Project's successful implementation and provide valuable
      lessons of experience for future efforts.


(c)  Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:


      Rating                              5

      The Bank has been proactive in providing needed support and guidance to the
      implementation of the project.

      The rationale for Bank involvement is that the reduction of rural isolation
      through improved rural access roads constitutes a key element for poverty
      reduction in Yemen, and that continued Bank assistance is important for
      strengthening ongoing efforts by the Government, and mobilizing other
      donors' resources. More specifically, the three following reasons justify
      Bank involvement and performance, namely: (i) now that the RAP is
      attracting a significant number of donors (Arab Fund, USAID, EU among
      others), there is a need for coordination and leadership in the support to the
      sector, which the Bank has successfully provided under the Phase I project
      and is uniquely placed to continue to provide; (ii) through its involvement in
      rural access road programs worldwide, the Bank can effectively disseminate
      knowledge and support the capacity building efforts of the Government in
      this area; and (iii) the Bank also has wide experience in road maintenance
      issues, in particular the establishment of more reliable funding arrangements
      based on user changes, and in the introduction of PMMR. Other donors have
      indicated that their participation in the RAP is contingent on the continued
      participation and leadership of the Bank.


10.2 Borrower Performance
(a)  Government Performance:


      Rating                              5

(b)  Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:


      Rating                              5

(c)  Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

      Rating                              5

      The planned works have been accomplished and the credit amount has more
      or less bee utilized.    Adequate preparatory work for Phase II has been
      completed.


                                          52

11.     Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

         · The bidding process should be based only on detailed engineering to avoid
           large variations during implementation
         · New contracts should be tendered in packages of two or three contracts to
           evoke more competition
         · Contracts of 18 months or longer duration should include price escalation
           provision
         · For supervision, consultancy firms instead of individual consultants should
           be employed with assignment of certain number of contracts in order to
           benefit from economy of scale.      The supervision teams should have
           inspectors for continuous supervision of critical works such as asphalt and
           masonry works
         · The execution period should be realistic taking into account the volume
           and complexity of the work, accessibility to project area, rainy season, etc.
         · The specification for surface treatment should be given an earnest trial, as
           demonstration work with the mobilization of needed expertise and
           equipment
         · The Road Design Manual and the Supervision Manual should be
           continuously updated based on experience gained and feedback from
           completed projects

12.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/ Implementing Agencies/ Partners
(a)     Borrower/ Implementing Agencies

                                              Nil

(b)     Cofinanciers

                                              Nil

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGO/ Private Sector/ Civil Society



In its comments on the Bank ICR, the director of RAPCMO also noted the following:
The ICR is "very comprehensive and presents the facts about the overall performance
during the implementation of the program. The report describes objectively the stages of
implementation and gives accurate analysis of Project Context, Development Objectives
and Design. I am very much satisfied with the evaluation made on PDO, Factors
Affecting Implementation, Assessment of Outcomes, Assessment of Risk
to Development Outcomes and Lessons learned."




                                            53

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(Not Applicable)




                                    54

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Country Assistance Strategy; World Bank May 1999, August 2002 & May 2006.

Development Credit Agreement; World Bank August 2001.

Environmental Management Plans; RAPCMO January 2001.

Five Year Development Plan; Government of Yemen January 2001 & January 2006.

Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; World Bank December 2000.

Midterm Evaluation Report; RAPCMO August 2003.

Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; World Bank December 2000 & July 2002.

Project Appraisal Document; World Bank May 2001.

Technical Audits; WSP July 2003, July 2004 & March 2006.




                                             55

