E435
Environmental Management Plan
Yemen: Rural Access Improvement Program
January 31, 2001
[ILL -uPY



Environmental Management Plan
Yemen: Rural Access Improvement Program
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION ...................................................1
1.1  Context and Environmental Category ...................................................1
1.2 Environmental and Social Review  Process ...................................................1
2. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ..........................................2
2.1 Administrative and Legal Framework .............................................2
2.2 Participation  Conventions .............................................2
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ....................................................                                                   3
3.1. Background ...................................................3
3.2. Proposed IDA-Supported Program  and Project ...................................................                             3
4. BASELINE DATA ...................................................4
4.1 National Project Setting ...................................................4
5. POTENTIAL IMPACTS ...................................................5
5.1 Land Resources ...................................................5
5.2 Hydrology ...................................................5
5.3 Social and Cultural ...................................................6
6. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES ...................................................7
7. MITIGATION PLAN ...................................................7
7.1 Improved and environmentally-sound technical designs ..............................................7
7.2 Reduction of potential impacts of physical works ...................................................                          8
7.3 Management of Operational Impacts ...................................................8
7.4 Reduction/Enhancement of Social and Cultural Impacts ..............................................8
8. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN ...................................................9
8.1 Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts .............................................9
8.2 Management of Operational Impacts .............................................9
8.3 Management of Social and Cultural Impacts ............................................                                      10



9. SUMMARY TABLES OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN ...................... 10
10. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING .........................................................                    15
11. ESTIMATED  COST AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ...................................... 15
12. REPORTING  AND SUPERVISION .........................................................                     15
12.1 Reporting .........................................................                           15
12.2 Supervision .........................................................                         15
13. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION .........................................................                      15



Environmental Management Plan
Yemen: Rural Access Improvement Program
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Context and Environmental Category
This Environmental Management Plan (EMP) concerns Phase I of a three-phased Adaptable
Lending Program (APL) to improve rural access in Yemen. The Project (Phase I) has been
placed in environmental screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational
Policy 4.01 of the World Bank/IDA. The environmental category is justified for the first phase
of the program, since civil works will be limited to the improvement of existing roads in rural
areas, and possibly some periodic maintenance activities. The pilot roads in Phase I will be
purposefully selected to minimize adverse environmental and social impacts. In particular,
resettlement and land acquisition will be avoided altogether. The pilot roads will be designed
with the specific objective of introducing in Yemen design standards for rural roads which are
much more environmentally-friendly and also cheaper than those which are currently practiced.
Certain environmental and social issues, such as the potential for resettlement and land
acquisition, indicate that the longer term Program should be placed in environmental screening
category "A". Accordingly, a sectoral environmental assessment will be carried out during Phase
I, in addition to specific category "A" EIAs for roads to be carried out in Phase II. This sectoral
EIA will take into consideration the results of the initial Environmental Assessment for the pilot
roads in the first phase. Similarly, EIAs will be completed during Phase II for roads to be
improved in Phase III, in conformance with the sectoral EA.
1.2 Environmental and Social Review Process
Field-Based Reviews
As part of project preparation, consultants have been engaged to carry out the screening, detailed
design and environmental assessments for the Phase I roads. This work includes the formulation
of a Social Framework Agreement, which will lay out the general procedures for addressing
social concerns for Phase I and also the subsequent phases. In addition, other consultants are
carrying out a critical evaluation of the current environmental regulations and procedures in
Yemen, with respect to their conformance with World Bank requirements, and this work will be
available before appraisal. Finally, the preparation process will also establish the Terms of
Reference for formulating an accessibility planning methodology involving community
participation that will be tested during the first phase.
Meetings and Site Visits
As part of the preparation process, the Bank preparation team and consultants have held meetings
with the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Urban Planning to discuss the environmental
assessment process and requirements. Site visits were carried out to some of the road locations.
Public Consultation
Preparation of the project will include a public consultation at each of the selected pilot road sites,
and a written record of each consultation will be established. This process allows the draft
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to be discussed through a series of meetings with



2
national government agencies, local governments, beneficiaries and local non-governmental
organizations. In these meetings, a brief summary of the Project, including environmental and
social aspects, will be provided to the participants, as well as the proposed process for completion
of the works. The Project Implementation Plan will also contain provisions for periodic
consultations during the physical works phase with officials and residents along the road
corridors to solicit their views concerning the environmental and social aspects of the rural road
improvement works.
2. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINSTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
2.1 Administrative and Legal Framework
The Republic of Yemen has established institutions and responsibilities for environmental
management. It has joined a number of international conventions and is in the process of
developing environmental legislation and procedures. These are summarized below:
Environmental Management
Overall responsibility for environmental management rests with the Environmental Protection
Council (EPC), which was created by decree in 1990. The EPC is an interministerial council with
broad responsibilities to manage the nation's environment. Its tasks include: (i) proposing
general policies to protect the environment; (ii) coordinating national, regional and international
agencies involved with environmental protection; (iii) setting up standards for control of air and
water pollution and land degradation; (iv) formulate national regulations and legislation; (v)
monitor the nation's environment and report to the Cabinet; and (vi) promote environmental
education. In addition to its Financial and Administrative Directorate, the EPC is composed of a
General Directorate of Environmental Protection (including Environmental Protection and
Environmental Training and Information Departments); and a General Directorate of Planning
and Data (including Planning and Studies, and Statistics and Data Departments). It's chairman is
appointed on a permanent basis and its members, representing various ministries, are appointed
on an ad hoc basis.
Strategies and Legislation
In 1995, Parliament enacted a comprehensive Environment Protection Law. The law is designed
to safeguard sustained use of the natural resource base, and provides a comprehensive framework
for environmental management and the establishment of sectoral legislation. It outlines the basic
objectives and the roles of concerned authorities in the protection of air, water and soil, and
establishes controls on pesticide use, environmentally damaging activities, transportation and
disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, environmental monitoring and marine pollution.
There is as yet no comprehensive regulatory framework for environmental management to
support the Environment Protection Law.  Several new  laws related to environmental
management are in various stages in development. Of particular relevance is the Land Use Law,
which will address the environmental effects of automobiles and roads.
2.2 Participation in Conventions
Yemen has ratified numerous global and regional conventions. Among the most relevant to this
project are:



3
Convention                              Date Ratified
Framework Convention on Climate Change (New York 1992)              3/12/95
Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio de Janeiro, 1992)           3/12/95
Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of              1992
Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal ( Basel, 1989)
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (Montreal,    Approved by
1987)                                                             Parliament
Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (Vienna, 1985)     3/12/95
Convention Concerning of World Cultural and Natural Heritage         7/1/81
(Paris, 1972)
Agreement on Civil Responsibility Concerning Damage from Oil         4/6/79
Pollution (Bnimis, 1969)
A number of global conventions have until now not been ratified by Yemen. These include: (i)
Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (Bonn, 1979); (ii)
Convention on international Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora - CITES,
Washington, D.C. 1973); (iii) Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar, 1971).
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1 Background
The lack of overall mobility and isolation in rural Yemen has aggravated and sustained poverty
conditions. Services do not reach those that are isolated, keeping them illiterate (in 1994 the
combined basic and secondary enrolment rate was just 37), in poor health (in 1994, only 25
percent of the rural population had direct access to health services) and out of contact with
income-generating activities. The long term assurance of access in Yemen is constrained by the
lack of an adequate institutional and planning framework for managing the nation's road network,
of which the rural road network is a part. The current framework involves little participation by
the beneficiaries in the identification of the road investments, nor does it involve any process to
assess access priorities or technical options. Current technical standards are expensive, given the
levels of traffic, and seem to have some serious environmental impacts.
The current movement towards decentralization provides an opportunity to bring the planning
process closer to the beneficiaries. This will involve developing institutional arrangements and
methods for decentralized management of the intermediate, Governorate-level, road network and
the district level road network, while ensuring linkages and coherence with the nation's overall
road network.
3.2 Proposed IDA-Supported Program and Project
The Program will address poverty by improving overall mobility in rural Yemen and reducing the
isolation of villages and communities. The program will emphasize rural access roads that link
district centers to each other and to the main road network, here referred to as "intermediary
roads" and related village access roads in the area of influence of the intermediary roads. This
intermediary type of roads and the adjoining village access roads carry a substantial level of
traffic, are generally in very poor condition and are excluded from community-level infrastructure



4
programs.  On the non-physical side of the program, the emphasis will be on decentralized
capacity-building for decision-making and project monitoring.
Phase I (the Project) will finance pilot implementation of physical interventions and create an
adequate institutional and participatory framework for planning, prioritizing and managing rural
access improvements; Phase II will focus on the improvement and maintenance of the
intermediary road network as well as village access roads and expand continue capacity-building
at the Governorate level; and Phase III will expand the physical rural access improvements to
cover areas not yet covered under the second phase. During the final phase, the program will
continue to support the Governorates in achieving sustainable management and maintenance of
rural roads, and will extend the access improvement program to the District level roads.
Phase I will include a pilot implementation of physical access improvements (intermediary and
village access roads) using appropriate technical and environmental standards. The objective is to
develop and demonstrate in Yemen appropriate standards and implementation procedures for
rural roads which are environmentally sound and at the same time cost-effective. The key pilot
roads have been identified as:
Road                         Governorate             Length (km)
1. Theila-Amran                    Sana'a Amran                 20
2. Cohlan-Al-Maghrabah-Aljamimah    Hajjah                      40
3. Thabba-Watten-Rossed            Abian                        22
4. Alturbah-Karaish-Tor Albahah    Taiz-Lah                      10
5. Alquetta'a-Khameis              Almahwait                    38
6. Aljufrah-Ain                    Shabwa-Marib                 25
In addition about 100 km of yet unidentified existing village access roads (motorable tracks) in
the areas of influence of these 6 roads will be upgraded under Phase I on a pilot basis. The
standards and implementation procedures to be demonstrated through the pilot projects will
include the following features: (i) consultations with beneficiaries and community leaders for
planning, implementation and monitoring; and (ii) technical designs with narrower platforms and
less expensive surfacing, (iii) the inclusion of water harvesting techniques in the road structure, to
benefit adjacent farms, (iv) slope stabilization, and (v) disposal at designated sites of material that
is cut from the hillside slopes, instead of the uncontrolled dumping of those materials as it is
practiced today.
4. BASELINE DATA
4.1 National Project Setting
The Republic of Yemen is located on the southern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It has a total
land area of 55.5 million hectares and a population of about 16 million (1997). The country is
characterized by five major land systems: (i) a hot and humid coastal Tihama plain, 30-60 km
wide along the Red Sea; (ii) the Yemen Highlands, with elevations from 1,000 to 3,600 m.
parallel to the Red Sea coast; (iii) the dissected region of Yemen High Plateaux and the
Hadramawt-Mahra Uplands, with uplands up to 1,000 m.; (iv) the Al-Rub Al-Khali desert
interior, with a hot and dry climate; and (v) the islands, including Socotra in the Arabian Sea and
more than 112 small islands in the Red Sea. Yemen's coastal and marine eco-system, which
includes extensive mangroves, coral reefs and seagrass areas, are of major economic importance
for fisheries and tourism.



5
Fifty-seven percent of the land is desert and 40 percent is rangeland and forest. About 3 percent
of the land can be used for agriculture, of which 75 percent is actually cultivated at present.
Renewable fresh water is very scarce. The availability per capita is only 130 cubic meters per
year, compared to 7,500 cubic meters for the world and 1,250 cubic meters for MENA.
The differing topographic and climatic conditions provide a variety of challenges for providing
affordable and environmentally sound access to the rural communities. The project (equivalent to
Phase I of the program) will apply and test appropriate technical solutions under these various
conditions, which will be expanded throughout the country in future phases of the program.
For each of the selected pilot roads, the current conditions will be described, in terms of the
biological, topographic, hydrologic, climatic and human/social milieu. This section will specify
if the road is in, or can affect, environmentally sensitive or protected areas.
5. POTENTIAL IMPACTS
For each of the selected pilot roads, potential impacts resulting from the improvement works and
the operation of the roads are broken down as follows:
* Land resources
e Hydrology
* Water quality
- Biological
- Socio-economic and cultural
* Air quality
During the preparation of the project, the following initial issues have been identified, which will
be addressed for each road, along with the other issues mentioned above.
5.1 Land Resources
Road width and slope stabilization. Rural roads designs in Yemen presently feature a roadbed of
10 meter width, with a road surface 7 meters wide and shoulders of 1.5 meters on each side. The
Bank team considers that this standard is far too high and expensive in most cases; it cannot be
justified by traffic volumes and also causes avoidable environmental damages. In the case of
mountain roads, this design requires rather deep cuts into the mountainside to achieve the design
width of the roadbed, leading to the erosion of exposed slope surfaces and often to slides of
slopes onto the road.
Terrace destruction and erosion. It was also observed that it is common practice to simply take
the cut material taken from the hillside and dump it on the valley side of the road, often
destroying terraces and leading to erosion problems on that side, too. Built during several
centuries to provide arable land on the slopes of mountains, these terraces have proven to be a
very effective soil and water conservation measure. Rural Road improvements should not lead to
the destruction of terraces, and the traditional terrace-building technology can probably be
incorporated in the design of mountain roads to be financed under the Program.
5.2 Hydrology



6
Mountain hydrology and water harvesting. Roads built on mountain slopes accumulate rainwater
runoffs. In Yemen, it is common practice that farmers construct simple water harvesting
structures on the road surface, similar to speed-bumps, to channel runoff water to their terraced
fields below the roads. This action also tends to protect the road by slowing down runoffs and
draining water off the road, thereby reducing road surface degradations and maintenance
requirements. This informal practice should formally be incorporated into technical design
standards for rural roads in Yemen, and such standards will be developed and refined during
Phase I of the Program.
5.3 Social and Cultural
Tribal tensions. Each road section to be financed under the Program will be assessed in terms of
potential tribal tensions. The social order in most parts of rural Yemen is still organized according
to the tribal system. This includes a social hierarchy, which gives a commanding positions to
local tribal leaders who in some cases do not hesitate to stop by force the implementation of a
larger Government project if they feel that it does not seem to benefit them directly. Overall
competition for scarce Government resources involves competition between tribes to obtain basic
services from the Government or from donors. This often results in tensions and occasional
armed clashes about the location of infrastructure improvements, such as the alignment of a rural
road going through the territories of various tribes.  Changing relations between leading
individuals and tribal groups may result in a sudden deterioration of social relations in a particular
region and affect implementation of projects. As a consequence for the Program, it is necessary
that previous to any physical intervention in a rural road, an agreement must be reached among
the tribes involved, and between the Government and the tribes, on the characteristics of the
intervention. It must be clear to tribal leaders that resources of the Rural Access Improvement
Program will not be allocated to local projects unless such agreements are concluded
successfully. Government authorities at the District and Governorate levels have an important
role to play in this context under the Program.
Land Ownership. Land ownership and sometimes aggressive requests for compensation for lost
property assets as a result of infrastructure projects are another social issue that must be addressed
at an early stage for any road project, with the active participation of District Councils and
local/tribal leaders. Written commitments are a useful tool, though their binding nature should
not be overrated.
Land acquisition. Road improvements during the first phase of the Program will occur on
existing right-of-way only. In addition, the road designs to be applied will feature a reduction of
the typical width of rural roads as part of the upgrading, as compared to the standards originally
applied to the project road. During Phase I of the program, the risk of involuntary resettlement or
land acquisition is therefore considered to be extremely low. Nevertheless, project roads may at
times (Phases II & III) pass through densely populated areas or require curve reductions for safety
purposes. In such cases, very small parcels of land would have to be donated by their owners,
because of the existing Government policy which allow compensation for assets located on the
land (trees, structures, etc.) but not for the land as such. This important issue will be clarified
through the development of a Social Framework Agreement during project implementation,
which will require prior consultations at the local level, so as to identify and resolve any potential
land acquisition questions, in conformance with Safeguard Policy OP 4.3 (Involuntary
Resettlement).
Archeological, burial and historical sites. As the roads have not yet been identified with
certainty, this issue will be dealt with through field identification and "chance find" procedures,



7
as well as in the Environmental and Social Framework Agreement (see Social Issues section for
further discussion) and the Programmatic Environmental Assessment for the Program as a whole.
Graveyards and Burials. The assessment of each road will identify any potential graveyards and
burial grounds. In addition, the Social Framework Agreement will include procedures to manage
situations when and if unrecorded graveyards and/or burial sites are found during the course of
road works.
The issue of Qat. During their field work in Yemen, the project identification team perceived a
very wide range of opinions and positions on this question. It has been noted by some individuals
that the improvement of roads in certain areas could contribute to increased production and
marketing of this product, and that roads should not be improved under this Program in areas that
are high Qat producers. However, the practical implementation of such a policy would exclude
large areas of the country from the program. On the other hand, there is no consensus on the long
term health effects of Qat. Although it is acknowledged that spending on Qat can represent a
large expenditure for the average household, improved access could bring the cost down. It may
also be argued that improved access could facilitate improved communication on the potential ill
effects of Qat, and promote competing economic activities in the Qat-producing areas of Yemen.
Local employment. Employment benefits are expected from the road improvement works.
However, mechanisms to ensure that local populations are the beneficiaries need to be defined as
much as possible and realistic, within the social and tribal context of each road.
6. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
For each pilot road to be financed under Phase I, an analysis of alternatives, including the "no
action" alternative, will be carried out, in terms of: (i) means for meeting local access needs; (ii)
reduced standards adopted; and (iii) technical solutions (use of sub-standard materials and
different types of surface treatrnent). For each of these categories the solution adopted will be
justified and explained.
7. MITIGATION PLAN
For each road to be financed, the EMP will describe specific measures which has been designed
to mitigate its potential negative effects and enhance its positive impacts, both during initial
physical works and during the normal operation of the road. They are sunmmarized in tables
attached and will include, but not be limited to, the following:
7.1 Improved and environmentally-sound technical designs
These will be specified for each road to be financed, according to its particular conditions. Four
main design issues have been identified so far: (i) water harvesting on mountain roads; (ii)
narrower platforms, and related to this no need for cutting into slopes and negotiate earth
movements, (iii) road surfacing to be stabilized on steep slopes to avoid erosion; (iv) slope
stabilization on sections of the roads where slopes are unstable; and (v) controlled disposal at
designated sites of material cut from the hillside slopes. During the first phase, the Project will
address these issues by assisting the Government to revise the design standards for rural roads
and try out new standards, so that they are environmentally sound and more adapted to the actual
needs of low-volume traffic.



8
7.2 Reduction of potential impacts of physical works.
Impact Reduction Measures. Specific measures to reduce potential impacts of physical works
will be taken; regarding the detailed design, construction tenders, construction process and
contractor performance monitoring. Contracts will contain requirements for proper management
of construction waste; control measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants; reduction of noise and
dust levels; and rehabilitation of areas used for construction detours, and sites used to temporarily
store construction materials. Contractors will be required to provide and maintain equipment
with proper noise abatement controls.
Contract Provisions. Specific provisions will be included in construction contracts to mandate
the use of formal health and safety measures to minimize accidents and avoid fatalities during the
construction process. The following table summarizes the relevant clauses in the standard
construction contracts.
Clause                              Environmental Issue
8.2      Site Operation and Methods of Construction
19.1     Safety, security and Protection of the Environment
27.1      Fosils
42.1      Possession of Site and Access Thereto
42.3     Rights-of-Way and facilities
Part II    Conditions of Particular Application (COPA)
Pre-Tender Conference. To ensure full understanding of the above clauses by the contractors, all
pre-qualified contractors will attend a Pre-Tender Conference, where they will be briefed
concerning their responsibilities to address environmental, health and safety issues. These
briefings will outline specific provisions of the construction tender documents and contracts, as
laid out in the Part II, Conditions of Particular Application (COPA).
7.3 Management of Operational Impacts.
The Project will address operational impacts identified earlier for each road. These may be
implemented through financial support from the Road Maintenance Fund to avoid deterioration of
the rehabilitated road and associated dust and safety problems. Maintenance contractors will be
required to follow procedures similar to those for the construction contractors concerning proper
disposal of construction waste, control measures for waste fuel, oil and lubricants and adoption of
health and safety measures for personnel. Expected increases in traffic levels are not expected to
be so high as to bring about a significant increase in air pollution, and this may in fact decrease
due to smoother and less dusty roads and improved vehicle standards. Suspended dust caused by
vehicles will be reduced by the rehabilitation of the roads, due to the large number of road
subprojects which include resurfacing and sealing operations.
7.4 Reduction/Enhancement of Social and Cultural Impacts
A Social Framework Agreement will be worked out in draft form during project preparation.
Within this context,  the following mitigation measures will be carried out during
implementation:
Negotiations to Minimize Tribal Tensions. For each pilot road, a specific plan for local
consultations and negotiations during construction will be drawn up to ensure consensus among



9
the tribes living along the roads on the organization and achievement of the road improvement.
This plan will follow general procedures to be included in the standard design manual.
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. The construction contracts (COPA) will
contain procedures for archeological "chance finds," should they be encountered during the
course of construction activities. These procedures have been developed in consultation with
MOCHUP and the RRMU. The provisions of these "chance find" procedures are normally
included in Part II (COPA) to the bidding documents for construction contractors and the Terms
of Reference for the supervising engineer. The Pre-Tender Conference will include provisions
for a session on environmental and social issues during which "chance find" procedures will be
reviewed with potential construction contractors.
Archeological Field Support. The government will make available (on demand) a qualified
archaeologist to conduct field investigations when important search work and new materials sites
are opened. The archaeologist would be paid by the RRMU and be attached temporarily to the
construction manager's team and provided with logistical support when necessary.
Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition. As noted above, the Phase I pilot roads will be
purposefully selected to avoid this problem altogether. For Phases II and III of the Program,
systematic procedures, including public consultation and compensation in accordance with the
legislation, will be included in the Sector Environmental Assessment and the related Social
Framework Agreement to be finalized during Phase I of the Program.
Graveyards and Burials. If unrecorded graveyards and/or burials are found during the course of
construction activities, the Project Management Unit will contact and work with local religious
authorities within the Project area to allow for possible identification of the remains and when
appropriate properly undertake relocation and reburial.
Local employment. The mechanisms for maximizing local employment benefits will be specified
for each pilot road as part of the bidding documents. Normally, the labor component of rural
access roads are quite high, 3040% depending on the need for drainage protection works and
type of road surfacing used.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN
The Environmental Monitoring Plan will be implemented by Environmental Unit within the Rural
Roads Management Unit (RRMU). This Unit will monitor application of environmental
measures for detailed design, construction and bidding for rehabilitation contracts for each pilot
road. The results of the monitoring activities will be included as routine elements of reports
prepared by the supervising engineer and the RRMU. Key activities of the Unit will include, but
not be limited to:
8.1 Reduction of Potential Construction Impacts
The RRMU, with support of the supervising engineer, will regularly monitor implementation of
the mitigation measures adopted for each pilot road to address impacts during the construction
period.
8.2 Management of Operational Impacts



10
The RRMU, with support of the supervising engineer as appropriate, will regularly monitor
implementation of the mitigation measures adopted for each pilot road. These will be
implemented in coordination with the Road Maintenance Fund and those institutions responsible
for road safety.
8.3 Management of Social and Cultural Impacts
Consultations and tribal negotiations. The RRMU will oversee the implementation of these
procedures, to be specified in the Social Framework Agreement, for each pilot road.
Use of Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Application of the archaeological "chance
find" procedures, if required during the course of road rehabilitation, will be monitored by the
supervising engineer, the RRMU and the Department of Antiquities in the Ministry of Tourism.
Archeological Field Support. The on-site work of the archaeologist from DOA will be monitored
by the RRMU and the supervising engineer. A record will be maintained of the archaeologist's
activities and information compiled on sites located and/or materials found during this fieldwork.
Graveyards and Burials. The implementation of any actions to address issues related to
unrecorded graveyards and/or burials will be undertaken by the RRMU in conjunction with the
local authorities.
9. SUMMARY TABLES OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The following tables summarize the environmental management plan, for each road, during both
the construction and operational periods. This will provide a "checklist" for those responsible for
implementation and monitoring of the EMP. Although the EMP systematically considers all six
categories of impact during both phases, the level and nature of impact, and hence
implementation and monitoring activities, will vary between phases. The impacts shown below
are illustrative and the final Environmental Assessment/EMP will confirm the applicability of the
impacts for each proposed road.



11
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR ROADS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
A. Construction Period
Impact                   Mitigation                     Responsibility
(e.g. contract clause)   Implementation        Monitoring
1. Air Quality             Clause 8.2 and COPA
1.1 Dust & potential      Using water-spraying       Supervision          RRMU-
pollutants from construction   during operation      Consultant, Resident   Environmental
machinery                                            Engineer (RE)         Unit (EU)
2. Land Resources
2.1 Road width & slope     Contract Document,        Design Engineer (DE), RRMU-EU
stabilization              Drawings                  and RE
2.2 Terrace destruction    Clause 19.1 and 8.2       RE                    RRMU-EU
2.3 Erosion of Ditches, fill-   Labor intensive protection   DE and RE     RRMU-EU
and cut-slopes             work
3. Hydrology
3.1 Mountain hydrology and  Appropriate Road Design    DE & RE             RRMU-EU
water harvesting           Requirements
3.2 Cross Drainage         Inlet and Outlet Design   DE & RE
Appropriate
4. Water quality
4.1 Diesel spill from      Clause 8.2, Special       DE & RE               RRMU-EU
construction machinery     arrangements for storage
impacts ground water       and protection in COPA
5. Socio-economic and
cultural issues            Clauses 19.1/27.1/42.1/42.3                     RRMU-EU
5.1 Tribal tensions. Clauses  Regular meetings
5.2 Land ownership  42.1 &  with Project
5.3 Land acquisition  42.3   Affected People
5.4 Archeological &        Archaeological Rescue     RE & DoA              RRMU-EU
historical sites           Surveys up front and
Clause 27.1  'Chance Find' procedures
5.5 Graveyards & burials   Relocation of Road        RE                    RRMU-EU
5.6 Road Safety at         Proper temporary signs and  RE                  RRMU-EU
construction sites         marking, and manual
Clause 19.1  regulation of traffic



12
B. Operational Period
Impact                           Mitigation                    Respons bility
(e.g. regulations)  Implementation        Monitoring
Generally                 Through network wide      Generally the Road   Generally, the
maintenance concessions    Maintenance Fund and  road users, local
the project will attempt to    MOCHUP are     communities and
involve the private sector in  responsible for roads   NGO' s will be
providing better         during operational   mobilized to
maintenance services,    period.              make sure that
according to easily                           undesirable
monitorable performance                       effects are
specs.                                        addressed
1. Air Quality
1.1 Pollution from increased  Low volume roads, no  Not under the control   NGO' s
vehicles                  mitigation required       of this project.
2. Land Resources
2.1 Slope stabilization   Regular maintenance       Contractor with local   RRMU-EU
labor
2.2 Terrace destruction   Regulated through the     Contractor with local   RRMU-EU
during maintenance        maintenance concession    labor
2.3 Erosion. Ditches      Cleaning work by contract   Contractor with local   RRMU-EU
blocked with materials from   according to performance   labor
unstable slopes           based contract.
3. Hydrology
3.1 Mountain hydrology and  Road Facilities are    Maintenance           RRMU-EU
water harvesting          maintained regularly.     Contractor
3.2 Blockage of cross     Road Facilities are      Maintenance           RRMU-EU
drains/culverts           maintained regularly.     Contractor
5. Socio-economic and
cultural issues
5.1 Tribal tensions       Problems here during oper.  Maint.Contractor,  RRMU-EU,
5.2 Land ownership        period addressed through    Road Maintenance   NGOs
5.3 Land acquisition      amicable settlements     Fund, RRMU            Governor
5.4 Archeological &       Fence of protected sites  Maintenance          RRMU-EU and
historical sites          (rescue work) to be       contractor           Dep. Of Antiq.
maintained as part of road
maintenance contract.
5.5 Graveyards & burials  Not a problem during
operation.



13
CONFORMANCE INDICATORS AND MONITORING RESPONSIBILITY
ROAD_
(The following tables may be used as a tool for monitoring the implementation of the
EMP.)
A. Construction Period
Impact                   Mitigation                      Monitoring
(e.g. contract clause)  Indicator    Date of    Signature of
verification   verifier
1. Air Quality             Clause 8.2 and COPA
1.1 Dust & potential      Using water-spraying
pollutants from construction   during operation
machinery
2. Land Resources
2.1 Road width & slope     Contract Document,
stabilization              Drawings
2.2 Terrace destruction    Clause 19.1 and 8.2
2.3 Erosion of Ditches, fill-   Labor intensive protection
and cut-slopes             work
3. Hydrology                                                    _ _ _
3.1 Mountain hydrology and  Appropriate Road Design
water harvesting           Requirements
3.2 Cross Drainage         Inlet and Outlet Design
Appropriate
4. Water quality
4.1 Diesel spill from      Clause 8.2, Special
construction machinery     arrangements for storage
impacts ground water       and protection in COPA
5. Socio-economic and
cultural issues            Clauses 19.1/27.1/42.1/42.3
5.1 Tribal tensions. Clauses  Regular meetings
5.2 Land ownership  42.1 &  with Project
5.3 Land acquisition  42.3   Affected People
5.4 Archeological &        Archaeological Rescue
historical sites           Surveys up front and
Clause 27.1  'Chance Find' procedures
5.5 Graveyards & burials   Relocation of Road
5.6 Road Safety at         Proper temporary signs and
construction sites         marking, and manual
Clause 19.1  regulation of traffic



14
B. Operational Period
Impact                  Mitigation                     Monitoring
(e.g. regulations)   Indicator    Date of    Signature of
verification  verifier
Generally                 Through network wide
maintenance concessions
the project will attempt to
involve the private sector in
providing better
maintenance services,
according to easily
monitorable performance
specs.
1. Air Quality
1.1 Pollution from increased  Low volume roads, no
vehicles                  mitigation required
2. Land Resources
2.1 Slope stabilization   Regular maintenance
2.2 Terrace destruction   Regulated through the
during maintenance        maintenance concession
2.3 Erosion. Ditches      Cleaning work by contract
blocked with materials from   according to performance
unstable slopes           based contract.
3. Hydrology
3.1 Mountain hydrology and  Road Facilities are
water harvesting          maintained regularly.
3.2 Blockage of cross     Road Facilities are
drains/culverts           maintained regularly.
5. Socio-economic and
cultural issues
5.1 Tribal tensions       Problems here during oper.
5.2 Land ownership        period addressed through
5.3 Land acquisition      amicable settlements
5.4 Archeological &       Fence of protected sites
historical sites          (rescue work) to be
maintained as part of road
maintenance contract.
5.5 Graveyards & burials  Not a problem during
operation.



15
10. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Consistent with IDA environmental procedures, institutional strengthening activities will be
necessary. These will involve the creation of an environmental unit within RMMU to implement
and monitor the environmental mitigation measures. A more complete elaboration of the
institutional strengthening needs to be carried out during Phases II and III of the Program will be
laid out in the Sector Environmental Assessment that will be carried out during Phase I.
11. ESTIMATED COST AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Costs associated with the implementation of the physical mitigation measures in this EMP will be
part of the construction cost of the rural road projects. Most of the proposed EMP mitigation
activities will be assured under provisions in the construction contracts, engineering supervision
contract and for Phase II and III in the Social Framework Agreement. In addition, the Project
will include an implementation schedule that integrates the activities of the EMP into the overall
schedule.
12. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
12.1 Reporting
As an element of Project reporting requirements, the RRMU will include into their routine reports
the status in the implementation of the activities related to the EMP. These reports should note
any contractor non-compliance with the EMP and provide guiding remarks on the actions to be
taken. The significance of the non-compliance should also be noted. As necessary, supplemental
reports with greater detail than the routine reports should also be prepared.
12.2 Supervision
The Supervision Plan for the proposed Project will include provisions for the participation of
World Bank environmental staff in supervision missions, as appropriate and subject to available
funding, to review progress in implementation of the EMP. The performance of the RRMU in the
implementation of these activities under the Project will be a standard element of supervision
mission reports, including these from the Early Implementation Assessment, and the
Implementation Completion Mission.
13. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
As part of the environmental assessment process, on-site consultations will be undertaken with a
range of agencies and stakeholders for each rural access road to be financed under the Program.
Consistent with the procedures of IDA, the Government of Yemen has agreed to make the EMP
for each pilot road available to the public through the Info-Shop at the World Bank, in Sana'a and
at selected locations relevant to each pilot road. The EMP will be available in Yemen in English
and Arabic.



