Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3514-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Access Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 2, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3514-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 14, 2001, from the 
Borrower describing the Borrower’s rural access program (the Program), setting out 
certain measures required to carry out the Program and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association’s support in the execution of 
the Program through a series of development credits over a period of approximately ten 
(10) years to be utilized by the Borrower for, and assisting the appropriate entities 
in, implementing the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 18, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CMO" means the central management office to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) (a), (2) 
(b), (2) (c), (2) (d), (3) (a), (3) (b) and (4) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Special Account;
(d)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, furnished to 
the Association on February 7, 2001, as such plan may be updated from time to time by 
agreement of the Borrower and the Association, for implementation of the Project in 
accordance with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on January 
1 and ending on December 31;
(f)
"MPWUD" means the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereof;
(g)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Special Account A" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(i)
"Special Account B" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, Special Account A and Special 
Account B;
(k)
"Steering Committee" means the committee to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Sub-Project" means a road upgrading project to be carried out  under 
Part A.2 or Part A.3 of the Project; and
Page  3
(m)
"YRMF" means the Yemen Road Maintenance Fund, a semi-autonomous authority 
established under the Borrower’s Law No. 22 of 1995, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR35,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days (60) 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2011, and ending April 15, 2041.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2021, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
Page  4
amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, engineering and environmental standards and 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
Page  5
appropriate auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statement and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records and 
documents (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records 
and documents; and
(iv)
ensure that such records, documents and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than April 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which shall:
(i)
(A) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) show separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describe progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explain 
variances between actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  6
Section 4.03. (a) In order to achieve the objectives of Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Association 
pursuant to which the Borrower shall select Sub-projects to be carried out under Parts 
A.2 and A.3 of the Project. When presenting a Sub-project to the Association for 
approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Association, together with an appraisal of the proposed 
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association, no 
expenditures for works required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association an environmental 
management plan relating to the proposed Sub-project, prepared pursuant to guidelines 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, together with evidence, 
satisfactory to the Association, that the Sub-project shall not involve any 
involuntary resettlement of the local population.
(c)
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (b) above, no 
expenditures for works required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Part A.2 of the Project 
unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to 
the Association, that the economic rate of return of the proposed Sub-project equals 
or exceeds twelve percent (12%).
(d)
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (b) above, no 
expenditures for works required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Part A.3 of the Project 
unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association a feasibility study 
concerning the proposed Sub-project, including an economic justification, satisfactory 
in substance to the Association, together with evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, that the proposed Sub-project shall promote community participation and 
increase rural income.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that all actions set forth in the action plan referred to under Section 
4.02 (a) of this Agreement for which the completion dates specified therein precede 
the Effective Date have been completed; and
(b)
that the Borrower has received, from contractors eligible under the 
Guidelines (as this term is defined in Part A.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement), bids relating to the execution of the first two civil works contracts 
under the Project.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
Page  7
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
Telex:
CENPLAN
2266
Sana'a
CENPLANYE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdul Wahab Al-Hajjri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) under Parts A.4,
   300,000
of local expendi-
A.5 and A.6 of the
tures (ex-factory
Page  8
Project
cost); and 90%
of local expendi-
(b) under Part B.2
    50,000
tures for other
of the Project
items procured
locally
(2)
Civil works
(a) under Part A.1
 9,700,000
84%
of the Project
(b) for Sub-projects
 9,000,000
84%
under Part A.2 of the
Project
(c) for Sub-projects
 3,500,000
84%
under Part A.3 of
the Project
(d) under Part B.1
 7,000,000
84%
of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
and training
(a) under Parts A.4,
 3,300,000
100%
A.5 and A.6 of the
Project
(b) under Part B.2 of
   200,000
100%
the Project
(4)
Project Management
   650,000
80%
Costs
(5)
Unallocated
 1,700,000
TOTAL
35,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Project Management Costs" means expenditures incurred by CMO on 
account of utility charges, rent for office space, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, 
office supplies, banking charges, communication services, audit costs, travel costs, 
salaries and labor costs and other consumables but excluding salaries of officials of 
the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent; (c) services under contracts for consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services under contracts for individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) training; and (f) Project Management Costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two (2) separate special deposit accounts (Special Account A for Part A of the 
Project and Special Account B for Part B of the Project) in the Central Bank of Yemen, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Special Account A shall be 
Page  9
used exclusively to finance expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (2) (b), 
(2) (c), (3) (a) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and Special Account B shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures 
under Categories (1) (b), (2) (d), and (3) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into any Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
Page  10
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into a Special Account 
equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to $2,500,000, and, in the case of 
Special Account B, to $600,000, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for Special Account A shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,500,000, and the Authorized Allocation for Special Account 
B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,000,000 under Part A of 
the Project and the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000 under Part B of the Project.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Page  11
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000 in respect of 
Special Account A and $1,000,000 in respect of Special Account B.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in creating an adequate 
institutional, technical and participatory framework for planning, prioritizing and 
implementing rural access improvements countrywide.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Access Roads
1.
Upgrading of about one hundred fourteen (114) kilometers of intermediary rural 
access roads through the use of modern standards and implementation guidelines that 
are technically proven, environmentally sound and cost-effective.
2.
Carrying out a program to upgrade about eighty (80) kilometers of intermediary 
rural access roads.
3.
Carrying out a program to upgrade about fifty (50) kilometers of village access 
roads adjacent to the roads referred to under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
4.
Carrying out technical and other preparatory activities, including design 
studies, for the selection and evaluation of individual rural access improvements to 
be carried out under a follow-on operation.
5.
Support, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services, to MPWUD to 
define and put in place adequate institutional arrangements for decentralized rural 
access planning, prioritization and implementation. 
6.
Support to CMO, through the provision of consultants’ services and goods, to 
strengthen its Project management capabilities.
Part B: Road Maintenance
1.
Rehabilitation of about one hundred fifteen (115) kilometers of a section of the 
Aden-Mukalla highway commencing at the town of Al-Ahmar and ending at the town of 
An-Naqabah.
2.
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to YRMF to upgrade its 
institutional capabilities and improve its operations.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
Page  12
in September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Pre-qualification
Bidders for civil works under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and B.1 of the Project shall 
be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $500,000 per contract, and 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may, be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
Page  13
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
Page  14
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1.
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the implementation of the Project in 
MPWUD.
2.
For purposes of assisting MPWUD in the implementation of Part A of the Project, 
and in order to ensure the proper coordination of the execution of said Part of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain CMO with professional staff in adequate numbers 
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the 
Association. CMO shall operate under the auspices of the Steering Committee to be 
maintained by the Borrower with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association.
3.
The functions of CMO shall include, inter alia, responsibility for: (i) the 
procurement process and the preparation of withdrawal applications under Part A of the 
Project; (ii) monitoring, in accordance with indicators agreed upon with the 
Association, progress in implementing Part A of the Project; (iii) preparation, for 
submission to the Association, of annual work programs and updated procurement plans 
relating to Part A of the Project; (iv) carrying out, on an annual basis, technical 
audits of roads rehabilitated under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project; and (v) 
preparation, for submission to the Association, of the reports referred to under 
paragraph B (b) (i) of this Schedule. Key staff of CMO shall consist of a director, a 
Project engineer, a procurement officer, an institutional specialist and a financial 
management specialist. CMO shall also include an environmental and social management 
unit whose main responsibility shall be to review and approve environmental impact 
assessments and environmental management plans for all rural roads to be rehabilitated 
under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
4.
The authority of the Steering Committee shall include the power to: (i) approve 
plans and design criteria for rural roads; (ii) approve staff service rules and 
manuals of procedures; (iii) approve employment contracts for senior staff of CMO; 
(iv) approve annual budgets for the Project; (v) approve reports on the progress in 
implementing the Project prior to submitting same to the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph B (b) (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (vi) employ the 
auditors referred to under Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and (vii) approve contracts 
for the provision of goods and consultants’ services, and for the carrying out of 
works, whose price shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
5.
Responsibility for assisting MPWUD in the implementation of Part B of the 
Project shall be vested in the Project Management Unit within MPWUD currently 
responsible for assisting MPWUD in the implementation of the Transport Rehabilitation 
Project (Credit No. 2819-YEM), dated March 6, 1996. Said Unit shall be responsible 
for: (i) the procurement process and the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
Part B of the Project; monitoring, in accordance with indicators agreed upon with the 
Association, progress in implementing Part B of the Project; (ii) preparation, for 
submission to the Association, of annual work programs and updated procurement plans 
relating to Part B of the Project; (iii) carrying out, on an annual basis, technical 
audits of the road to be rehabilitated under Part B of the Project; and (iv) 
preparation of progress reports to be included in the reports to be submitted to the 
Association under paragraph B (b) (i) of this Schedule.
B.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
Page  15
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing April 30, 2002, a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about October 31, 2003, a 
report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section and consolidating the results of the reports referred 
to under sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
C.
Program Milestones
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than October 31, 2003, 
a report describing progress in the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the 
Program, including the attainment of the milestones agreed to between the Borrower and 
the Association and required to be met as a pre-requisite to prepare a follow-on 
operation; and
(b)
review with the Association, not later than January 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures which the Association shall 
deem appropriate to prepare a follow-on operation.
