Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5469-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
Septezgaer 20, 1985
General Agriculture II Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENTCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ = Rupees (Rs) 12.00
FISCAL YEAR
SAU and GOI, April 1 to March 31
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
Metric System
f
ABBREVIATIONS
AICRP    -   All India Coordinated Research Project
DOA      -   Department of Agriculture
GOI      -   Government of India
ICAR     -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ISP      -   Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
HARP     -   National Agricultural Research Project
PFC      -   Project Funding Committee
PU       -   Project Unit
SAU      -   State Agricultural University
5MS      -   Subject Matter Specialist



FlO  OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCE PROJECT !T
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Credit and Project Sumuary
I.  BMCI GROUND ..............      .........  .e.................    1
Agricultural in India ...      ................................. .    1
Agricultural Research         2......................................    2
- ICuR ..................................................    2
- Agricultural Universities                  ...a.....a.......    3
- ICAR Supported Training  .........g.c.ecgg.e.ccsccc....        4
- Research Development in India  .eeee.ecec.eee.........e.e      4
Agricultural Extension ..e....................  5.......           5
_I.  THE FIRST NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT ..* ........    6
- Objectives 6.semc...eees.c.es.ee..eeeecssece.c.cceeecece    6
- Types of Research  .       ....          .. .         ...ee.    7
- Eligibility of BAUs  ..... ......s e.eg.........ce.e    7
- ICAR Project Implementation ..........................    8
- Project Cost .........................................cgsemsc.e..c.  8
Progress and Achievements ... ........ ..... ................    9
- Physical Achievements ................ .. see......    9
- Qualitative Achievements s g ccc........sec.....              10
- Performance of ICAR .....cme.eeeeceec..eess.ccssssse.cce   13
Lessons Learned .... .................          ......e.c.. s   14
III.  PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES          ...........................    15
IV.  NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II ..............   ....   16
General Description         ................. ccc......  e ,cc   16
Detailed Description .      e.g.....e.c.m......e.se.c......   17
- Completion of Subprojectsc.c.mcc.mee.eseeseeccce.mse   17
- Research Subprojects ............eme.eeceeemsesccee   17
- Sipplemental Subprojects .......ccecece.mememseee.gs   17
- New Subprojects ...........se...  eec...  ...ec.              18
- Special Research Subprojects e.........m..ee............. 20
- Phasing of Research Subprojects .....seemcesce   ..........   20
- Cost of Research Subprojects ............eeeo.....esec   20
Thidornuntha anstiddbtibutn and may be u  by rcipbats only in dt peformnce
of thei offkieWdutb Its contents may not otherwie be dislosd witbout Wodd Dank authorlintn.



-ii-
Table of Contents (continuation)                                   Page No.
- SAU Research Administration     ............................  21
- ICAR Administration ....................................  21
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ................................  22
Project Costs ......................................................  22
Proposed Financing .................................  23
Procurement ......... ............. .................................  24
Disbursements, Accounts and Audit    ..........................  25
VI.  ORGANIZATION AIND MANAGEMENT .. ..................... .......   27
Project Unit Tasks  ...............................  27
- Preparation and Appraisal of Subprojects      ...............  28
- Coordination Arrangements for Irrigation Research ......  29
- Supervision ............................................  30
- Mid-Term Review ......*..    ................................  30
Administration of University Research ........   ..............  30
Research-Extension Linkages ................................  31
All India Coordinated Research Projects ....................  32
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS   .................  ..........................  33
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ADD RECOMMENDATIONS ......................  37
List of Annexes
1. Terms and Conditions for Administration of NARP II
2. List of State Agricultural Universities in India
List of ICAR Research Institutes
All India Coordinated Research Projects
3. Procedure for Sanctioning Subprojects
Summary of Progress:  NARP
List of Completed Subprojects
Agroecological Zones
4. Achievements and Particular Problems of State Agricultural Universities
5. Spillover of Subprojects Committed in NARP
Project Unit Costs
Summary of Project Costs



-i ii-
Table of Contents (continuation)
6. Composition of Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel
7. Cost and Benefits of a new Research Subproject
8. Disbursement Schedule
9. Material Available in Project File
Chart 1   -  27042 University Research Organization
Chart 2   -  27043 ICAR Project Administration
Maps      -  IBRD 18726R



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:  The Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and
State Agricultural Universities (SAUs).
Amount:         SDR 69.6 million (US$72.1 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
On-lending      From the Government of India (GOI) to ICAR, and from ICAR to
Terms:          SAUs as a grant.  GOI will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project:        The project would strengthen the capability of SAUs to con-
duct location-specific research in the main agroecological
zones in India initiated under the first National Agricul-
tural Research Project (NARP) and further extend its scope to
include the priority research needs of these zones under
rainfed and irrigated farming conditions. The project would
support the following activities:
(a) completion of NARP research subprojects; I/
(b) (i) New areas of research such as irrigated farminig,
animal drawn farm implements, horticulture and commercial
field crops, agroforestry, and animal nutrition, (ii)
development of programs for field testing and refining
research results, and (iii) strengthening of training
facilities at Regional Research Stations;
(c) Individual research activities on priority topics emerg-
ing or identified during project impLementation and not
covered under (b) above;
(d) Strengthening of research administration in two SAUs;
and
(e) Continued funding of ICAR's Project Unit established
under NARP, including the provision of training for
research scientists.
1/ Only those subprojects that have not completed five years of operation.



- ii -
Benefits:       Major qualitative improvements in research program planning
and in the quality of experiments and findings -- par-
ticularly as they relate to specific farming situations and
to extension activities -- are expected to result from the
project. There is already increasing evidence (under NARP
and the Bank-supported extension projects) of gradual, but
significant improvements in the extent and quality of support
provided by the research institutions to the reformed exten-
sion services. A recent ICAR review has indicated substan-
tial improvements in the capacity of Research Stations and
scientists to: identify farming situations and constraints
to increasing production, determine research priorities for
individual agricultural sub-zones, improve the quality of
individual experiments, conduct field testing of on-station
research findings, and establish closer linkages and contacts
with extension staff and farmers. The review also indicates
that technology recommendations are increasingly more refined
and appropriate to suit farmers' needs and constraints and
that extension workers are now better equipped than before
with relevant technical messages and are able to advise
farmers with greater confidence.
The project would also contribute to institution building
and be instrumental in solidifying the transformation of
India's agricultural research system into an efficient and
farmer-responsive research service. It would support
broadening of the research effort to include all identified
priority needs in each agro-ecological zone and strengthen
the research system's capability to provide support to
agricultural extension services through the development of
economically viable technologies and their adaptation to the
differing resource endowments and risk situations of farmers.
In addition, it would bring about significant improvements in
the efficiency of resource utilization in agricultural
research, through its emphasis on effective research manage-
ment.
Risks:          There is the possibility that the research results generated
may not be adequate to meet farmer needs under actual farm
conditions, or that these results may not be satisfactorily
transmitted to farmers. To counter these risks, the project
provides for regional decentralization; emphasizes research
on location-specific farmer needs, field-testing and adapta-
tion, increased cooperation and communication between exten-
sion staff and farmers, and the prompt feedback of research
results. The Bank's support of improved agricultural exten-
sion services and promotion of close cooperation between
agricultural research institutions and State extension serv-
ices would help to ensure the early adoption of research
results by farmers. The administrative and organizational



- 2.11 -
changes initiated under NARP and the careful preparatory work
undertaken for this project should be adequate to ensure that
implementation risks are at a minimum. The decision to
implement the project over a seven-year period reflects
greater realism concerning the pace of implementation of
agricultural research projects and is aimed at the completion
of the project on schedule.
Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                           26.58       -       26.58
Equipment and Vehicles                12.35      1.37    13.72
Incremental Salaries                  29.94       -       29.94
Incremental Operating Costs            7.44      0.94      8.38
Base Costs                        76.31      2.31    78.62
Physical Contingencies                 1.58      0.10      1.68
Price Contingencies                   30.01      0.62    30.63
Total Costs                      107.90      3.03   110.93
Financing Plan:
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                   69.07      3.03    72.10
GOI                                   38.83       -       38.83
Total                            107.90      3.03   110.93
-/  Includes about US$0.4 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursement: 1/
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Annual       4.0      6.0    9.0   12.0   12.0   13.0   13.0    3.1
Cumulative   4.0    10.0   19.0   31.0   43.0   56.0   69.0   72.1
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   No. 5469-IN, dated September 20, 1985.
_/ According to IDA fiscal year.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursement: I/
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Annual        4.0     6.0    9.0   12.0   12.0   13.0   13.0    3.1
Cumulative   4.0    10.0   19.0   31.0   43.0   56.0   69.0   72.1
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   No. 5469-IN, dated September 20, 1985.
1/ According to IDA fiscal year.



INDIA
NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
I. BACKCROUND
Introduction
1.01    Since June 1983, Bank staff have been er.gaged in a series of discus-
sions with the Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR) and his senior colleagues on a follow-up project to consolidate and
complete the reorganization of the regional research capabilities of State
Agricultural Universities (SAUs) initiated under the National AgriculturaL
Research Project (Cr. 855-IN) and as well as to strengthen, at SAUs, other
aspects of research which would support the priority agricultural research
needs of the 121 identified agroecological zones to be found throughout 17
states of India.
1.02    In February 1984, ICAR prepared a brief outline of the follow-up
project. Following discussions with IDA, a detailed Project Preparation
Report was produced in September 1984. This report is based on the findings
of an IDA appraisal mission comprising Messrs. R.V. Ramakrishna, C.J.R.
Bridge, J. Kampen, C. Schreiber, A. Appa Rao (IDA) and T.J. Willcocks
(Consultant), which visited India in October - November 1984.
Agriculture in India
1.03    Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 402 of CNP. It engages about 70Z of the labor force and
provides the base for about 55% of India's exports.
1.04    The Bank's agricultural program in India during the past 15 years
has aimed at assisting India to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and to
increase farm incomes in an equitable manner. The Bank is actively involved
in some 60 agricultural projects representing large investments in
infrastruccure and expanded agricultural services. With the remarkable
increases in foodgrain production in recent years, India has attained effec-
tive self-sufficiency, despite an annual population growth rate of 2.2X,
although a shortage of edible oils persists. Yield increases of edible
oilseeds have not been significant, and recent increases in production are
mainly due to the extension of areas under cultivation. Nevertheless, fur-
ther efforts to improve agricultural productivity are needed to meet future
demand increases. The rate of overall crop yield increases has been falling,
and agriculture has stagnated in some parts of the country. The projections
of demand for foodgrains by the terminal year of the Seventh Five Year Plan
(1990) call for annual foodgrain production of 168-170 MT, compared with
1983/84 production of abouc 150 MT. This represpnts an annual growth rate of
about 2.7% co-pared with the long-term growth rate of 2.5Z for the period
1967/68 to 1981/82. A number of factors point to the increasing difficulty
which India will have to face to achieve this ambitious target.



-2-
1.05    Almost 90X of the increase in foodgrain production in the post Green
Revolution period came from wheat and rice, which together cover only about
half the total area under food crops, mainly the relatively better endowed,
more homogeneous regions in the States of Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar
Pradesh and the delta regions of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These are
also predominately irrigated areas. Future yield increases in both wheat and
rice, the main sources of past growth, will be more difficult to achieve than
past yield increases and are likely to give less impressive results. In the
past, the increase was mostly from adopting the high-yielding
seed-fertilizer-irrigation technology by farmers who were capable of taking
the limited risks associated with adoption of such new technology. Such
areas are now beginning to experience second generation problems, such as
increasing pest and disease problems and micro-nutrient deficiencies. Thus,
sustained increases in yields in wheat and rice wilL depend in part on the
development and adoption of even more sophisticated technology.
1.06    Trrigation systems now being developed and those most likely to be
developed in the future are mainly in the southern regions, where cropping
intensities in irrigated areas have been low. Production efficiency in these
areas can be achieved through development of better managed and operated
systems coupled with farm management techniques appropriate to a particular
system. Such techniques can only be generated through appropriate research
actions. The potential for wheat and rice production is large in the eastern
region. but has generally lagged because of poor farmer servicing and
heterogenous farm systems that have not been supported by adequate research.
Though there is considerable scope for increasing production in irrigated
areas, most of the future increase in foodgrain production will have to come
from rainfed areas, from oilseeds and pulses and from sorghum and millets
which are the staple diet of the rural poor. These regions are more ecologi-
cally diverse and present greater problems both in developing the technology
needed for the many agroecological zones and its transfer to farmers.
1.07    The above underscores the need for continuing improvements in
agricultural research and the associated extension services in helping India
meet the future challenges facing agricultire. Improving these services
remains one of the relatively low-cost means of increasing agricultural
productivity, making more effective use of past investments in infrastructure
and reaching all farmers, particularly the smaller ones.
Agricultural Research
1.08    Agriculture is constitutionally a state subject in India, and thus
agricuLtural research is primarily a state responsibility. State Agricul-
tural Universities undertake this function on behalf of the State Government
and receive the main part of their financial support from the state. mostly
in the form of non-plan grants which in the most important factor in their
(SAU) effective functioning. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research
serves as a national coordinating and supporting agency and provides assis-
tance to SAUs in performing their duties.
1.09    Indian Council of Agricultural Research.  The Indian agric;Itural
research system is a cooperative program between the Government of India
(GOI) and the individual states. GOI's contribution to the development of
agricultural research and education is funded through ICAR. The latter is
not only active in managing research programs of its own but also serves as



-3-
the apex national coordinating body for research carried out in the different
states. It functions by:
(a)  Providing overall guidance to research and helping in setting
priorities;
(b)  Providing financial support for the establishment of new
agricultural universities including the setting of appropriate
academic and research standards;
(c)  Making available financial and technical support for the
development of education and research at SAUs including develop-
ment of regional research capability (Annex 2, Page 1 gives a
list of SAUs);
td)  Managing and financing 38 centrally controlled agricultural
research instituces which were set up to carry out needed
indepth research on a wide range of commodities and related
production and problem areas (Annex 2, Page 2 gives details);
(e)  Administrating and financing five oroject directorates and about
60 national coordinated research schemes on commodities or
problems of widespread interest and concern and which are
executed through the central research institutes and SAUs or
other appropriate state level research agencies including ad hoc
research projects conducted by individual institutions (Annex 2,
Pages 3-6 gives details);
(C)  Conducting national demonstrations for transfer of improved
technology, and funding operational research projects, a
national lab-to-land program, and Krishi Vigyan Kendras (farm
science centers) scattered throughout the country; and
(g)  Ersuring cooperation with international agricultural research
institutes and other international organizations 1/ and bodies
for exchange of scientific information, genetic material and
technical know how.
1.10    Agricultural Universities.  Responsibility at the state level for
research and higher education in agr;zulture is, with very few exceptions, 2/
vested in SAUs. SAUs have now assumed responsibility for all administration
1/ India has established effective working relationships with international
agricultural research centers, notably CIMMYT, IRRI, CIP, ICRISAT, and
IBPCR, and has utilized genetic material and scientific information
emanating there from, and has made substantial contributions to these
centers and to the international research community generally in terms of
genetic material, scientific and technological information, and talent.
2/ State Departments of Agriculture still retain responsibility for research
in West Bengal and some of the smaller states/centrally administered
areas which do not have agricultural universities; for sugarcane and
horticultural research in Uttar Pradesh and for research in certain
irrigated command areas of Rajasthan.



-4-
and execution of research at experimental stations within their respective
areas, many of which were formerly owned and operated by the Department of
Agriculture.
1.11       The agricultural universities of India (23 SAUs in 1  states; and
the Indian Agricultural Research Institute and Indian Veterinary Research
Institute which award only postgraduate degrees) have gradually developed
over the past 20 years and were established with the objective of creating a
system of scientific education and research which would serve the needs of
the farming commmunity. While most states have one university (with several
college campuses located throughout the state), a few have more than one -
Maharashtra (4), Uttar Pradesh (3) and Bihar (2).
1.12    The basic objectives of the agricultural universities were similar to
those established under the United States of America's Land Grant College
System and several U.S. colleges provided teams of technical advisors to
assist in the planning and development of the first SAUs.  The development of
SAUs has been very uneven, resulting from differences in political environ-
ment, the strength of university leadership, and state government support.
Most SAUs have, however, now matured into vigorous institutions capable of
meeting the needs of their farming communities.
1.13    ICAR Supported Training.  The Indian Agricultural Research Institute,
supported by ICAR and established in 1905, is the premier institution in the
country for Ph.D. and postdoctoral training in the agricultural sciences and
in carrying out fundamental research. The Central Staff College for Agricul-
ture, Hyderabad was established in 1976 to provide research management train-
ing to ICAR scientists. The Staff College has been recently renamed the
National Academy of Agricultural Research Management and is now engaged in
training ICAR scientists and has organized workshops and training programs
for SAU scientists on the objectives of the National Agricultural Research
Project (Cr. 855-IN).
1.14    Research Development in India.  ICAR is directly responsible for
managing the Central Institutes of Agricultural Research (38) and the All
India Coordinated Research Projects (60). Many of these were started before
the establishment of SAUs. These institutes and programs are totally and
adequately funded by ICAR and have made a significant past contribution to
the generation of agricultural technology throughout India. Prior to the
establishment of SAUs, State Departments of Agriculture were given respon-
sibility for agricultural research and this was conducted on a limited number
of agricultural stations and with sparse resources. These stations were
later transferred to SAUs and due to a paucity of funds flowing from the
state government, most research was concentrated at main campus level and
very few outlying stations were strengthened/established to meet location
specific needs. As such, most of the research support to SAUs was provided
through the ICAR funded Coordinated Research Projects.
1.15    The output from central, state and international cooperative research
has, nevertheless, achieved major advances in foodgrain production during the
past twenty years, the most notable achievements being for wheat and rice
crops and where basic genetic materials with high yield potential, short
stature, high tillering capacity, lodging resistance, and fertilizer respon-
siveness were imported from abroad--wheat from Mexico and rice through the
International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. These initial
introductions were further developed to incorporate desired grain quality,



-5-
broad based resistance to local pathogens and pests, and better adaptation
(with appropriate adjustment in cultural practices) to the ecological condi-
tions prevailing in the country. Since the early 1960s, wheat production has
increased 2-1/2 to 3 fold and rice production has gone up by more tnan 50%.
Significant, but less spectaculai, were gains made with pearl millet and
sorghum. Although earlier mome:fturn in the production of hybrids of pearl
miLlet received a set back due to disease problems, new sources of resistance
have been identified and resistant hybrids and composites made available to
farmers. Suitable sorghum hy:.-:_ds co be grown in the kharif (monsoon) season
in the Deccan have also been developed. Similar success has been achieved
for the cotton crop.
1.16    The country has the institutional base, a management system, and
scientists capable or making substantial progress towards development of the
appropriate technology reo 4red to meet the present and future demands of
agriculture. This capability has, however, not developed to a sufficient
degree and much basic research .nfrastructure is still lacking at SAU.
Scientists have not made adequate efforts to adapt recommendations to suit
the varying socio-economic conditions of farmers, nor is there a general
realization that technology which is applicable under one ecological situa-
tion may have to be modified substantially to be useful under another, but
quite different, set of conditions, especially in a country as large and as
ecologically eiverse as India. Some important reasons for this are: (i)
inadequate past pressure from the extension service and particularly the end
user of technology - the farmers, (ii) limited exposure to field conditions
by researchers resulting in a "top-down" approach to research planning, (iii)
inadequate research facilities away from the main SAU campus and the main
agroecological zones, (iv) preoccupation with varietal development resulting
in neglect of farming systems research, and (v) absence of any economic or
risk analysis of research results.
Agricultural Extension
1.17    While SAUs have responsibility for research and generation of
appropriate technology, the State Departments of Agriculture are responsible
for extension. In 1974, GOI, with IDA assistance, introduced a new approach
to agricultural extension -- the Training and Visit System (T&V) -- through
two pilot projects (Cr. 502-IN and C-. 562-IN) in the states of Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh. The methodology involved has, subsequently, been introduced
in eleven more states. T&V aims at increasing the productivity on farms and
income of farmers by simultaneously addressing constraints to the transfer of
new agricultural technology from research to the farmer, and to the feedback
from the farmer that must orient research and other organizations to actual
farm problems. Some of the changes introduced are organizational
(single-line control, excLusive responsibility), others are operational
(fixed, regular contact between farmers and extension, coverage, mobility,
housing in the field) and still others relate to the linkage between research
and extension (regular meetings and workshops of extension and research
staff, joint field visits, formation of diagnostic teams,- systematic feedback
of farmers' problems and responses to research). The earlier T&V projects in
the states of West Bengal, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Assam
included a research component to strengthen SAU research facilities at
regional stations. Research funds were provided in the state government
budgets and in the absence of a free flow of funds to SAUs in the above
states, the research programs had minimum impact. In addition, ICAR was not
fully involved in these projects. In recognition of the growing demand for



-6-
IDA assistance in reforming statewide agricultural extension systems and a
need to narrow the gap between ongoing research programs and the requirements
of farmers for new technology and information, it was decided that support to
state level agricultural research could be best provided through the medium
o' a national project (National Agricultural Research Project, Credit 855-IN,
1978, paras 2.01-2.28) making use of tt.e experience already available with
ICAR to fund research programs in SAUs. Recently, an IDA assisted National
Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP) has been approved with the objective of
(a) consolidating the improved extension service in Orissa, Madhya Pradesh
and Rajasthan which have completed five years of operation; and (b) reor-
ganizing and strengthening the Directorate of Extension in the Ministry of
Agriculture (GOI) to perform effectively its coordination and policy guidance
role. Still more recently, NAEP II, covering the states of Karnataka,
Gujarat and Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir has been approved, providing assis-
tance to states (Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana) completing five years of
operating the reformed extension system and introducing the T&V extension
system to Jammu and Kashmir.
II. THE FIRST NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (CR 855-IN)
Objectives
2.01    The National Agricultural Research Project (effective in January
1979) had limited objectives and was designed to strengthen the capability of
State Agricultural Universities to conduct zonal research in support of
reformed statewide agricultural extension projects. This was to be brought
about through improvements to existing university based agricultural research
and concentrated, in particular, on research oriented towards the needs of
main agroecological zones with special emphasis on foodgrains (cereals and
pulses) and oilseeds, especially those grown under rainfed conditions, and to
the integration of cropping patterns and animal husbandry practices. ICAR
supported Central Research Institutes and the All India Coordinated Research
Projects were excluded from the project as ICAR had adequate funds to finance
taese programs.
Types of Research
2.02    The following types of research activities have been supported under
the project:
(a) At SAU Campuses. Provision of resources needed to initiate,
strengthen, or accelerate basic research by outstanding scien-
tists on topics which are crucial to the long term agricultural
development of the State;
(b) At SAU Main Research Stations. Provision of resources, includ-
ing infrastructure, required to (i) strengthen ongoing research,
(ii) pursue new applied research aimed at alleviating or remov-
ing constraints on the production of commodities for which the
station performs a lead function, (iii) verify research results
for other major commodities produced in the station's service
area, and (iv) identify farming constraints in order to deter-
mine the reasons for differing adoption rates by farmers of
recommendations made by SAU;



-7-
(c) At SAU Research Substations. Provision of resources, including
infrastructure, required to verify research results for impor-
tant crops grown in the substation's service area; and
(d) Ad hoc Research. Provision of funds for individual scientists
to carry out applied research on priority topics emerging or
being identified during project implementation and not covered
above.
Eligibility of SAUs
2.03    All SAUs are eligible for support under NARP provided that, to the
satisfaction of PFC, they (a) have complied with GOI/ICAR administrative
standards regarding payment of agreed scales to scientists and general
recruitment and administrative procedures; (b) produced a background paper
providing an introduction to agriculture in the state; identifying the main
agroecological zones in the area influenced by any one SAU and analyzing
their agronomic and socio-economic characteristics and research needs;
describing the existing organization and management of research; (c) are
willing to recruit adequately experienced staff; (d) have established satis-
factory linkages with state extension services; and (e) within one year
iniLiated and participated in a detailed Research Review of the total exist-
ing research effort in the state, including identificatic. of future priority
areas and crops, proposals for the total number and location of research
stations, division of labor between SAU and concerned ICAR institutions to
avoid duplication of effort, use of staff and resources, establishment of
adequate research-extension linkages, and organization and administration of
research.
2.04    To achieve the project objectives one research subproject has been
prepared, appraised and supported for each of the identified agroecological
zones and designed to strengthen/establish a Regional Research Station (para
2.12) and initiate a research program based on priority needs of rainfed
agriculture. The average cost of a typical five year research subproject has
been about Rs 8.5 M, with the investment distributed as follows: 43Z on civil
works, 18% on equipment and vehicles, 31% on incremental staff and 8Z on
operating costs.
SAU Administrative Subprojects
2.05    The project financed measures needed to strengthen the research
administration of individual SAU in planning and monitoring the university's
total research program and provided for the organization of regional, com-
modity and discipline oriented training workshops.
Training Subprojects
2.06    Training facilities at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute
(IARI), New Delhi have been strengthened so as to increase its capacity to
accept SAU scientists for training. Similarly, the National Academy for
Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) has been strengthened (by providing
additional staff and physical facilities) to enable it to train SAU scien-
tists in NARP concepts and research methodology.



-8-
ICAR Project Implementation
2.07   A Project Unit (PU) has been established and financed within ICAR to
administer the project. PU is headed by the Deputy Director General (Educa-
tion), ICAR who is designated as Project Administrator. The Project Unit
arranges for SAU Research Reviews (para 2.03) and appraisal of subprojects,
and monitors implementation. Before the project became effective (January
29, 1979), ICAR constituted a Project Funding Comnittee (PFC), chaired by the
Director General of ICAR with GOI Agricultural Commissioner (MOA), the Chief
(Agriculture) of the National Planning Commission, Vice Chancellors of two
selected SAUs, and the Project Administrator as members. PFC is the overall
project executive authority with powers to admit SAUs to participate in the
project, to approve or reject subprojects and to oversee project execution.
An interdisciplinary scientific panel (ISP) of eminent agricultural scien-
tists reviews the research projects appraised by PU, makes recommendations
for modifications and also provides technical advice to PFC.
2.08    Following satisfactory completion by SAU of the background paper and
the Research Review (para 2.03), SAU, with assistance from PU, if required,
prepared and submitted subprojects for consideration by PFC. Sanction of
individual subprojects by PFC (para 2.07) was phased over the five year
implementation period and according to agreed procedures including an under-
taking from state governments tnat they would support the operating costs
after the five year period. Details are at Annex 3, Page 1. IDA supervision
missions have constantly monitored the present system and have found that the
agreed procedures have worked satisfactorily.
2.09    Project Cost.   Total project costs of US$54.0 M (Rs 465.0 M) were
made up as follows:
Research Subprojects                             US$M        RPSM
(a)  Infrastructure, staff, vehicles             45.0        386.0
plant and equipment
(b)  Land acquisition, routine                    5.0         40.0
cultivation and SAU overhead                _
Subtotal                                50.0       426.0
(c)  SAU Research Administration                  1.0         10.0
(d)  IARI and Staff College Subprojects           2.0         20.0
(e)  ICAR Administration                          1.0          9.0
Total                                   54.0       465.0
Given that each participating SAU was required to undertake a Research Review
(para 2.03) prior to becoming eligible for participation in NARP and which
was then followed by preparation and acceptance of individual subprojects, it
was rightly assumed that the build up of subprojects would be slow and extend
over the five year project period. As a result, the disbursement period of
the majority of administrative and research subprojects was expected to
extend beyond the five year project period, and at appraisal a spillover of
commitments to the extent of about Rs 318.55 M (US$37.04 M) at Project Clos-
ing was estimated.



-9-
Progress and Achievements
Physical Achievements
2.10    The proJect became effective on January 29, 1979 and the Credit
Closing Date was initially fixed for September 30, 1983. Progress was very
slow in the first three years and by the end of the first three project years
(1980/81), financial commitments (Rs 116 H) and disbursements (Rs 26 M) were
much below appraisal estimates.
2.11    PU became fully staffed by the end of the third project year bringing
about improved project performance in terms of preparation, appraisal and
sanction of subprojects, monitoring of implementation and technical program
formulation, and in organization of training workshops for SAU scientists.
As a result, in the years 1981/82 and 1982/83, project implementation took a
turn for the better, with increased financial commitments (Rs 415 M) and
disbursements (Rs 129 M) by the end of March 1983. In September 1983, it was
recognized that an additional two years would be required to complete the
project since the time lost in the initial two years could not be regained.
The Credit Closing Date was extended by one year, in the first instance, to
September 30, 1984. Again, due to further improvement in performance in
1983/84 (disbursements in 1983/84 alone amounted to Rs 96 M as against 129 M
in first five years - 1979-83) the Credit Closing Date was further extended
by one year to September 30, 1985. As a result of these efforts, ICAR com-
mitments, by end of March 31, 1985 (over a period of seven years), will be of
the order of Rs 733 M (against appraisal target of Rs 744 M) and ICAR disbur-
sements by September 30, 1985 at Rs 400 M (against appraisal target of
Rs 425 M).
2.12    Of the 23 SAUs in India, 21 SAUs are already eligible for assistance
under NARP by virtue of preparing Background Papers and Research Reviews of
appropriate quality. These reports have been examined and approved by PFC
on the recommendation of the Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel. By the end
of March 31, 1985, ICAR would have sanctioned 87 research subprojects. Of
these, 82 research subprojects have been approved for an equal number of
agroecological zones to strengthen/establish 82 Regional Research Stations
in 15 states (21 SAUs). The remaining five are special (basic research)
subprojects located at SAU headquarters.  Brief details of physical achieve-
ment are given below:
Unit      Target       Achievements
SAU Background Paper                         Nos.         15              22
State Research Review                        Nos.         15              16
SAU Administrative Subprojects               Nos.         15              21
ICAR Training Subprojects                    Nos.          2               2
SAU Research Subprojects                     Nos.         56              87
Estimated Total Commitments (ICAR)           Rs.M        744             733
Estimated Total Disbursements (ICAR)         Rs.M        425             400
Further details are at Annex 3, Table 1.
2.13    Of the 21 Administrative, 87 Research and 2 Training Subprojects
sanctioned by March 31, 1985, 9 Administrative and 11 Research Subprojects
would have completed five years of operation by September 30, 1985 and the



-10-
residual cost of the remaining 12 Administrative, 76 Research and 2 Training
subprojects (which have not completed five years) would be continued as
spillover costs and included in the proposed project for the remaining period
of their operation. Completed subprojects are listed at Annex 3, Page 2.
2.14    Progress of civil works was slow in subprojects which were sanctioned
in the first three project y...rs primarily due to delays in land acquisition,
selection of architects, preparation of design and estimates, and obtaining
approval of ICAR. As SAUe gained experience, formalities were completed
quickly and progress has been faster. Quality of construction has generally
been good. Progress in purchase of equipment has been uneven. In case of
subprojects located at SAU campus and in places where some storage facilities
are available, the rate of purchase has been satisfactory. In remote and
less developed places there has been delay pending completion of the main
buildings. Procurement procedures have been satisfactory.
2.15    Master Plans have been prepared at Regional Research Stations for
farm development. Staff recruitment has been satisfactory overall. About
1,000 incremental scientist positions have been established and about 70-75%
of these positions are filled. Research Program development has been satis-
factory and research program formulation (on the basis of revised guidelines)
has not waited for the completion of civil works and purchase of equipment,
but given the length of time required to test experimental findings over a
number of seasons, the amount of new recommendations reaching farmers is
somewhat limited.
2.16    The progress of research subprojects is uneven.  SAUs in the states
of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan have
performed well; overall improvement is needed in the states of Assam, Bihar,
Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh; and subprojects have
been sanctioned late in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. A brief review sum-
marizing the achievements and particular problems of individual SAUs is given
in Annex 4.
Qualitative Achievements
2.17    Research Reviews.  At the time of appraisal there were 21 agricul-
tural universities in the country. Two more universities have been estab-
lished since then - Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi, Bihar and
Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Srinagar,
Jammu and Kashmir making a total of 23 SAUs. Detailed Research Reviews (para
2.03) have been completed for 16 states and approved by PFC. These are of
good quality and have been prepared by the joint efforts of eminent scien-
tists, SAU scientists and officials from State Departments of Agriculture;
and are of immense value to researchers and agricultural administrators and
have made a comprehensive assessment of research needs in each state by
identifying the main agroecological regions, the general constraints to
increasing production, yields and vield potential and contain a detailed
review of present research efforts, needs and future priorities. The reports
have also examined the present resources available in each SAU for carrying
out research and have, in same cases, suggested pooling of resources to avoid
duplication of effort. As a result, excess staff in one zone have been
transferred to other zones and in other cases whole research schemes (ICAR or
SAU funded) have been moved to more appropriate locations within the state.



-11-
As part of the Research Reviews, 121 agroecological zones have been iden-
tified (list at Annex 3, Pages 3-6) and delineated in 17 states located
throughout India (see Map).
2.18    Initially research staff of SAU were not fully conversant with
project objectives, recommendations made in the Research Review and the
content of subproject appraisal reports. As a result, orientation towards
location specific multidisciplinary research was lacking. To help overcome
this problem, PU produced printed leaflets explaining project objectives and
organized a series of training workshops at SAUs to explain and discuss these
objectives and, the need for the research team to develop a multidisciplinary
approach to the solution of farmers' problems. This has brought about fur-
ther improvements.
2.19    Status Reports.  Although the Research Review Reports identified the
broad agroecological zones in each state, there is within each zone a number
of sub-zones, each with its own specific crop production problems and oppor-
tunities. Realizing the need to develop a more detailed knowledge of these
discrete farming situations and farmers' practices and constraints to produc-
tion in each situation and also to fix priority for research, PU emphasized
the need for preparation of a Status Report for each zone. The Status Report
has been prepared by a multidisciplinary group of scientists interacting with
farmers and extension service and includes; (a) a clear identification of
different farming situations (topography, soil types and depths, rainfall,
irrigation, etc.); (b) a review in each farming situation of cropping pat-
terns, existing yields and yield potential gaps; (c) analysis of available
meteorological data so as to develop "contingency plans" for cropping in
different rainfall situations; and (d) identification of production con-
straints of farmers and fixing priorities for research.
2.20    PU has drawn up detailed guidelines for preparation of Status
Reports. Initially, most Status Reports were mere desk exercises without
visits to the field. These reports were rejected by PU and a series of
training workshops were held to discuss and decide on the methodology for
preparation of good reports. The exercise is continuing and more recently
some good reports have been prepared. SAU scientists, extension staff and
local farmers have participated in the preparation of Status Reports. To
further improve report clarity, a few selected SAUs, with assistance from PU
and the Bank's New Delhi Office, are preparing model Status Reports. The
model reports will be circulated to all SAUs to enable them to revise their
reports. In the meanwhile, Status Reports already prepared are being used to
determine long and short term research goals and help decide on priority
areas for research, particularly in respect of determining priorities for
allocation of resources.
2.21    Research Program Quality.  There has been substantial improvement
in the quality of research as exemplified by the following. SAU scientists
have made use of the findings of Research Reviews and, more recently, Status
Reports in the design of three broad groups of experiments to determine; (a)
suitability of present varieties and practices in different farming situa-
tions and systematic testing of these findings (mainly discipline oriented
experiments); (b) development of farming systems for identified farming
situations requiring multidisciplinary experimentation on the interaction of
soil and water management practices, cropping systems and cultivation
methods; and (c) adjustments to recommended practices, especially fertilizer
recommendations, to suit farmers' resources and skills and to other



-12-
extraneous factors such as vagaries of monsoon rains, reliability of irriga-
tion supply, input availability, etc. In planning the actual content of
these experiments, the scientists have made full use of the following
mechanisms: (a) organization of pre-season zonal workshops in each zone
(twice a year) with the participation of scientists, extension staff and
farmers' to review the previous season's research results and field experien-
ces and decide on future research proposals and priorities and the program
for field testing; (b) interacting with Subject Matter Specialists during the
monthly training workshops for a critical analysis of priorities, details of
experiments, and their utility and review of results; and (c) joint field
visits by Diagnostic teams of research and extension staff for an on the spot
discussion with farmers to study their field problems and reasons for adop-
tion or non-adoption of recommended practices. This constant interaction
with farmers and extension workers has resulted in an overall improvement in
the quality of experiments and the earlier emphasis on varietal improvement
alone has given place to experiments which have a bearing on farmers problems
under different situations and on farming systems research. Some examples of
this are: development of low cost water harvesting techniques on farmers'
fields (Gujarat); adjustment of recommendations for fertilizer use based on
farmers' resource capability (Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu); simple
techniques to overcome poor emergence of Pearl Millet due to soil crust
formation (Rajasthan); evolving gal midge resistant rice varieties accom-
panied by appropriate cultural practices (Madhya Pradesh); advancing soyabean
sowing dates (under rainfed conditions) to ensure double cropping (Madhya
Pradesh and Rajasthan); farming systems research (rainfed areas) to develop a
seed cum fertilizer drill for proper placement of fertilizer in the wheat
crop (Madhya Pradesh); mixed cropping of sorghum with legumes to overcome the
parasitic weed, striga (Karnataka); developing a low cost groundnut sheller
(Andhra Pradesh); and minimum tillage in paddy/wheat rotation (Punjab).
2.22    In Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, good Status Reports have
been prepared and available rainfall data has been analyzed. Making use of
this data and inter year variations in yields on farmers fields and from
experimental results recorded at research stations, scientists have developed
"'contingency plans" recommending different cropping and input regimes for
various rainfall situations.
2.23    Agricultural Economics.  An agricultural economist has been provided
at each regional research station and who is expected to work with other
scientists in the planning and design, and implementation of experiments to
enable him to make an economic analysis of the cost and benefit and risk
elements of individual experiments. In addition, the economist is expected
to (a) contribute to the constraint analysis of farmers' yields to determine
reasons for yield variations, (b) help in formulation of experiments and
analyze results, (c) analyze inter-year variations in experimental results,
and (d) study different cropping options open to farmers. In the past,
scientists and economists have been unfamiliar with this approach, and it has
taken time to bring them together to discuss plan ing, design and evaluation
aspects of experiments. Even then progress is slow and further efforts are
being made to bring about improvements.



-13-
Training Subprojects
2.24    Two training subprojects at the National Academy for Agricultural
Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad and the Indian Agricultural Research
Institute, (IARI), Delhi were included under NARP. NAARM subproject was
sanctioned in November 1982 and IARI subproject in September 1982. The NAARM
subproject has made good progress and its facilities have been utilized to
organize training workshops for SAU scientists relating to NARP objectives,
methodology for Status Report preparation and research program planning and
research managment.  NAARM scientists have participated in the review of
progress of research work at Regional Research Stations.
Performance of ICAR
2.25    The Director General, ICAR has fully supported the Project Unit in
its activities especially in resolving some policy issues with the States of
Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan. As a result, PU has been
instrumental in effective implementation of the project.
2.26    Project Unit.  The main impact of PU has been the high standards set
and achieved in the preparation of Research Reviews and appraisal of research
subprojects prepared by SAU. This has given a sense of direction to the
research effort in the states. Other significant achievements of PU are
given below:
(a) Preparation and implementation of an annual work plan for sub-
project appraisal, training programs and monitoring visits to
subprojects;
(b) Preparation of the Project Manual which includes administrative
procedures, criteria, objectives, Status Report preparation,
development of research-extension linkages, technical program
formulation, etc.;
Cc) Providing leadership to SAUs in resolving project impLementation
problems relating to civil works, equipment and construction
material, especially cement;
(d) Arranging a coordination mechanism at state level (in states
with more than one university) to avoid duplication of effort;
(e) Frequent monitoring of subprojects and regularity in submitting
to IDA half yearly progress and annual audit reports;
(f)  Maintaining close liaison with state governments and the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture (GOI) so as to resolve problems arising
at SAU level in an attempt to build strong research extension
linkages;
(g) Reconciling conflicting view points within ICAR on project
objectives;
(h) Preparing a detailed review of research subprojects at the end
of project year four; and



-14-
(i) Organizing a series of orientation training programs on NARP
objectives, Status Report preparation, and on research program
formulation for SAU scientists. PU has also organized a number
of discipline oriented training programs on dryland agriculture
and water management.
2.27    Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel.  ISP has met as frequently as
necessary to review subproject appraisal reports and has made valuable sug-
gestions for improving the quality of research subprojects. This review
process has enabled SAUs/PU to improve the quality of project preparation
and its technical content, and the quality of appraisal.
2.28    Project Funding Committee.  PFC has been meeting at least thrice a
year for sanction of subprojects and to give necessary directives for
improved performance. The items considered by PFC in its meeting generally
include: (a) overall progress of the project and resolving the problems
faced; (b) follow-up action taken on recommendations of IDA supervision
missions; (c) evaluation reports prepared by PU for projects completing four
years of operation; an-d (d) a detailed examination of the recommendations of
ISP and PU before sanctioning new subprojects. The performance of PFC has
been fully satisfactory.
Lessons Learned
2.29    Though considerable scope remains to further strengthen the
capability of SAUs to conduct location specific and production oriented
research, the initial efforts towards decentralization of the research effort
have been positive overall. There is growing evidence of th. favorable
impact of decentralized research and it has received considerable support
from the State Departments of Agriculture and the farming community alike.
Though project achievements among individual SAUs have been mixed, it is
evident that many of the changes introduced - establishment of regional
research stations in agroecological zones, preparation of Status Reports to
identify farming situations and farmers constraints, research program for-
mulation based on actual priorities of each area, and the need to test and
refine research results before recommending them to farmers - are substantial
and will continue. Keeping in mind the depth of the past weaknesses inherent
in the Indian research system (para 1.16), a seven year period is too short a
time in which to bring about a complete change of attitude among
administrators and scientists alike. Though SAUs and ICAR recognize that the
changes introduced are worthwhile there are several aspects which need con-
tinued emphasis so as to ensure their permanent integration into the research
system. These are: (a) a need for a fuller understanding of project objec-
tives among SAU scientists and need for good Status Reports and further
improvements in formulation of better technical programs for research; (b)
more involvement of SAU Heads of Departments at headquarters/campus in
project workshops to instill in them the importance of developing research
programs that suit local needs rather than following a "top down approach";
(c) promoting a better appreciation of project objectives throughout ICAR
itself so that other ICAR funded research and extension activities are better
integrated with programs existing in the agroecological zones; (d) more
effective use of agricultural economists in preparation of Status Reports,
planning of individual experiments, and to carry out economic analysis of
research results; and (e) bringing about a gradual change in the present
incentive system for scientists, i.e., by giving more recognition to finding
solutions to farmers problems.



-15-
III. PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
3.01    With the implementation of the first project, an attempt has been
made to remove the main deficiencies affecting the relevance and quality of
research at SAUs and to direct this to location specific problems in dif-
ferent agroecological zones. It has taken some time to develop the necessary
infrastructure at regional research stations, to recruit and train scientists
and to bring about the necessary administrative and attitudinal change needed
among them to focus on location specific research. In view of the above and
the time required to meaningfully identify various farming situations and
carry out an indepth study of farmers' production constraints in each farming
situation, little more has been done in the first five year stage of
implementation at a Regional Research Station, than to establish the basic
framework within which a better research program may be developed and bring
about the desired changes in outlook and performance among scientists for
improving the quality of research.  The resuLts achieved so far (paras 2.19
to 2.22) go to show that research development in SAUs has started moving on
the right lines.
3.02    Consistent with existing national agricultural development objectives
at that time, NARP focused on research related to cereals and oilseeds
production under rainfed conditions as well as to on-farm soil and water
management under non-irrigated conditions. There now is a growing need to
broaden the research in each agroecological zone, especially that associated
with irrigated farming and with integrated farming systems. At the same
time, the linkages between on-station research and on-farm verification and
adaptation need to be further intensified, taking appropriate account of the
actual constraints and conditions under which farmers operate.
3.03    Past efforts in irrigation research have been confined to work at
research stations and related to varietal selection, cropping patterns, crop
water requirements under differing soil conditions, critical stages for
application of irrigation, and fertilizer needs for different crops. As all
this past work has been done under controlled conditions at research sta-
tions, practical application of results obtained under farmers' field and
socio-economic conditions have been limited due to uncertainties of water
availability, the farmer's financial and other constraints and agronomic
reasons. Almost no research work has been done under normal canal operating
conditions (in farmers' fields) and such work is urgently required for more
efficient operating plans. Much work has to be done on simple land shaping,
methods of application of water, the types of crops, farming systems, cul-
tural practices, and water use techniques so that increased productivity is
ensured. Another weak area is research into improved animal drawn farm
implements. While past SAU research efforts have clearly demonstrated the
ability of engineers to develop and produce improved agricultural implements,
there is little evidence to show that many of the implements have been
accepted by farmers. This is the result of agricultural engineers developing
equipment without an understanding of the economic, technical, social and
management constraints within a given farming system.
3.04    As a result of NARP, the research system in Indian States has reached
a stage when the center of applied research, which was mostly confined to
SAU campuses, has shifted to the majority of main agroecological zones with
emphasis on location specific research based on rainfed agriculture only and
as identifed by farmers, extension workers and research scientists. The



-16-
State Governments have welcomed and fully supported this much needed develop-
ment in SAU research. At the same time, there is a firm realization in GOI,
ICAR and State Governments that the long term success of the reformed exten-
sion system (T&V) in India must depend on the development of suitable tech-
nology for each of the main farming systems in each zone and this can only be
achieved by providing minimum research coverage in all 121 main agroecologi-
cal zones (82 covered in NARP) and by expanding the scope of NARP to cover
the priority research needs of all facets of agricultural production, par-
ticularly of irrigated farming, in each zone. Achievements of NARP have
shown that the change of attitude among SAU scientists has yielded good
results. Thus, the process needs to be consolidated and strengthened and it
is logical for IDA to continue to provide support to: (a) complete the physi-
cal and institutional infrastructural development to establish/strengthen
Regional Research Stations in the main agroecological zones so that locati n
specific problems and priority needs are effectively addressed; (b) expand
the scope of NARP to provide research support for priority areas, especially
irrigated farming, animaL drawn farm implements, horticulture and commercial
field crops, agro-forestry and animal nutrition; and (c) provide support to
the states agricultural extension services through the development of
economically viable technologies and their adaptation to the differing
resource endowments and risk situations of farmers.
IV. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
A. General Description
4.01    The project would intensify and continue the process initiated under
NARP (para 2.01) for the strengthening of the capability of SAUs to cunduct
location specific research in the main agroecological zones but extend its
scope, in support of reformed statewide agricultural extension projects, to
include the priority agricultural research needs of each zone under rainfed
and irrigated conditions. The following activities would be supported under
the project:
(s) Completion of unfinished NARP subprojects (those that have not
completed five years of operation);
(b) Expansion of the scope of NARP to cater to the priority needs
of each agroecological zone including (i) new areas of research
such as irrigated farming, animal drawn farm implements, hor-
ticulture and commercial field crops, agro-forestry, and animal
nutrition, (ii) developing programs for field testing and refin-
ing of research results, and (iii) strengthening of training
facilities at Regional Research Stations for training Subject
Matter Specialists of the Department of Agriculture (DOA);
(c) Provision of funds for individual research activities on priority
topics emerging or identified during project implementation and
not covered under (b) above;
(d) Strengthening of research administration of two State Agricul-
tural Universities; and
(e) Cont nued funding of ICAR Project Unit including provision for
training of research scientists.



-17-
B. Detailed Description
Completion of Subprojects
4.02    Each SAU subproject sanctioned under NARP is funded by ICAR for a
period of five years after which all activities are continued with financial
support from the concerned State Covernments. Subprojects have been sanc-
tioned by ICAR throughout the NARP project period (up to March 31, 1985) and
many of them would not have completed five years of operation by the Credit
Closing Date (September 30, 1985). Of the 110 subprojects sanctioned (21
administrative, 87 research and 2 training subprojects), 20 subprojects (9
administrative and 11 research) would have completed five years of operation
by the Credit Closing Date and the remaining 90 subprojects (12 administra-
tive , 76 research, and 2 training subprojeccs) would be under various stages
of implementation. The project would finance the spillover costs of these 90
subprojects until they complete five years of operation. The concerned State
Governments have funded all subprojects which have already completed five
years of operation. A summary of annual And total spillover costs of the
incomplete subprojects is given at Annex 5, Table 1. Details of individual
subprojects are in Project File, item 4.
Research Subprojects
4.03    Research Subprojects to be financed under the proposed project would
be of three kinds: (a) supplemental subprojects at those Regional Research
Stations (82) already established under NARP and designed to broaden their
activities/scope, (b) new subprojects to establish 39 more Regional Research
Stations, and (c) special research subprojects.
4.04    Supplemental Subpro.j es.  ICAR has identified throughout India, 121
agroecological zones in 17 states and under NARP (Cr. 855-IN), Regional
Research Stations have been established and strengthened, to provide for
research needs of foodgrains and oilseeds under rainfed conditions, in 82 of
these agroecological zones. Under the proposed project, research support co
these zones (82) would be broadened where necessary, to meet the priority
agricultural research needs of each zone and would include emphasis on new
research relating to irrigated farming, animal drawn agricultural implements,
horticultural and commercial field crops, agro-forestry and animal nutrition.
Special attention would be given to developing a field testing/verification
program to serve differing farming situations (otherwise not served by the
regional station) in each zone, and facilities for training Subject Matter
Specialists of DOA. Thus, in planning (identification and preparation) for
supplemental assistance, the priority research requirements of the whole
agroecological zone would be taken into consideration instead of a piecemeal
approach. Research support would be provided on a selective basis and as
dictated by priorities identified. The duration of supplementary subprojects
would be four years and only those SAUs would be provided assistance who
fulfill the required eligibility standards and which include: implementation
of Research Review Committee recommendations, appointment of an Associate
Director of Research for each agroecological zone with authority to coor-
dinate all research activities in the zone, and preparation of Status Reports
which have been accepted by ICAR (see Annex 1: Terms and Conditions of
Administration of NARP II).



-18-
4.05    New Subprojects.  By the closing of NARP, 39 of the 121 agroecologi-
cal zones would still not be covered by research facilities. Consequently,
the project would provide funds to establish 39 Regional Research Stations.
As these zones were not covered under NARP, activities supported in each zone
would include priority requirements for crop production research under
rainfed and irrigated conditions; development of a testing/verification
program to serve the differing farming situations in each zone; and
facilities for training of Subject Matter Specialists of DOA. In identifica-
tion and preparation of subprojects, the requirements of the whole zone would
be considered and based on the outcome of approved Research Reviews.
Research needs of each zone would be determined taking into account
programs/areas already supported in other zones of the state concerned.
4.06    A brief description of some priority areas of research to be added
under the project is given below:
4.07    Irrigated Farming.  The Project would support the research needs of
irrigated farming, those served by gravity schemes (canals and tanks) and
from groundwater sources. During the last several years, considerable effort
has gone into the development of suitable technology for irrigated areas.
Most of this research has been conducted at SAU research stations -- varietal
selection, agronomic practices, recommendations for fertilizer use and crop
protection, wacer requirements and timing of irrigation, scheduling of
irrigation, etc.-- but carried out under strictly controlled conditions.
However, the adaptation of recommendations to actual field conditions wit.:
all the constraints involved has not been undertaken, e.g., possible water
releases within the operational regime of the system, canal flows and
closures, and urthermore, recognition of the varying socio-economic condi-
tions of farmers is absent; in addition, little effort has gone into develop-
ing appropriate cropping systems for the different irrigation systems, espe-
cially canals and tanks.
4.08    The Status Reports prepared by regional research stations have now
identified farming situations, existing and proposed irrigation programs,
and farmers' constraints to production under irrigated conditions. Making
use of these findings, a detailed review would be carried out of research
work which has already been conducted in -he zone ("on station" and
"on-farm") including any relevant research outside the zone.  A research
program would then be developed and based on these findings and focusing on
"on-farm" research needs the program would include: techniques of water
application (including on-farm layouts); cropping patterns and agronomic
practices; and solution of other farmer oriented problems identified in the
Status Report. Based on the research program and taking into account exist-
ing resources at the research station (staff and equipment), a research
action plan would be prepared. GuideLines indicating strategy for irrigation
research have been prepared.
4.09    As much on-farm research is required in irrigated areas, it would be
necessary to prepare a priority list of irrigated areas so that subproject
preparation and implementation in the concerned agroecological zones can be
taken up in the first two years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that ICAR would, by January 31, 1986, in consultation with state governments
and concerned SAUs, prepare and furnish to IDA a list of irrigation projects
where research subprojects can be initiated on a priority basis during the
first two years of the project.



-19-
4.10    Agricultural Implements.  Research support at each SAU would be
provided within selected zones for the development of manually operated and
animal drawn agricultural .implements to be used under both rainfed and
irrigated conditions. Research would be based on a farming systems approach.
A small team comprising an agricultural engineer, agricuLtural economist and
agronomist would describe the farming and equipment systems followed by
farmers in each farming situation within the agroecological zone, and detail
how these are determined by climatic, soil, agronomic and economic factors.
In the case of zones for which Status Reports have been already prepared, an
additional exercise on the above lines would be done. While preparing Status
Reports, the agricultural engineer would be associated with other scientists
to study the present situation regarding use of farm implements. On the
basis of data collected and where improved farm implements are thought to be
needed, a series of research options would be developed including a ceiling
for the cost to farmers of any new implement developed so that a relevant
research program and machinery design requirements could be developed.
Simultaneously a survey would be conducted to establish if improved equipment
is already available or in use elsewhere in the state. Care also would be
taken to ensure that the investment for any modification to an existing
implement falls within the technical capability of local artisans and
manufacturers.
4.11    The research and development programs of the agricultural engineering
faculty at SAU headquarters would play a supportive role to field activities
by: (a) providing technical support, through a small multidisciplinary
group, to research station staff in field survey and engineering design; (b)
maintaining close liaison with the Central Institute of Agricultural
Engineering (CIAE), Bhopal, especially on implement design matters; and (c)
arranging for consultations with manufacturers within the state. CIAE would
help explore possibilities of external collaboration, building on the already
existing relation with the British National Institute of Agricultural
Engineering. Guidelines indiLating strategy for implements research have
een prepared.
4.12    Horticultural and Commerical Field Crops.  The project would
strengthen research at relevant locations into the development of horticul-
tural crops such as soft fruits, tuber crops, and vegetables and commercial
field crops such as sugarcane, cotton, tobacco, etc. SAU would identify a
lead research station within the state for each crop or number of crops and
where a multidisciplinary team would be responsible for research activities.
Work at other research stations throughout the state would be limited to
tesring and adaping recommendations to local requirements.
4.13 Agro-forestry. The project would support research to develop
appropriate strategies and recommendations for small farmers and local com-
munities growing wood for domestic consumption and local sale, particularly
communities farming in hill regions and those owning marginal and submarginal
land unsuited to annual cropping. Research work would comprise trials
designed for the selection of multipurpose fast growing tree species (par-
ticularly leguminous species) to meet the needs for fodder, fruit, fuelwood
and timber. Methods of tree establishment and interaction between trees and
agricultural crops would also be studied.
4.14    Animal Nutrition.  To supplement the present support to development
of fo-age crops for livestock feeding which is -rovided by the Indian
Grassland Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi and the ICAR sponsored All India



-20-
Coordinated Forage Improvement Program and which is presently implemented by
a few selected SAUs, the project would support a program at additional SAUs
which (i) have an ongoing fodder research program; (ii) have animal and
laboratory facilities for nutritional research; and (iii) have the capacity
to develop the program on a multidisciplinary basis. The research program
would intensify present efforts into the selection and incorporation of
fodder crops into the farming system.
4.15    Special Research Subprojects.  The project would finance speciat
subprojects, either at SAU campus or in a selected zone for research into
priority problems which are not yet identified. Identification and prepara-
tion of such subprojects would be jointly done by ICAR, concerned SAU and
DOA.
4.16    Phasing of Research Subprojects.  Approval and sanction of research
subprojects would be completed in the first three project years. Proposed
phasing is given below:
Table 4.1: Approval and Sanction of Research Subprojects
1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    Total
Supplementary Subprojects (Nos)        20          32         30          82
New Subprojects (Nos)                   8          16         15          39
Special Subprojects (Nos)               -           2          2           4
4.17    Cost of Research Subprojects.  Average unit cost per subproject
(excluding contingencies) have been estimated at Rs 3.0 M (four years) for a
supplementary subproject; Rs 10.5 M (five years) for a new subproject; and
Rs 1.65 M (five years) for a special subproject. This is based on experience
gained in NARP in the preparation and appraisal of subprojects and recent
appraisal of one supplementary and one new research subproject.
4.18    Subprojects comprise civil works, equipment, incremental staff and
other operating costs required for the subproject period. The civil works
component for a new research subproject typically would include items such as
construction of laboratories, office space, farm buildings, staff housing,
and on-farm development (fencing, roads, irrigation, land shaping, drainage,
etc.). Training facilities would comprise a training hall and dormitory
where necessary. Housing would be orovided for operational staff who need to
permanently reside at the station and for other staff, only if justified by
the outcome of a detailed survey of accommodation available in neighboring
towns, prevailing rents, and commuting requirements. Guidelines for design
and planning of civil works have been prepared under NARP and have been
strictly enforced by ICAR.
4.19    Equipment would comprise basic scientific, training, office and farm
equipment items and those costing above Rs 6,000 each would be specified and
a lump sum (not to exceed 25 of the cost of basic equipment) provided for
smaller items.
4.20    The full salaries and applicable allowan.es for additionaL scientific
and supporting staff required to complete the subproject would be eligible



-21-
for inclusion in project costs. 1/ In the case of annual operating costs, a
lump sum allowance of Rs 12,000 per scientist would be provided to cover the
recurrent costs of vehicles, other travel costs, laboratory and office sup-
plies, temporary labor, and inputs re-aired for field experiments and testing
in excess of normal cultivation cost3 (which would be met by the university).
SAU Research Administration Subprojects
4.21    Under NARP, subprojects were approved to strengthen SAU research
administration and of the 23 SAUs in India, administrative subprojects have
been sanctioned to strenghthen the office of the Director of Research at 21
SAUs. These units have been responsible for coordinating the preparation of
research subprojects, monitoring project progress, and providing assistance
in procurement; and have maintained close liaison with ICAR Project Unit in
progress reporting, provision of expenditure statements and audit reports,
and for arranging training programs. Subprojects for the remaining two SAUs
in West Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir would be financed under the project to
strengthen the office of the Director of Research, and would include:
(a)  Incremental staff required to plan and monitor the SAU research
program, administer the zonal programs and provide support for
subproject preparation and implementation; including provision
of equipment (office and transport); and operating costs for
these staff;
(b) The costs of organizing zonal, commodity and discipline oriented
workshops for subject matter specialists; and
Cc) The cost of sending staff to advanced centers of research within
India for non-degree short-term training.
ICAR Administration
4.23    Under NARP, a Project Unit (para 2.07) has been established in ICAR
to administer the project and which has done a fully satisfactory job (para
2.26). The Deputy Director General (Education) in ICAR was appointed Project
Administrator and is heading PU. PU is responsible for appraisal of sub-
projects and monitors subproject implementation. PU contains the following
staff: 2 Assistant Directors General, 1 Deputy Coordinator, 4 Senior Scien-
tists, 1 Architect, 1 Executive Engineer, and some support staff. For
appraisal of subprojects and supervision and monitoring of project activities
these resources have been supplemented by hiring of consultants drawn from
ICAR institutes, SAUs and a panel of eminent scientists. In order to meet
the increased workload resulting from the project, PU would be further
strengthened so as to enable appraisal and sanction of new subprojects;
monitoring of project implementation and disbursements; and bringing about
qualitative improvements in research program formulation and implementation.
The additional staff required would comprise, one full time Project Director,
2 Assistant Directors General, 1 Assistant Architect, 1 Accounts Officer and
some small number of support staff. The project would also provide for the
1/ Existing staff and operating costs would continue to be borne by present
sources.



-22-
cost of consultants to assist in project appraisal and review of implementa-
tion.
4.24    Provision would also be made for meeting the costs of orga.nizing 30
training workshops for SAU scientists on NARP objectives, Status Report
preparation, and research program formulation; and 21 discipline oriented
courses for scientists at ICAR Central Institutes and selected SAUs. Selec-
tion of topics for discipline oriented courses would be made in consultation
with SAUs. In addition, special courses would be organized at NAARM,
Hyderabad on Research Management.
4.25    Details of staff, consultants, equipment and operating costs are
provided at Annex 5, Table 2.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.01    The total cost (inclusive of contingencies) of the seven year project
(1986-1992) is estimated at Rs 1,331.12 M (US$110.93 M) including Rs 36.30 M
(US$3.03 M) foreign exchange and about US$0.40 M in taxes and duties.
Details are given in Annex 5, Table 3 and summarized below:
Table 5.1:  Cost Summary by Components
----   Rs. M - - ------   -------- US$ M------
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Spillover Subprojects           258.81   4.74    263.55    21.56   0.40    21.96
Supplementary Subprojects       237.95   8.05    246.00    19.83   0.67    20.50
New Subprojects                  396.65  12.85    409.50    33.06   1.07    34.13
Special Subprojects                6.27   0.33       6.60     0.52   0.03      0.55
SAU Research Administration
Subprojects                       1.71   0.49       2.20     0.14   0.04      0.18
ICAR Administration               14.38   1.20      15.58     1.20   0.10      1.30
Base Costs                915.77  27.66    943.43    76.31   2.31    78.62
Physical Contingencies            18.93   1.20     20.13      1.58   0.10      1.68
Price Contingencies             360.12   7.44    367.56    30.01   0.62    30.63
Total Costs             1,294.82  36.30  1,331.12   107.90   3.03   110.93



-23-
Table 5.2:  Cost Summary by Expenditure
--------Rs. M --                --- US$ M----
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Civil Works                     318.93    -       318.93    26.58    -        26.58
Equipment and Vehicles          148.24  16.38    164.62    12.35   1.37    13.72
Staff Costs                     359.30    -       359.30    29.94    -        29.94
Operating Costs                  89.30  11.28    100.58       7.44   0.94      8.38
Base Costs                      915.77  27.66    943.43    76.31   2.31    78.62
Physical Contingencies           18.93   1.20      20.13      1.58   0.10      1.68
Price Contingencies             360.12   7.44    367.56    30.01   0.62    30.63
Total Costs             1,294.82  36.30  1,331.12   107.90   3.03   110.93
5.02    Contingencies.  Physical contingencies of 5Z have been applied to
for civil works, equipment and vehicles, and operating costs for subprojects
to be sanctioned during the project period. Price conti.lgencies have been
applied in accordance with current Bank estimates of expected inflation rates
in India (local prices at 8.5% during 1985/86 to 1990/91 and 6% for 1991/92;
and foreign costs at 6.3% in 1985/86; 7.8% in 1986/87; 8.0% during 1987/88 to
1989/90; 6.4% in 1990/91; and 5% in 1991/92).
B. Proposed Financing
5.03    Financing of total project costs of Rs 1,331.12 M (US$110.93 M),
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
Table 5.3:  Proposed Financing
Foreign .xchange       Local Currency             Total
US$M      x           US$M       X           US$M         Z
IDA      3.03      100         69.07      64.01        72.10     65.00
COI       -         -          38.83      35.99        38.83      35.00
3.03     100         107.90    100.00       110.93    100.00
The proposed IDA credit of US$ 72.1 M would be on lent to GOI on standard
terms and conditions and would finance about 65 percent of project costs net
of duties and taxes, including all foreign exchange costs. COI would make
the proceeds of IDA cre.dit and its own contribution available to ICAR as a
budgetary allocation. ICAR would utilize part of these funds as administra-
tive cost of PU and channel the remainder as grants to SAUs for financing
approved subprojects.
5.04    ICAR is required to sanction all subprojects to be financed under
the project by the end of the third project year. It is possible that the



-24-
completion of some subprojects, sanctioned in year three, may extend beyond
June 30, 1993. In order to take care of such eventualities, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that ICAR would (a) by September 30, 1988, sanction
all subprojects to be financed under the project; and (b) ensure that all
subprojects, to be completed after June 30, 1993, are provided with adequate
financial and other support for the remaining period of their operation.
Assurances were also obtained that ICAR (a) would provide promptly, as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
project, and (b) approve a grant to finance a subproject on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA.
5.05    Retroactive financing not exceeding US$ 1.95 million would be
provided from September 30, 1985 until Credit signing in order to enable ICAR
to meet the cost of spillover subprojects and other project related
activities.
C. Procurement
5.G6    Civil Works.  All civil works (US$37.88 H including contingencies)
would be relatively small and consist of research facilities, housing and
farm development as outlined in para 4.18. These works would be mostly
located at some distance from major cities and would be small and dispersed
both geographically and over time and, therefore, not be conducive to inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). Consequently, awards for construction
would be made after local competitive bidding (LCB). The procedures for LCB
at each SAU have been reviewed by PFC to ensure that they are satisfactory
and in compliance with IDA guidelines. LCB procedures of two universities
were reviewed by the appraisal mission and were found satisfactory.
5.07    Equipment and Vehicles.  Procurement of equipment and vehicles
(US$19.66 M including contingencies) would be undertaken by universities in
small quantities and distributed over time. A diversity of laboratory,
office and farm equipment would be required. Orders will, therefore, be
small, and adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of
paramount importance. These items would, thus, not be suitable for ICB, but
would be procured by standard university procedures which comprise LCB, and
for smaller amounts by prudent shopping. PFC has reviewed the procedures of
participating SAUs. The procurement procedures of two universities were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and were found satisfactory.
5.08    Contract Review.  All contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment
and furniture estimated to cost US$300,000 and more would be reviewed by IDA
both before bids are invited and before contracts are awarded. Orders for
purchase of minor equipment, furniture and supplies would be bulked wherever
possible and purchased according to established local bidding procedures,
except where valued at less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by
prudent shopping through normal trade channels.
5.09    Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned above (para 5.06 to
5.08) were obtained during negotiations.
5.10    The balance of project costs (US$53.39 M including contingencies)
would be incremental staff salaries (US$41.31 M) and operating costs
(US$12.08 M).



-25-
5.11    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 5.4: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method          TOTAL
ICB    LCB      OTHER    NA      COST
Civil Works                      -     37.88       -       -       37.88
(24.62)                    (24.62)
Equipment and Vehicles           -     19.66       -       -       19.66
(12.75)                    (12.75)
Incremental Staff and            -        -        -     53.39    53.39
Operating Costs                                       (34.73)  (34.73)
57.54      -     53.39   110.93
(37.37)          (34.73)  (72.10)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the credit
D. Disbursements, Accounts and Audit
5.12    Disbursements under the credit would finance various categories in
the following manner:
SAU Subprojects
(a) Civil Works                    -  651 of expenditures
(b)  Equipment and Vehicles        -  100% foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 61X of items
procured locally
(c)  Incremental Staff costs       -  65% of expenditures
(d)  Incremental Operating Costs  -  65X of expenditures
ICAR Administrative
(a)  Equipment and Vehicles        -  100% foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 61% of items
procured locally
(b)  Staff costs                   -  65% of expenditures
(c)  Operating Costs               -  65% of expenditures
The cost of approved subprojects are financed by ICAR as 100% grant to SAUs
for a period of five years and SAUs do not have to bear any cost during this
period. ICAR assures itself that, on completion of five years of operation
of each subproject, the State Covernments/SAUs would provide for adequate
financing of these costs. Consequently, use of a declining scale for IDA



-26-
disbursements against the incremental staff and operating costs has not been
viewed as necessary in assuring adequate continuity in funding. This proce-
dure has been working satisfactorily in case of subprojects which have com-
pleted five years of operation under NARP, and will be continued under the
proposed project.
5.13    According to the Bankwide disbursement profile for IDA assisted
agricultural projects, disbursement takes eight years to complete. The
project is of seven years duration and IDA disbursements would be completed
in 7-1/2 years.  The reasons for this are: (a) the tempo of ICAR disburse-
ments has increased in the last two years and is expected to increase further
due to standardization of and familiarization with project procedures; and
(b) the requirement that the sanctioning of subprojects be completed in the
first three project years leaving next four years for SAUs and ICAR to con-
centrate wholly on implementation. An estimated disbursement schedule is
presented in Annex 8. The schedule differs from the Bankwide profile for IDA
assisted agricultural projects in that the estimated disbursements over the
first five years (59.6X) would be lower than the profile (65.5Z) for the same
period, but thereafter higher disbursements would occur in the sixth and
seventh project years compared to the profile. All disbursements are
expected to be made against Statements of Expenditures. Supporting documents
with respect to claims for reimbursement would not be submitted to IDA for
review, but would be maintained by ICAR and SAU and be available for inspec-
tion by IDA during project supervision. The Statements of Expenditures and
supporting documents would be included in the periodic audit of ICAR by an
independent auditor.
5.14    Since most SAU have insufficient financial resources of their own
to pre-finance investments under ICAR schemes, ICAR currently (under NARP)
advances funds six months ahead of expenditure on the basis of agreed budget
estimates, less amounts unspent and carried forward from the previous six
months period and which are verified by a certified statement of expenditure.
This same procedur.. :as worked satisfactoriLy in NARP and would continue
under the proposed project and IDA would disburse against actual ICAR disbur-
sements to SAUs as summarized at six monthly intervals by ICAR.
5.15    ICAR would be subject to normal government control and auditing
procedures which have been reviewed and are satisfactory. The accounting
and audit procedures and standards at each university have been reviewed by
PFC as a condition of eligibility for NARP assistance. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that:
(a) ICAR would cause SAU to maintain separate accounts which would
record for each subproject, amounts receivable or received under
the grant and also amounts contributed or agreed to be con-
tributed by SAU for a subproject;
(b) ICAR would cause SAU to furnish to ICAR a grant expenditure
cerfiticate prepared by independent auditors acceptable to PFC,
for each subproject for each financial year as soon as the grant
expenditure cerfiticate is available but not later than nine
months after the end of the SAU's financial year;
(c) ICAR would maintain separate records and accounts reflecting
project expenditures; and



-27-
(d) ICAR's project accounts would be audited annually for each fiscal
year, in accordance with sound accounting principles, consis-
tently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(e) ICAR would furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, ti)
certified copies of its financial statements for each year which
have been audited, and (ii) the audit report of sufficient scope
and detail.
The above procedures have been operating satisfactorily under NARP and cer-
tified copies of all ICAR's audited accounts for the period 1978-83 have been
submitted to IDA.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01    Overall responsibility for organization and implementation of the
project would lie with ICAR. For this purpose, under NARP, a Project Funding
Committee (PFC) was constituted by ICAR as the executive authority with
powers to admit SAUs to participate in NARP, to approve or reject subprojects
and research reviews, and to supervise the execution of the project. PFC is
chaired by the Director General of ICAR and has as members the Agricultural
Commissioner, GOI; the Chief (Agriculture), Planning Commission; two SAU Vice
Chancellors Cnominated by Minister of Agriculture); and the Project
Administrator. An Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel (ISP) of eminent scien-
tists in different fields has been set up to review subproject appraisal
reports and provide technical advice to PFC. The present membership of the
panel is described in Annex 6. The Deputy Director General (Education) has
been appointed as Project Administrator and heads PU which serves as the
secretariat to PFC. Both PFC and ISP have played a key and highly respon-
sible role (paras 2.27 and 2.28) in the implementation of NARP and have only
sanctioned subprojects which address relevant and priority areas of research
and which are backed by high quality Research Reviews.
Project Unit Tasks
6.02    The Project Unit has performed satisfactorily (para 2.26) in
implementation of NARP and provided the leadership required for step-by-step
implementation of all NARP activities. PU would continue to perform the
following functions:
(a) Advise on SAU submissions for participation in the proposed
project;
(b) Organize and participate in detailed appraisal of subprojects;
(c) Guide and assist SAUs in preparation of Status Reports;
(d) Assist and monitor subprojects implementation by:
Ci) reviewing seasonal reports on scientific achievements
and, subsequently, scientific completion reports
against the research objectives of the subprojects;
(ii) reviewing six-monthly SAU reports on physical imple-
mentation in order to prepare a summary report for IDA;



-28-
(iii) reviewing statements of expenditures to ensure
authenticity and eligibility, maintaining record of
accounts, claiming reimbursement from IDA, processing
budget requests, reviewing annual status of audited
accounts.
(iv) advising on and supervising construction;
(v) advising on and supervising procurement of equipment;
(vi) organizing training workshops for SAU staff on various
aspects of project implementation (NARP objectives,
Status Report Preparation, Role of Agricultural
Economists, Research Program Formulation, and discipline
oriented training);
(vii) visiting annually all subprojects in each state (weaker
subprojects more frequently) and reporting on progress
and problems in implementation of the project supported
subprojects and recommending such remedial actions as
may be needed; and
(e) Provide a secretariat for ISP and PFC.
The Project Unit would prepare an annual work program which would be fur-
nished to IDA.
6.03    Preparation and Appraisal of Subprojects.  Responsibility for prepar-
ing subprojects rests with SAUs and PU would lend all possible assistance to
ensure adequate and timeLy preparation. Subproject proposals prepared in SAU
would first be cleared by the University Board of Management and endorsed by
the state government (Ministry of Agriculture) before being formally sub-
mitted to ICAR. During the first year of project implementation, ICAR would
furnish to IDA, before their appraisal, for its review and comment, the first
four research subprojects - two supplementary and two new - prepared by SAU.
Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
6.04    Subproject proposals would be appraised by PU making use of the
services of consultants. The appraisal team would undertake an indepth
review of the agriculture of each agroecological zone, and allow for interac-
tion with farmers, research and extension staff so as to identify priority
areas for research before arriving at firm conclusions.
6.05    The subproject appraisal report would be initially reviewed by ISP.
The decision of ISP would be guided by:
(a) The importance of the proposed subproject for the agricultural
development of the state;
(b) The research program being responsive to the main objectives of
the project and giving particular emphasis to the priority
agricultural research needs of the zone;



-29-
(c) The research program being geared to problems of high priority,
especially to the needs of the irrigation projects, identified in
the zone;
(d) The research at zonal main stations and substations being of
applied nature and likely to yield results within a five year
period;
(e) The research program being within the capacity of SAU to imple-
ment (given past performance and competence of SAU management);
(f) The research being original and not involving unnecessary
duplication of other work (completed, existing or planned);
(g) The arrangements for linkages with ICAR financed National Demon-
stration, KVK and Lab to Land activities, and SAU/state govern-
ment extension activities (paras 6.16 and 6.17) being adequate;
and
(h) The research program has indicated a mechanism for integration
with current activities in the zone of the All India Coordinated
Research Projects (paras 6.18 and 6.19).
6.06    Following its review of the proposed subprojects, the recommendations
of ISP would be forwarded to PFC together with a memorandum that would be
prepared by the Project Administrator and PU staff. The memorandum would
sumuarize the findings of ISP, especially on cost estimates and resources
needed, the appropriateness of the research program to the state and aims of
SAU and the capacity of SAU to implement the program. In particular, the
memorandum would inform PFC of the status of actions agreed to be taken by
SAU as a condition of participation in NARP. The Project Administrator would
also report to PFC on the degree to which the SAU is implementing recommenda-
tions of the Research Review.  The above procedures are being followed under
NARP and have been satisfactory.
6.07    PFC would either reject, approve or defer a decision on each sub-
project. Those in the latter category would be returned to SAU concerned
either for specified amendments or for extensive modification. Close liaison
would be maintained with IDA, which would receive all relevant documents.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ICAR would make available
to IDA the agenda and notes prepared for PFC meetings and the proceeding of
such meetings along with a copy of ICAR letter sanctioning subprojects.
6.08    Coordination Arrangements for Irrigation Research.  Research program
formulation and implementation would involve effective cooperation of SAU,
Irrigation and Agriculture Departments. To ensure this, ICAR would, by March
1986, nominate the Secretary, Department of Irrigation (GOI) or his repre-
sentative as a member of PFC; and set up a State Level Committee in a timely
manner, in the concerned state, with the Secretary, Irrigation Department;
the Comissioner, Comumand Area Authority; Chief Engineer, Irrigation Depart-
ment; Secretary, Department of Agriculture, the Director of Agriculture; and
Director of Research SAU, as members. The Committee would have respon-
sibility for: (a) fixing priorities for irrigation projects to be taken-up
for on-farm research, and (b) decide on specific roles of irrigation,
agriculture and research staff in planning, preparation and implementation.
At the Zonal level, coordination would be ensured through the Zonal Research



-30-
Advisory Committee. The Superintending Engineer, Irrigation Department would
be a member of this Committee for helping identification and planning the
irrigation research needs and coordinate execution.
6.09    Supervision.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) ICAR would furnish to IDA reports on the physical implementation
of subprojects an a semi-annual basis;
(b) ICAR would make an annual on-site supervision visit to each
participating SAU and all subproject sites; and
(c) ICAR would furnish IDA with the annual work program of the
Project Unit.
The above procedures (a to c) are being satisfactorily followed under NARP.
6.10    Mid-Term Review.  Given the seven year duration and expanded scope
of the project, and the priority being given to irrigated farming research,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that a mid-term review of the
project would be undertaken by a joint team from COI/ICAR/Bank within the
first quarter, after completion of the third project year to monitor the
progress of the project and provide for mid-course corrections. The mid-term
review would also include the identification of future priorities in agricul-
tural research.
Administration of University Research
6.11    Working under the Vice Chancellor, the Director of Research is
responsible for planning, monitoring, and administration of all research
programs in SAU. The office of the Director of Research has been
strengthened under NARP (para 2.05) resulting in better planning and monitor-
ing of research activities, organization of workshops and training programs
and evaluation of the research effort of the university as a whole. SAU
would establish a system of linkages between SAU zonal research stations,
other extension related activities of SAU (National Demonstrations, Lab to
Land Program and Krishi Vigyam Kendra), and the State Agricultural Extension
Service (paras 6.16 and 6.17).
6.12    At the zonal level, an Associate Director of Research heads the
Regional Research Station and directs research effort within each
agroecological zone and works under the Director of Research. The Associate
Director has been delegated sufficient administrative and financial powers
for effective functioning. He has established good linkages with the State
Extension Service in the zone through the Zonal Research Advisory Committee
which meets twice a year, the monthly training workshops for SMS, and other
informal mechanisms. He has also been responsible for preparing the Status
Report for identification of farming situations and improving the existing
knowledge of farming constraints under each farming situation; ensuring a
multidisciplinary effort to research program formulation; and supervising
and reporting on the research effort in the zone. These arrangements which
have resulted in improving the quality of research programs and their execu-
tion would continue under the project.
6.13    To allow it to compete for and retain competent staff, SAUs have
applied the pay scales recommended by COI's University Grants Commission.



-31-
Scientific staff are being recruited on an All India basis. Scientific and
senior administrative staff recruited under each subproject are entitled to
incentives applicable to state government employees working in dif-
ficult/special/remote areas. SAU procedures for audit, accounting have been
reviewed by IDA and PFC to assure standards comparable to those of ICAR. The
above policy would continue under the project.
6.14    While these arrangements have enabled most SAUs to establish sound
procedures and practices for effective planning, monitoring and evaluation of
research programs, some SAUs, however, face constraints to streamlining the
working of their research directorates. These are: (a) conflicting
authority between Campus Dean and Director of Research relating to research
activities located at the campus (headed by Dean), (b) inadequate participa-
tion of university Heads of Departments in research program development and
guidance in respect of zonal research priorities, and (c) inability of Crop
Coordinators to provide effective leadership to regional research stations
located in zones other than those in which Coordinators have their head-
quarters. While (b) and (c) above are being resolved as SAUs gain experience
in implementing the project, early resolution of the problem at (a) above is
important. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ICAR would
cause SAUs to transfer responsiblity for all campus research activities to
the Director of Research of the concerned SAU.
6.15   The Director of Research would be responsible for the compiling of
the following reports for ICAR:
(a) Seasonal reports on scientific results and extent of
research-extension linkages established;
(b) Six-monthly report on physical progress of all NARP subprojects
recording staffing, works, equipment, and showing expenditures
to date and advances requested for the following period;
(c) Audited accounts for all subprojects within nine mon-ais after the
end of the financial year; and
(d) A report showing the scientific achievements at the completion of
each subproject in relation to the research objectives which were
established at the outset.
The reporting system is satisfactory under NARP.
Research-Extension Linkages
6.16    Under NARP, research-extension linkages have improved considerably
resulting in enhancing the quality of experiments at Regional Research Sta-
tions (para 2.21). This has been possible through: increased interaction
among scientists, extension workers and farmers in the preparation of Status
Reports; frequent field visits of Diagnostic teams to interact with farmers;
meetings of zonal Research Advisory Committee; organization of monthly train-
ing workshops; and other informal contacts. These would be further
strengthened under the project.
6.17    A number of extension related activities are being carried out by
SAUs. .1ore important among these are Krishi Vigyan Kendra (farm science



-32-
centers), National Demonstrations, Lab to Land Program and Farmers Training
Centers. A joint review mission of ICAR, NOA and Bank representatives has
made the following recomendations on integrating these activities with other
ongoing programs:
(a) SAU Directorates of extension should refocus their activities on
formal extension training and to the teaching of improved train-
ing methods to extension staff, and carry out on farm studies in
cooperation with DOA;
(b) Integrate the activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Lab to Land
Program, and Farmers' Training Centers at the Zonal level so
that they provide necessary support to the extension agency to
develop cooperative organizations, watershed management associa-
tions and develop farmers' leadership capabilities; and
(c)  Improve on-farm focus of research work by macing a clear
distinction between on-farm research, on-farm trials and
demonstrations.
These recommendations have been accepted by ICAR and MOA and necessary
follow-up action has been taken recently and guidelines issued to all states
and SAUs for integration of all SAU and ICAR supported extension programs
with ongoing extension activities of DOA.
All India Coordinated Research Projects
6.18    ICAR is directly responsible for the administration of the All India
Coordinated Research Projects (AICRP). Actual implementation is the respon-
sibility of SAUs and each replicate of a project is laid down at a limited
number of centers in the states. The proposed project provides an oppor-
tunity for AICRP to increase the number of replications from a few centers to
include, where appropriate, the Regional Research Stations located in the
identified agroecological zones. Such an expansion would enable AICRP to
better address technological constraints identified in the Status Reports.
ICAR has already issued a directive widening the coverage of AICRP. While
some progress has been achieved following the issue of the directive inten-
sive follow up is essential by ICAR, through AICRP Coordinators.
6.19    For effective program formulation of AICRP, a step by step approach
would be followed: (a) scientists working in the zone would propose trials
based on local needs and problems; (b) these proposals would be discussed and
cleared by the Zonal Research Advisory Comittee; and (c) proposals would
then be approved by the Crop Leader/Chief Scientist/Director of Research aiLd
concerned departmental heads, before they are forwarded to the Project Coor-
dinator ICAR. The research proposals received from SAU would be discussed in
the course of the annual AICRP workshop where they would be refined (if
appropriate) and approved. If discussions indicate the need for conducting
additional experiments which serve national interests, they would also be
added.



-33-
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.01    Major qualitative improvements in research program planning and in
the quality of experiments and findings -- particularly as they concern their
relevance to specific farming situations and to extension activities -- are
expected to arise from the project. There already is increasing evidence
(under NARP and the Bank-supported extension projects) of gradual, but sig-
nificant improvements in the extent and quality of support provided by the
research institutions to the reformed extension services. A recent ICAR
review of the operation of two Regional Research Stations (Tirupati in Andhra
Pradesh and Bawal in Haryana, both with five years of operation) found sub-
stantial improvements in the capacity of the stations and scientists to:
identify farming situations and constraints of farmers to increase produc-
tion, determine research priorities for individual agricultural sub-zones,
improve the quality of individual experiments, conduct field testing of
on-station research findings, and establish closer linkages and contacts with
extension staff and farmers. The ICAR review also indicates that technology
recommendations are increasingly more refined and appropriate to suit
farmers' needs and constraints and that extension workers are now better
equipped than before with relevant technical messages and are able to advise
farmers with greater confidence. Similarly, monitoring and evaluation
studies of IDA-supported agricultural extension projects in India have shown
that: (a) increased fertilizer use by large numbers of farmers is dependent
in large measure on the provision of extension recommendations appropriate to
farmers' resources and skills, and (b) the impact of extension is increased
considerably through emphasis on low-cost practices and inputs. Both these
aspects have been addressed under NARP and have resulted in the development
of research programs and technology which emphasize farmers' immediate needs.
Some of the technologies and practices developed have already been mentioned
(paras. 2.21-2.22).
7.02    There is considerable evidence available showing that investment in
agricultural research has potentially very high rates of return.l/ Studies
of returns to agricultural research during the Green Revolution period in
India have found that, with lags of 5 to 7 years, the rates of return from
investments in agricultural research have ranged from 35% to as much as 112%
in different states. It is, however, exceedingly difficult to attempt a
precise estimation of economic benefits from this type of project -- be it ex
ante or ex post.2/ The technology improvements developed, the rate and
extent of their adoption by farmers, and the prod_ctivity and output gains
attributable to their application cannot be predicted with any certainty and
are likely to vary among agroecological zones. Moreover, future gains in
agricultural productivity and production would be attributable not merely to
1/ See Agricultural Research (IBRD Sector Policy Paper, June 1981), Annex 3,
pp. 64-65.
21 For a discussion of the difficulties involved and of various models for
ex ante estimation of the costs and benefits of agricultural research,
see G.E. Schuh & H. Tollini, Costs and Benefits of Agricultural Research:
The State of the Arts (World Bank Staff Working Paper Po. 360, Oct.
1979).



-34-
the adoption of technological innovations developed and/or adapted to local
conditions by the research establishment, but to the combined impact of
various supportive services (input supply, extension services, etc.) as well
as to that of the economic environment in general (e.g., rising incomes and
ability to invest) and of economic policies in particular (e.g., incentive
pricing). Lags in farmer adoption of research findings may also be due in
large measure to failure of other support services to provide the inputs and
services needed by farmers to adopt recommended practices. No attempt has
been made, therefore, to quantify the benefits expected from this project.
7.03    It can be shown, however, that even relatively small increases in
productivity attributable to the project itself would be sufficient to gener-
ate an economic rate of return (ERR) of 20% or more and, hence, that the
proposed investment would be economically well justified. At an opportunity
cost of capital of 12.01, the present value of the cost stream in economic
terms for the average new research subproject (i.e., SAU Regional Research
Station), assuming an implementation period of 5 years and recurrent costs
thereafter over a project life of 20 years from project completion, is equiv-
alent to Rs 9.70 million (in prices of 1984/85). Assuming that full project
benefits are reached in year 10 (1995/96), and that the benefit stream would
increase from 0% in each of the first five years to 10% in the sixth, 25% in
the seventh, 50% in the eight, 75% in the ninth and 100% in the tenth year,
the average subproject's full benefits in economic terms would have to amount
to only Rs 5.002 million annually (in prices of 1984/85) in order to achieve
an ERR of 20Z (details at Annex 7). This would correspond co Rs 3.6 per
hectare of agricultural land serviced by the average Regional Research Sta-
tion (about 1.4 million ha).
7.04    If benefits were to be generated exclusively through productivity
gains in wheat cultivation, this would, on average, amount to Rs 26.3 per
hectare of land under wheat (190,000 ha) within the (hypothetical) average
station's service area; if related solely to productivity improvements in
rice production, it would be equivalent to Rs 15.2 per hectare of land under
rice (330,000 ha) within the average agro-climatic zone. On the basis of
economic farmgate prices for major crops prevailing in 1984/85 (e.g., wheat
Rs 1,896/t; paddy Rs 2,002/t), this would be equivalent to an average
increase either in average wheat yields of 13.9 kg/ha or in average paddy
yields of 7.6 kg/ha -- only 0.77% and 0.38% higher than the present
country-wide average yields for wheat (1.81 t/ha) and paddy (1.99 t/ha),
respectively. It should be noted, of course, that this calculation is merely
indicative of the potential for realizing very substantial returns from this
project.
7.05    The project would also contribute to institution building and be
instrumental in solidifying the transformation of India's agricultural
research system into an efficient and farmer-responsive research service. It
would support broadening of the research effort to include all identified
priority needs in each agroecological zone and strengthen the research sys-
tem's capability to provide support to agricultural extension services
through the development of economically viable technologies and their adapta-
tion to the differing resource endowments and risk situations of farmers. In
addition, it would bring about significant improvements in the efficiency of
resource utilization in agricultural research, through its emphasis on effec-
tive research management.



-35-
7.06    Employment and Poverty Impact.  The project would have only a com-
paratively small direct employment impact, both during construction and
during operation. Far more important will be its indirectly impact on
employment and income generation throughout rural India: through the dis-
semination and adoption of improved agricultural production and farm manage-
ment techniques, the project will lead to increases in on-farm productivity
and farm output, thereby generating substantial additional employment and
income for farmers, their household members and agricultural laborers on
millions of farms of all sizes. 72.6% of India's farmers operate holdings of
less than 2 hectares (1976/77 data), holdings barely large enough to support
a family of five. Based on 1981 statistics, 70% of India's labor force is
employed in agriculture, and the average family size of more than 5 members,
this implies an average income equivalent to less than US$ 60 per person -
about half of the income level judged to be absolute poverty level. In fact,
about 51% of the entire rural popuLation are estimated to live below the
absolute poverty level. Given these land and income distribution patterns,
the project's indirect employment and income effects wilL predominately
accrue to the poor.
B. Project Risks
7.07    Irrelevance and/or Non-Adoption of Research Findings.  The most
serious risks in any agricultural research project are that research findings
generated may be irrelevant to farmers' needs or inapplicable under actual
on-farm conditions; that research findings may not, or only inadequately and
with undue delay, be transmitted to farmers and therefore fail to generate
the potential benefits as early and fully as possible; and Oiat changes in
economic policy may prevent the adoption of technological advances, i.e.,
render them economically unviable.
7.08    As has been demonstrated under NARP, the potential risk of inap-
propriate research orientation and technology generation is directly amenable
to corrective measures under the project. Its major aspects relevant in this
context include: regional decentralization; orientation of research towards
clearly identified location-specific farmers' needs, resources and skills,
diagnosed by multi-disciplinary teams prior to the formulation of research
programs; emphasis on field-testing and adaptation; and increased cooperation
and communication with extension staff and farmers for intensified feed-back
on research results.
7.09    The second potential cause of non-adoption and/or lagging adoption
is already being effectively dealt with through the Bank's long-standing and
strong support for improved agricultural extension services throughout India
and for intensive and regular cooperation between the states' extension
services and the agricultural research institutions. Where they have been in
full operation, the reformed extension services, operating on the basis of
the training & visit system, have proven highly effective in reaching farmers
and in spreading improved cultivation practices and technologies, and the
Bank continues to support extension reform along these lines throughout
India.
7.10    The risk of new technologies being rendered unsuitable for farmer
adoption by changes in economic policies must be addressed through improved
research management -- mainly at the planning stages when economic policy
objectives and parameters need to be taken into account in the formulation of
research goals and priorities. The proposed project seeks to bring about



-36-
improved research management at all levels, including greater involvement of
economists in research planning, monitoring and evaluation.
7.11    Risks in Implementation.  Implementation risks attributable to
administrative and/or organizational changes are minimal. The basic reforms
initiated under NARP, which the proposed project will further support and
extend, have been strongly supported and initiated by the agricultural
research community as well as by administrators. Budgetary support for
agricultural research has been provided on an increasing scale over the past
two decades, testimony to the widespread recognition of the substantial
benefits that can be obtained. Staffing problems have eased, as sufficient
numbers of trained scientists leave the universities every year and as
improved service conditions and incentives for work at the SAUs and their
research stations have helped attract and retain scientists. The risk of
major delays and/or slippages in physical project implementation are also
considered slim, mainly because of the groundwork already laid and the
experience gained under NARP: the institutional framework for project
implementation is in place and well established; procedures are widely
familiar; prohlems encountered during the initial phases of NARP can be
expected to be avoided during this follow-up project; and the decision to
implement the project over a seven-year period reflects greater realism
concerning the feasible pace of implementation.
7.12    State Government Funding.  Another potential risk is that of inade-
quate recurrent expenditure funding for Regional Research Stations by state
governments after completion of individual subprojects. In most states, this
risk is considered minimal, and state governments are fully funding sub-
projects completed under NARP. Adherence to the subproject sanctioning and
fund release criteria by ICAR will help ensure that subprojects are imple-
mented only if continued and fully adequate state funding for follow-up
operation and maintenance expenditures (including, but not only, staff
salaries) can be assured. In any case, to mitigate this risk, written under-
takings will be obtained from each of the participating state governments
concerning their commitment to provide adequate O&M funding for completed
subprojects.
7.13    Dilution of Research Effort.  The risk that the establishment of 121
Regional Research Stations in 17 states and the creation of additional
research capacity in a variety of additional disciplines may in itself lead
to a dilution of the overall agricultural research effort is being addressed
under both NARP and the proposed project through the 'Status Reports' for
each agroecological region: these thorough multi-disciplinary assessments of
each zone's agronomic potential and constraints and the subsequent determina-
tion of research priorities on the basis of this assessment are intended to
provide the information essential to improved research management, including
efficient resource allocation and utilization, within each state and each
zone. ICAR's own coordinating function for SAUs' research efforts and its
direct responsibility for administering and funding various national research
schemes should help ensure that the available resources are appropriately
directed at the national research priority objectives.
7.14    A recent review of 128 Bank projects supporting agricultural research
and extension in 10 countries (including 33 projects in India) concluded that
the more successful research organizations in the countries studied displayed
a combination of some of the following characteristics: a strong central
organization with overall responsibility for most aspects of national



-37-
research and with funding control to back it up; some degree of autonomy from
the routine bureaucratic structure of the Ministry of Agriculture; good
links, despite the autonomous or semi-autonomous status, to the national
planners and policy makers; service units either directly part of, or closely
related _o, the central research organization, performing important planning,
monitoring and evaluation functions; planned decentralization of regional
research; and active participation in translating research results into
recommendations communicable to users.l/ Each of these elements is evident
in India's agricultural research system as supported by NARP and will be
further strengthened under the project. The same multi-country review recom-
mended that Bank-supported agricultural research projects emphasize: manpower
training and, in particular, training of research program leaders; develop-
ment of the functions of research management and research station management;
research on agricultural activities in low-potential areas; research aimed at
the integration of crop and livestock activities and research into farm
management; consideration of socio-economic, environmental and political
factors in the design of research programs and the evaluation of their
results.2/ The project is designed to emphasize all of these elements.
7.15    Environmental Impact.  The project is not expected to have any nega-
tive environmental impact. To the extent that the modernization of Indian
agriculture involves increased use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides,
the project is expected to help determine application techniques which
(a) involve greater efficiency in applications and, thus, relative reductions
(compared with likely farmer practices in the absence of sound research and
extension guidance) in application doses per unit of land, and (b) provide
for increased protection against possible health hazards to users of agricul-
tural chemicals and consumers of farm produce. Similarly, the development of
improved water management techniques is expected to reduce the incidence of
water-related deseases.
vIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    At negotiations, assurances were obtained from ICAR that:
(a) ICAR would, by January 31, 1986, in consultation with state
governments and concerned SAUs, prepare and furnish to IDA a list
of irrigation projects where research subprojects can be
initiated on a priority basis during the first two years of the
project (para 4.09);
(b) ICAR would, by September 30, 1988, sanction all subprojects to be
financed under the project (para 5.04);
(c) ICAR would ensure that all subprojects to be completed after June
30, 1993, are provided with adequate financial and other support
for the remaining period of their operation (para 5.04);
1/ Operations Evaluation Department, Strengthening Agricultural Research
and Extension -- The World Bank Experience (IBRD Report No. 4684; 1 Sept.
1983), pg. xi, para. 34.
2/ Ibid., pp. xiv-xv, para. 45.



-38-
{d) ICAR would provide promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the project (para
5.04);
(e) ICAR would approve a grant to finance a subproject on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para 5.04);
(f) ICAR would follow the procurement procedures set out in paras
5.06 to 5.08 (para 5.09);
(g) ICAR would cause SAU to maintain separate accounts which would
record for each subproject amounts receivable and received under
the grant and also amounts contributed or agreed to be con-
tributed by SAU for a subproject (para 5.15);
(h) ICAR would cause SAU to furnish to ICAR a grant expenditure
certificate prepared by independent auditors acceptable to PFC,
for each subproject for each financial year as soon as the grant
expenditure certificate is available but not later than nine
months after the end of the SAU's financial year (para 5.15);
si) ICA would maintain separate records and accounts reflecting
project expenditures (para 5.15);
S;) ICAR's project accounts would be audited annually for each fiscal
year, in accordance with sound accounting principles, consis-
tently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para
5.15);
Ck) ICAR would furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of its financial statements for each year which
have been audited, and (ii) the audit report of sufficient scope
and detail (para 5.15);
(1) ICAR would, during the first year of project implementation,
furnish to IDA before their appraisal, for its review and com-
ment, the first four research subprojects - two supplementary and
two new - prepared by SAU (para 6.03);
Cm) ICAR would make available to IDA the agenda and notes prepared
for PFC meetings and the proceedings of such meetings along with
a copy of ICAR letter sanctioning subprojects (para 6.07);
tn) ICAR would make an annual on-site supervision visit to each
participating SAU and all subproject sites and furnish IDA with
the annual work program of the Project Unit (para 6.09);
(o) ICAR would furnish to IDA reports on the physical implementation
of subprojects on a semi-annual basis (para 6.09);
(p) A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken by a joint
team from GOIIICAR/Bank within the first quarter after completion
of the third project year to monitor the progress of the project
and provide mid-course corrections (para 6.10); and



-39-
(q) ICAR would cause SAUs to transfer responsibility for all campus
research activities to the Director of Research of the concerned
SAU (para 6.14).
8.02    With the above assurances, the proposed project would be a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$72.1 M on standard IDA terms to the Government
of India.



-40-                             AM     1
Page 1
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms and Conditions for Administration of HARP II
1. Eliuibilitv of SAU for Participation
(a) Complied with GOI/ICAR standards regarding salaries, recruit-
nent, and administrative procedures;
(b) Possessed, or willing to recruit, adequately experienced staff
and are willing to establish adequate mechanisms for research
administration at headquarters and zones;
(c) Established satisfactory linkages with state extension serv-
ices; and
(d) For sanction of supplementary subprojects, SAUs should have:
(i) demonstrated the ability to absorb assistance provided
under NARP as evidenced by strengthening Research Direc-
torates to implement and monitor project activities and
especially to planning and execution research programs;
(ii) implemented recommendations of Research Reviev Committee
relating to shifting of research schemes and closure of
redundant research centers leading to efficient resource
utilization;
(iii) appointed an Associated Director of Research for each
Regional Research Station with authority to coordinate all
research activities in the zone;
(iv) prepared Status Reports of reasonable quality; and
(v) established effective linkages with Department of Agricul-
ture extension staff in the region for research program
formulation, organizing monthly workshops, and help in
planning and execution of farm trials.
2. Criteria for Approval of Research Subproiects
ISP and PFC decisions would be guided by;
(a) The importance of the proposed subproject for the agricultural
development of the state;



-41-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) The research program being responsive to the main objectives
of NARP II and giving particular emphasis to the total
agricultural research needs of the zone;
(c) The research program being geared to problems of high
priority, especially to the needs of irrigation projects,
identified in the zone;
(d) The research at zonal main stations and substations being of
applied nature and likely to yield results within a five year
period;
(e) The research program being within the capacity of SAU to
implement (given past performance and competence of SAU
management);
Cf) The research being original and not involving unnecessary
duplication of other work (completed, existing or planned);
Cg) The research program has indicated a mechanism for integration
with current activities in the zone of the All India Coor-
dinated Research Projects; and
Ch) The arrangements of linkages with ICAR National Demonstration,
KVK, and Lab to Land activities, and state government exten-
sion activities being adequate.
3. Eligible Expenditure
NARP II would finance supplementary research subprojects for a
period of four years and other subprojects for five years, on a grant
basis, the following expenditures under approved subprojects.
(a) Incremental Staff: The full salary and applicable allowances
for the additional scientific and supporting staff specified
in the subproject, based on current pay scales. Applicable
allowances will include dearness allowance, contributory
provident fund contributions (subject to the provision of
Article 11 of "Terms and Conditions Governing Grants-in-Aid
from the Council") and the housing allowance sanctioned by the
SAU for all staff at the relevant duty station. However, no
housing allowance will be financed for such staff if they are
provided with housing by the university.



-42-
AMN     1
Page 3
(b) Research Operatins Funds: A lump sum allowance, determined on
the basis of the number of scientific staff required under this
subproject, to be allocated by the officer-in-charge of the
subproject to cover:
- running cost of vehicles used by research staff;
- other travel expenses;
- laboratory and office supplies;
- temporary labor and inputs required for field experi-
ments, in excess of "normal" or "commercial" cultivation
costs (see 4(b) below).
This lump sum will normally be applied only to the incremental
scientific staff referred to in (a) above, but in special
circumstances existing staff may be granted the difference
between their present allocation and the approved lump sum per
scientist.
(c) qujipment: The cost of basic scientific, audio visual, office
and fare equipment (Rs 6,000 and above) on the basis of an
approved list. In addition, a lump sum (not to ezceed 252 of
basic equipment) may be provided for minor items and for
supplementing the basic equipment. Where only a relatively
small sum is spent on major items, a comprehensive list of all
equipment may be provided. Purchase of items costing over Rs
6,000 from the supplementary list will require prior ICAR
approval as well as any change in the basic equipment list.
(d) Civil Works: The cost of laboratory and office space and
related fixtures, training and hostel facilities, housing, and
farm development on the basis of the approved civil works
program. Land development may cover minor farm structures,
roads, land shaping, fencing, and supplementary irrigation
works in accordance with the long-term needs of the station,
which in turn should reflect the needs of the zone. lousing
will be provided for staff who need to live on the station and
for other staff on the basis of an analysis of acco-odation
available in neighboring towns, rents asked and commuting
required. If proposed housing exceeds the proportion provided
at existing zonal stations, the evidence presented must be
conclusive. Housing would be provided in accordance with
either university standards or those of the relevant state
government depending on which result in lover costs. The



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
design of buildings should be guided by the observation in
item 7 of the Project File.
(e) Training: Cost of organizing workshops for extension and
research staff and for providing nondegree training for SAU's
research staff at advanced centers of research in India and at
the National Academy for Agricultural Researcb Management.
4.  Cost to be Defrayed by the University
The following costs will be met 100X by the university/state:
(a) Acquisition of additional farm land for research purposes;
(b) Normal or commercial cost of cultivation for the research
farm, including land preparation, estimated on the basis of
the expected cropping patte2.n. The univeristy/state will, on
the other hand, retain the gross income from the farm.
Cc) Building maintenance and security, utilities, and similar
station overbead costs.
At the end of the subproject period (4 years for supplementary and
5 years for others,) the university/state would also be responsible for
the cost of:
(a) Incremental staff;
(b) Research operating funds;
(c) Maintenance and replacement of equipment (1OZ); and
(d) Maintenance of completed civil works (1-1/2Z).
5. Price Escalation
Resource requirements for each category of expenditure should be
calculated on the latest available salary scales, unit costs and catalogue
prices, and phased over the life of the project depending on the expected
timing of construction, recruitment and purchasing. The base cost for any
financial year so obtained should be adjusted by using an appropriate
price escalation factor (usually 8.5Z compounded annually). The adjusted
costs for a given period will become the basis for the approved budget
allocation under each head.



-44-
ANNEX 1
Page 5
6. AccountinR. Disbursement and Audit
(a) The university vill maintain separate accounts for each sub-
project and each head of expenditure (NARP II and university)
under the subproject.
(b) For each subproject the university will submit (with its
progress report; see para 9 belov) to ICAR every six months a
budget request including:
(i) the estimated requirements under each of the above heads
of expenditure for the succeeding six months;
(ii) a duly authorized certificate of expenditure showing
amounts spent to date and available balances under each
head from previous advances; and
(iii) the addii:ioial advances required.
(c) Savings under one head of expenditure may not be reallocated
to supplement ot1,er heads of expenditures without ICAR's prior
approval.
(d) ICAR may reasonably determine that completion of certain
transactions by the university, such as acquisition of land,
be an additional condition of disbursement against civil works
expenditure.
(e) Independent SAI auditors acceptable to PFC, within nine months
of the end of the financial year, vill submit to ICAR an audit
report for each subproject (or Grant Utilization Certificate)
covering all heads of expenditure (ICAR and university
financed) for the preceding financial year. This would be a
condition for continued NARP II support of the subproject in
question. In addition, ICAR reserves the right to carry out
an independent audit of subproject accounts and have
reasonable access to university property and record s for this
purpose.
(f) The subproject period may, in exceptional cases, be extended
to allov completion of civil works and equipment procurement.
Possible savings on scientific staff and operating funds would
be cancelled at the end of the project period.



-45-
AMNX I1
Page 6
7. Procurement
Procurement of civil works and equipment would follow standard
university procedures as reviewed and approved by PFC and be subject to
the following:
(a) PU approval of master plan for each research station
subproject;
(b) The PU architect, SAU scientist concerned and an architect
nominated by SAU prepare architectural brief for all
laboratory buildings;
(c) For subprojects where the construction work, excluding hous-
ing, is estimated to cost more than Re 600,000 PU approval of:
Mi) the detailed procedures for nomination of SAD architects
(including composition of selection coimittee)
(ii) final design drawings and cost estimates;
Ciii) bid evaluation and proposed contract awards; and
(iv) proposed construction supervision arrangement.
Cd) In case of equipment costing more than Rs 50,000, PU approval
of awards to other than the lowest bidder.
8. Recruitment
(a) The university will recruit subproject staff according to its
own procedures which will have been approved by ICAR as a
condition of the university's eligibility;
(b) In the case of senior staff, and specifically the
officer-in-charge of a subproject, the SAU would invite an
ICAR representative to serve on the Selection Committee;
(c) Scientific and senior administrative staff recruited under the
subproject would be required to sign a commitment not to apply
for or accept another position for at least two years, and the
university agrees not to transfer staff during the operation
of the subproject.



-46-
ANNEX 1
Page 7
9. Report Reauirements
The university will submit to ICAR the following progress reports:
(a) A six-monthly progress report, attached to the request for
funds, described in para 6(b), containing details of physical
implementation, recruitment, etc. to date in accordance with
proforma provided in the Project File, item 10.
(b) A seasonal sumnary of research results would be prepared for
each subproject;
(c) A completion report at the end of the project examining, the
scientific results obtained in relation to the reseerzh objec-
tives that were established at the outset.
The six-monthly reports should normally reach ICAR by March and September
of each year, seasonal rsnmnaries of research results by February and
August and the completion report by twelve months after the approved
closing date.
10. Remedies of ICAR
The ICAR may, at its discretion and after due notification to the
university, discontinue advances under any or all heads of expenditure for
a subproject, and if necessary deduct from available balances under other
subprojects financed by it, if it reasonably considers that the univer-
sity, in incurring expenditure, has seriously breached the guidelines
contained above. Specific circumstances which could justify such action
include failure on the part of the university to submit satisfactory
expenditure statements or audit certificates, improper procurement prac-
tices, failure to obtain ICAR approval for reallocation of funds or chan-
ges in specifications, failure to implement the research program, etc.
Should such cases come to the notice of ICAR, the university will be given
reasonable opportunity to rectify the situation.



-47-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
List of State Agricultura: Universities in India
1. Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad (AP)
2. Assan Agricultural University, Jorhat (Assam)
3. Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke (Bihar)
4. Rajendra Agricultural "niversity, Patna (Bihar)
5. Gujarat Agricultural University, Alhedabad, (Gujarat)
6. Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar (Haryana)
7. Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Palaspur (BP)
8. University of Agricultural Sciences, Hebbal, Bangalore (Karnataka)
9. Kerala Agricultural University, Mannuthy (Kerala)
10. Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidalaya, Jabalpur (Nadbya Pradesh)
11. Konkan Irishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli, Ratnagiri (Maharashtra)
12. Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyspeeth, Raburi (Msharashtra)
13. Marathwada Agricultural University, Psrbhani (Maharashtra)
14. Punjabrao Krishi Vidyapeeth, Irishinagar, Akola (Naharashtra)
15. Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology, Bhubanerwar (Orissa)
16. Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana (Punjab)
17. Mohan Lal Sukhadia University, Udaipur (Rajasthan)
18. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coiabatore, (Tamil R.adu)
19. Chandra Shekar Azad University of Agriculture & Technology, Kanpur
(Uttar Pradesh)
20. G. B. Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantuagar (Uttar Pradesh)
21. Narendra Dev University of Agriculture & Technology, Faizabad (Uttar Pradesh)
22. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya, Earinghata, Kalyani (West Bengal)
23. Sher-e-Kasbmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology (Jamu &
Kathmir)



ANNEX 2
Page 2
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
List of ICAR Research Institutes
1. Tndian Agricultural Research Institute, Nev Delhi
2. Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi
3. Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan
4. Cotton Technological Research Laboratory, Bombay
5. Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur
6. Jute Agricultural Research Institute, 24 Paraganas West Bengal
7. Jute Technological Research Laboratories, Calcutta
8. Indian Lac Research Institute, Ranchi, Bihar
9. Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi
10. Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore
11. Central Potato Research Institute, Simla
12. Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttak, Orissa
13. Central Plantation Crop Research Institute, Kasargod, Kerala
14. Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow
15. Sugar Breeding Institute, Coinbatore, Tauil Nadu
16. Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Trivandrum
17. Central Tobacco Research Institute, Rajahmundry
18. National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi
19. ICAR Research Complex for North Eastern Hills Region, Shillong
20. Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Shala, Almora
21. Central Agricultural Research Institute for Andaman & Nicobar, Port Blair
22. Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal
23. Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal
24. Central Soil and Water Conservation Research & Training Institute,
Dehradun
25. National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Nagpur
26. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar
27. National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal
28. Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore
29. Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Cochin
30. Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Cochin
31. Central Sheep and Wood Research Institute, Jaipur
32. Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Bombay
33. Central Institute for Research on Goats, Mathura
34. National Research Centre for Groundnut, Junagadh
35. Central Avian Research Institute, Izatnagar
36. Central Institute of Horticulture for Northern Plains, Lucknow
37. National Centre for Mushroom Research & Training, Solan
38. National Academy for Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad



-49-                               ANNEX 2
Page 3
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
All India Coordinated Research Project
A. Proiect Directorates
1.  Rice                                    Rajendranagor, Hyderabad (AP)
2.  Wheat                                   IARI, New Delhi
3.  Pulses                          :       Kalyanpur, Kanpur (UP)
4.  Oilseeds                                Rajendranagar, Hyderabad CAP)
5.  Dryland Agriculture             :       Saidabad, Hyderabad CAP)
B.  Coordinated Projects:  Asriculture
Ci) Food Crops
1.  Barley                                  Karnal (Haryana)
2.  Maize                           :       IABI, New Delhi
3.  Sorghum                                 R Rajendrdnagar, Hyderabad (AP)
4. Nillets                          :       Pune (Maharashtra)
5.  Forage Crops                    :       Jhansi (UP)
6. Underutilized and
underexploited plants                   IARI, New Delhi
(ii) Comnercial Crops
7.  Sugarcane                       :       Lucknow (UP)
8. Cotton                           :       Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu)
9. Sugarbeet                                Pantzagar (UP)
10. Jute                            :       Barrackpore (WE)
11. Soyabean                                Pantuagar (UP)
12. Tobacco                                Anand (Gujarat)



_5D-                               ANNEX 2
Page 4
(iii) Horticultural Crops
13. Fruits                          :        Hissar (Haryana)
14. Tuber Crops                     :       Muzaffarpur (Bihar)
15. Potato                          :        Simla (Himachal Pradesh)
16. Vegetables                      .        IARI, New Delhi
17. Floriculture                    :        IARI, New Delhi
18. Medicinal and aromatic
plants                                 I IARI, New Delhi
19. Spices and Cashewnut             :       Kasargode (Kerala)
20. Coconut and Arecanut                     Kasargode (Kerala)
(iv) Plant Protection Schemes
21. Seed-borne Diseases                      I IARI, New Delhi
22. Nematodes                       :        IARI, New Delhi
23. Rodent Control                  :        Jodhpur (Rajasthan)
24. Biological Control               :       Bangalore, (Karnataka)
25. White Grub Scheme                        Parbhani (Maharashtra)
26. Honey Bee Research              :        Pune (Maharashtra)
27. Economic Ornithology                     H Hyderabad (AP)
(v)  Soil Science and Water Management
28. Water Management                :       Karnal (Haryana)
29. Management of Salt Soils
and Use of Saline Water               Karnal (Haryana)
30. Soil Test Crop Response
Correlation                           Saidabad (Hyderabad)
31. Improvement of Soil
Physical Condition                    ITAhI, New Delhi
32. Microbial Decomposition
and Recycling of Farm
and City Wastes               :       Palampur (Himachal Pradesh)
33. Biological Fixation of
Nitrogen                      :       IARI, New Delhi
34. Micronutrients of Soils
and Plants                    :       Ludhiana (Punjab)



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(vi) Asronomic Research
35. Agronomic Research Project               Bangalore (Karnataka)
36. Improvement of Diara Land                Sabour (Bihar)
37. Long-term Fertilizer
Experiments                           T IARA (Nev Delhi)
(vii)  Agricultural Enxineerin2
38. Farm Implements and
Machinery                              Bhopal (MP)
39. Optimization of Groundwater
Utilization                            IARI, New Delhi
40. Energy Requirements for
Intensive Agricultural
Production                            Ludhiana (Punjab)
41. Intensive Testing of
Power Tillers                         Bhopal (MP)
42. Harvest and Postharvest
Technology                            Bhopal (NP)
43. Agricultural Drainage                    IARI, New Delbi
44. Renewable Energy Sources                 Bhopal (MP)
(viii) Home Science
45. Home Science Project                     IARI, New Delhi
C. Coordinated Proiects : Animal Science
{i) Animal Sciences
46. Cattle                                   Izatnagar (UP)
47. Buffalloes                              Karnal (Rayrana)
48. Sheep                                    Avikanagar (Rajasthan)
49. Poultry                                  Izatnagar (UP)
50. Goat                            :       Mathura (UP)
51. Pigs                                     Izatnagar (UP)
52. Agricultural by-products
and Waste Material            :       Jabalpur (MP)
53. Epidemiological Studies on
Foot and Mouth Disease                Bangalore (Karnataka)



ANNEX 2
-52-                              Page 6
(ii) Fisheries
54. Composite Fish Culture          :       Bhubanesvar (Orissa)
55. Propagation of Air-breathing
Fishes in Svamps              :       Barrackpore (West Bengal)
56. Ecology of Fish in Fresh
Water Reservoirs              :       Barrackpore (West Bengal)
57. Brackish Water Fish
Farming                               Barrackpore (West Bengal)
D.  Coordinated Proiects : Tribal and Backward Areas
58. Strengthening Agricultural and
Research Program for Tribals :       Amravati (Maharashtra)
59. Rapid Improvement of
Agricultural Technology for
Scheduled Castes and Backward
Classes                       :      Amravati (Maharashtra)



ANNEX 3
-53-                         Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (Cr. 855-IN)
Procedure Folloved by ICAR for Sanction of Subprojects
Step I:      Receipt of subproject proposal from SAU;
Step II:     Appraisal by PU appointed team comprising Scientists
(consultants), SAU representative, and PU representative
and preparation of detailed appraisal report with year
vise breakdown of cost;
Step III:    Scrutiny and review of report by Inter-disciplinary
Scientific Panel (ISP);
Step IV:     Preliminary scrutiny and review by Finance Department of
ICAR;
Step V:      Project Funding Committee examines the proposals in the
light of comments by ISP and Finance Department and
approves/rejects the subprojects;
Step VI:     Final approval by Finance Department after considering
recommendations of PFC;
Step VII:    Issue of formal sanction letter to SAU and asking from
SAU the State Government's undertaking (in the prescribed
format) to make available funds for payment of salaries,
maintenance of civil works and operating costs for the
continuation of research activities after the initial
period of five years; and
Step VIII:   On receipt of State Government's undertaking and confirma-
tion about acquisition of land (if any), ICAR releases 25%
of the funds allocated for the first year; thereafter, SAUs
submit a half yearly progress report ending September 30 and
March 31, each financial year, indicating actual expenditure,
balance left over, and requirement of funds for the next six
months. Further advances are released by ICAR taking into
account the unspent balance and capacity of SAW to spend.



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Progress
Cumulative
Achievements      Work         Work Program      Cumulative
upto         Program       1985/86 upto      Achievements    Appraisal
Unit    March 31, 1984    1984/85    Sept., 30, 1985        in NARP I        Targets
Background Paper          Nos            22              -                -                22              15
Research Reviev           Nos             16                                               16              15
Administrative             Nos            20               1                                -              21
Subprojects
Research Subprojects      Nos             67              20                               87              56
Training Subprojects      Nos              2               -                                -               2
ICAR Commitments          Rs.M          553              180              -               733             744
ICAR Disbursements        Rs.M          222              103             75               400             425
&10



ANNEX 3
-55-                          Page 2
INDLA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT I
List of Completed Proiects
(a) Administrative SubDroiects (9)
1. Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad
2. Gujarat Agricultural University, Abmedabad
3. J.N. Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Jabalpur (HP)
4. Kerala Agricultural University
5. University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore (Karnataka)
6. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore
7. Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar
8. Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana
9. Sukhadia University, Udaipur (Rajasthan)
(b) Research Projects tll)
Subproject                   State
1.    Tirupathi                    Andhra Pradesh
2.    Weed control                 Haryana
3.    Baval                        Haryana
4.    Arnej                        Andhra Pradesh
5.    Targhadia                    Gujarat
6.    Pilicode                     Kerala
7.    Palen-Rajendranagar          Andbra Pradesh
8.    Lam-Bapatla                  Andhra Pradesh
9.    Bijapur                      Karnataka
10.    Jagtiyal                     Andhra Pradesb
11.    Raipur-Jagdalpur             Madhya Pradesh



-56-                         ANNe  3
Page 3
INDIA
N&TIOVAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
Aaroecological Zones
1. ANDHRA PRADESH
1.   Krishna Godavari Zone - Lam (Guntur)
2.    North Coastal Zone - Anakapalle
3.    Southern Zone -Tirupati
4.    Northern Telengana Zone - Jagtiyal
5.    Southern Teleugana Zone - Palem
6.    Scarce Rainfall Zone of Rayalaseema - N- dyal
7.    High Altitude and Tribal Area - Rast;akuntabavi/Chintapalli
2. ASSAM
1.    North Bank Plain Zone - North Lakhimpur
2.    Upper Brahmaputra Valley Zone - Jorhat
3.    Central Brabmaputra Valley Zone - Shillongani
4.   Lower Brabmaputra Valley Zone- Gosaigoan
5.    Barak Valley Zone - Karimganj
6.    Hill Zone - Diphu
3. BiHAR
1.    North West Alluvial Plains Zone - Pusa
2.    North East Alluvial Plains Zone - PurnealKathihar
3.    South Bihar Alluvial Plains Zone - Sabour
4.    Western Plateau Zone - Chianki
5.    South Eastern Plateau Zone - Ghatshila
4. GUJARAT
1.    South Gujarat Heavy Rainfall Zone, Naveari
2.    South Gujarat Zone - Bharuch/Surat
3.    Middle Gujarat Zone - Anand
4.    North Gujarat Zone - Dantivada
5.    North West Zone Zone - Bachau
6.    North Sourashtra Zone - Targhadia
7.    South Sourashtra Zone - Junagarh
8.    Bhal and Coastal Area - Arnej



-57-                         ANNEX 3
Page 4
5. HARYANA
1.    Eastern Zone - Karnal
2.    Western Zone - Baval/Hissar
6. HIMACHAL PLADESH
1.    Submoutain and low hills subtropical zone - Dhaulakuan
2.    Hid Hills Subhumid Zone - Bajaura
3.   High Hills Temperate Wet Zone - Mashobra
4.   High Hills Temperate Dry Zone - Kukumseri
7. KARNATAKA
1.   North East Transition Zone - Bidar
2.  North East Dry Zone - Raichur
3.   Northern Dry Zone - Bijapur
4.  Central Dry Zone - Sirsa
5.   Eastern Dry Zone - Hebbal (Bangalore)
6.   Southern Dry Zone - Nagamangala
7.   Southern Transition Zone - Navile/Shimoga
8.   Northern Transition Zone - Dharivar
9.   Hill Zone - Mudigere
10.  Costal Zone - Brabmavar
8. KERAIA
1.   Northern Zone - Pilicode
2.   Southern Zone - Vellayani
3.   Central Zone - Pattambi
4.   High Altitude Zone - Aabalavayal
5.   Problem Areas Zone - Kuinarakom
9. MADHYA PRADESH
1.  Chatisgarh Plains including Balaghat District - Raipur
2.   Bastar Plateau - Jagdalpur
3.   North Hill Zone of Chstisgarh - Ambikapur
4.   Kymore Plateau and Satpura Hills - Jabalpur
5.  Vindhya Plateau -Sehore
6. Central Narsmda Valley Zone - Pawarkhera
7.  Gird Zone - Morena
8.   Bundelkhand Zone - Tikaugarh
9.  Satpura Plateau - Chindwara
10.   Malwa Plateau Zone - Indore
11.   Ni-ar Valley Zone - Khargone
12.  Jhabua Hills Zone - Jhabua



-58-                         ANNEX 3
Page 5
10. NANARASETRA
1.    South Konkan Coastal Zone - Vengurla
2.    North Konkan Coastal Zone - Karjat
3.    Western Gbat Zone - Igatpuri
4.    Subuountain Zone - Kolbapur
5.    Western Maharashtra Plain Zone - Pune
6.    Scarcity Zone - Sholapur
7.    Central Haharashtra Plateau - Aurangabad
8.    Central Vidharba - Yavatmal
9.    Eastern Vidharba - Sindhevahi
11. ORISSA
1.   North Eastern Plateau Zone
2.   North Central Plateau Zone - Reonjhar
3.   North Eastern Coastal Plain Zone - Ranital
4.  East and South Eastern Coastal Zone - Bhubanesvar
5.   North Eastern Ghat Zone - G. Udayagiri
6.   Eastern Ghat Highland Zone - Semiliguda
7.  South Eastern Chat Zone - Jeypore
8.  Western Undulating Zone - Bhavanipatna
9.   West Central Table Low Zone - Chiplima
10.   Kid-Central Table Land Zone - Mahishpat
12. PUNJAB
1.   Submountain Undulating Zone - Kandi
2.    Undulating Plain Zone - Gurdaspur
3.   Central Plain Zone - Ludhiana
4.    Western Plain Zone - Faridkot
5.    Western Zone - Bhatinda
13. RAJASTHAN
1.    Arid Western Plain - Jodhpur (served by CAZRI)
2.    Irrigated North Western Plain - Sriganganagar
3.    Transitional Plain of Inland Drainage - Fatehpur (Sikar)
4.    Transitional Plain of Luni Basin - Sumerpur (Pali)
5.    Semiarid Eastern Plain Zone - Durgapura (Jaipur)
6.    Flood Prone Eastern Plain Zone - Navagaon (Alvar)
7.    Subhumid Southern Plain and Aravalli Hill - Udaipur
8.    Bumid Southern Plain - Banswara
9.    Humid South Eastern Plain - Kota



-59-                         ANEXM   3
Page 6
14. TANIL NADU
1.    North Eastern Zone - Vridhachalam
2.   North Western Zone - Paiyur
3.    Western Zone - Coimbatore
4.    Cauvery Delta Zone - Aduthurai
5.    Southern Zone - Aruppukottai
6.    High Rainfall Zone - Kanyakumari
7.    High Altitude and Rilly Zone - Thadiankudisai
15. UTTAR PRADESE
1.  Hill Zone - Ranichauri
2.   Bhabar and Tarai Zone - Pantnagar
3.  Western Plain Zone - Daurala
4.  Mid Western Plain Zone - Nagina/Sahajahanpur
5.   South Western Semiarid Zone - Madhuri Ihund
6.   Central Plain Zone - Kanpur
7.   Bundelkband Zone - Bh*rari
8.  North Eastern Plain Zone - Sardarnagar
9.  Eastern Plain Zone - Kumarganj
10.  Vindhyan Zone -Nirzapur
16. WEST BENGAL
1.   Hilly Zone - Pedong
2.   Terai Zone - Pundibari
3.    Old Alluvial Zone - Randia
4.    New Alluvial Zone - Mohanpur
5.    Laterite and Red Soil Zone - Jhargram
6.    Coastal Saline Zone - NMthurapur
17. JAINU AND KASMHIR
1.    Subtropical Zone
2.    Intermediate Zone
3.    Valley Temperate Zone
4.    Dry Temperate Zone
5.    Cold arid Zone



-60-                              ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Achivements and Particular Problems of State A2ricultural Universities
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Pradesh Agriculural University - APAU)
Seven agroecological zones were identified in Andhra Pradesh. One
administrative and six research subprojects were approved at an estimated
cost of Rs.55.8 million.
The progress of subprojects is satisfactory. One of the research
subprojects, Tirupati, completed five years of implementation and an ICAR
review of its performance was overall favourable. Progress of civil works
is good except in one subproject, Paleu. Implementation was delayed in
one of the subprojects, Jagatial, due to problems relating to land
acquisition which are since resolved. Staff vacancies and rapid turnover
plague at least two subprojects -- Jagatial and Palem. Status Reports
vere prepared for most of the zones but only two of these met the required
standards. ICAR and the Bank are assisting SAD to prepare a model Status
Report for one zone. Technical program formulation and implementation
vastly improved at most regional stations, except Palem where further
improvement is needed. Research/extension linkages are increasingly
becoming effective.
The reason6 for slow progress at Jagatial and Palem is due to their
location on new sites in rural areas which de not attract civil works
contractors and especially professional staff. IDA supervision missions
and ICAR are persuading SAU to resolve the problems of staff vacancies and
turnover by hastening the completion of housing facilities and providing
incentives to staff working at unattractive locations.
Assam (Assam Agricultural University - AAU)
Six agroecological zones were identified in Assam. One administra-
tive and three researcn subprojects were aanctioned at a total cost of
Rs.28 million. Project implementation in Assam is slow and much behind
scnedule. The SAU was without a regular Vice Chancellor for over a year.
The political turmoil in the state partly contributed to delays. Now,
with the return of peace and stability, and the appointment of a Vice
Chancellor, implementation has improved. Close monitoring by ICAR is
required to improve project implementation.



-61-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Bihar
Bihar has two universities: (1) Rajendra Agricultural University
(RAU), and (2) Birsa Agricultural University (BAU). Six agroecological
zones were identified in the state. One administrative and one research
subproject were sanctioned for RAU at a cost of Rs.9.8 million.
The progress of Sabour subproject (RMU), sanctioned in September,
1983 is slow due mainly to administrative problems. Civil works are
behind schedule and staff vacancies are high. Technica'l program formula-
tion is improving.
Although four subprojects were appraised and processed for BAU,
funds are not released pending grant of statutory recognition to SAU by
the University Grants Commission. The issue is being resolved and SAU is
expected to receive funds in early 1985.
Both the SAUs require close monitoring and supervision.
Gujiarat (Guiarat Asricultural University - GAU)
Eight agroecologicai zones were identified, in Gujarat. One
administrative and six research subprojects were sanctioned at a cost of
Rs.50.5 million.
While implementation of some of the subprojects (e.g., Dantiwada)
is brisk, some others are behind schedule. Civil works at Arnej and
Targhadia were delayed. Staff vacancies are hige and the turnover rapid
at stations located away from the SAU campuses. Status Reports have been
prepared but do not adequately reflect the problems of the area. ICAR and
the Bank (NDO) are s=4isting SAU in preparing a model Status Report for
one zone. Techni.-..L programs are increasingly focused on the problems of
farmers. Research/extension interaction has improved.
The main problem in Gujarat stems from the administrative structure
which is yet to adapt itself to N.&'P concept of regionalization of
research on zonal basis. The Campus Director (there are four campuses)
controls and administers research in his service area with little coor-
dination with the Director of Research. IDA supervision missions and ICAR
have raised this issue with the Vice Chancellor who has since retired.
This issue needs to be pursued by ICAR with the new Vice Chancellor.



-62-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Haryana (Haryana Agricultural University - HAU)
Three agroecological zones were identified in Haryana. Besides one
administrative and three research subprojects to establish/strengthen
regional stations, three special subprojects (basic research) were sanc-
tioned as the SAU has a well developed infrastructure at its central
campus. The total cost of subprojects approved is Rs.26.8 million.
The implementation of subprojects is on schedule and HAU is one of
the problem-free universities in NARP. Three subprojects completed 5
years on December 31, 1983. A team of consultants appointed by ICAR
reviewed the progress at Bawal Regional Station and the findings are
favorable.
Researchlextension interaction is effective resulting in improved
quality of experiments. There is, however, need to further integrate the
Krishi Gyan Kendras (KGK - District Agricultural Extension Centers)
operated by HAU with the Research Stations.
Himachal Pradesh (Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishwa Vidyalava - HPKVV)
Four agroecological zones were identified in Himachal Pradesh.
One administrative and two research subprojects were sanctioned at a total
cost of Rs.25.2 million.
The progress of implementation of subprojects is uneven. Civil
works at Bajoura are progressing well. There was delay in laud acquisi-
tion for one new station. Staff vacancies are high. Some of the recom-
mendations of the Research Review Committee and subproject appraisal teams
relating to shifting of research activities from one center to another
are yet to be implemented. Status Reports are yet to be prepared. Techni-
cal progran development and implementation require further improvement.
Researchlextension interaction requires to be strengthened.
In the absence of a full time Director of Research, research work
lacks leadership and monitoring. The concept of regionalization of
research has yet to be fully understood and implemented by SAU. SAU will
soon appoint a fulltime Director of Research.
Karnataka (University of Agricultural Sciences - UAS)
Ten agroecological zones were identified in Karnataka. One
administrative and six research subprojects were sanctioned at a cost of
Rs.40.7 million.



-63-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
The progress in some subprojects is slow. Delays in land acquisi-
tion, civil works and procurement of equipment are the main bottlenecks.
Staff vacancies are high (about 40%).  At Bijapur, however, project
implemenation improved during the past two years.  Civil works are mostly
complete.  A good Status Report was prepared.  The regional concept has
been well understood and implemented. Technical program formulation and
implementation have improved considerably. The Zonal Research Advisory
Committee is meeting regularly in all the zones; research and extension
staff work as a vell knit team.
Besides staffing and land acquisition problems, slow progress in
Karnataka is traceable to the delay by the University in implementing the
zonal approach due to administrative and personnel problems. A closer
monitoring of subprojects by SAX research directorate would also help in
improving the pace and quality of project implementation.
Kerala (Kerala Agricultural University - KAU)
Five agroecological zones were identified in Kerala. One
administrative and five research subprojects, and one special research
subproject for water management were sanctioned at a cost of Rs.43.3
million.
The progress of implementation was initially slow. Civil works were
behind schedule due to escalation in costs which necessitated a revision
of cost estimates.  Availability of cement (allotted by the Government of
Kerala) was another constraint. The pace of progress improved after the
resolution of these problems. The progress of the technical component is
satisfactory. KAU prepared Status Reports for all the regions and they
are of fairly good quality. Technical programs have become more relevant
addressing the problems faced by farmers.
Initial administrative and oganizational problems having been
resolved, implementation of the project has vastly improved.
Madhya Pradesh (Javaharlal Nehru Krishi Viswa Vidvalava - JNKVW)
Twelve agroecological zones were identified in Madhya Pradesh. One
administrative and five research subprojects were sanctioned at a total
cost of Rs.49.9 million.
Progress of civil works, purchase of equipment and filling staff
vacancies is slow inspite of intensive monitoring by ICAR and IDA supervi-
sion missions. Status Report of accepable quality has been prepared for
only one subproject (Raipur). There has been a perceptible improvement in
technical program development in subprojects which have been staffed
adequately. Research/extension linkages are stronger now than before.



-64-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
Inadequate monitoring and assistance from the SAU Research Direc-
torate and administrative bottlenecks are identified as the principal
reasons for slow progress.
Mabarashtra
The state has four universities: (a) Mahatma Phule Krishi Vishva
Vidyapeeth (MKV); (b) Panjabrao Rrishi Viswavidyapeeth (PKV); (c) Konkan
Krishi Vidyapeeth (KKV); and (d) Marathwada Krishi Vidypeeth (MKV). Each
SAU is assigned a contiguous area of five to nine districts. The State
government has set up the Maharastra Council of Agricultural Education and
Research and for inter-university coodination and collaboration. The
Council is chaired by an eminent agriculturist with the four Vice Chancel-
lors, senior staff from four SAUs, and the Secretary Department of
Agriculture, Government of Maharashtra as members.
Nine agroecological zones were identified in the State. One
administrative subproject was sanctioned to each SAU to strengthen the
research directorates, which were not well organized prior to project
implementation. One research project for each SAU vas sanctioned late in
1983. Senior professional staff have been appointed. Problems relating
to land acquisition, staffing and organization which emerged in the ini-
tial stages are expected to be resolved soon.
Orissa (Orissa University of Agriculture and Technolofy - OUAT)
Ten agroecological zones were identified in Orissa. One
administrative and four research subprojcts were sanctioned at a cost of
Rs.29.6 million.
Project progress is improving. Initially some administrative
arrangements vhich were prerequisites for release of funds by ICAR were
not fulfilled which are now resolved. Transfer of land from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and acquisition of additional land were delayed; as
a result civil works could not be started in time. Staff vacancies are
high (over 50Z) and procurement of equipment is behind schedule.
Puniab (Puniab Agricultural University - PAU)
Five agroecological zones were identified in Punjab. One
administrative, two research, and one basic research subproject were
sanctioned at a cost of Rs.19.4 million.
The progress of implementation of the subprojects is good. Civil
works are on schedule. Status Reports are under preparation. Technical
program formulation and implementation have improved. There were, however,
delays in strengthening research facilities for the two remaining zones,
as PAU has yet to locate suitable locations. The university expects to
complete this task shortly.



-65-
ANNEX 4
Page 6
Raiasthan (Mohan Lal Sukhadia University - MLSU)
Nine agroecological zones were identified in Rajasthan. One
administrative and six research subprojects were sanctioned at a total
cost of Rs.42.9 million.
Implementation of subprojects is satisfactory except in one of the
subprojects (Fatehpur) where land selection and acquisition problems
caused long delays. A site has finally been acquired for establishing a
regional station for this zone. Technical program formulation has
improved.
A major concern relating to this SAU is the delay in carving out an
agricultural university from the existing multifaculty in.titution. ICAR
is insisting on this and intends making it a condition for further assis-
tance.
Tamil Nadu (Tamil Nadu Agricultural University - TNAU)
Seven agroecological zones were identified in Tamil Nadu. One
administrative subproject, six research subprojects for estab-
lishing/strengthening regional research facilities, and one special sub-
project for basic research were sanctioned at a cost of Rs.47.6 million.
Progress of all subprojects except two is satisfactory. Civil
works, although slightly behind schedule, are progressing well. Land
acquisition problems delayed implementation of two subprojects. Status
Reports were prepared for most of the regions and some are of good
quality. ICAR and EDO are assisting SAU to prepare a model Status Report
for one zone. Technical program development and implementation is satis-
factory. The required level of integration of research facilities and
programs within a zone is yet to be achieved with the result that the head
of the regional station is not able to fully discharge the zonal respon-
sibilities.
Tamil Nadu has a large research infrastructure at its central
campus Coimbatore, where research responsibilities have been assigned to
the Departments of Genetics and Breeding, Crop Protection, etc., with
senior Directors of the rank of the Director of Research directing these
units. These Directors have technical jurisdiction over the regional
stations which makes the task of shaping programs to suit zonal needs
difficult. ICAR is expected to resolve this issue in consultation with
the Vice Chancellor.



-66-
ANNEX 4
Page 7
Uttar Pradesh
The state has three Agricultural Universities: (1) Gobind Ballabh
Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT); (2) Narendra Deo
University of Agriculture and Technology (NDUAT); and (3) Chandra Sekhar
Azad University of Agriculture and Technology (CSUAT). Each university is
assigned a contiguous service area of 15 to 22 districts of the state.
Due to the large size of the state and the multiplicity of univer-
sities, the Research Review, which is a prerequisite to sanction of sub-
projects, was completed only in 1982. Ten agroecological zones were
identified in the state. The Research Directorates of the three SAUs were
strengthened through administrative subprojects. One research subproject
was sanctioned for each SAU and vork has started in one.
The problem in Uttar Pradesh is the lack of suitable agency as
exists in Maharashtra to coordinate the activities of the three SAUs.
ICAR is persuading the state to establish a Joint Council to bring about
the required coordination.
West Bengal (Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswa Vidyalava - BCKVV)
Six agroecological zones vere identified in West Bengal. No sub-
project was, however, sanctioned as the state did not fulfill the require-
ment of transferring all research responsi1ilities to SAU. The issue has
been under prolonged discussions between the State Government and ICAR
and is expected to be resolved soon.



-67-
Table 1
ATIXOULL AGZICVLUAL iUMRM POJCTZI_
Umillover of Proiect Committed La IWAR
(0Illions 13)
letijauted                                    Disabueemmto in NAN? UX
Sanctioned   Diebursemen  by  Spillower to   1985/86     1D98667   1987186  1988b89  198W/9       Total
Suburoiect.                         Cost      Sept. 30. 19S5      3*1U     (six months) S)illor
1. Aiuistretive kb-project.        12.616          9.738           2.878        0.827       1.023     0.32B    0.250    0.210    2.635
2. Researcb Sub-projects           554.381       245.050         309.331       74.091      57.121     72.440   43.990   31.6B9  309.331
3. Special Rem.arcb Sub-projocts   14.192         11.611            2.501       0.420       0.770      0.175      -         -       1.365
4. Trainin Sub-projects            21.502         11.813            9.689       3,549      3.1i40      2. 50L_                      9.6S
Tot-l                                                                   78.587     9          75,443   442f0              323-023



6*TI     L _AGRICgIUOUL_REL MC H_POJE T II
(Million Rs)
=  =  ^  128  ____l2_i il E88  1 ^ i282Q_ i22QE __ 1 2219                    Total
u   L.                                            99u L.J222U~
Capital Costs               -         0.53                  -          -                    -        0.53
Staff Salaries             0.99       1.34      1.34       1.34       1.35      1.35       1.35      9.06
Office Operating Costs    0.48        0.48      0.53       0.53       0.54      0.54       0.54      3.64
Consultant Costs           0.52       0.57      0.52       0.22       0.09      0.09       0.09      2.10
Training Costs              Q. 04 0QQ4          0 00U                - 2                 0           35
Subtotal            2.03      2.96       2.43       2.13      2.03       2.00       2.00    15.58
Physical Contingencies    0.05        0.08      0.06       0.04       0.04      0.03       0.03      0.33
Price Contingencies                                                   jb.0 Q4.U  94  Q;.z  LJQ8 1i38    _6.Qi
Total            2.26      3.58       3.18      3.00       3.11       3.31      3.51    21.95
=*n    .noun            m       mm==      =mmu   ..  ==,         m m==   m
Ln



-69-
Page I
INDIA
NATIONALGARICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
MffiICAR PROJECT UNIT 3!g}J
1.    The Project Unit would administer all phases of the project cycle:
(a) assisting SAUs in the preparation of research subproject proposals;
(b) presenting appraisal reports to ISP with appropriate recommendations
and suitably modified proposals to PFC; (d) issuing sanctions and organizing
disbursements for approved subprojects; (e) assisting SAUs in project
implementation (procurement of equipment, civil works and Status Reports);
(f) supervising subproject implementation and reporting to GOI/IDA;
(g) organizing reviews of ongoing projects to bring about qualitative
improvements; and (h) preparation of Project Completion Report.
2.    The Project Unit's work would be built around four main activities:
(a) completion of spillover projects in a satifactory manner; (b) preparation
and appraisal of 89 supplementary and 32 new subprojects; (c) providing
implementation assistance in preparation of Status Reports, research program
formulation and qualitative improvement, and organizing workshops and special
training courses; and (d) project supervision at appropriate intervals (fre-
quently, in case of weak subprojects). Project Unit would also have the
following responsibilities: (a) administer civil works design standards and
related provisions; (b) advise and control machinery and equipment procure-
ment; (c) maintain project accounts and carry out audits of SAU records; and
Cd) function as Secretariat of ISP and PFC.
3.   To meet the increased workload of assisting SAUs in the preparation
to ISP and PFC, PU could be strengthened by adding the positions of a Project
Director and two Assistant Directors General. While the Project
Administrator would have overall control over the working of PU, the day to
day functioning of PU would be the responsibility of the Project Director
assisted by the scientists and other technical staff.
4.    The specialist support staff to be added to PU would comprise
architects, engineers and accounts staff to support the increased civil works
program and fund disbursement needs. The responsibilities of
architects /engineers would include:
(a) Assisting ICAR and SAU in retaining suiable architects;
(b) Help in ?reuaration of architectural brief for all subprojects
involving la.oratory buildings;
(c) Reviewing subm'issions from SAU at the following stages:



-70-
ANNEX 5
Table 2a
Page 2
i. development of Master Plans;
ii. design drawings and cost estimates;
iii. list of proposed qualified contractors;
iv. tender evaluation and proposed contract award; and
v. construction supervision.
{d)  Review updated progress schedules at six-monthly intervals; and
(e) Make semiannual physical inspections of civil works in progress
and make recommendations for improvement.
5.    Consultant support. PU would not, on its own, be able to perform in
time its role in preparation, appraisals and implementation assistance. As
in NARP I (but to a greater degree) PU would make use of the services of
consultants (eminent scientists and research administrators) for subproject
preparation and appraisal, preparation of Status Reports and for evaluation
and implementation assistance. The project support of 210 man-months for
consultant services (60 man-months for subproject appraisal, 90 man-months
for evaluation and implementation support, and 60 man-months for asssistance
in preparation of Status Reports) will be utilized on the basis of an annual
work plan.



ICA Proiect Wsit: Staff Coat.
(Re 1000)
Unit                                                Ptoiect _ly   j
Catuaorv                      Coat   Units 9p ii fi 17iiT,a ,arisa,iua            11918/9 ,I19910    1990/91         1992         ToUa1
Project Director              51.9      1         26.0       51.9        51.9        51.9       51.9        51.9        51.9      337.4
Assistant Director Cenral     44.6      4        134.1       178.4      178.4       173.4      178.4       178.4       178.4    1,204.5
Scientist.                    41.3      4        165.2      165.2       165.2       165.2      165.2       165.2       165.2    1,156.4
Deputy Project Coordiator     44.3      1         44.3       44.3        44.3        44.3       44.3        44.3       44.3       310.1
Execntive Engineer            32.8      1         32.8       32.8        32.8        32.8       32.8        32.8       32.3       2Z9.6
Architect                     32.8      1         32.8       32.8        32.8        32.8       32.8        32.8        32.8      229.6
Assistant  nginoer            27.7      2         55.4       55.4        55.4        55.4       55.4        55.4        55.4      387.6
Architectural Aaistant        22.0      1         11.0       22.0        22.0        22.0       22.0        22.0        22.0      143.0
Accont. Officer               28.0      1         14.0        28.0       28.0        28.0       28.0        28.0        28.0      132.0
Assistant Accounts Cfficur     27.7     1         27.7        27.7       27.7        27.7       27.7        27.7        27.7      193.9
Desk Officer                  28.0      1         28.0       28.0        28.0        28.0       28.0        28.0       28.0       196.0
Section Officer               27.7      1         13.9       27.7        27.7        27.7       27.7        27.7       27.7       180.1
Senior Technicnl Assimtaet    22.0      2         44.0       44.0        4.0        4.          44.0        44.0       44.0       308.0
Anaietaut                      19.8     4   (1)  19.8  (4) 79.2          79.2        79.2       79.2        79.2        79.2      495.0
Peronml Assistant              19.8    11  (7) 138.6  (11) 217.8        217.8       217.8      217.3       217.8      217.8    1,445.0
toegnrapher                   14.9      3         44.7       44.7        44.7       44.7        44.7        44.7       44.7       312.9
Clerk: Upper Division          14.9     2         29.8        29.8       29.3        29.8       29.8        29.8        29.8      208.6
Clerk: Lower Divieion          12.0     7   (4)  48.0  (7) 84.0          84.0        84.0       84.0        84.0       U4.0       552.0
Class ZV Staff                 6.6      4   (2)  13.2  (4) 26.4          26.4        26.4       26.4        26.4       26.4       171.6
Operator                      12.0      1           -         12.0       12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0       12.0        72.0
Driver                        12.0      3   (1)  _12.   (3)_UL&  36.0Qa            ...0   36 .0             36.0       36.0      -UL
Total                      935.3    1,268.1    1,268.1    1,268.1    1,268.1    1,268.1    1,268.1         .5U43.9
Punmion Fund Contribution 6Z                     5AA         76.1        76.1      7Z.1         76.1        76.1    ..76.1        512.7
Total Staff Costs                     991.4    1.344.2    1,34.2    1,344.2    1,344.2    1.344.2    1,344.2    9,055.6



-72-
Pass 2
t ri                                                 r    - -
1. Offict     i    CoreUrLL
Vehicles                   15.00    4         60.0       60.0        60.0        60.0       60.0        60.0        60.0      420.0
wravel 11                 324.00             324.0       324.0      324.0       324.0       324.0      324.0       324.0    2,2U.0
Office 3/                                    LLQ         IQ  .       L  15       1 112        A        kL=    1 0        , JIA
Subtotal                                "tag 4MA              I2iR        2&62 .AI               I2kJ 53. Q
2.  ,U5A1uS I/
Apprtisl                 9.001...            180.0       180.0      180.0         -           -          -           -         540.0
Status eport
fteprstion             9.00/0..            180.0       150.0       90.0        90.0        -           -           -        540.0
gwsluation and
Loplmeutation          9.00...             -Lfl       -.12        INA          La        .111        .-.u        -.A       JW
Subtotal                                450.0       495.0      450.0       225.0        90.0       90.0        90.0    1,60.0
3.  Jfr tiJag J/                                  72.0       72.0        72.0         -          -           -          -         216.0
4.  Uainim  Movishon
MMU  Objectives           3 days   3/yar    15.0          15.0       15.0        15.0        15.0        -           -         75.0
Status Report             3 days   3/year    15.0         15.0       15.0        15.0       15.0         -           -         75.0
frpration
Dieciplie Orionted        5 days   3/yes:                               ll , Q               IL!        L2          IA         M.2
Subtotal                                 45.0        45.0       45.0        45.0        65.0       15.0        15.0      25
Total Operating Costs                 1,051.0    1,096.0    1,101.0        U04.0       669.0      639.0       639.0    5,999.0
1/ project Unit staff (rmber. will nae two field trips every motb (24 per year). Coated at Rs 1.500 per personltrLp and roeundd.
*t stationary. postage. telephone. etc.
'/ Details as given at lt_ 15. Table 4.
/  Looming 3 1SP meetlegs per year and at Re 1,500 per umber pet wetiLg (for 16 : berr).
2/  to 5,000 per Couroe.



-73-
JIMM 5
TgkLe -:; b
Page 3
NLT12jh CRICULT-URA RHSWh1CH M.B2LI0 t
IC  R PROESCT JCIT
Yehicles and Bvijpuent Costs
__                                UNMBER R                    !M(Rs 'O00
Staff Cars                            2                            200.00
Duplication                           1                             25.00
Photocopies                           1                             50.00
Typewriters                           4                             40.00
Hand Calculators                      5                              5.00
Air Conditioners                      5                             75.00
Coolers                               5                             12.00
Furniture                           lump sum                       100.00
Other Items                                                        Ag3QO2
527.50



-74-                                         AM  5
Page 4
NATIOWAL AGRICULTURAL RCSURCH PROJCCT U
Con,scltEat Reuuiremnts and Cocte
1985-86  1-i=-87  1298788   1988189   1989190   1990/91   1991192             Total
Subproject Appraisal (-1=) LI                        20        20         20         -         -          -         -              60
Zvaluation/lImplementation Assistance (uiu) _i       10        15         20        15         10        10         10             90
Status Reports (u/) 11/                            __        *JM       ..j        __U-                  -Z         --             _
50        55        50         25        10         10        10             210
Rs. 000 ~                                  -
Consultants  Costs Ai                               450       495        450       225         90        90         90          1,890
1/ 1/2 */h for supplementary (82) and I u/m for new research (39) subprojects: 75 %consultants.
2/ 1 u/u for subproject: 75Z consultants.
1/ 1 */h for 2/3 of subprojects: 75Z consultants.
4; Calculated at; Rs.l50 per day as fee; RJ.50 per day as subsistence or actuals wbichever is higher (Total Rs.6,000 per month).
Travel costs calculated at Rs.3.000 per u/u. Total cost per consultant would be Rs.9.000 per *l.h



-'5-                                                 Table 3
4CAIMXRLh NA5QUL-ACRICLEUR  XLSLARCH ZROMM 1#: I
rm  .IcuSS
Unit Coat                            Ernendicurea (Ru. pillion)
hasbn  LZA. I iill.)  15a   6   IlS/    19I7t     LSS  1982902  2990/91 l LI2U2Z    Iotc1s
BASE OQsTs . m.cNSTaI 1984/15 PRICES
A. XryXeaau4hcchnr&bqQt
Initiated in
- 1985/K                           8        10.50        4.20    12.60    25.20    25.20    16.80        -        -        84.00
- 1986/87                         16        10.50         -       8.40    25.20    50.40    50.40    33.60        -       168.00
- 1987/88                         15        10.50         -        -        7.88   23.63    47.25    47.25    31.49       157.50
Subtqtv^                            32           .-S    ZLmfi                MANQq     58.28 ZSB  1144I   M8     31.49     409.5f 0
B. S    fg1leunXifr lfisSh sAtbrit
Initiated in
- 1985186                         20         3.00        6.00    15.00    21.00    18.00       -         -        -        60.00
- 1986/87                        32          3.00         -       9.60    24.00    33.60    28.80       -         -        96.00
- 1987/88                        30          3.00         -        -        9.00    22.50    31.50    27.00       -        90.00
S9htarAlfLtl   M240    ...                                                            1         654.10   SA   ZJ.0  _ ____ 2 .ao
Initiated in
- 1986/87                         2          1.65         -       0.16      0.50     0.99     0.99      0.66      -         3.30
- 1987/88                          2         1.65         -         -       0.16     0.50     0.99      0.99     0.66       3.30
SUbILitco                          -A           ...        ____      ^1       0.66     1.49     1.SB    1.6        0.6       _6.60
D. Admiaiazatkne-JuBi2giact3
Initiated in
- 19K6?87                          2         1.10         -       0.11      0.33     0.66     0.66      0.44      -         2.20
St%bt&qtAs                          A            ...        Z        0.11     0L.    LR          Q.M      0.44               A LZ=
I. EhBP-1 Suhurniecta frill-Aver        ...          ...       ZZJ1I   Z1423   53,Qj   lLfl    21ZA    -.z....   ..-z.ZJ         255
F. MlZRieCtJInit 10iML) ...                          ... L0 Lt                   2LM          M               L3       LEI       IL21S
l!lUl=Cz b^5E                     ...          ...       h        12A4fi  1x7A.4    20,51  200.63    lL1.94 I              9154
Physical Contingencies                  ...          ...        0.40      1.20     2.50     4.57      6.23     4.00     1.23      20.13
Price Contingeucies                     ...                     7.25    22.77    49.11    82.37   107.26    73.00    25.80       367.56
OAr.PPR CT COS TS3 I      mN     xmI4s tI2 LMS                                   22fl.3l   296.47   1J&AZ   15190      6LI-     LJL,j
Notes: (1) Average unit coats for nev *ubprojecta to be initiated under NARP II bave been established on the beais of detailed
appraisals of two individual aubprojecta and of actual expenditues incurred under WARP subprojecta  nd suppl-emntary
activities.
(2) The spill-over funding for uncompleted ARP subprojects representa amounts sanctioned by ICAR in current prices (i.e..
including price contingenciea); spill-over funding in constant basu-year prices of 1984/95 hae been eatimated by deflating
these sanctioned asounta by the domestic inflation indices shown above.
(3) For each of the new research subprojects, special researcb aubprojects nd administrative subprojects. expenditures/
diaburoeeenta are estimated to occur over a five-yeer implementation period at the tfi ioein  annual rates: 5S. 151, 30S, 30S
and 202. For each of the supplementary research subprojects. expendituree/dietsraement eare estimted to occur over a
four-year implementation period at the following annual rates: 10, 25S, 35S. and 301.



-76-                       ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
Composition of the InterdisciDlinary Scientific Panel
1.   Dr. N.K. Anant Rao                          Chairman
Retd. Deputy Director General ICAR
2.   Dr. B.G. Bathkal                            Member
Research Advisor
Maharashtra Council of Agricultural
Education and Research
Pune
3.   Dr. G.S. Gill                               Member
Agronomy Division
Punjab Agricultural University
Ludhiana
4.   Dr. N.G.P. Rao                              Member
Vice Chancellor
Narathwada Agricultural University
Parhbani
5.   Dr. P.C. Bora                               Member
Dean, Agriculture
Assam Agricultural University
Jorhat
6.   Dr. L.N. Mandal                             Member
Professor of Soil Science and
Agricultural Chemistry
Bidan Chandra Irishi Vishwa
Vidyalaya
Kalyani
7.   Dr. K.V. Rman                               Member
National Academy of Agricultural
Research Management
Hyderabad
8.   Dr. R.S. Singh                              Member
Dean, Postgraduate College
G.B. Pant University of Agriculture
and Technology
Pantuagar



-77-
AMEX 6
Page 2
9.    Dr. S. Jairaj                               Member
Director, Institute of Plant
Protection
Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
Coiubatore
10.   Dr. T.P. Ojha                               Merber
Director
Central Institute of Agricultural
Engineering
Bhopal
11.   Dr. P.C.S. Nair                             Member
Director of Research
Kerala Agricultural University
Vellanikkara
12.   Dr. R.C. Eirameath                          Member
Agricultural Economics and
Statistics Department
University of Agricultural Sciences
Dharwar
13.   Dr. I.C. Patel                              Member
Director of Extension Education
Gujarat Agricultural University
Almedabad
14.  Dr. D.S. Balaine                             Member
Professor of Animal Breeding
Haryana Agricultural University
Hissar
15.   Dr. V.R.P. Sinha                            Member
Scientist in Charge
Central Inland Fisheries Research
Institute
Bhubanesvar
16.  Dr. B.S. Malik                               Member
Dean, Veterinary College
Javaharlal Nehru Krishi
Vishwa Vidyalaya
Jabalpur



-78-
ANNEX 6
Page 3
17.   Dr. N.S. Subba Rao                          Member
Head, Microbiology Division
Indian Aricultural Research Institute
New Delhi
18.   Deputy Director General (Edu.)              Member
19.   Deputy Director General (AS)                Member
20.   Deputy Director General (CS)                Member
21.   Deputy Director General (S)                 Member
22.   Deputy Director General NARP                MemberlSecretary



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
COSTS AND BENEFITS FOR AN AVERAGE NARP-II RESEARCH SUBPROJECT
(in million Rupees; in prices of 1984/85)
1985/ 1986/ 1987/ 1988/ 1989/ 1990/ 1991/ 1992/ 1993/ 1994/1995
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994 -2009/2010  Totals
A. Financial
Total Costs             0.53  1.58  3.15  3.15  2.10  1.05  1.05  1.05  1.05    1.05          31.50
- Investment Costs La 0.53  1.58  3.15  3.15  2.10   -        -     -      -       -         10.50
- Operating Costs /b   -      -     -      -     -    1.05  1.05  1.05  1.05    1.05        21.00
Benefits                 -     -     -      -     -    0.47  1.18  2.35  3.53    4.70        82.75
Net Benefits           -0.53 -1.58 -3.15 -3.15 -2.10 -0.58  0.13  1.30  2.48    3.65          51.25
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io
B.  Economic /c .
Total Costs             0.42  1.26  2.52  2.52  1.68  0.94  0.94  0.94  0.94    0.94          27.16
- Investment Costs    0.42  1.26  2.52  2.52  1.68   -        -     -     -        -         8.40
- Operating Costs       -     -     -      -     -    0.94  0.94  0.94  0.94    0.94        18.76
Benefits                 -     -     -      -     -    0.50  1.25  2.50  3.75    5.00        88.03
Net Benefits           -0.42 -1.26 -2.52 -2.52 -1.68 -0.44  0.31  1.56  2.81    4.06         60.87
/a  Comprises civil works & equipment (501), skilled labor (20Z) and unskilled labor (30%).
Lb  Comprises skilled labor (60%), unskilled labor (20%) and materials & equipment (20%).
/c  For conversion factors and economic prices used, see Annex 7, Table 2.                                     X
HJ 
Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC)  - 12.0X
Present Value of Economic Costs    - Re  9.70 million
Prnsent Value of Economic Benefits - Rs 15.76 million
Ntt Present Value of Subproject    = Rs  6.06 million
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)        - 20.0%



ANNEX 7
-80-                        Table 2
INDA
NATION&L AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
DERIVATION OF ECONOMIC FAIRG&TE PRICES FOR MAJOR CROPS IN 1990
(in constant prices of 1984/85)
Commoditr
Unit.   Wheat    Paddy    Maize   Sorihum
World Market Price 1990 /a            US$       158      351       117      113
Quality Adjustment                    Z         100       75       100      100
World Market Price, Adjusted          US$       158      263       117      113
Ocean Freight & Insurance lb          USS         -        -         -        -
Domestic Border Price                 US$       158      263       117      113
Exchange Rate                         RB/$   12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00
Domestic Border Price                 Rs      1,896    3,156    1,404    1,356
Domestic Handling & Trausport lc      Rs         75       75        75       75
Wholesale Price                       Rs      1,971    3,231    1.479    1,431
Processing k                          Ra          -     -115        -        -
Processing Ratio                      Z           -       67        -        -
Transport from Farngate /c            Rs        -75      -75       -75      -75
Economic Farmgate Price               Rs      1,896    2,002-   1,404    1,356
Financial Farmgate Price              Rs      1,900    1,600    1,600    1,600
Conversion Factor                            0.998    1.251    0.878    0.848
/a From "Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts    December 1984"
(I3D, Economic Analysis and Projections Department; 8 January 1985);
commodity prices projected for 1990 in current US Dollars have been
deflated by the MUV Index to obtain price projections in constant prices
of 1984/85:
W'heat: Canadian No. 1, Western Red Spring, fob Thunder Bay;
Paddy: Rice, Thai, milled, 5% broken, fob Bangkok;
Maize: US No. 2, Yellow, fob Gulf ports;
Sorghum: US No. 2, Milo Yellow, fob Gulf ports.
Ib  With India on the margin of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, it is assumed
that, depending on the size of the annual harvests, exports or imports
will occur in the short- and medium-term, and international transport
costs have therefore been omitted.
c Adjusted with Standard Conversion Factor of 0.8.
Note:  Based on the economic and financial farmgate prices for wheat and
paddy shown above, a general "Foodgrain Conversion Factor" has been
calculated as the weighted average of the conversion factors for
wheat and paddy - the respective weights being the relative shares of
wheat (44Z) and rice (56%) during the period 1981/82-1983/84 in India's
combined output of wheat and rice. Thus:
0.44 x 1896/1900 + 0.56 x 2002/1600 - 1.140
Other Conversion Factors Used in Economic Proiect Cost Estimation:
Standard ConverEion Factor (SCF)                  - 0.8
Conversion Factor for Skilled Labor               - 1.0
Convermion Factor for Unskilled Labor             - 0.667



-81-
RAflQIAL   RICUL.AL .RESEACHU.PRQJeCT II
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal
Year and                                                            Percentage
Sempeatez              Semeater             Gwmdative
FY86
1st                     2.0
2nd                     2.0                    4.0                    5.50
FY87
1st                     3.0                    7.0
2nd                     3.0                   10.0                   13.87
FY88
1st                     4.0                   14.0
2nd                     5.0                   19.0                   26.35
FY89
1st                     5.0                   24.0
2nd                     7.0                   31.0                   42.99
FY90
Ist                     5.0                   36.0
2nd                     7.0                   43.0                   59.64
FY91
1st                     6.0                   49.0
2nd                     7.0                   56.0                   77.66
FY92
1st                     6.0                   62.0
2nd                     7.0                   69.0                   95.70
FY93
1st                     3.1                   72.1                  100.00



-82-
AM.9
in,>
HATICN^L AGRIMULEURAL RESARCJ  PRAQJC  II
MAt,e,,iA I *ai 41le,in, utAe Xrg,ie,ct, X Il
1.  ICAR/MOA/IBRD Review of Agricultural Research, Training and Education:
Main Findings, Issues and Recommnendations.
2. Strategy for Irrigated Farming Research: Guidelines.
3. Strategy for Agricultural Implements Reaearch: Guidelines.
4.  Spillover oE Projects Committed under NARP I.
5. Research Subproject: Central Vidarbha Zone, Yavatmal, Maharashtra.
6.  Supplementary Research Subproject:  North-Western Zone, Paiyur, Tamil
Nadu.
7. Research Subprojects: Brief Notes on Design and Planning of Research
Stations.
8. &ministration Subproject: Illustrative.
9. Proforma fcr State Goverment and SAU Acceptance of NARP Grant.
10. Proforma for Six-Monthly SAU Report to ICAR on Physical Progress.
11. Proforma for Six-Monthly and Annual ICAR Report to IDA on Physical
Progress.
12. Research Subprojects: Development of Master Plan for Civil Works.
13. Research Subprojects: Architectural Brief and Room Data Sheet.
14. Preparation and Appraisal of Research Subprojects: Guidelines.
Project Preparation Report : ICAR



-83-
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULJURAL RESEARCH PROJECT 11
Unhersy Rewarch Organbtlon
IDleVonohlad_         l
r~~~~~~~~~~Doc d RI IchEb 
ChIefSinti   ~a~            fcoin       -    -- w                      Function
Chief Sceniw   ~    anagemet - ZLra AunZtion
I~~~~~~~~~~pca S--atio-
Chi Scientist  Dloe __m~g i__  lead h.    __nt H__cln
ChWSciwdW   R"    ~ ~ Ubstatiar.                               wrioations
ChIefSClI d    oeWh _ct - ewW.coon ._-  _  -                              id
ChlefSclbf  Pule  _                                _______ _ow fiWbn
ChW S D*nt     wdbfRd- _  __  ___t __on
Ch, Sdd nU        br WO_mW     L=d Ift
I  Sultns   I               I~~~~~~~ubator
Chb cWW dSuld 5-wo_                 I                                  d__u__ q
VAm 1 -2704



-84-
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT 11
ICAR Project Administratlon
Door Gerwal           -     Char mRaectn                   F
Prwuect unt
Scentific Pornel    I   l     Adwnu          ll
_ __ __ _____  _  _  JI                               l                                                 .-               I
Plqect
I                                                              Director
I                                                                                                                                     I
I    IDeu lI=
I  DepuityCoordlnotr/I        Pro:ect Coordinator I    PoetCoordlnator 2         PoetCoordinator 3         Piroec Coordkiaor 4
l          Controlle                    ADG                      ADG                       ADG                       ADG
l                                                                                                                                     l
-Arcnt"                  - Scientit                 - Scientist               - Scendist               - Scentist
-Engineer                - Suppt Statl              - Support Staff           - Strt Slat?             - Suo  St
I   -up0art Staff
L
World Blank -27043



_             *z<vrz7Xt1~~~~~~LV - 
kIl9Q9mR%DE. C H I N A
PAKISTAN             K$1l>,  F\    Iv.   C
/-I    as     DESH          )
/1l    AR 4NA A1          /           -
vV                                         /BUA NEPAL  '.,/N
R A JA T HAN-R                          R   P     ESH                    .
,_t/VI                      x ( IV              li'ANGLADESH
VII
RIqg )          \llt ({X}-X Bay   of
11\ \ X  Q    _1    n    >11   <  r  >  .     Bengal
;\%< ) 1 AND<s *-9 INDIA
11PRA-ESH' NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH PROJECT 11
'>A>AA   /   lI]  (         ~~Agroecological Zone
, \ \ \,    /  \      ~~v  AGROECOLOGICALZONE BOUNOARIES
! );\ g 5 H \ ) ! ~~AND IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS
,   \ r. I\ H  i~~~        NATIONAL CAPITAL 
-hian  Sea  >1       1         - 0STATE AND UNION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
\      T   ~~~AVI               INTERNATIONAL BUNDARIE
x  I <t           v < lV i  THERE ARE SIX AGROECOLOGICAL .ONES IN
ASAM AND FIVE IN JAMMU AND KASHMIR
D~ii?C-'   ~    ~/  \   0       200     4MC     600    800
:   -. __                 \ ) J \ !      iKILCMETERS                                      _
SRI                                           _
-- -#                                     LANKA
7.                ;                    *



