Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16612
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
(CREDIT 1631-IN)
May 27, 1997
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
SAR (Septembcr 1985) Rs. 12.00 = US$ 1.00
Completion Year (June 1966) Rs.35.08 = US$1.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR            Associate Director of Research
ARIS           Agricultural Research Information System
CIAE           Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering
CIHNP          Central Institute of Horticulture for Northern Plains
CIRB           Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes
CIMMYT         International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
DOA            Department of Agriculture
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FTC            Farmer Training Center
GOI            Government of India
IARI           Indian Agricultural Research Institute
ICAR           Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICRISAT        International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA            International Development Association
IGFRI          Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute
ISNAR          International Servicc for National Agricultural Research
IRRI           International Rice Research Institute
KGK            Krishi Gyan Kendras
KVK            Krishi Vigyan Kendra
MOU            Memorandum of Understanding
NAARM          National Academy of Agricultural Research Management
NARP           National Agricultural Research Project
NBSS&LUP    National Bureau for Soil Survey & Land Use Planning
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SAU            State Agricultural University
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
ZREAC          Zonal Research and Extension Advisory Committee
ZRS            Zonal Research Station
Vice President             M. Nishimizu
Director                   R. Drvsdale
Division Chief/Manager     S. Barghouti
Staff Member               Ashok Seth. Principal Agriculturist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
(Credit 1631-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  ..........................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ...........................................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................2.......2
Sector Policies ...........................................................  2
Phvsical Objectives .....................             .......................................3
Institutional Development .           ...........................................................7
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING  THE PROJECT.                         ...........................................................  12
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control ..............               ...............  12
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control ..................             ..................  13
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control ...........                ...........  13
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY .                          ..........................................................  13
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE                          ..........................................................  14
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ..........................................................   15
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  .... ......................................................  15
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS    .....................                    .......................................   15
I. LESSONS LEARNED                            .................................................  16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES  ...............                        .............................................   19
Table 1. Summary of Assessments  ..........................................................   19
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits  ...........................................................   21
Table 3. Project Timetable ..........................................................   22
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                           .......................................  22
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation                    ..........................................................   23
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation  ...........................................................  23
Table 7. Studies Included in Project ...........................................................  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 8A. Project Costs .......................................... 25
Table 8B. Project Financing  ..........................................  25
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................  25
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................  26
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................             ........................  27
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs            ..........................................  27
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................  28
APPENDICES
A.         Sununary of Location, Implementation Period, Costs and Outcome of Sub-projects                    32
B.         Mission's Aide-Memoire                                                                            40
C.         Borrower's Assessment and Comments on the ICR                                                     54
. .



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
(Credit 1631-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultural
Research Project II (NARP II) in India for which Credit 1631-IN in the amount of SDR69.6
million (US$72.1 niillion equivalent) was approved on February 25, 1986 and became effective on
April 21, 1986. As part of the funds redeployment exercise, a total of SDR14.37 million
(US$14.886 million equivalent) was cancelled, SDRI 1.8 million in December 1991, and SDR2.57
million in June 1993. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1996, after three one-year extensions of
the original seven-year implementation period. Final disbursement from the Credit was made on
December 13, 1996 at which time the revised credit amount of SDR55.23 million (US$76.67
million equivalent) was fully disbursed.
The ICR draft was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program which visited India in June/July 1996. It was finalized by Mr. Ashok Seth and Ms.
Teresita Estoque, Agriculture and Water Operations, Country Department 2, South Asia Regional
Office, and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Division Chief, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura,
Project Adviser, SA2DR. Preparation of the ICR was based on material in the project files, field
investigations and discussions with staff of the World Bank, the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR), the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, and State Agricultural Universities
(SAUs), who were associated with the project. Representatives of the SAUs in Andhra Pradesh
(AP), Himachal Pradesh (BP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP) contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by arranging field visits and meetings with field staff and farmers involved with the project.
Additional information was obtained from meetings with representatives of the State Departments
of Agriculture of AP, HP and MP, from individual Impact Assessment Reports from each SAU, a
workshop on project outcome held on July 3, 1996 with several Vice Chancellors and Directors
of Research of most SAUs, an implementation completion report prepared by ICAR, and from
comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. These are available in the Asia Information Center.
ICAR's comments on this ICR and the summary of Borrower's Assessment of the project are in
Appendix C.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
(Credit 1631-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The first National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) (Credit 855-IN),
implemented from 1978 to 1985, was designed to decentralize research to various geographical
areas of the major states of India, by strengthening the capability of the State Agricultural
Universities (SAUs) to conduct research in defined agro-ecological zones, and to give special
emplhasis to cereals, pulses and oil seeds under rainfed and mixed farming conditions.
Project Objectives
2.         The general objective of the seven-year National Agricultural Research Project II
(NARP II) was to intensify and continue the process initiated under the first NARP for the
strengthening of the capability of SAUs to conduct location-specific research in the main agro-
ecological zones, and to extend its scope to include the priority agricultural research needs of
each zone under rainfed and irrigated conditions. The activities to be supported included
completion of unfinished NARP sub-projects, expansion into new areas of research, comprising
irrigated farming, animal-drawn equipment, horticulture and commercial field crops, agro-forestry
and animal nutrition, and strengthening facilities at regional research stations for training subject-
matter specialists (SMSs) of state Departments of Agriculture (DOA). After a mid-term review in
1989, an additional objective was the development of computer facilities for analysis and
processing of research information and administrative functions at research stations, and a
national computerized agricultural research information system. The project objective of
continuing support for the establishment of a decentralized research system was important to the
concept of restructuring research to meet the highly diversified needs of the farming systems
throughout India, and to focus research on solving local problems and exploiting opportunities to
increase agricultural production, with a strong emphasis on adaptive research.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.         Achievement of Objectives. Overall, the project has had a satisfactory outcome in
developing a decentralized agricultural research system in 17 major states of India by supporting
the development of a network of research stations under 27 SAUs.



iii
3.         Development of Facilities. The project completed the establishment/upgrading of
120 zonal research stations (ZRSs) and 222 sub-stations, through the construction of 1,736
buildings and miscellaneous civil works, positioning of 995 incremental scientific staff and 954
incremental support staff, and provision of a considerable amount of equipment and vehicles to
support a substantial program of adaptive research under some 220 sub-projects (SPs). The
project had an important element of human resource development, including the provision of
training facilities and training equipment; and loca, and overseas training courses for more than
1,400 scientists.
4.         Research Programs. Research staff at the ZRSs are well motivated and have
developed research programs relevant to farmers' needs. The comparative isolation of the stations
has necessitated strong support, within resource limits, from the senior research staff at the SAUs,
as well as the need to provide opportunities for staff training and ready access to up-to-date
scientific information. The zonal research-extension advisory committees and joint visits with
extension staff to farmers' fields have ensured that the research staff are more familiar with
farmers' problems on the major crops. On the other hand, the combination of weak research
programs at the SAUs, and sparse participation in meetings by the line agencies for horticulture,
animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries, has resulted in an insufficient flow of new technologies
for these sub-sectors. More basic research on ten key topics was supported under a basic
research sub-projects undertaken jointly by ICAR institutes, SAUs and one private institution.
This has performed an important function in underpinning other programs of applied and adaptive
research.
5.         Linkages. The project was designed to improve the linkages between research and
extension, as well as to promote collaboration and linkages among SAUs. While the linkages
between the ZRSs and state DOAs were initially generally satisfactory, there is more recent
concern over the cessation or frequent delay of regular research-extension-farmer meetings and
scheduled training programs for agricultural extension staff, and lack of significant inputs from the
other line departments of the State Governments into the research programs. Initiatives to
improve collaboration between SAUs with common research goals have included a series of
meetings on research for zones that extend across state boundaries, particularly the tribal areas,
and a series of regional meetings to review progress in the implementation of the project, and to
discuss common problems. While these meetings provided useful forum for review of
implementation progress, they did not result in significant shift in focus of program to "common"
problems.
6.         Management of Research. A major responsibility of SAU research management is
to set research priorities for each state and its zonal components and to develop a research
strategy and plan to implement these priorities. While there has been a considerable amount of
informal identification of priorities for research, by way of zonal status reports and research
reviews of the SAUs and zonal consultations, there is no formal system for setting priorities and
re-assessing the present allocation of staff and financial resources to meet these priorities. The



iv
establishment of a computerized Agricultural Research and Information System (ARIS) will help
this process, as well as provide management, scientific literature and natural and physical
resources information. The design of the system is complete and the computer hardware and
software ordered would be progressively installed in selected locations throughout the system.
7.        Project Sustainability. While sustainability of the decentralized research system is
likely, it will require continuing financial support from ICAR and increased support from State
Governments. SAUs are presently considering possibilities for income generation but will also
need to review the costs of the present system which, in some cases, presently supports too many
research stations. In addition, the staff of the ZRSs, particularly in more remote areas, will need
strong professional and social support from SAUs, and promotion of reward systems that
recognize contributions to increased farm productivity.
8.        Project Costs, Financing Arrangements and Implementation Timetables. Of the
total IDA Credit of SDR69.6 million (US$72.1 million), SDR55.23 million (US$71.91 million)
has been disbursed. A total of SDR14.37 million (US$14.886 million) of the Credit was cancelled
during the funds redeployement exercise in December 1991 and May 1993. The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1996 after three one-year extensions of the original seven-year implementation
period. Final disbursement from the Credit was made on December 13, 1996 at which time the
revised credit amount was fully disbursed. Total project cost is estimated at Rs.2,274 million
(US$97.31 million), 73 percent above the original estimated project cost of Rs. 1,331.12 million
(US$110.93) due to a 183 percent devaluation of the Indian rupee against the US dollar, but is 12
percent below the original estimated costs in dollar terms. Indicative financing estimates for sub-
projects were provided in the SAR. Whilst plans were prepared and approved for each sub-
project during project implementation, there were no explicit timetables for achievement of
physical targets, and expenditure was considerably delayed, resulting in the need for three annual
extensions of the project.
9.        Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives. The SAUs and ICAR
gave continued high priority and attention to implementation of the project, and much was
achieved in translating the concept of a decentralized research system into a functioning
organization. Early supervision reports cited many cases of delays -- staffing, civil works and
slow release of funds -- which, because of the large number of institutions involved, collectively
added up to substantial problems.
10.       Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank undertook some 200 supervision
missions during implementation of the project. Supervision missions were mostly staffed from the
Bank's Resident Mission in India which provided more continuous contact and an ability to offer
helpful and constructive advice as problems arose in this complex project. The Borrower
encountered many problems in the earlier stages of the project, but as these were gradually
overcome, the performance improved with a satisfactory, though delayed, completion.



v
11.       Project Outcome. The project outcome is considered satisfactory as it achieved
most of its major objectives. Those objectives not completed are anticipated to be attained in the
near future.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
12.       Important Findings. Restructuring a research organization that is national in scope
and involves many autonomous research organizations is a complex undertaking, requiring
associated changes in management systems and in the focus and attitude of scientists in
developing innovative research for solving problems and fulfilling needs of local farmers and
farming communities. Managing such changes in organization and research goals is an intricate
process in which the SAUs, and particularly the Project Unit, had to learn through experience. A
more explicit recognition of the difficulties experienced under the first NARP and the need for
greater managerial support in the design of NARP II, might have avoided some of the
implementation problems and delays.
13.       Plans for Future Project Operations and Sustainability. The Borrower's
Assessment (ICAR, June 1996) of the project, while generally indicating future commitment and
needs, does not provide a specific time-bound plan for future development. However, from
numerous discussions, it was clear that the SAUs remain committed to maintain the decentralized
research system established.  There is universal agreement that physical facilities are now
generally adequate to meet research objectives. Future emphasis would be given to selective
upgrading of knowledge and skills of scientists, and ensuring an attractive work environment,
particularly at the more remote research stations, developing communications, computerization,
media materials and information dissemination, increasing support for research on animal
nutrition, fisheries, horticulture, silviculture and farm mechanisation, strengthening the weak
research-extension linkages through an increase in the number of "front-line" on-farm trials and
strengthening the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and Krishi Gyan Kendras (KGKs).
14.       Lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of this project include:
(a)    The concept of a decentralized research system, started under NARP and
carried on under NARP II, based on a uniform system where research has
become the responsibility of ZRSs of SAUs conducting adaptive research in
local agro-ecological zones, is sound and its continued development is
essential if the diverse farming systems in India, particularly the rainfed
systems, are to benefit from new technologies.
(b)    Generally, most ZRSs, but not sub-stations, have adequate facilities and
sufficient numbers of scientific staff. However, the nature of the farming
systems and their great diversity makes it necessary to have more multi-
disciplinary teams working in an inter-disciplinary context with more
emphasis placed on financial viability of technologies, marketing potential,
diversification (broad-basing) of farm production and relevance of



vi
technologies to farmers circumstances. The SAUs need to give higher
priority to horticulture, livestock, fisheries and agro-forestry research.
(c)    The project design had an important element of flexibility in that individual
subprojects were prepared and approved jointly by SAUs and ICAR, and
while indicative average costings were provided for each subproject, actual
costs of subprojects were need-based. In practice this meant that GOI
provided 100 percent financing to the SAUs for approved subprojects and
funds were advanced six months ahead of expenditure. This allowed
greater support to be given to resource poor states and remote or
backward areas, leading to a more comprehensive decentralized research
system. Successful implementation of subprojects, however, required more
explicit timetables for expenditure and physical targets to be met and closer
monitoring and supervision by the implementing agency.
(d)    The establishment of a productive and creative research system is a long
term process, in which the present system is at a relatively early stage of
development. The further advancement of ZRSs will depend on adequate
financial support to operate and maintain facilities and research programs,
improved management of research resources (better priority allocation,
planning, sharing of common resources, monitoring and evaluation) and
continuing improvement in the research capacity of the scientific staff
(often isolated from the mainstream of scientific activity), requiring specific
attention to training, reward systems and strong technical support from the
SAUs and ICAR.
(e)    Financial sustainability of the research system  developed is presently
jeopardized in some states by the indicated inability of some State
Governments to fully fulfill the terms of their MOUs to financially support
the system after the closure of the project. Lack of funds will particularly
adversely affect research operations, maintenance of facilities and
equipment and capital replacement. Although some SAUs have considered
possible revenue earning opportunities to improve financial viability, these
will always be limited. It is essential for SAUs to use their financial,
physical and staffing resources more efficiently, limit the number of sub-
stations, and improve cooperation and collaboration in research programs
among states with similar agro-ecological zones.
(f)    Despite the emphasis given to establishing and strengthening research-
extension-farmer linkages in the many research and extension projects
funded by the World Bank in India, these linkages still remain weak. The
establishment of formal linkages (zonal workshops, training for SMSs of
extension departments, joint field days, etc.) between research and the line
agencies of state departments (agriculture, forestry, livestock and fisheries),



vii
has not, except for crop production, engendered strong cooperation,
information exchange and collaboration in technology generation and
transfer to farmers. It is essential that the extension departments of the
SAUs and state governments and the research agencies (SAUs and ICAR)
develop novel and more effective approaches to improving collaboration.
(g)    The project's implementation benefited from strong expertise in agricultural
research of the Bank's Resident Mission staff who supervised the project.






1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
(Credit 1631-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.         The first National Agricultural Research Project (NARP), implemented from 1978 to
1985, was designed to decentralize research to various geographic areas of the states, by
strengthening the capability of the SAUs to conduct research in defined agro-ecological zones, in
support of reformed state-wide agricultural extension projects (15 IDA-financed extension projects
in 17 states between 1977 and 1995). This was to be brought about through improvements to
existing university-based agricultural research and concentrated on research oriented towards the
needs of the main agro-ecological zones, with special emphasis on cereals, pulses and oilseeds,
under rainfed and mixed farming conditions.
2.         The general objective of the Second National Agricultural Research Project (NARP
II) was to intensify and continue the strengthening of the capability of State Agricultural
Universities (SAUs) to conduct location-specific research in the main agro-ecological zones,
initiated under the first NARP (Credit 855-IN), and extend project scope to include the priority
agricultural research needs of each zone under rainfed and irrigated conditions. Specifically, NARP
II aimed to: (a) complete the unfinished NARP subprojects (those that had not completed five years
of operation); (b) expand the scope of NARP to cater to the priority needs of each agro-ecological
zone, including: (i) new areas of research, such as irrigated farming, animal-drawn farm
implements, horticulture and commercial field crops, agro-forestry and animal nutrition; (ii)
developing field programs for field testing and refining of research results; and (iii) strengthening of
training facilities at Regional Research Stations for training Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) of
the state Departments of Agriculture (DOA); (c) provide funds for individual research activities on
priority topics emerging or identified during project implementation and not covered under (b)
above; (d) strengthen research administration of two SAUs (in the states of West Bengal and
Jammu & Kashmir) not supported under NARP; and (e) continue funding of the Project Unit
established in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) under NARP, including
provision for training of research scientists. NARP II became effective in April 1986 and was
originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1993, but was given three annual extensions (to
June 30, 1996) to allow full utilization of the Credit, and to complete the original and revised



2
project objectives. NARP II covered 17 major states of India and was implemented by 26 SAUs
plus one Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (in the state of Tamil Nadu), covering 120
agro-ecological zones.
3.         Consequent to a mid-term review in May 1989, approval for project restructuring was
not given until June 1991, and appraisal of new project proposals did not occur until July 1992.
Additional project objectives introduced following project restructuring were: establishment of a
national computerized agricultural research infortnation system; establishment of computer
facilities for scientists and administration units at all SAU research stations; initiation of selected
basic research programs at ICAR institutes and SAUs to support regional programs; and
rehabilitation of research stations damaged by a cyclone in the State of Andhra Pradesh.
4.         The project concept supported the Bank's country strategy aimed at assisting India to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains, and to increase farm incomes in an equitable manner. It also
responded well to the Borrower's circumstances and the development priority for the agricultural
sector oriented towards the need to develop locally specific technologies to improve and diversify
agricultural productivity given the ecological diversity of the country. Overall, the timing of the
project, its scope and the relative size of the sub-projects were appropriate to the need to complete
the decentralization of the agricultural research system initiated under NARP. Many of the risks
identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), such as irrelevance and/or non-adoption of research
findings, institutional constraints in project implementation and inadequate State Government
funding, all occurred to a certain extent, but collectively only had a moderately adverse effect on
project outcome.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Sector Policies
5.         The project responded to a request from the Government of India (GOI) to the
International Development Association (IDA) to provide further assistance to establish an effective
and efficient decentralized research system in India to support the national goal of self-sufficiency
of foodgrains (production of 168-170 metric tons by the terminal year of the Seventh Five Year
Plan - 1990), which would require an annual growth rate of 2.7 percent. In fact, by 1990 total
foodgrain production was 194 metric tons and self-sufficiency was achieved and the annual growth
rate for the decade 1984-94, was 3.0 percent. The project has contributed substantially to the
achievement of these sector objectives through the development of locally-applicable, improved
technologies, although the precise extent of this contribution cannot be estimated (paras 32 and 33).



3
Physical Objectives
6.         Sub-projects. The project was to finance the spillover costs of 90 subprojects (12
administrative, 76 research and 2 training subprojects) initiated under NARP until they completed
five years of operation; in fact, 14 administrative, 74 research (including one each to assist the
Indian Agricultural Research Institute [IARI] and National Academy of Agricultural Research
Management [NAARM]) and 4 basic research subprojects were completed under NARP II. In
addition, proposed new subprojects to be financed under NARP 11 were to be of three kinds: (a)
supplemental subprojects for each Zonal Research Stations (ZRSs) already established under
NARP (82) and designed to broaden their research activities/scope; (b) new subprojects to establish
39 more ZRSs; and (c) new administrative subprojects (2); in fact 86 supplemental subprojects, 37
new subprojects and 5 administrative subprojects were completed under NARP II. Following
project restructuring, 10 additional subprojects were initiated to further support library
development, complete civil works, purchase additional vehicles and equipment, purchase
computers, establish an agricultural research information system (ARIS), support new basic
research initiatives in selected topics, and provide overseas training for selected scientists and
research managers.
7.         An innovative project design feature was for detailed proposals for new subprojects to
be prepared during the first three years of the project. Initiation of subprojects followed approval at
different times during project implementation but all were financed for only 5 years (refer
Appendix A), with the SAUs expected to continue financing beyond that time. Sanctioning of new
subprojects was considerably delayed (only 50 percent were approved by original planned date of
September 1988) because of the slow pace of preparation, appraisal and approval by the Inter-
disciplinary Scientific Panel (ISP) and Project Funding Committee (PFC), and weak financial and
technical capability of certain SAUs. Only the recently launched subprojects concerned with basic
research and the establishment of ARIS have not been completed. The detailed implementation
assessment of expenditure and performance of each subproject is given in Appendix A. Overall, a
minority of subprojects were assessed as having no significant problems with implementation, but
the majority had moderate problems with staffing, civil works, extension linkages, technical and
management aspects, while a small number had major or severe problems. The definition of more
explicit timetables for implementation of each subproject and closer monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) by the ICAR Project Unit would have avoided many of the problems encountered. The
subprojects supported the development of not only the 120 ZRSs but also of 222 sub-stations.
8.         Incremental Staff. The majority of additional staff recruited consequent to the
upgrading and expansion of the zonal research system of the SAUs were employed during NARP.
Under NARP II, a further 995 scientific positions and 954 supporting staff positions were
sanctioned to provide sufficient manpower for additional stations upgraded under the project.
About 26 percent of scientific posts and 29 percent of support posts sanctioned remained vacant at



4
project closure, with more vacancies at sub-stations. Some ZRSs have never had a complete staff
complement due to their remote locations and lack of specialized staff. SAUs have indicated they
would maintain staff numbers and absorb additional salary transfers to SAU budgets following
project completion.
9.          Civil Works. A program of construction of new facilities for research stations in 82
agro-ecological zones was initiated under the first NARP but were incomplete at the closure of the
project. The civil works program under NARP II financed the completion of all but one of these
incomplete facilities as well as new facilities proposed under NARP II/; some minor variation in
covered floor area was required to accommodate cost escalation. Total cost was about Rs.740
million (32 percent of total project costs compared with the original estimate of Rs.319 million
which was 24 percent of the original estimated project cost). While facilities inspected by the ICR
mission in Himachal Pradesh were of good quality, those in Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh
seemed to have suffered from poor quality construction and poor maintenance. Water damage to
buildings has been aggravated by the flat roof and poor drainage design used. A special subproject
to rebuild two research stations severely damaged by a tropical cyclone in Andhra Pradesh was
successfully implemented, in association with the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency
Reconstruction Project (Credit 2179-IN/ Loan 3260-IN).
10.        Equipment and Vehicles. About Rs.800 million (36 percent of total project costs)
has been spent on equipment and vehicles across the 120 ZRSs and some ICAR institutes to ensure
reasonable laboratory, field and office equipment, including computers, as well as mobility for
research staff to undertake field research. Considerable delays occurred in purchase of vehicles
with only 19 out of 120 vehicles purchased by the end of 1993. Delays also occurred under the
restructured subprojects to provide additional vehicles, due to delays in the sanctioning of funds to
ZRSs.
11.        Operational. Research operational costs were about Rs.300 million (13 percent of
total project cost) and were a little higher than originally estimated. It was apparent that
maintenance expenditure was minimal. It has been indicated from discussions with SAUs that,
following project completion, budget allocation from the state governments would be expected to
become insufficient for maintenance and capital replacement and proper functioning of the research
programs in many SAUs.
12.        Training Facility Development. As part of the upgrading/establishment of facilities
at SAUs, training facilities and hostels were constructed at each ZRS. These facilities were used for
training the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) of the state DOAs. The research staff of the ZRSs
" A total of 1,736 new facilities, including: laboratory cum office buildings (290), godowns (37), training halls (40),
training hostels (41), scientific and supporting staff residences (869), other laboratories (67), sheds (167), stores (84)
and miscellaneous civil works (139).



5
provided the training, while funding for the monthly training program was provided under the
NAEPs. The national level training sub-project provided funds for training SAU scientists (para.
16) and the development/upgrading of physical training facilities at six ICAR institutes . Key
training equipment was also provided. The total cost of the subproject is estimated at Rs.55 million.
13.        Computerization  and Development of Information  Systems. The national
agricultural research system in India consists of more than 25,000 scientists, working at more than
80 large institutes, 27 state universities and over 400 zonal stations and centers. Support for the
development of a national Agricultural Research Information System (ARIS) to link all of these
research agencies was given under a new subproject following project restructuring. Development
of the system concept was a joint effort between ICAR and ISNAR (project-financed technical
assistance), and was designed to cover information for management (research projects, human,
financial and physical resources), scientific information (i.e. library documentation) and
information on natural and physical resources. Such a system aims to improve information
management, support stronger research planning, monitoring and evaluation, and thus improve
research relevance and quality.
14.        Five years have elapsed since the original concept of the system was proposed by the
GOI in 1991. Its present non-functioning is a reflection of both its complexity and the delays in
decisions at each step in the development process. ISNAR was not selected to develop the system
concept/design until May 1992, but payments from ICAR were delayed until November 1993.
Subsequently, the hardware design of the system, including the equipment specifications and
quantities, was prepared by the National Center for Software Technology, as consultants. Bids were
opened in August, 1995 and World Bank approval for the purchases given in February, 1996. The
equipment includes 56 Unix Servers (mini-computers) for the 27 State universities, ICAR institutes
and bureau, and 230 LAN servers (desk-top computers) for each of these, as well as the zonal
research stations. The remainder of the equipment includes work stations, printers, modems and
air-conditioners.
15.        When installed, the system will be centralized in ICAR with connectivity to SAUs.
Local area networks will be established at SAUs, using a fiber-optic system and they will be inter-
connected using terrestrial and satellite communication systems. The total amount committed for
establishing ARIS was Rs.263 million, while the total expenditure under the project at 31 March
1996 was Rs. 130.1 million. High priority must now be given to the successful establishment of a
functioning and useful system, as designed. This should be done before there is any further
consideration of expanding or making additional large investments in the system under a new
project. The development of a successful system will depend on the commitment of managers and
" National Bureau for Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute,
Central Institute of Horticulture for Northern Plains, Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Central Institute
for research on Buffaloes and the Indian Agricultural Research Institute.



6
scientists at all levels and can be assisted by the development of a series of indicators for assessing
the degree and quality of implementation and use, as well as extensive computer training courses
for all potential users.
16.        Staff Training (ICAR and SAUs). Three types of national and international training
programs for scientists and research managers were supported by the project. Some 1,318 SAU
scientists undertook 82 one-month training courses in six ICAR institutes (para. 12) from August
1989 to September 1995 to broaden their knowledge and skills in soil survey and land use planning,
fodder and forestry, horticulture, farm implements, animal nutrition and water management. The
training programs suffered from poor trainee participation from SAUs, slow implementation of the
civil works programme and equipment purchases (para. 12) and disagreements in regard to level of
grants for boarding, lodging and travel.
17.        Technical assistance for conducting the overseas training program was provided by
FAO. A total of 87 young scientists from SAU research stations undertook three-month overseas
training at foreign national and international research centers in areas of biotechnology, crop hybrid
breeding, integrated pest management, nutrient management systems, water management, energy
management and integrated systems from April 1995 to June 1996. In addition, 33 senior research
managers from ICAR and SAUs undertook 15-day study tours to visit international and national
research centres from January 1994 to April 1996. Advantage was not taken to utilize the
considerable resources of NAARM for research management training. All study fellows were
required to produce reports on their training. Total cost of the international subproject is estimated
at Rs.39 million for training of young scientists and research managers.
18.        Computer training has been given to 202 staff from ICAR headquarters and a total of
276 staff from ICAR institutes, SAUs and other institutions. Training has been in computer and
software use, networking, communications and trouble shooting for scientists and for staff
associated with library, financial, personnel and information management. ICAR accepts that this
level of training is completely inadequate considering the thousands of potential users of the ARIS.
Accordingly, provisions have been made in the Ninth Plan of ICAR to increase the numbers of
trainees as well as the range of computer-related training programs.
19.        Total Project Costs. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR69.6 million (US$72.1 million
equivalent), a total of SDR14.37 million (US$14.886 million equivalent) of the Credit was
cancelled (in December 1991 and June 1993). With the final disbursement on December 13, 1996,
the revised credit amount of SDR55.23 million (US$76.67 million equivalent) was fully disbursed.
20.        Total project cost at March 1996 is estimated at Rs.2,274 million (US$97.31 million),
which is 73 percent above the original estimated project cost of Rs. 1,331.12 million (US$110.93
million), due to a 183 percent devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar, and is 12 percent below



7
the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms. The Government of India (GOI) financed about
25 percent and 22 percent of the total project costs between 1986 to 1993 and 1994 to 1996,
respectively, compared with the loan agreement of 65 percent reimbursement for the first 7 years
and 90 percent for the last three years (i.e. 35 percent and 10 percent GOI financing, respectively).
Disbursements were delayed throughout the duration of the project with only 75 percent of the
Credit (in US$ equivalents) disbursed by the original date of Credit closure (June 30, 1993). A
special feature of the financing mechanism that was extremely beneficial to the SAUs was that the
GOI provided 100 percent financing to the SAUs for approved subprojects and funds were
advanced 6 months ahead of expenditure.
21.        It is concluded that by closure, most of the proposed physical facilities (laboratories,
offices, training facilities, and staff residences), vehicles and equipment (laboratory, field, office
and training) and additional staff were in place and proposed training programs completed. Thus
the physical objective of establishing adequate research facilities with an adequate number of
suitably trained staff in each agro-ecological zone in India was substantially achieved.
Institutional Development
22.        Development of Zonal Research Capacity. Inspite of the problems with delays in
implementation of the civil works program, the project has been successful in staffing the zonal
stations and in providing sufficient infrastructure and equipment to carry on a substantive program
of adaptive research. The system of developing subprojects (guidelines provided in SAR and
followed by ICAR) ensured an equitable availability of funds to each ZRS, depending on their
needs. At the small sample of stations visited by the ICR preparation mission, the staff were
enthusiastic and committed to their job and were keen to demonstrate their research. The field
visits and workshop (July 1996) attended by SAU vice-chancellors and directors of research
confirmed that there had been a successful restructuring (decentralization) of the research system.
This restructuring has: (a) improved the system's ability to respond to clients' needs; (b) improved
the quantity of adaptable technologies; (c) improved to some extent the linkages with other
organizations, particularly state agricultural extension departments; and (d) responded to staff
interests by improving their work and social conditions. However, some major underlying concerns
were expressed by scientists about future funds for their work, lack of mobility and sometimes lack
of support from SAU headquarters.
23.        Each ZRS has between 20 and 30 research staff, covering the major disciplines in the
biological and physical sciences. However, there is also an important role for the few social
scientists positioned at the ZRSs. They are required to work with the other researchers on diagnosis
of farmers' needs, to ensure that the research has a farming systems perspective. They should also
be involved with the extension system in developing an understanding of how best to commnunicate



8
with farmers. Most states are now preparing a zone-wise package of practices for farmers based on
the outcome of adaptive research in zones, in place of existing state-wide recommendations.
24.        Relevance and Quality of Zonal Research. Under NARP, 120 agro-ecological
zones agro-ecological zones were defined in 17 states in which climate, topography, soils and land
use have many common features' . Detailed "Status Reports" on each of these zones were started
under NARP and completed under NARP II, but some as late as 1993. The detailed guidelines and
a few model reports prepared by ICAR for the SAUs ensured that there was a degree of uniformity
in reporting formats and that information contained provided a sound basis for developing research
programs on major crops and cropping systems in local areas. Some of the reports have been
updated but all reports should be periodically revised to ensure accuracy of the agricultural data as
farming systems change. A major deficiency in definition of agro-ecological zones was that they
were state based and therefore their boundaries were defined by political rather than purely natural
factors. Thus agro-ecological zones and the Status Reports prepared for them, do not cross state
boundaries which creates zonal duplication in adjacent states (it is suggested by the Project Unit
that in using only agro-ecological criteria for definition of zonal boundaries, only about 65-70
discrete agro-ecological zones actually exist in India and therefore technically about 50% of the
ZRSs are unnecessary). There is considerable merit, therefore, in consolidating information on
natural and physical resources and research priorities, plans, programs and output for the same
agro-ecological zones across state boundaries. When ARIS is developed, it could be used to
consolidate and analyze such information according to natural boundaries. Such a system can be
used to both identify research gaps, promote coordination, cooperation and complementarity in
research, and avoid duplication.
25.        A standard procedure for preparation and approval of research programs for ZRSs has
been established to ensure relevance of research. Research program approval follows a sequential
path of endorsement from bi-annual meetings of zonal research and extension advisory committees
(ZREAC), the SAU, and finally at the state level by the State Program Planning and
Implementation Committee and ICAR. While the system of consultation, through regular meetings
of the ZREACs and organization of joint field visits by research and agricultural extension staff,
has ensured that research at the zonal stations is relevant to the crop problems in the zone, there has
been insufficient research emphasis on other aspects of the local farming systems. Good attendance
and participation by staff of the state Department of Agriculture (DOA) at the SAU regional group
meetings has provided a valuable input in defining research priorities. In contrast, attendance and
participation by the other line departments -- horticulture, animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries -
- and feedback from them has been poor. At present the research programs emphasize crops, and
are dominated by a disciplinary approach -- mostly varietal improvement, pest and disease control,
and fertilizer treatments. Future emphasis must be given to research with a farming systems
"  A description of the 120 agro-ecological zones and their production potentials and constraints is given in: Saxena,
A.P. (1989) "Strategies for agricultural research and development - a zonal approach", ICAR, Delhi.



9
perspective which will often involve multi-disciplinary teams. The mission saw little evidence of
such teams being in operation. One important objective of the project was to focus research on
finding solutions to farmers' problems (i.e. demand-driven research), Thus the zonal research teams
have been under considerable pressure to provide quick answers to the current problems of the
farmers. However, it is equally important that future emphasis be given to exploring new
opportunities to increase agricultural productivity, economic efficiency and farmer incomes, This
may require more applied or strategic research in which collaboration with scientists at the SAU
centers or ICAR institutes should be encouraged.
26.         Several factors have affected the quality of research at ZRSs. While laboratory
facilities are generally adequate, if limited, there needs to be a more planned approach to their use
to integrate and facilitate the needs of different programs and disciplines for laboratory services and
thus ensure greater efficiency. For example, crop, pasture, forages and agro-forestry research may
require similar soil and plant analyses, but are undertaken by different laboratories. Although the
project supported library development (equipment, books and journal purchases) at each ZRS,
facilities developed are quite modest. Good library facilities are essential for research information
and the ZRSs need to be better supported by abstract and document delivery services from the SAU
or ICAR. When ARIS is operational, one of its important functions will be the supply of scientific
informnation for the ZRS scientists but the management must ensure they make full use of its
services.   General computerization of activities at research stations and connectivity to
internet/email services are also important. Supervision by experienced scientists is also a major
factor in ensuring research quality hence the need for strong and continuous interaction between
scientists at research stations and staff of the SAU center and ICAR institutes.
27.        Basic Research.  Ten research programs have been supported under a basic
subproject, following project restructuring, proposed by an FAO/CP preparation mission in October
1991 and a World Bank appraisal mission in July 1992. The 10 research programs (field crop
biotechnology, brassica cell biology, rice-wheat cropping systems, horticultural crops
biotechnology, livestock biotechnology, livestock diseases, freshwater and brackish water
aquaculture, resource characterization of rainfed farming systems, crop stress physiology and
integrated pest management) are being jointly undertaken in 10 centers and 35 subcenters located in
ICAR institutes, SAUs and one private institution. The programs are undertaking strategic rather
than basic research, in as much as they are attempting to generate new knowledge about certain
specific problems or to use sophisticated techniques like gene transfer to improve certain
characteristics of plants. In this they perform a very important function in supporting advances in
applied and adaptive research. Such strategic research will continue to be an important and
probably growing facet of the research system, requiring continued and growing support from the
system's own resources, as these are rapidly evolving research fields, and frequent updating of
equipment and familiarization of staff with the changing research scenarios. Because the research
system in India has relatively limited finances, expansion of strategic research needs to be carefully



10
planned around the likely availability of long-term resources rather than on possible future project
funding.
28.        Management of Research. The development of an efficient and effective
decentralized research system depends to a large extent on managerial capability to prioritise
research topics, plan appropriate research programs and monitor and evaluate research
implementation and outcome. The project aimed to improve the capabilities of research managers
through sponsoring study tours (para. 17) and through the development of a management
information system (paras 13-15). However, the benefit to the project was not fully realized
because: (a) management training was primarily focused on Directors of Research from SAUs (not
Associate Directors of Research who manage the ZRSs), and a number of research directors from
ICAR; (b) the study tours were undertaken during 1995-96, towards the end of the extension period
of the project; and (c) ARIS is not yet functional. The project design gave no emphasis to
management training. It is an essential ingredient to the development and functioning of an
efficient and effective research system. The considerable resources of the NAARM at Hyderabad
for providing a wide range of management training were not fully utilized.'
29.        Research Linkages. Formal research linkages among SAUs and other research
agencies appeared limited under the project. This was partly the fault of project design (artificial
agro-ecological zone boundaries established within states and no facility to fund upstream research
emanating from adaptive research in local areas) which did not ensure close collaboration among
SAUs in adjacent states with common agro-ecological zones, or between SAUs and ICAR
institutes and international research centers. Two very useful meetings on common agricultural
problems in tribal areas of adjacent zones were held during the project, but this did not result in
closer coordination, cooperation and collaboration in research between SAUs in the same or
adjacent states.
30.        Research-Extension Linkages. Improving extension linkages has been a major
thrust of the NARP II, and the zonal station concept was designed so that research scientists would
interact closely with the extension agents of the State development departments, NGOs and the
farmers at zonal levels. The formal and informal mechanisms for such interactions were
established under NARP and NARP II (state technical committees, ZREACs and monthly
workshops and joint field trials, field days and farm visits). Generally the linkages with the state
DOAs have been satisfactory, though there is now concern over the cessation or frequent delay of
regular meetings and scheduled training programs for extension staff (some states have
discontinued the regular training for SMSs). The lack of collaboration between research and other
state line agencies involved with horticulture, livestock, forestry and fisheries has been a recurring
concern during project implementation as these agencies generally showed little interest and
ICAR disagrees with this statement (refer to Appendix Comments from Borrower).



11
commitment to the research programs, even though the project was designed to cover their
interests. Although many of the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and Krishi Gyan Kendras (KGKs)
mandated to transfer technologies to farmers are managed by SAUs, the project design did not give
adequate attention to this important linkage in the process of technology transfer. l
31.        It is concluded that, by project completion, the research system in India had been
successfully decentralized with the establishment of an extensive network of ZRSs, in association
with the SAUs, throughout the country. Within this research system, substantive improvements in
the institutional capacity of the majority of ZRSs to undertake programs of adaptive research had
been achieved. Relevance and quality of research had also been improved, although there was
scope for greater improvement. Improvements in management of research and the development of
effective functional linkages with other government agencies concerned with agricultural
development were however much less than anticipated and therefore improvements to public sector
management are only assessed partially.
Project Benefits
32.        Research System. NARP II and its predecessor NARP, were designed to bring about
a major transformation in the structure of the research system. This was a large undertaking, both
in terms of institution-building and in the transfer of much of the focus of research to a "grass roots"
level with a strong emphasis on adaptive research. Such a change was particularly necessary to
serve the needs of rainfed fanning where the farming systems are generally more complicated,
more diverse over short distances and more risk-prone than irrigated farming where previous
research had much of its impact. The tangible benefits of such a process are the development of the
research stations, the provision of housing and laboratories, the creation of a cadre of scientific staff
covering a wide range of disciplines, and the flow of new information and new technology.
Equally important are the intangible benefits, such as changes in attitude to the needs of farmers,
the ability to conceptualize innovative, problem-solving approaches to these needs, and the ability
to develop research programs with a farming systems perspective.
33.        Impact of Research on Agricultural Development. The ICAR took the initiative in
planning and introducing impact studies into the project and provided funding and guidance for
their publication. Twenty-one SAUs have produced these reports to date and these summarize the
nature of the agro-climatic zones for which the SAU is responsible, the research undertaken and the
output of the research system in terms of new varieties, pest and disease control techniques,
fertilizer recommendations, new implements and new husbandry methods. To estimate impact,
various time periods have been used as a comparison; some reports take the period 1981/82-
1991/92 while others compare pre-NARP, post-NARP and NARP II (up to 1991/92). From data
ICAR disagrees with this statement (refer to Appendix Comments from Borrower).



12
generated on percentage adoption, which obviously varies with commodities, within zones and with
technologies, additional yields (average yields with the new practice less average yields without it),
benefits, and hence the impact, are calculated. Attribution of yield increase to research alone, as a
few reports do, ignores the increases in inputs; the all-India use of fertilizers more than doubled
between 1980/81 and 1990/91 while agricultural consumption of electricity (farm machinery,
irrigation pumps, etc.) increased more than threefold. Nevertheless, the concept of impact studies is
excellent and is to be encouraged, but clearly there needs to be a more rigorous approach to the
question of measuring impact including a more substantial economic input and analysis.
Furthermore such an approach should supply information, not only on what adoption took place but
also on why it took place, thus defining more clearly the opportunities and conditions for the spread
of new technology. Finally it should be emphasized that the production of credible figures for the
impact of research is very important from the point of view of enhancing financial support for
research, particularly from the State governments. Eventually such data should also provide the
basis for calculating project benefits.
34.        Economic Benefit. Although the SAR stated that no attempt would be made to
quantify the benefits expected from the project, it was estimated that an average annual increase in
net returns of Rs.3.6/ha for agricultural land serviced by a ZRC (about 1.4 million ha) would result
in an economic rate of return (ERR) of 20 percent for an average research subproject for the time
period 1985/2010, based on total investment and operating costs. In fact, average net retums per
ha, at constant prices, have increased much more than these estimates. However, it is not possible
to determine the real impact of project research activities on farm beneficiaries because of
concurrent improvements in other factors of production, such as enlarged irrigated area and
increased availability of fertilizers, and the direct influences from other agencies involved in
promoting agricultural production (government extension, NGOs and private agricultural sector
companies).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
35.        There were delays in the implementation of the civil works program due to
difficulties in purchasing land and escalation in prices of building materials resulting in applications
by contractors for revisions in contract payments and construction delays. The cyclone in Andhra
Pradesh also necessitated additional funding for reconstruction of badly damaged research stations
in that State.



13
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
36.        At the GOI level, delays in permission for new vehicle purchases and fund release by
the Ministry of Finance adversely affected project implementation. At the state government level
there were a number of factors affecting project implementation, including: (a) lack of funding for
operational (contingency) purposes; (b) very slow process for selection and acquisition of land; (c)
State Seed Corporations unable to multiply and deliver new varieties in sufficient quantities; (d)
poor interaction between the line agencies, other than agriculture, with the zonal research teams;
and (e) non-transfer of agricultural research responsibilities from DOA to SAU in one state (West
Bengal - resulting in one year suspension of project support) and a number of state development
departments have still retained some research capacity (e.g. in Assam, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and
West Bengal), although there was agreement by the states to devolve (under the project) research
responsibilities to the SAUs.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
37.        Factors within ICAR control which adversely affected project implementation and
outcome included: (a) delayed release of funds to FAO for the training programs; (b) delayed
release of funds to ISNAR for preparation of ARIS concept/plan; (c) delay in release of funds to
SAUs; (d) poor quality construction in some buildings and glasshouses at the ZRSs due to
inadequate supervision by the architects and engineers especially recruited to the Project Unit; (e)
initial delays in staffing the Project Unit (only adequately staffed from 1991) which adversely
affected preparation of new subprojects and M&E of approved subprojects; and (f) inadequate use
of the 210 man-months of technical assistance provided to assist the Project Unit in subproject
appraisal, implementation and evaluation of subprojects and Status Report preparation because the
daily remuneration of Rs.200 was regarded by consultants as inadequate.
38.        Factors within the control of SAUs which affected project implementation and
effectiveness and research output included: (a) slow or non-release of funds to the ZRSs; (b) poor
quality management in several SAUs; (c) slow progress and inadequate supervision of contractors
on civil works, including glasshouse design and construction; (d) a strong tendency for SAUs to
employ their own graduates rather than externally qualified graduates that could introduce new
ideas and methodologies; and (e) lack of adequately qualified staff in certain areas of research, such
as socio-economics, irrigation agronomy, farming systems and integrated pest management.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.        The SAUs and State Governments are committed to maintaining the research system
developed, and generally effective institutional/managerial capacity has been established. The
sustainability of the decentralized research system established under the SAUs is generally



14
considered likely, although for certain states it is uncertain. However, most SAUs will require
continued financial support from ICAR and increased support from State Governments. The main
sustainability issues are the need for adequate future budgets and a research environment which
provides adequate research facilities, incentives and support for scientists to remain at ZRSs and
sub-stations. In some states, it is apparent that too many research stations have been established
(for example, Himachal Pradesh is a small state with some 25 research stations), leading to
ineffective research programs because of limited core staff size at many research stations and
unnecessary duplication of research between nearby research stations. Furthermore, it is expected
that not all of the 120 ZRSs will continue at full strength after project completion. In addition,
some apprehension exists in the SAUs that there will be insufficient budget available to ensure
adequate operations of research and maintenance of facilities (in 1994 it was estimated that up to 35
percent of completed SPs have some or serious constraints in operating funds), but contingency
plans to establish alternative sources of funding (revolving funds, income generating production
activities, consultancy services, etc.) are being considered by some SAUs to partially meet budget
deficits.  ICAR is also considering possibilities for providing future support to the SAUs
(competitive grants, revolving funds and training funds).
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
40.        The need for a second phase project was essential to complete the decentralization of
the research system in India, but the Bank failed to provide sufficient guidance to the ICAR in its
preparation and were deficient in their initial appraisal of the project. This contributed to the need
for a subsequent substantial revision of the project during internal Bank processing to ensure that
the project scope, concept and additional components were appropriate. While this review and
revision resulted in a significantly better project concept and design, the process was unnecessarily
protracted (one year from first Project Brief to green cover SAR) because of deficiencies (lack of
coordination and time-tabling of review) in project processing. By contrast, Bank supervision was
highly satisfactory. The Bank undertook some 200 supervision missions, involving some 785 staff
weeks during implementation of the project. This represents an extremely high level of supervision
but is a result of the extremely complex nature of the project and the availability of the Bank's
resident mission staff. The Bank maintained a close collaborative relationship with the ICAR and
SAUs and made a significant contribution to project achievements. Bank supervision reports
indicated that the missions undertook regular, detailed reviews of implementation progress of the
project and, while indicating deficiencies in implementation, gave helpful and constructive advice
to overcome such problems. The Bank also provided considerable help in the completion of the
preparation of Status Reports for each agro-ecological zone. In mid-I 990, the Bank concentrated
its efforts on helping underperforming states (Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh). With very few exceptions, supervision missions were staffed from the Bank's
Resident Mission in India and local consultants, which provided more continuous contact and



15
assistance in implementation. There has been universal appreciation by SAUs and ICAR of the
assistance given by the Bank in the implementation of this project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.        The SAUs and ICAR gave continued high priority and attention to implementation of
the project as proposed. Much has been achieved in fulfilling the original project concept of
establishing and developing functional research facilities in local agro-ecological zones, and
improving research and technology development for local farming systems. Overall, ICAR,
through the Project Unit, was strongly supportive in project implementation and supervision.
However, there were serious early difficulties (para. 37) and inadequate staffing and poor
functioning of the Project Unit, which adversely affected the early stages of project implementation.
There was considerable variation between states and SAUs in their management of and
commitment to the project. There were several factors (para. 38), both within and outside the
control of the SAUs, which adversely affected their performance. However, to their credit, most
SAUs were able to satisfactorily resolve these problems with time, but the early delays and
problems encountered ultimately contributed to the necessity for three annual extensions of the
project to fully achieve the original project objectives.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
42.        Overall, the project mostly achieved its objectives by the end of the three-year
extension period, and its outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The majority of the special
subprojects designed to improve or establish ZRSs throughout India were completed successfully
by the end of the project, with negligible or only moderate problems being encountered in the
achievement of the physical targets set (paras 7-12). This resulted in significant improvements in
the research facilities and capacity of ZRSs to undertake research (para 22) and generally improved
research quality and management. Thus, the objective of establishing a functional decentralized
system of research associated with SAUs that is responsive to research needs in local areas was
substantially achieved. The establishment of functional and effective linkages between research
and extension has been less successful, especially with line departments of the state governments,
other than Agriculture. Despite this weakness there has been a significant uptake by farmers of new
technologies developed by SAUs, and there have been significant gains in agricultural productivity.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43.        The Borrower's Assessment of the project (ICAR, June 1996, Appendix C), while
generally indicating future commitment and needs, does not provide a specific time-bound plan for
future development. However, from numerous discussions, it was clear that the SAUs remain
committed to maintain the decentralized research system established and strengthened under NARP



16
and NARP II. There is universal agreement that physical facilities are now generally adequate to
meet research objectives. Future emphasis would be given by the SAUs to selective upgrading of
knowledge and skills of scientists and ensuring an attractive work environment, particularly at the
more remote research stations. Some SAUs have a policy of complete residential accommodation
for all staff at research stations. Emphasis will also be given to developing communications,
computerization, media materials and information dissemination capabilities, as well as increasing
support for research on animal nutrition, fisheries, horticulture, silviculture, and farm
mechanization. All SAUs have expressed a desire to strengthen the weak research-extension
linkages that have developed following the termination of the National Agricultural Extension
Projects and consequent widespread abandonment of the T&V system. Increased numbers of
"front-line" on-farm trials and strengthening of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) for dissemination
of technologies to farmers are also envisaged to improve technology transfer.
44.        In a more holistic sense, however, what is equally imperative is a need to concentrate
on strengthening the technology generation and transfer process, with particular emphasis on
increasing the effectiveness of technical and technological information exchange between research,
extension and farmers to ensure research is demand-drive, that technologies developed are
appropriate to local needs and resources circumstances, and that technical information is readily
available to all. It is essential in a follow-up project, such as the National Agricultural Technology
Project presently being prepared for funding by the World Bank, that it would have the objective of
responding to needs for improvement in defined cropping systems or thematic topics (soil and
water conservation and utilization), integrated nutrient use efficiency, natural resource
management, etc.), whereby all elements of the research-extension-farmer system contribute to the
one overall goal. Such a program approach may involve basic and applied research by ICAR
institutes, applied research and on-farrn trials by SAUs, district extension programs by DOAs
(including demonstrations, training, technical information, etc.), and training programs for farmers
at KVKs and Farmer Training Centers.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
45.        There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of
this project, including:
(a)    The concept of a decentralized research system, started under NARP and
carried on under NARP 1I, based on a uniform system where research has
become the responsibility of ZRSs of SAUs conducting adaptive research in
local agro-ecological zones, is sound and its continued development is
essential if the diverse farming systems in India, particularly the rainfed
systems, are to benefit from new technologies.



17
(b)     Generally, most ZRSs, but not sub-stations, have adequate facilities and
sufficient numbers of scientific staff. However, the nature of the farming
systems and their great diversity makes it necessary to have more multi-
disciplinary teams working in an inter-disciplinary context with more
emphasis placed on financial viability of technologies, marketing potential,
diversification (broad-basing) of farm production and relevance of
technologies to farmers circumstances. The SAUs need to give higher
priority to horticulture, livestock, fisheries and agro-forestry research.
(c)    The project design had an important element of flexibility in that individual
subprojects were prepared and approved jointly by SAUs and ICAR, and
while indicative average costings were provided for each subproject, actual
costs of subprojects were need-based. In practice this meant that GOI
provided 100 percent financing to the SAUs for approved subprojects and
funds were advanced six months ahead of expenditure. This allowed greater
support to be given to resource poor states and remote or backward areas,
leading to a more comprehensive decentralized research system. Successful
implementation of subprojects, however, required more explicit timetables
for expenditure and physical targets to be met and closer monitoring and
supervision by the implementing agency.
(d)    The establishment of a productive and creative research system is a long
term process, in which the present system is at a relatively early stage of
development. The further advancement of ZRSs will depend on adequate
financial support to operate and maintain facilities and research programs,
improved management of research resources (better priority allocation,
planning, sharing of common resources, monitoring and evaluation) and
continuing improvement in the research capacity of the scientific staff (often
isolated from the mainstream of scientific activity), requiring specific
attention to training, reward systems and strong technical support from the
SAUs and ICAR.
(e)    Financial sustainability of the research system  developed is presently
jeopardized in some states by the indicated inability of some State
Governments to fully fulfill the terms of their MOUs to financially support
the system after the closure of the project. Lack of funds will particularly
adversely affect research operations, maintenance of facilities and equipment
and capital replacement. Although some SAUs have considered possible
revenue earning opportunities to improve financial viability, these will
always be limited. It is essential for SAUs to use their financial, physical



18
and staffing resources more efficiently, limit the number of sub-stations, and
improve cooperation and collaboration in research programs among states
with similar agro-ecological zones.
(f)    Despite the emphasis given to establishing and strengthening research-
extension-farmer linkages in the many research and extension projects
funded by the World Bank in India, these linkages still remain weak. The
establishment of formal linkages (zonal workshops, training for SMSs of
extension departments, joint field days, etc.) between research and the line
agencies of state departments (agriculture, forestry, livestock and fisheries),
has not, except for crop production, engendered strong cooperation,
information exchange and collaboration in technology generation and
transfer to farmers. It is essential that the extension departments of the SAUs
and state governments and the research agencies (SAUs and ICAR) develop
novel and more effective approaches to improving collaboration.
(g)    The project's implementation benefited from strong expertise in agricultural
research of the Bank's Resident Mission staff who supervised the project.



19
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                      L           1                          II[
Sector policies                     K]          E71           E]            K
Financial objectives                 I           K]           EJ           [I
Institutional development           F1          EII           [K           F]
Physical objectives                 LI          E]            LI]           K]
Poverty reduction                     ]         EI]           K]  
Gender issues                        n]           o7          E7           L
Other social objectives             K ]         LIE]             ]         L]
Environmental objectives            KK |I                                  [I]
Public sector management            K]           K ]             ]           o
Private sector development          Ll                        K |LI
Other (Human Resources
Development)                      ]   D    DD
B. Proiect sustainabilitv            Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)          (1)          (i)
LI    LIE7              V
Highlv
C. Bank performance                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(V)          (V)          (1)
Identification                   L            E            L
Preparation assistance             ]          E7 K
Appraisal                           ]         K]           [Fl
Supervision                       []          El           K]



20
Highlv
D. Borrower Derformance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(V)          (1)()
Preparation                                   71           Ffi
Implementation                   El           El           El
Covenant compliance                                        M E  E
Operation (if applicable)        E            E            E
Highlv                                      Highlv
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(E  M   O   O



21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                              Purpose                         Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. National Agricultural Research  Was designed to strengthen the capability of State   1978        Closed 30
Project (Cr. 855-lN)               Universities to conduct zonal research in support of             September
reformed statewide agricultural extension projects with          1985
the objective of improving university based agricultural
research, particularly research oriented towards the needs
of the main agro-ecological zones with special emphasis
on foodgrains and oilseeds and integration of cropping
patterns and animal husbandry practices.
2. National Agricultural Extension    The first of a three-phase series of agricultural extension    1984  Closed
Project (Cr. 1523-IN)              projects to provide follow-up support to already                 March 31,
participating states in strengthening the T&V system in          1993
the States of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan and
to further strengthen the GOI/DOE capacity.
3. National Agricultural Extension  The second of a three-phase series of agricultural  1987        Closed
Project II (Cr. 1569-IN)           extension projects to provide follow-up support to already       March 31,
participating states in strengthening the T&V system in          1993
the States of Haryana, Gujarat and Karnakata and to
establish the T&V system in Jammu & Kashmir.
4. Third National Agricultural     The third of a three-phase series of agricultural extension    1987  Closed
Extension Project (Cr. 1754-IN)    projects to provide follow-up support to strengthen the          March 31,
T&V system in the States of Assam and to establish the           1994
T&V system in the States of Himachal Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh.
Following operations
I. Assamn Rural Infrastructure and  The primary objectives are to: (i) improve equity and  1995     To be
Agricultural Services Project (Cr.  alleviate poverty by offering better opportunities for          closed in
2733-IN)                           poorer farmers and women to contribute to agricultural           2000
growth and income generation, (ii) improve nutrition of
the rural poor, (iii) accelerate agricultural growth through
improved use of resources, relieving infrastructural and
technical constrainits, and providing an enabling
environment to facilitate the growth of private sector
investments, (iv) encourage sustainability of resource use
and quality of the environment, and (v) improve the
Government's long-term capacity for strategic agricultural
planning.
2. Agricultural Human Resources    The project will begin a process of: (i) improving the  1995     To be
Development Project (Cr. -IN)      quality and relevance of higher agricultural educationand        closed in
in-service training programmes, and (ii) strengthening the       2000
capacity of participating states to develop and manage
agricultural human resources development.



22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                       Date planned                 Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                                         July 1984
Appraisal                                                 August 1984               October-November 1984
Negotiations                                                                        19 August 1995
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                        25 September 1985         22 October 1985
Signing                                                                            25 February 1986_a/
Effectiveness                                                                       21 April 1986
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)                            October/November         May 1989
1988
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                        30 June 1992              30 June 1995
Loan closing                                              30 June 1993              30 June l996b'
a Project restructured 8 May 1991 (President's Memo)
bw Closing date changed following three one-year extensions
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY86    FY87   FY88    FY89        FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93        FY94    FY95   FY96    FY97
Appaisal           4.00    10.00   19.00    31.00    43.00    56.00    69.00    72.10
estimate
Actual              0.0    6.43    9.86    16.63     19.53    32.53    39.74    53.93    61.18    63.92   71.65    76.67
Actual as %          0       64      52      54        45       58       58       75       85       89      99      106
of estimate
Date of final             13 Dec.
disbursement               1996



23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR/ President's Report
Estimated             Actual
1. NARP I Sub-projects to be completed under NARP II
a. Administrative                                                12                   14
b. General Research                                              76                   76
c. Training                                                       2
d. Special Research                                                                   4
2. NARP II Supplemental Subprojects                               82                   86
3. NARP II New Research Subprojects                               39                   37
4. NARP II Administrative Subprojects                              2                   6
5. NARP II Training                                                                    2
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NARP 11 Special Subprojects"'                                  10                   10
III. Other indicators (if applicable)
1.
3.
a' These subprojects were newly created following project restructuring in June 1991.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined           Status             Impact of study
1.                       No special studies included
in project
2.
3 .



25
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign     Total
Items               costs      costs                costs       costs
1. Civil Works            26.58       -        26.58      28.21        -         28.21
2. Equipment & Vehicles    12.35      1.37     13.72      32.69       3.63       36.32
3. Staff Costs            29.94        -       29.94      14.09                  14.09
4. Operating Costs         7.44       0.94      8.38      10.48       1.32       11.8
5. Training                 -          -         -         1.02       1.76       2.78
Base Costs               76.31       2.31     78.62
Physical Contingencies     1.58       0.10      1.68
Price Contingencies       30.01       0.62     30.63
TOTAL                    107.90     3.03     110.93      86.49       6.71       93.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total      Local     Foreign    Total
costs     costs                costs      costs
SourceI
IDA                          69.07      3.03      72.10      73.45      3.22     76.67
Domestic contribution (GOI)  38.83        -       38.83      13.49      3.49      16.53
TOTAL                       107.90     3.03     110.93      86.49      6.71      93.2
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There was no net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at appraisal, as such
estimates are not applicable to this type of project. Therefore the NPV and ERR have not been re-estimated by
the ICR mission.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Onfal       Revised
Covenant   Present   fulfillment   fulfillment                Description of
Agreement       Section      typeV'    stanus5'     date         date                       covenant                                      Comments
DCA            SCH-.2(l)     5          C          01/31/86                ICAR in consultation with the concerned State and
SAU to prepare & fturnish to the Association a hst of
unBatbon projects where research sub-projcts can
be initiated on a pfiofity basis during the first ttvo
years of project implemnenttation.
DCA            SCH.2(2)      5          C         09/30/89                  ICAR to sancbon all sub-projects to be financed  Original proposals completed on time, but date
under the project.                            revised to 09/30/92 to facilitate sanction of new
sub-projects include in restructuring.
DCA            SCH.2(5)      5          C                                   Furnish to the Association the agenda and notes  Completed.
prepared for PFC meetings, the proceedings of said
meetings along with a copy of ICAR letter
sanctoning sub-projects.
DCA            SCH.2(6)      5          C                                   Arrange annual on-site supervision visits to each  AU SAUs visited at lent annualy but not
participating SAU and all sub-project sites.  physicaly possible to visit over 200 sub-project
sites annually.
DCA            SCH.2(7)      5          C                                   Funish to the Association the annual work      Submitted six-monthly.
programme of PU.
DCA            SCH.2(8)      5          CD                                  Cause all SAUs to transfer responsibility for al  Done at most SAUs.
campus research activities to the office of the
Director of Research of the concemed SAU.
DCA            SCH.2(10)    9           C                                   Fumish to the Associabon reports on the physical    Done.
implementation of the sub-projects on a semi-annual
basis.
DCA            SCH.2(I 1)    5          C                                   Withn the first quarter after completon ofthird year  Completed on schedule.
of the project, undertake to carry out a midternm
review with the Borrower and the Association in
order to monitor progress of the project & Provide
for mid-course correction.
PA             2.02          5          C          02/25/86                 To ensure that procurement of goods & works to be
financed out of proceeds of Credit is govemed by
Schedule I to this agreement.
PA             3.01          5          C         02/25/86                 ICAR to carry on operations with sound
administrative, financial & agicultural research
practices under supervision of qualified management
and having adequate staff
PA             4.01 A        2          C         02/25/86                 ICAR to maintain separate records & accounts,
adequate to reflect its operational & financial
condition.
PA             4.0 t B       I          CD        02/25/86                 ICAR to have its accounts & financial statements  Audited accounts for 1983/84 fismished after delay
audited for each FY and Audit Report fiunished to   of one year.
the Association not later than 9 months after end of
each such year.
PA             4.0tCi        2          C         02/25/86                 ICAR to maintain separate records &acounts for
expenditures for which withdrawals requested
PA             4.02A         2          C         02/25186                 ICAR to cause SAU in receipt of a grant to maintain  Done
separate accounts for each sub-project.
PA             4.02B         2          CD        02/25/86                 ICAR to came SAU to fimnish to it a grant       Some delays
expenditure certificate prepared by independent
auditom acceptable to PFC not later than 9 months
after the end of the SAUs financial year.
i      Covenant Type: I - Accounts/audit; 2 - Financial performmance; 3 - Flow and utilization of project finds; 4 - Counterpart funding; 5 - Management aspects of the project; 6 -
Environmental covenants; 7 - Involuntary resettlement; 8 - Indigenous people; 9 - Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 - Implementation; 11 - Resource allocation; 12 -
Regulatory/institutional action; and 13 - Other
S       Status: C - Comphed with; CD - Compliance after delay: CP - Compled with partially, and NC - Not complied with.



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned"                  Revised'/                 Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks         US$V         Weeks        US$2'       Weeks  |US$00
Preparation to                -           n.a. 2         -           n.a.       18.8        43.8
appraisal
Appraisal                     -           n.a.           -          n.a.        35.4        84.0
Negotiations through          -           n.a.           -          n.a.         9.7        14.4
Board approval
Supervision                   -           n.a.           -          n.a.       831.9        979.6
Completion                    -           n.a.           -          n.a.        16.0        54.7
TOTAL                                                                         911.8       1176.7
Not available before FY95.
21   Dollar budgeting only introduced FY94 and therefore costs cannot be computed.



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                      Specialized        Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of                     Month/                  of       Days in          staff skills        tation          ment           Types of
project cycle                 year/site '           persons       field        represented b'         status       objectives      problems d'
Through appraisal          Feb. 1984 (Mission Brief)                                                          V.             %               V.
Sept. 1984(Prep. Report)
Appraisal through Board     Oct.- Nov. 1994 (Loan             6                                               V.             V.              V.
approval                   negotiations and appraisal)
Supervision                Dec. 1985- Feb. 1986
August 1986 (AP)                 4            5             R(3),Ex
August 1986 (Ke)                 4            6             R(3),Ex
Sept. 1986 (MP)                  3            2               R(3)
Sept. 1986(0)                     1           4               Ex
Sept. 1986 (B)                   3            6             R(2),Ex
Sept. 1986 (R)                   3            2             R(2),Ex
Sept. 1986 (AP&MP)               3            7             R(2),Ex
Supervision                Oct. 1986 (H)                     2           2               R,Ex                 2                              M
Oct. 1986 (HP)                    1           5                R
Nov. 1986(M)                      I           6                R
Nov. 1986 (AP)                    2           3               R(2)
Nov. 1986 (B)                     2           3               R(2)
Dec. 1986 (TN)                    2           7               R(2)
Dec. 1986 (M&Ka)                  3           5             R(2),Ex
Dec. 1986 (MP)                    I          11                R
Dec. 1986 (TN)                    1           8                R
Supervision                Jan. 1987 (M)                     2            5               R(2)                2               1              M
March 1987 (R)                    3           5             R(2),Ex
March 1987 (G)                   3            5             R(2),Ex
April 1987 (TN)                  4            5             R(3),Ex
April 1987(M)                    4            5             R(3),Ex
May 1987 (HF)                    4            5             R(3),Ex
June 1987 (G)                     1           3                R
June 1987 (Ke)                    I           4                R
Supervision                August 1987 (G)                   2           4               R(2)
Sept. 1987 (UP)                   1           5                R
Sept. 1987(G)                     1           4                R
Sept. 1987 (A)                   2            3               R(2)
Oct. 1987 (J&K)                   2           5               R(2)
Oct. 1987 (UP)                    3           3             R(2),Ex
Oct. 1987 (AP)                    2           6               R(2)
Oct. 1987 (Ka)                    1           5                R
Supervision                Nov. 1987 (M)                     2           6                R(2)
Nov. 1987 (B)                     3           3             R(2),Ex
Nov. 1987 (UP)                   2            5               R(2)
Nov. 1987 (AP)                    2           3               R(2)
Dec. 1987 (UP)                   2            5               R(2)
Dec. 1987 (Ka)                    3           7             R(2),Ex
Supervision                Jan. 1988 (UP)                    2           5               R(2)
Jan. 1988 (R)                    2            5               R(2)
Feb. 1988 (B)                     2           6               R(2)
Feb. 1988 (0)                     1           6                R
Feb.-Mar. 1988 (TN)               1           7                R
March 1988 (MP)                   2           5               R(2)
April 1988 (A)                    2           7               R(2)
May 1988 (Ke)                     1           4              R,Ex
June 1988 (HP)                                7               Ex



29
Supervision                July 1988 (H)                     3            2             R(2),Ex               2
August 1988 (Ka)                 4            6             R(3),Ex
Sept. 1988 (MP)                   2           3              REx
Sept. 1988 (M)                    2           4              REx
Oct. 1988 (B)                     2           5               R(2)
Oct. 1988 (P)                     2           5              REx
Oct. 1988 (WB)                    2           3              R,Ex
Nov.-Dec. 1988 (TN)               2           6               R,Ex
Dec, 1988 (P)                     3           5              AgR,S                2               1             M,F
Supervision                Jan. 1989 (H)                     3            5             R(2),Ag
Jan. 1989 (0)                    4            6            R(2),Ex,F
Jan. 1989 (UP)                   2            5              R,Ag
Jan.-Feb. 1989 (Ka)               2           5              R,Ag
Feb. 1989 (R)                    4            5            R(2),Ex,Ec
Feb.-March 1989 (A)               2           5               R(2)
April 1989(M)                     1           5                R
April 1989 (MP)                  3            5             R,Ex(2)
Supervision                May 1989 (G)                      3           6              AgR,Ex
May 1989 (R)                      3           5             R,Ex(2)
July 1989 (WB)                    2           5              R,Ex
July 1989 (J&K)                   1           5                R                  2               2             M,F
July-Aug 1989 (B)                2            5              AgR
Sept. 1989 (H)                   2            3              AgR
Sept 1989(M)                     2            3               R(2)
Sept. 1989 (UP)                  5            5          R(2),Ag(2),Ex
Supervision                Oct 1989 (HP)                      I           5               Ex
Oct. 1989 (Ka)                    2           5              R,Ag
Oct. 1989 (MP)                    3           5              REx,S
Oct.-Nov. 1989 (AP)               2           4              R,Ag
Oct.-Nov 1989(Kc)                 2           5               AgF
Dec 1989 (R)                      2           5              R,Ex
Dec. 1989(G)                     2            5              R,Ex
Dec. 1989 (TN)                    2           5              AgR
Supervision                Jan. 1990 (P)                     3           4               Ag,RI
Jan. 1990(B)                      3           5             AgREx
Jan.-Feb. 1990 (A)                2           5              R,Ag
Feb 1990(0)                      4            5            R,Ex(2),Ec             2              2              M,F
March 1990 (M)                    2           5               R(2)
March 1990 (MP)                   2           5               Ex,R
March 1990 (Ka)                   2           5               AgR
April 1990 (0)                    2           5              R,Ex
April 1990 (R)                    3           5             R.Ex(2)
Supervision                April-May 1990 (HP)               3            5             REx,Ag
May 1990 (H)                     2            5              Ag,R
May 1990 (G)                      3           4             AgREx
June 1990 (P)                     2           3              AgR
June 1990 (AP)                    1           5                R
July 1990 (TN)                    1           5                R
August 1990 (M)                   2           2               R(2)                2               2              M
Sept. 1990(0)                    2            5              AgF
Sept. 1990(A)                     2           5              AgR
Supervision                Oct. 1990 (K)                      1          7                Ex
Oct 1990 (WB)                     1           2                R
Oct.-Nov 1990 (MP)               3            5             REx(2)
Nov. 1990 (P)                    3            5             Ec,R,Ex
Nov. 1990 (A)                    2            5              AgR
Nov. 1990(R)                     3            5             R,Ec,Ex
Nov. 1990 (Ka)                   3            5             REc,Ag
Nov. 1990 (liP)                  2            6              AgR
Dec. 1990(H)                      2           5              R,Ex
Dec. 1990(G)                      3           5             AgR,Ex



30
Supervision                  Jan. 1991 (0)                      4            5            R(2),Ex(2)
Jan. 1991 (UP)                     2           4                R,Ex
Feb. 1991 (B)                      1            5                 R                  2                2              M,T
March 1991 (AP)                    3            6              R,Ex,S
March 1991 (A)                     3            5             Ag,Ex,S
March 1991 (Ke)                    3            3               R,I,C
March 1991 (R)                     4            5             R,Ex(2),S
March 1991 (M)                     2            5               R,Ex
Supervision                 April 1991 (TN)                     1           6                 R
April 1991 (Ka)                    3            5             R,AgEx
April 1991 (UP)                    5            5           R(2),Ex(2),Ag
Apr-May 1991 (MP)                  1            5                 R
June 1991 (B)                      1            5                 R
June-July 1991 (0)                 1            8                 R
July 1991 (HP)                     1            5                 R                  2                2             M,F,T
July 1991 (M)                      1            5                 R
July 1991 (MP)                     1            6                 R
Supervision                 August 1991 (R)                     1           2                 R
August 1991 (H)                    2            5               R,Ag
October 1991 (Ke)                  1            5                 R
October 1991 (UP)                  1           4                  R
October 1991 (Ka)                  2            4               R,Ag
Nov. 1991 (M)                      1           5                 R
Dec. 1991 (G)                      1            5                 R
Dec. 1991 (AP)                     1            5                 R
Dec. 1991 (0)                      2            5               R,Ex
Supervision                 Jan. 1992 (A)                       2           5                R,Ex
Jan. 1992 (MN)                     2           7                Ex(2)
Jan. (P)                           2           2                R,Ex
Feb. 1992 (R)                      I            5                 R                  2               2                T
March 1992 (M)                     1            5                 R
March 1992 (H)                     2            5               R,Ex
April 992 (WB)                     1           4                 R
April 1992 (R)                     2            8               R Ex
April 1992(G)                      2           4                Ag,R
Apnl-May 1992 (B)                  1            5                 R
April-May 1992 (HP)                2            5              AgEx
Supervision                 May 1992 (M)                        1           5                 R
May 1992 (WB)                      3            8             R(2),Ex
May 1992 (Ka)                      1            5                 R
June 1992 (UP)                     1            6                 R
June 1992 (A)                      3            8              ExAg,?
Jun.-July 1992 (ICAR) '            4           17             R(3),Ex
July 1992 (M)                      1           7                 R
July 1992 (0)                      1           7                 R
July 1992 (Ka)                     1           6                 R
August 1992 (AP)                   2            5               R,Ag
I           5                 R
Supervision                 Sept. 1992 (G)                      1           5                 R                   2               2
Sept. 1992(R)                      2           5                R,Ex
Oct. 1992 (UP)                     2            1               R,Ex
Nov. 1992 (M)                      1            4                 R
Nov. 1992 (Ka)                     1           3                 R
Nov. 1992 (B)                      1            2                R
Dec. 1992 (A)                      1            3                R
Dec. 1992 (H)                      1           4                 R
Dec. 1992 (Joint)                  1            2                R
Dec. 1992 (TN)                     2            5               R,Ex
Supervision                 Jan. 1993 (MP)                      1           6                 R
Jan. 1993 (J&K)                    3            I             R(2),Ex
Jan. 1993 (P)                      2           3                R,Ex
Feb. 1993 (Ke)                     1            5                 R
Feb. 1993 (WVB)                    1            3                R
March 1993 (MN)                    1           4                  R
March 993(G)                       1            2                 R                  2               2
March 993 (UP)                     ]           4                  R



31
Supervision                April 1993 (M)                     1           7                R
April-May 1993 (11P)             2            5              Ex,Ag
July 1993 (M)                     I           I                R
July 1993 (AP)                    1           3                R
July 1993 ()                     I           I                R
July 1993 (HP)                    1           3               Ex
July 1993 (Ka)                    I           5                R
Supervision                August 1993 (Ka)                   1           5                R
August 1993 (MP)                  I           5                R
August 1993 (WB)                  1           4                R
Sept. 1993 (M)                    1           6                R                  2              2
Oct. 1993 (MP)                    1           4                R
Nov. 1993 (AP)                    2           5              Ag,R
Nov.-Dec 1993 (M)                 1           4                R
Supervision                Jan. 1994 (A)                     2            7              Ag,R
Jan. 1994(ICAR&SAUs)"             3           8             R(2),Ag
Feb 1994 (G)                      2           5              Ag,R
Feb 1994 (TN)                     1           5                R
March 1994 (P)                    2           3               R(2)
March 1994 (H)                    2           2              R,Ag
Supervision                April 1994 (M)                    2            6              Ag,R                 2
April 1994 (Ke)                  2            5              Ag,R
June 1994 (UP)                    1           3                R
July 1994 (O)                     1           2                R
Sept. 1994 (SAUs)                3            2             R(2),Ag
Oct. 1994 (R)                     6           9          Ag,R,H,I(2),Ec
Oct. 1994 (SAUs)                  3           2             Ag(2),R
Nov. 1994 (SAUs)"                 2           2              AgR
Supervision                Jan 1995 (SAUs)                    1          2                 R                  S              S              M,F
Feb. 1995 (Central SAUs)          2           2              AgR
Apr. 1995 (Coastal SAUs)          2           5              Ag,R
Aug. 1995 (HP)h                   1           2                R
Aug. 1995 (AP)                    I           I                R
Oct 1995 (P)                      2           2              Ag,R
Supervision                Apnl 1996 (MP) '                   1          2                 R
May 1996 (IARI)                   2           I              Ag,R
Completion                                          ==                                                                          % ,
States visited indicated in brackets (A-Assam. AP-Andhra Pradesh; B-Bihar, G-Gujarat, H-Haryana; HP-Himachal Pradesh; J&K-Jammu & Kashmir; Ka-Kamakata;
Ke-Kerala; M-Maharashtra, MP-Madhya Pradesh: O-Onssa; P-Punjab; R-Rajasthan, TN-Tamil Nadu, UP-Uttar Pradesh; and WB-West Bengal)
b/    Staff specialisations: R-Resea-ch; Ex-Extension, Ec-Economics; Ag-Agnculture; S-Sociologist; F-Financial Analyst; C-Computer Specialist; and I-Irrigation
d     Overall performance rating based on WB Form 590 reporting; more detailed ratings for each sub-proJect is given in Appendix A
IV    Types of problems. T-Technical; M-Managerial. and F-Financial
Appraisal of Basic Research SubproJect
A senes of missions from WB resident mission to R, Ka, AP, A, 0, TN, H and M to attend ZREACs and establish Status Reports for all AEZs
Joint meeting with representatives from H, P, HP and J&K
v Review of Basic Research Subproject
V     Northem Regional Workshop
y     Eastem Regional Workshop
hi    Southem Regional Workshop
v     Review of rice-wheat cropping system component of Basic Research Subproject



INDIA: National Agicultural Research Project II
Implementanon Compieton Report
APPENDIX A             Summary of LocatIon, Impiementation Perlod. CostS and Performance of Sub-Projects
Tatie 1. NARP I Subprolecta to be completed under NARP II
a. AdministraIve Subprojects
SSP    State           SAU 1/  Su*pwjet Swmduioned         Tine of   Tkne of   Budet   Fund        Site     Oveal        Geneml
No.                                                       Inibtaton  Completion Sandloned Released  Expendlbre FRsDng2/   Outcome
........... .Rs In millions .
I   Punjab            PAU      Dredor of Resewch           23U211  22.o26         0.0D0    -0.040     0.184             Satisfactory
2   TamN Nadu          TNAU    Diector of Research         10.011B1   08.01 B6    0.0S5     0.036     0.042             Satisfadory
3   Crissa             OUAT    Dredor of Resecfch          05.0681   04.06BB      0.000   -0.021      0.2B8             Satisfalctry
4   Himachal Pradesh   HPKW    OItector of Reseach         02.03B2  01.03E7       0.158     0.030     0.385             Satisfactory
6   UttEr Pradesh      CSAUAT DIector of Research          29.o3B3   28.0387      0.000     0.120     0.071             Satisfactory
6   UttEr Pradesh      GBPUAT Drector of Research          29.03B2   28.0387     0.000     0.135     0.274             Satsfactory
7   Maharashlra        MRF<     Drector of Reseach         22.04B2   21.04B6      0.116     0.116     0.420             satisfactory
8   Mahaashta          PKV     Drector of Reseerch         24.05BI   23.06B6      0.160     0.160     0.411             Satisfactory
9   Maharashta         MAU      Drector of Reseerch        2s.04.2   24.04B7      0.000     0.254     0.234             Satismftory
10  RPasthan           RaJAU    Drector of Research        01 .O B1   31.12E6      0.237     0.362     0.433             Satisfactory
11I  Assam             AAU      Dlector of Research        01.1082   30.0917       0.000     0.340     0880              Satisactory
12   Elhar             RAU      Diector of Research        19.08.82   18.08B7       .o0o     0.Q21     0.507             Satisfactry
13   UttarPradesh      NDUAT   Drector of Reseerch         29.0382   2B.03S7       0.000     0.401     0.Bg2             Satibsfctory
14   Maharashtra       KKV      Dlector of Reseerch        25.0482   24.0487       0.125   -0.156      0.440             Satisfctory
TOTAL                                                                              0.881     2.028     5.321
1/ Ust ofacronyms for SAUs oven In ......
2/ Performanceratlng based on: 1 = no sigiMcant problems, 2 = moderate protiems, 3 = mapr problems and4 = work not s5tece
(D 10
rDL
m
0 F
Ot-h 
CO >



APPENDIX A            Summary of Location. Impt m enatiUon Pelod. Costs and Performance of Sub-Pro locts (cont.)
bh Research SubproIaCs
SSP    State          SAU 11  Subproject Sanctioned       Time of   Time of   Hudget   Fund      Sie       Overall     General
No.                                                      Inititon  ComprleonSanchonedReleased  EM!nclftire Rting 2/   Outcome
........... .Rs in millions .
1 Hlarya           HAU      Srsa                       18.0882   17.o827      0.000     0.295     0.824   2.0    No signMicant pmoblem  Alth stamng and cvil works
2                  KAU      Kamal-Kaul                 19.0882  18.0987       o.0Do     2.026     3.490          Moderate rotiems with ex lirksoes and teChnic
3 Andhm Pradesh    APAU    Jagial                      1t.t28    10.12B9      0.000     1.539     2.074   1.3    No p=obiems with stanng, cMI works, R-E
4                  APAU    Nandcal                     08.12B8   07.12B65     o.0O   -0270        0.214         linkages, technical and management
5                  APAU    Anrlpde                     19.12.81   18.12.86    o.0Do     0.193   -0.025
6                  APAU    Chintapalle                 24.07B5  23.089O       o.O0      6.162     7.269
7                  APAU    KasrI-Nellore               21.rJB6   23o.8B0o     o.00o     5.433     7.237
a Gufirat          GAU      NavasErt                   1s.03112  14.0387      0.26      0.415     1.949   2.0    No problerneWth staMng and cr wft.k
9                  GAU      Jurnagwrt                  29.o7B2  2B.a7B7       0.644     1.666     3.166          McOdrateproblems witR-E llrkagesand
10                  GAU      Anand                      15.0tB3   14.0t88      0.589     1.623     3.460         technilcia
181 KarnWad         UASU    Adjtw-Ralchy                2.035B1   27.0rJ16    -.485      0.168      1.485   i.8    MooEate probiems wM stamng ci works ans t
12                  UASU    Brahmavu                    2B.0osB1   27.0sE8    -2.498     0.565     4.918         R-E lirksges
13                  UASU    Mucigra                     20.06B1  27.05B6      -1.139     0.356     2.033
22                 TUASNA    Shmnogsi                   25.rBB2   04.13B7     -0.315     0.392     2.230
12                  TNAU    Naomanotaa                  23.027B3   2.072B      0.391     3 23.06   3736
16 PunjA PAU                 Kanci                      205 B.    25s0 510683  0.000     2OO       2.95   1.6    Moderate problems ith staMngc, eilwrksagR-E
17                  PAU      KheriGucksp r              ot.0683  3t.65B        O.0O0     1.257     3.430           nkatesandntechrdeal
18 Tamil Nadeu         TNAU    Adithtral-Trichy         05032o    04.032B      1.249      2.147    5.611   1.0    No signicant problems
19                  TNAU    pawlon                      16.09B1   16.09B.      0.355      3.230    1.9.8
20                  TNAU    Vashabta                    29.0382  a8.0387       0.506     2.212     5.259
21                  TNAU    Pechipeal                   18.01 B3   17.01 BB    o.aOW     0.251     0.483
22                  TNAU    Thadwurcuisl                09.02112  04.12.7      0.402     0.976     3.573
23                  TNAU    Aruppuketeat                12.0742  11.079.       0.500     3.045     6.007
24 Urlssa           OUAT    Unciguwi                    OB.o283  17.o28        o    1.424    71.81  Z9.15   2.0    No signincant protbems vwth stalMng.
25                  OUAT    Bawanipatn                 0o.12B3  31.o113        0.000     2.051     2.645          Moclrate probwim  wth c-iworks,aR-E ltriKagel
26                  OUAT    Umarkot                     190o6B3   16,B8         0.000    21.513    1.91           andtachncagl.n
27                  OUAT    Rttarml & Motto             otook!6  3og.88         1.190    6.5D4     7.892
28                  OLUAT    Mehismpat                  24.09.84  23. AQ9      o.ODO     4.348     4.991
293Himachal Pradesh   HPKWN   BasLwa                    02~02B3  0o02MS        2.233     4.0033    7.411   2.0    No signntesantt roblems vAth stGhg.
30                  HPKas    Dhauotkuin                 29.iiB3  C8.11B8       o.3Do       6.354    9.503         Modwate probiems with filworks, R-E lirnkages
31                  HPKWV   Mtshotra                    16.0686   14.068o      6.561       4.272   4.298         andtechnikl.
32 Uttar Pradesh    CSAUAT Kharal                       29.0e33    1188s BB    0.0       3.548     5.7U    3.0    Mo1ate protJems wt s%Mng Mapr problems
33                  CSAUAAT  Madurkiknd                 24.09.84  23.0929      o.OOO     5.531     6.591         wvith cri wfork, R- E  h t  echnicaL
34ULttaLrPracdesh   GHPUAT RsnicrhauLt                  20.11.83  19.11B8       1.424    7.814     9.314   1.9 IF No sigrnieantproblemMsuth tsmn g. Moerate
35                  GBPUAT Daurala                      e9. 12B13  19.11B8     o.aoo     6.527     4.617          prob(ems ilhehilworks.R-Ellrkga, steehnmi
36                  GBPUAT Nagrin                       16.o5115  16.05.9o     o.aDo     2.514    2Z914           and maragemernL
37                  GBgPUAT Mal'hera                    15.es116  14.05.90     0.943    2Z439      3.518
38Meharashtra       MPKV    Sholsrpu                    21.C3.84  2D.C389      2.873     3.923     6.810   1S9    moderate probliems vth staMrnR-E lrJcges
39                  MPKV   IgakWrl                      15.0515   14.05S0      3.3183    12229    lalOll          ancdtbcnkll.
I40                   MPK      Kohlapur                   29.08E65  2B.08.9o     o.aoD    %9L80    Ua671
(D r
0 X
CO :



APPENDIX A             Summary af Location. Implem entaton P rlad. COsts and Parfrmance oa Sub- Proefcts (cont.)
b. Research SubprojetS (cont)
SSP    State           SAU 1/  Subproject Sanctloned       Time of   Time of   fiJuget   Fund      Site     Overall      General
No.                                                       Initiation  Completion Sancdoned Released  :7nd,tte RtIng 2/   Outcome
........... ..Rs in millions
41 Maherashira       PKV      Sindewahi                  13.03B4   a2.o3B9       1.470     7.332     8.396   1.9    Moderate protiems wlth stalling R-E lrnages,
dVil 'waft and technical.
42 Maharashta        MAU      Tulappr                    21.0384   20.03S9       o.ooo    0.847      1.025   1.9    No signficant probiems vAth stamng, R-E linkiagg
43                   MAU      ALranatzad   _             04.10S4   O.0B9         1.045    12080      7.857         dvilworksandtechnical.
44 Madhya Priwish    JNKWV   TiahngaIh                   10.06.81   09.06.86     0.0D0     0.175     2.831   2.0    No signficant probhms with sta lig. Moderate
45                   JNKW    Ambikapn r                  24.0382   23.03B7       0.0D0     1.39S     3.530         problems with CMI works and R-E linkages.
46                   JNKYV   Morena                      24.0382   23.03S7       0.274     0.810     2.032
47                   JNKVV   Sehae                       30.11S3   23.1iB3       0.542     8.S23     8.673
48                   JNKYV    Dean Indore                                        0.000     0.00D    0.000
49 Kerab             KAU      Vliayani                   3.11 1  2Y.11           0.821     1.837     3.258   1.4    Nosignficantprotiems Ithstamng,cMiworks
50                   KAU      Pattamti                   27.11 1   26.11B6       0.0D0     0.650    2.269          andtedchnial. Moderate protlems with R-E
51                   KAU      Kumawkon                   3.1181   29.1S6        0.0D0     0.808     3.434         lirtages.
52                   KAU      Chaaitdi 3/                25.0583   24.06S8       0.o00     1.310     1.217
53                   KAU      Ambelyal                   24.11 83  23.118        0.0D3     1.780     2.814
54 Rajasthan         RaUU    Navagaon                    14.01E1   13.0186       2.643      2.60     5.457   2.0    Moderate prolems with staMng management,
55                   R3JAU    Durgapur                   01.12B1   30.11 B6      2.2D6     2.26      2.6f1         dclIworks,R-EI Inkages& technical.
56                   RakU    Fatehpur                    2902B4   28.02B9        4.548     8.564    12829
57                  RPUAU    9rigeinganaW                3Do383   29.03B7        0.745     1.545     2.537
58                   RaJAU    Banswana                   2.04B3   27.0488        2.492     3.990     7.756
59 Assam             AAU      Goalpara                   01.10B2   30.59B7     -0o054      2.844     6.875   2.0    Moderate proiems wth stamng civil warls,
60                   MU       Lakhimpur                  01.1082  300787         0.000     4.820     8.721          R-Ellrimges& technical.
61                   MU       Dihu                       13.0283   12.0289       0.00    1t563       2.939
62                   MU       Kanmganj                   15.0585   14.0659o      0.000     1.537     2.939
63                   AAU      Timber                     15.0686   14.0690       0.000     0.670     1.030
64                   MU       Shilonani                  2B.08B8   22.0893       0.000     2987      3.450
65 Bhar              PAU      Satiour                    2.11B3   Z.11B7         0000      3862      7.008   2.0    ModerateprobilemswMthcMilworWKs, R-Ellrkages,
66                   PAU      Madhoptu                   23.08B8   z.oB93        0.000     7.340     8.917         andtedhnlical. MWiir Eotems with staffing.
67 Bhw               BAU      Durnki                     01.04.86   03.08.91     0.00      5.904     5.070   3.0    Majorprcbiens wih stafing, cMlworks, R-E
68                   BAU      Darsai                     04.91    3.0891         1.164     5.302     7.727         lirKages and tedhnical.
69                   BAU      Chiarki                    29.o8B6   2B.C891       0.000     3.697     4.860
70 Uttar Pradesh     NDUAT   Gogrmaghat                  2.0922   21.09S9        0.0D0     3.723     4.442   3.0    Major pobaems with staffing, technical, R-E
liKgsadmanagemenL.
71 Mharashtra        KKV      Vengurta                   02.12.83   01.12.88     0.581     5.774     6.774   1.5    Nosgnircantproblams with stikng, cWiwo,s
72                   KKV      Karjt                      07.10S4   21.1090       1.490     7.365     8.370         andtechnical. Moderate proiems wi R-E
linKages, technical andf management.
73 Delhi            ICAR lnst. IARI                      14.09B2   31.1288       0.000     5.631     5.631   1.0    No significantpro tems
74 Andlh PRadesh    ICAP lnst NAARM                      24.1182   31.1288      .00D0      0.000     3.662
TOTAL                                                                             39.477   242.164   347.835
11Ustofacronyms tar SAUs goen in .
2/ Pularmanceratlng Oasd on: 1 = no sigMlcant probiems, 2 = mocerate protiems, 3= mapr problems and4 - w1k not starterl
3P Wv narngmea tsubrpxopet                                                                                                                                                         0  la
(r
0 -6
0- H.
OD .



APPENDIX A            Summary of Location, Impem entatlon Period. Costs and Peformance of Sub-Projects (conL)
Table 2. Supplementry Subprojects sanctioned under NARP II
SSP    State          SAU 1/  Subproject Sanctfoned      Time of   Time of   Budget   Fund      Site     Overall     Geneai
No.                                                      Inititlon  CompletlonSanctionedReleased  ExpendtLre PRtng 2/   outcome
........... .Rs In millions .
1 Haryana          HAU      Western Zone (Srss.Ba%"   07.05Sr0  27.0392      6.169     3.643    4.901   2.0   No signMcant problem with stalnng and CMI works
2                  HAU      WestwrnZone OM samandl)   01.01SS   17.11.92     4.212     3.479    3.430          Modrate probtems with R-E Elrkagesand
HAU     Eastern Zone (KInal, etc)  29.12.89  23.12.93     4.628    3.833     4.137         techrial
3 Andira Pradesh   APAU    Kinsha Godavari Zone       01.0450  31.0092      12620    12451    14.000   1.3   No significant prolems with stemng, cMl works,
4                  APAU    North Coastal Zone         01.0490  31.0992       2.142     1.459    2.227          R-E lirkages, technical and management
5                  APAU    Southern Zone              01.0490  31.09.92      3.522     3.166    4.044
6                  APAU    North Talengana Zone       01.0450  31.09S2       3.637     3.435    3.570
7                  APAU    Scarce Raintill Zone       01.0450  31.09S2       1.798     1.553    2.209
8                  APAU    South Talengana Zone       01.0480  31.0982       3.843     3.722    4.374
9                  APAU    High Atitude Zone          01.04So  31.0982       0.543     0.543     1.001
10 Gujrat           GAU      South Gujerat H. RainraN Zone  01.0950   0Bo0194  4.041    3.888    3.995   2.0   No signifcantprotiems ith staffing and cMI
11                  GAU      South Gujarat M. Rainfall Zone  01.0980o  090194  2.079    2.012    2.051          works. Moderate problems with R-E lirkages and
12                  GAU      Miclile Gujat Zone        01.0980  OB.oi.94      0.457     0.467    0.474         technical
13                  GAU      North GularatZone         01.09ogo  al.0194      0.728     0.724    0.718
14                  GAU      North West GumratZone     01.0990  08.0194       2.273     2.152    2.016
15                  GAU      North SatiashlraZone      01.0980  0S.0154       0.574     0.574    0.518
16                  GAU      South Saurashtra Zone     01.098o  08.0194       3.410     3.240    3.170
17 Karnakata        UASl  Eastan Dry Zone              14.0489  16.0483       3.230     2.655    2.657   i'8    Moderate probtems with staMng technial and
18                  UASP   Southern Dry Zone           14.0489   16.04S3      6.220     5.179    4.998          R-E lilkages. No protem wth cil works.
19                  UASfl  Southern Transition Zone    14.04.89   16.0483     8.652     6.744    6.389
20                  UAS()  Hill Zone                   01.0189  31.12S3       4.390     3.137    2.895
21                  UAS(1   Coastal Zone               01.0189   16.0483      3.083     2.392    2.447
22 Karnakata        UAS1D)  NE Translfon Zone         3o.0489  29.04S3       2.635     1.743    Z.504   2.0   No significant protiems with stalng. Moderate
23                  UAS(D)  North Dry LandZone         33.0489  29.0483       5.590     3.227    4.795          problems with zorial walshops, technical and               n
24                  UAS(D)  North Transition Zone      3D.04.89  29.0483      6.768     3.478    5.085          R-E lirkages.
25                  UAS(D)  NE Dry Zone                30.04.89  2D.04.93     5.644     4.836    4.836
UAS(D)  Hill Zone                  3o.0489  29.0493       1.940    1.595     1.59S
UASRD   CoastalZone                33.o489  29.048        1.416    1.184     1.184
26 Punlib           PAU      Zonel&ll                  20.1289  19.12S3       7.760     6.978    6.908   1.8    Modwateproblems wthstafng cMI works, and
27                  PAU      Ropar                     01.1089  33.0994      11.583     9.546    10.090         R-E lirnages.
28TarniNIacu        TNAU    Nouth Easten Zorne         01.11.88  31.1292      8.845     6.905    8.907   1.0    Nosigniflcartprobians
29                  TNAU    North WesternZone          01.1128   31.1292      9.174     9.169    9.241
30                  TNAU    Cauvsh Delta Zone          01.118B  31.1292      12020    11.832    12727
31                  TNAU    WesternZone                01.11.88  31.1292     14.402    14.099    14.434
32                  TNAU    SouthZone                  01.1188  31.1292       6.780     6.295    6.310
33                  TNAU    Hlly&Tribtl Zone           01.1188  31.1292       9.325     8.516    8.450
34                  TNAU    High RainfalZone           01.1188   31.1292      8.795     8.172     9.837
35 Oris             OUAT    NW Phteau Zone              16.0989  16.09S3      6.208     4.467    6.057   1.6   No significant protiems with stang.
36                  OUAT    North Ceraral Pateau Zone   160.989   1:0983      2.370     2.150    2Z341          Moderate poblems wth cMi works, R-E llkages
37                  OUAT    SE Coastal Zone             16.09889  1609S3      2.258     1.995     2.167         and technical.
38                  OUAT    East and SE Coastal Zone    16.0989   16.0983     4.873     4.309     5.226                                                                   Pz 4
39                  OUAT    NE Ghat Zone                16.0989  16.0983      2.202     1.748     2.212                                                                    M r
40                  OUAT    Easterm Ghat Zone           16.0989   16.0983     7.428     6.257     6.860                                                                      M
41                  OUAT   Western Undcuting Zone       16.09Q9   15.0983     2.440     1.746     2.189                                                                    - =
42                  OUAT   Western Cenrral Tabie Zone    16.0989   16.0983    1.0D4     0.28      0.940                                                                    O
43                  OUAT    Mid Coental Tatle Land Zone   16.o098    1S.0903  2.774     2.605     2.689                                                                    " -X
1            co >



APPENDIXA             Summary of Locaton, Impleumntt1on Period. Cosbt and Performance of Sub-Projects (cont)
SupplementarY Subprjects (contg
SSP    State          SAU 1/  Subpropjc Sancned           Time of   TIme ot   Saet   Fund        Site      Overall     General
No.                                                     WIlton  Complaon Sendoned Released  Expendture  latInu2/   Outcome
HW u nie l . . ..... ...  Rsin mlions 
44 HmachalPradesh   HPKi                                           B Sub-Montane&LowHilI  (0.11.8   28.1192  15126    14.816    14.381   2.0    No signdlcantprotiemswlth staMng. Moderate
Zone                                                                                problems with cMI works, R-E Maes an~d tech.
45 Hlmachal Pradesh   DrYSPU  High Hil Zone I & ll      19.12fl8  18.1292     24.232    2a603    23486   2.0    No poblems hwth stang. Mae   plem with
46                           Kanclachat                 271.ilE    25os53      3.451     3.428     3.318         dwi ks.
47 Utter Padesh     CSAUARr Soul Wedem Zae              01.1089  30D09.93      7.794     5.014     5.351   3.0    Moderate probems wih staflg. Major probems
48                  CSAUAARTBunndakhandcLelabal&TiTdwi   01i.oE9  31(093       3.547     2.308     1.878         with cMh works, R-E lrkages & tehnicml.
49 Uar Pradesh      GBPUAT Mid Central Plain Zone       01.1DH9  3X0993        4.21     3aU       3.191   1.9    No significant prolems ith saing. Modarate
50                  GEPUAT HUI Zone (Fanichaurl)        o1.10o9   3XoO93       1.835     1.766     1.640         problems with cMi works, R-E llrkages, technical
GBPUAT Valley kea (alher)          01 .0i9   33.o0g3      2.105     1.758     1.752         and maragemert
GBPUAT HlI Rainfedkea qUma)        01.1099   3D.09S3      2.414     2.114     1.979
51                  GBPUAT Western Plain Zone           ol .10E9   3o.0923     3.835     3.089     3.165
52                  GBPUAT Upper Ganga Carml Command a1.109o  3D.0993          2.937     1.854     1.860
53                  GBPUAT BOeber and Taral Zone        01. o99   3D.0993      2.244     2.138     2.090
54 Maherashtra      MP4KV    Western Ghat Zone          01.0790  32.0694       2.471     2.471     2.773   1.9    Moadateprot4ems with stang R-E llrWages
55                 MhKV    SubMontaineZone              01.07.89  3D.06.94     2.550     2.401     2.8D0         andtechnIal.
56                  MPKV    Plaln Zone                  01.07E9  30,0694       1.571     1.401     1.348
57                  MPKY    Scerct Zone                 01.07.89  3D.0694      2.993     2.963     3.285
58 Mahrashtra       PKV      Eastern Vlhha Zone         01.07.9  32.0694       3.432     2.743     3.145   i.9    Moderate prolems ith stafftng R-E liriages,
59                  PKV      Western lcdwhra Zone       01.07E89  3D.C694      3.046     2.651     3.139         dWil was and technIcal.
60 Maharashtra      MAU      Centa Mtsharawa Plateau    01.10E89  3Xa993       4.433     4.433     4.080   1.9    No signMcant problems with staMng. Moderate
problems with cMi works, R-E lirkages & techni
61 Madhya Pradesh    JNKV    Vlnchyan Plateau Zone      31.12B9   29.1293      2665      2.467     3.437   2.0    Nosignifcantproblems wthstaMng.Modeate
62                  JNKY   GrcidZone                    31.12.89  29.1293      4.794     4.916     5.8D3          problems with chi works and R-E llrkages.
63                  JNKWN   Btndekfsnd Zone             31.12B9  29.1293       1.201     1.054     1.441
64 Madhya Pradesh    IGKW    Chltsgarh Plain Zone       01.07.90  3o.0694      9.512     5.540     7.075   2.0    Moderate problems with staMng, CMI works,
65                  IGKY    Plateau Zone                01.0790   32.0694       1.735    1.334     1.569          R-E llrKages and technical.                              0'
66                  IGKY    North Hill Zone             01.0790   32.0694      0.309     0.239     0.180
67 Keel             1(AU     North Zone                 20.04.88   19.04.92    4.816     4.480     4.480   1.4    No significant problems wih stdfing. cMi wodks
68                  KAU      Central Zone               M.0o4t8   19.0492      6.079     6.057     6.057          andtechnical. Moderate protlems with R-E
69                 KIAU      Southern Zone              20.04.88   19.0492     4.108     4.108     4.108         Nlrkages.
70                  KAU      High Range Zone            20.04E8   19.0492      4.965     4.965     4.955
71                  KAU      ProtUem kea Zone           20.04B9   19.0492      5.736     5.736     5.736
72 R   1jeahan      Raj*U    lgetd NW Plin Zane         07.12.90   06.12.93    3.022     2.377     2.930   2.0    Modetae probims wkh stafng, management
73                  PaJAU   Transton Plahin Zone        07.1290   06.1223      5.051     3.834     4.707          dil woks, R-E lireages & technical.
74                  RiaAU    Flood Prone E. Plaln Zone  C7.1290  06.1293       4.241     3.903     4.707
75                  RejAIU   Semi-asrdE. Plain Zone     07.1290  06.1223       3.317     3.247     4.494
76                  RJAU    Humid S. Piain Zone (^      C7.129O  06.12S3       0.836     0.714     0.864
ReJAU    HumIdS. PklinZone(P)      29.12.89  2B.1293      2.082     2.410     2.804
77                 RPJAU    Humid SE Plain Zone         07.1290  06.1293        1.734    1.704     1.947
78 Assam            AAU      North Bark Plain Zone      24.04B9  23.0423        4.335    4.284     4.879   2.0    Moderate problems with stailng ceMl works,
79                  MU       Upper Brahmaputia Valley Zone 01.01EB9   23.04S3   4.918    4.447     4.770          R-E irkagas & technical.
so                  AAU      Carer BWeahmapulra Valey Zont 01.01.89   23.0493   1.337    1.220     1.151
a81                 AAU      LoeBamptVlley Zone 01.01E9O  23.o493              11.000    10Q738    9.8S81                                                                    D :>
82 Bh       r        RPAU    NWA=luvalPlalnZone         14.12B9   13.1293       2.955    2.042     2.315   2.0    moderate problems wIth cW works, R-E lirkages,           tO
R4U     NE Aiuvlal Plaln Zone      14.1289   13.12S3      0.819     0.769     0.733          and tedChniaL Malor proaems wth stating.                     rD
84           RAU    ~~~South AlkluvPkIPn Zone   14.12119  13.12S13    2Z730      Z-276     2.3B4                                                                    un0
85Bilhar            BALU     Chiarki&Darisal            29.12E9   2B.12S3      3.083     2.184     2.263   3.0    Major protiems with stalng, cM works, R-E and              o iiFe
86 Maharashtra      KKV      Venguala                   11.12E19  30.0694      4.372     4.283     4.509   1.6    No signifcant probiems with stamng, cMI woDks              oo >
TOTAL                                                                           422.507   370.166   398.683
1/ Uist oacorlyms fcr SAUs gven In ......
2f Petormancerathig based on: 1 = no signiicant p`odemns, 2 = moderate probems, 3 = mapr problems and4 = work not started
3/ Wter mwagunot mstbpmject



APPENDIX A            Summary of Location, Implmentation Perlod, Costs and Performance of Sub-Projects (cont.)
Tabie 3. New Subprojects sanctioned under NARP II
SSP   State           SAU 1/  Subproject Sanctoned        Time of   Time of   Budget   Fund      Sie       Overall     General
No.                                                       initabon  ComplebonSanctioned Released  Expenc2tue Rating 2/   Outcome
........... Rs In millions .
1 Karnakata         UAS(   Bidarmangudl                13.1088   12.1093     19332    15.979    11683   1.8   Sabsfactory
2 Punjab            PAU     Bhabnda                    22.0786   21.07S1     15.788    11197    17.073   1.8   Satisfactory
3 Hlmachal Pradesh   HPKW   Ktkumseri                  3o.0986  29.0991       9.233     8.470     8.470   2.0   Satisfactory
4 Hrnachal Pmdesh    DfYSPU  Mashobr                   30.09.86  29.09.91     8.500     8.500     8.500   2.0   Satida tory
5 Himachal Pradesh   DrYSPU  Kukumserl                 29.o9S6   29.D99i      12372    1Z372    12372
6 Uttar Pradesh     CSAUAT Daleepnagr/Saini            13.o3B8  3D.0393       9.837     7.935     7.431   3.0    Unsatsfactory
7 Maharashta        MPKV    Ganeshkhind pune)          24.0988   23.0991     24.229    21.454    2a925   1.9   Saisfactory
8 Maharashtra       PKV     Yavatmal (Nagpur)          29.0989   30.0694     25760    25631    25903   1.9   Sabsfactory
9 Maharashtra       MAU     Nancled                    01.01S8 aB o694        3.112     2.190     2.316   1.9   Sabsfactory
10 Madhya Pradesh    JNKW    Jabalpur-Rewa              14.0388   13.0393     11236    13446    17.848   2.0   Sabsfactory
11 Madhya Pradesh    JNK\N   Khandwa Kargon             24.03S8   23.0393     11778    11442    18382
12 Madhya Pradesh    JNKW    Indare                     06.1089   05.1094      16025    15245    15784
13 Madhya Pradesh    JNKW    Chhlndwara                 C9.1289   18.1294      8.643     7.533     7.720
14 Madhye Pradesh    JNKYW   Jhabua                     04.1289  03.1294       8.748     A584      8202
15 Madhya Pradesh    JNKW    Powerkherb                 01.1089  29.2.94       8.323     7.025     7.941
16 Rajsthan         RPaeU    Jalrre-Sumerpur            13.0388  12.0393      14.262    11205    15671   2.0   Satisactory
17 Rajasthan         RaJAU    Kota-AJdora               03.38B8   2.0o399     14.433    11.420    16068
18Rajasthian         Pe AU    Udaipur-Vallbbhnagar-Aria   29.1188   28.1193   11053    11.718    1a338
19 Rajasthan        FRajAU    Mandore,ChandaKiademdesar 29.1188   28.1193     17.435    16500    17.430
20 Elhar             RAU     Agwanpur                   14.1289   23.0292      19.519    19.412    19.607   2.0   Sabsfactory
21 UtlarPradesh      NDUAT  Kumargan                    o2.i1B8   01.1193      17.436    1a052    12121   3.0    Unsatisfactory
22 Uttar Pradesh     NDUAT  BasaulVGorakhprx            01.0789   30.0693      1a696     9.459     7.074
23 Uttar Pradesh     NDUAT  Tissuhi                     30.o889   26.1194       9.806    6.809     4.966
24 West Bengal       BCKVV   Kahimpon                   17.1090   16.1o09      14.182    7.015     6.516   2.3    Moderate problem wlth staMng cMi works,
25 WestBengal        BCKW   Jhargam                     29.0687   31.1292      21.282    17.637    17.572         R-E linkages and technical
26 WestBengal        BCKW   KundltarlA1wrlarl           2B.0389   17.0394      17.579    12431    1a103
27 West Bengal       BCKNV   Mohanpur/Gyespur           26.03.89  25.0394      15.807    12471    12549
28 WestBengEl        BCKW   Kakdwip                     ax.1289   29.1294       1.501    1.323     1.392
29 WestBengal        BCKW    Majhian                    30.1289   29.1294       9.241    5.025     5.848
30Jammu& Kashmir  SEKUAST Baapore/hnsabaLudwani   01.1189  31.1094             26231    2a454    21.551  ?        7??
31 Jammu& Kashmir  SEKUAST Pora/Dhiansager/Udheywala   01.06S9  31.o5r94       20.915    17.297    19.862
32 Jawnu & Kshmir   SEKUAST Rajour/Dhadah               01.04.89  31.03.94    22523    17.606    1a645
33 Jammu& Kashmir   SEKUAST LeVK(rgil                   01.1189   21.1094     2a305    16955    16164
34 Haryana           HAU     RohW                        12.0488   11.0493      4.763    4.553     4.705   2.0   Sabsfactory
35 Andhra Pradesh    APAU    Mallap1lli                 28.1289   27.1293       4.000    Z668      2.696   1.3   Satishctory
36 Guorat            GAU     Chharodl                   04.0989  02.1293        3.002    2097      1.912   2.0   SaUsfctory
37 Tamil Nadu        TNAU    Pechiparal                 11.11S8   31.1092       8.795    8.172     9.837   1.0   SaUsfactory
TOTAL                                                                           519.682   434.282   452.177
1/Ustofacronymsfor SAUs awenn n..                                                                                                                                               Q 
2/Performanceratingbasedon: 1 = no slgrflcantproblems, 2 = mocderateproblems, 3 = mapirproblemsand4 =worknotslarted                                                            (D I
(D
0 F-
O H4
0t X



APPENDIXA             Summary of Lamtlon. Implmantation Period. Costs and Performance of Sub-Projects (cont)
Table 4. Special Subprojects sanctioned under NAFRP I for Basic Research
SSP   Seate           SAU1/  Subprojet Sanctioned         Tlme of   Time of   Budget   Fund      Sie       Overall     Generel
No.                                                      WntIon  CompltonSanctionedReleased  ExpendtLre Rating 21   Outcome
Rs in milions .
1 Hanraurl- HAU             Baslc Research             24.0382  23.08B7       0.000     0.200     0.434   2.0    No significant pmobems vAth staffing and cMI waft
14.1282   13.1287      0.353    0.595     1.179          Moderate problems wlth technical.
2 Punjab            PAU     BEkslc Resesrch            10.0882   10.12B7      0.0D0     0.720     2.082   1.8    No signifcant probiems
3 RejesU           RPjiU    Basic Peseadc              25.11.81  25.1186      0.750     0.720     1.418   2.0    Modeietprobbmnswith staffng, cI woits
tet*nilcal & management
4 Tamd NNadu       TNAU    Bological Research          16.oBi  its.o986       0.159     0.202     1.231   1.0    No significant proiems
TOTAL                                                                             1.252    2.437     6.344
1/Ustofaaonyms for SAUs gevn In ......
21 Perfwrmancereiting tase on: i = no silificant promiMs, 2 = moderate problems, 3= majorprobems and 4 a wcrk not started
Tabsl 6. Azmlnistka      Subprojpets Sanctioned undw NARP II
SSP   State           SAU 1/  Subproject Sanctioned       Time of   Tlme of   Buiget   Fund      Site      Overal      General
No.                                                      htiaon  CompletlonSanctionedReleased  ExPendture RftfV2/   OuAtcome
...........  Rs In mfhons. 
1 Hmachal Pradesh   DiYASPU Dlector of Research        01.08.8   03.W393      1.027     1.1524    1.635   2.0   Satisactry
2 Midh     F P,deh  IGK0N    Dkrectiro Reseol          0.11B8   01.11.93       1.604    1.602     2.255   2.0   SaIha=koy
3 BiCwr            BAU      Director of Research       04.088   0S.o681       1.025     0.523     1.173   Uo    Satlidactry
4 West Bengsl      BOW    Director at Research         23.08h7  22.0692       1.451     1.257     1.495   2.3   Satismctmry
5Jammu  sKshmh   SEKUAT  Dhectr of Research            01.11.88  31.10S1       1.169    1.9m6     1.149
TOTAL                                                                             6.876     6.972     7.737
1/Ustofacronyms ore SAUs gSen In....
2/Performancerating basedon:1 =no sig1lfcantprotbems,2 = moderateproblems,3= majorprobemsand4 =worknotstarted
Ct t
_ t0
C6
c  .



APPENDIX A            Summry o LoUm0.ton, lMP= ton Pubd, Costs and Peftrmance of Sub-Projedst (conL)
Tablo 6. Rtructrwod SubopajtB Sanctioned undwr NAMP N
SSP   Stlte           SAJ 11  Subprojct Sanctfoned       Time of   Time of  BiWet   Fund        Site     Overall     General
NO.                                                      Inhimton  Compn ton Sanctioned Released  ndetixe Faong 2/   outcome
........... Rs in m  mons .
1 Artira Pradesh    APAU    AP.Cyckne                 2B.0r291  a3.a63      44.300    44.300    41.225         Saisfactory
2 AN Prolect States   Al SAUs  Addl. Eboks & Jounails  30.09.92  3D.0dS6    27.550    27.550    22222          Satistctory
3 Al Project Sa   AISAUs  AddL S        bigtenng of Ibmij  30.09.92   38.06.96  45450    45450    43488 3_45as gy
4 AN Proect States   AN SAUJs  AcKl. Funds fr CMI Works    32.09.92  3D.05S6    10f.649   108.026    71.234    SatisfctOry
5 All Prolect States   SAUsJICAR Boisic Ressrch       32.0992  30.0696    358.914   334.710   263.995          Satfsfactory
6 AN Prolect States   Al SAUs  Compters tor ZRSs & Traning 30.0992  30.0866  62435    62435    46418           Satisatory
7 AlProject Sates   AllSAUs  Vffideh &OperatingCosts  30.0992  3.06.98    121.050   118.398    18622           Satisfactry
8 Al Proect States   SAUsICAR ARS Devdopment OSNA9    32.0992  32.0696    263.000   210.394     0.000          SaksffactOry
9AN Project States   SAUIICAR Overseas Traning (FAO)  30.0992  32.0696      55000    38701    38701            Saffsfactory
10 All Prolect States   Al SAUs  Acidl. Equlpment      33.0992  32.0696    157.343   158.500    95256           Satisfactory
TOTPL                                                                         1241.691  1146.464   643.161
1/LIstotacraonyms for SAUs gven In ......
2/ Peromancerating based on: I = no siglncant problems, 2 = moderate prolems, 3 = mapr protlems and4 = wark not started
Table 7. Bud    and WEzPndtue SuMmry  SuqPo jests undor NARP N
&hprjact Suwdoned         Budgt   Fund       S"
Sanctioned Relased Expendbre
........... RsS In mNons .
Compleffon o NARP I SPs
a. Acknhstalwe              0.881     2.02     5.321
b. Pesewch                 39.477   242.164   347.835
Supplementbry SPs          422.507   370.166   398.683
Now SPs                     519.682   434.282   452177
Speclal SPs br NARP I Res.    1.252    2.437    6.344
Acmin. SPs under NAMP II     6.576     6.972     7.737
Resiructured SPs           1241.691  1146.464   643.161
Training SP (National)      65.814    54.406    55426
Total                      2298.19D  2258.919  1916.684                                                                                     I3
00 CL
O-X
OxN



40
Appendix B
Page 1 of 14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT H
(Credit 1631-IN)
APPENDIX B
MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.         At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP MissionV visited India from 17 June to 5
July 1996 to meet with officials of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) and the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) concerned with
the implementation of the above project and to obtain relevant information for the preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for this project. Field visits were made to SAUs in the states
of Andhra Pradesh (AP), Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP). Meetings were held with
scientists of Zonal Research Stations (ZRSs) and sub-stations of the SAUs and local farmers and new
facilities constructed under the project were inspected. A workshop was held on 3 July 1996 with
representatives of ICAR and some Vice Chancellors and Directors of Research of most SAUs to
discuss outcomes of the project with respect to each university.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all staff of the ICAR, the SAU research stations visited in
AP, HP and MP and the Research Directors of the SAUs for giving generously of their time,
information and assistance with the meetings, field visits and preparation of the ICR for this project.
The preliminary findings and views presented in this draft aide-memoire reflect those of the mission,
based on discussions with staff of ICAR, SAUs, farmers in project areas visited and from prior
consultation of project documents at World Bank. The aide-memoire has been slightly amended to take
into account points raised in a final wrap-up meeting, chaired by Dr R.S. Paroda, Director General,
ICAR, on July 4, 1996.
B. Background
3.         The National Agricultural Research Project II (NARP H) followed an earlier NARP (Cr.
855-IN) implemented from 1978 to 1985 (5-year project with 2-year extension). The NARP was
designed to decentralize research to various geographic areas of the states, by strengthening the
capability of the SAUs to conduct research in defined agro-ecological zones, in support of reformed
I/         Drs. D.A.lvory (Mission Leader) and J.K. Coulter (Research Management Specialist, Consultant)



41
Appendix B
Page 2 of 14
statewide agricultural extension projects. This was to be brought about through improvements to
existing university based agricultural research and concentrated on research oriented towards the needs
of the main agro-ecological zones with special emphasis on cereals, pulses and oilseeds, under rainfed
and mixed farming conditions.
C. The Project
4.         The general goal for the seven-year NARP II was to intensify and continue the process
initiated under NARP for the strengthening of the capability of SAUs to conduct location specific
research in the main agro-ecological zones, but extend its scope to include the priority agricultural
research needs of each zone under rainfed and irrigated conditions.
5.         The original project objective was to support the following activities:
(a)    Completion of unfinished NARP subprojects (those that had not completed five
years of operation)
(b)    Expansion of the scope of NARP to cater to the priority needs of each agro-
ecological zone, including (i) new areas of research such as irrigated farming,
animal drawn farm implements, horticulture and commercial field crops, agro-
forestry and animal nutrition, (ii) developing field programmes for field testing
and refining of research results, and (iii) strengthening of training facilities at
Regional Research Stations for training Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) of the
state Departments of Agriculture (DOA)
(c)    Provision of funds for individual research activities on priority topics emerging or
identified during project implementation and not covered under (b) above
(d)    Strengthening of research administration of two SAUs (West Bengal and Jammu
& Kashmir) not supported under NARP, and
(e)    Continued funding of ICAR Project Unit including provision for training of
research scientists.
6.         A mid-term review was held in May 1989, to monitor progress of the project and provide
for mid-course corrections. Consequentially, approval for project restructuring was given in June 1991,
but appraisal of new project proposals did not occur until July 1992. Additional objectives were to
establish a computerized information system and computer facilities for scientists and administration
units.



42
Appendix B
Page 3 of 14
D. Mission Findings
Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.         The project became effective in April 1986 and was originally scheduled to be completed
by June 30, 1993, but was given three annual extensions (to June 30, 1996) to allow full utilisation of
the Credit and to complete the original and revised project objectives. NARP II covers 17 major states
of India and is implemented by 26 SAUs, covering 120 agro-ecological zones.
Project Costs
8.         Of the total IDA Credit of SDR69.6 million (US$72.1 million), SDR51.95 million
(US$71,91 million) had been reimbursed to the Government of India (GOI) at July 1, 1996. A total of
SDR14.37 million (US$14.886 million) of the Credit was cancelled (in December 1991 and June
1993). The undisbursed Credit at June 30, 1996 was US$4.7 million, which is expected to be fully
disbursed by October 31, 1996, following processing of outstanding claims for expenditure incurred
prior to Credit closure.
9.         Total project cost at March 1996 is estimated at Rs2,274 million (US$97.31 million),
which is 73% above the original estimated project cost ofRsl,331.12 million (US$110.93 million), due
to a 183% devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar, and is 12% below the original estimated project
cost in Dollar terms. The IDA disbursement account indicate that the Government of India (GOI)
financed about 75% and 78% of the total project costs between 1986 to 1993 and 1994 to 1996,
respectively, compared with the loan agreement of 65% reimbursement for the first 7 years and 900/o
for the last three years.
Physical Targets
10.        Sub-projects (SPs). The project was to finance the spillover costs of 90 SPs (12
administrative, 76 research and 2 training SPs) initiated under NARP until they completed five years of
operation. Additionally, research projects to be financed were of three kinds: (i) supplemental SPs at
those Zonal Research Stations (ZRSs) already established under NARP (82) and designed to broaden
their activities/scope, (ii) new SPs to establish 39 more ZRSs, (iii) special research SPs (4), and (iv)
new administrative SPs (2). With project restructuring following the mid-term review, 10 new SPs
were initiated to further support library development, complete civil works, purchase additional
vehicles and equipment, purchase computers, establish an agricultural research information system
(ARIS), support new basic research initiatives in selected topics and provide overseas training for
selected scientists and research managers. A minority of SPs were assessed as having no significant
problems with implementation, but the majority had moderate problems with staffing, civil works,
extension linkages, technical and management aspects, while a small number had major or severe
problems.



43
Appendix B
Page 4 of 14
11.        Incremental staff. The majority of additional staff consequent to the upgrading and
expansion of the zonal research system of the SAUs were employed during NARP with a smaller
number of additional staff under NARP II to provide sufficient manpower for additional stations
upgraded under the project. Existing staff were also redeployed to research stations. Most SAUs now
have sufficient staff located at research stations. SAUs have indicated they will maintain staff numbers
and absorb additional salary transfers to SAU budgets following project completion.
12.        Civil works. A programme of construction of new facilities (laboratories/offices, hostels,
residences, farm development, etc.) for research stations in 82 agro-ecological zones was initiated
under NARP. Many buildings were uncompleted at the closure of NARP. The civil works programme
initiated under NARP II, financed the completion of almost all civil works, including civil works
initiated under NARP II. A small number (less than 10%) are uncompleted because of problems with
land acquisition, contractors and continuing litigation. Total cost was about Rs740 million (32% of
total project costs compared with the original estimate of Rs319 million which was 24% of the original
estimated project cost). The majority of facilities inspected seem to have suffered from poor quality
construction and poor maintenance. Water damage to buildings has been exacerbated by the flat roof
and poor drainage design used. A special SP was created to rebuild two research stations severely
damaged by a tropical cyclone in Andhra Pradesh, in association with A.P. Cyclone Emergency
Reconstruction Project (Cr. 2179-IN and Ln. 3260-IN).
13.        Equipment and vehicles. About Rs800 million (36% of total project costs) has been
spent on equipment and vehicles across the 120 ZRSs and ICAR institutes to ensure reasonable
laboratory, field and office equipment, including computers, as well as ensure reasonable mobility for
research staff to undertake field research.
14.        Operational. Research operational costs were about Rs300 million (13% of total project
cost) and were a little higher than originally estimated. It was apparent that maintenance expenditure
was minimal. It has been indicated from discussions with SAUs that following project completion,
budget for maintenance and capital replacement would be expected to become insufficient for proper
functioning of the research programmes.
Staff Training and Training Facility Development
15.        The project supported two training sub-projects. The total cost of the national SP is
estimated at Rs55 million for staff training and training facility development. Total cost of the
intemational SP is estimated at Rs39 million for training of young scientists and research managers.
16.        Staff training (ICAR and SAUs). Three types of national and intemational staff training
were supported by the project. Some 1,318 SAU scientists undertook 82 one-month training courses in
ICAR institutes from August 1989 to September 1995 to broaden their knowledge and skills in soil
survey and land use planning, fodder and forestry, horticulture, farm implements, animal nutrition and
water management. Technical assistance for conducting the overseas training programme was provided



44
Appendix B
Page 5 of 14
by FAO. A total of 87 young scientists from SAU research stations undertook three-month overseas
training at national and intemational research centres in areas of biotechnology, crop hybrid breeding,
IPM, nutrient management systems, water management, energy management and integrated systems
from April 1995 to June 1996. It is planned that training programmes will be developed from their
collective experiences for other scientists at SAU research stations. In addition, 33 senior research
managers from ICAR and SAUs undertook 15-day study tours to visit international and national
research centres from January 1994 to April 1996. Advantage was not taken to utilize the considerable
resources of NAARM for research management training. All study fellows were required to produce
reports on their training.
17.        Training  facility  development. The training  subproject also  supported  the
development/upgrading of physical training facilities at ICAR institutes (NBSS&LUP, IGFRI, CIHNP,
CIAE, CIRB and IARI) for training SAU scientists. Key training equipment was also provided.
Computerisation and Development of Information Systems
18.        The project has been involved in the installation of an Agricultural Research Information
System (ARIS). The development of this over the past three years has been a joint effort between
ISNAR and ICAR. The system will cover all forms of information within the national research system
at both the state and central level. Thus it will comprise information on research programmes, human
resources, financial resources and scientific information (i.e. library sources). The system will be
centralised in ICAR with connectivity to SAUs. Local area networks will be established at SAUs, using
a fibre-optic system and the will be inter-connected using terrestrial and satellite communication
systems. The computers and other hardware for the system have been installed and expenditure to date
has been Rs124.5 million. Computer training programmes have also been undertaken by ICAR (105
scientists and 186 support staff) and NAARM to upgrade computer skills and use of a range of
computer software. A further Rs45.8 million has been expended on purchase of computers and
equipment to upgrade capabilities for analysis of research results, word-processing and administrative
functions.
Development of Zonal Research Capacity
19.       Under NARP, 120 agro-ecological zones (AEZs) were defined in 17 states in which
climate, topography, soils and land use have many common features. Detailed "Status Reports" on
each of these zones were started under NARP and finished under NARP II, several as late as 1993.
The detailed guidelines and few model reports prepared by ICAR for the SAUs ensured that there was
a degree of uniformity in their reporting system and provided a sound basis for developing research
programmes on major crops and cropping systems. Some of the reports have been updated but all
reports should be periodically revised to ensure accuracy of the agricultural data as farming systems
change.



45
Appendix B
Page 6 of 14
20.        AEZs and Status Reports do not cross state boundaries and therefore zonal duplication
exists (it is suggested by the Project Unit that only about 65 - 70 discrete zonal systems exist).
However, detailed analyses of the wealth of information in these reports in order to re-classify the
zones would be extremely tedious. For the future it would thus be worthwhile developing a
Geographic Information System (GIS) to handle the information, to re-classify it under different
headings and to update it as required. Such a system can be used to both identify gaps and duplication.
21.        In spite of the problems with delay in implementation of the civil works programme, the
project has been successful in staffing the zonal stations and in providing sufficient infra-structure and
equipment to carry on a substantial programme of adaptive (developmental) research. Each ZRS has
between 20 and 30 research staff, covering the major disciplines in the biological and physical sciences,
but few social scientists, under an Associate Director of Research (ADR). The ADR responds to the
Director of Research at the SAU. At the small sample of stations visited by the mission the staff were
enthusiastic and conmmitted to their job with an admirable keenness to demonstrate their research.
However, some major underlying concerns were expressed by scientists about future funds for their
work, lack of mobility and some lack of support from the SAU centre.
Relevance and Quality of Zonal Research
22.        The development of the research programmes at the ZRSs follows a standard procedure.
Each scientist puts forward a programme for the cropping season (kharif or rabi) to the zonal research
- extension advisory comrnittee (ZREAC), consisting of representatives of zonal research stations,
development departments and farmers. Such programmes include both on-station and on-farm trials.
Research programmes supported by the commnittee then go to the SAU for approval of heads of
departments and senior scientists; their approval allows the research to proceed for the current year.
The decisive role of the SAU headquarters research staff in setting the research programme thus makes
it all the more important that they keep in close touch with the work at the zonal stations. Since the
ZREAC represents all the interested line agencies, the research programme is regarded as representing
the priorities of the farmers. However, the SAU regional group meetings reported that apart from
agriculture, the participation of the other line departments of the state departments - horticulture,
animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries - and feed-back from them is poor. The mission was unable to
establish whether this is due to poor communications or whether these agencies feel that the zonal
research programmes are irrelevant to their needs. Another possible factor is that the line agency staff
have neither the experience nor the training to conceptualise the problems in a research framework.
23.        The system established for determining research programmes and the organisation of joint
field visits by research and extension staff should ensure that research at the zonal stations are generally
relevant to the farming problems in the zone. Nevertheless there is a very strong emphasis on varietal
improvement; the actual staff and financial resources being devoted to this discipline, but would appear
to be the major research thrust, judging from the high proportion of research projects on plant
breeding. Pests and diseases receive considerable attention, both through plant breeding and chemical
control and there is some research on chemical control of weeds. Soil fertility management appears to



46
Appendix B
Page 7 of 14
be mainly concerned with short term fertiliser trials. Topics which are receiving much less attention
than their importance in the farming systems and warrant greater emphasis are animal husbandry, water
management, long term soil fertility management and farm implement development.
24.        In addition to relevance of the research programmes, there is also the need to ensure that
the research is of good quality - that it takes the right approach and formulates the right hypothesis. At
present the research programmes are dominated by a disciplinary approach; research projects are
managed from a disciplinary standpoint - varietal improvement, pest and disease controL fertiliser
treatments; the output and impact of the research programmes are reported along the same lines. While
such factors as improved varieties, pest and disease control, improved soil fertility management provide
the building blocks for better farming systems they must be developed with a farming systems
perspective and this will often involve multi-disciplinary teams. The mission saw little evidence of such
teams being in operation. The zonal research teams have been under considerable pressure to provide
quick answers to the current problems of the farmers. This assumes that the knowledge is available to
provide such answers but this will not always be so and the researchers must have the opportunity to
refer such problems to scientists at the SAU centres or even further to scientists at the ICAR institutes.
In this way priority areas for applied and strategic research can be identified. The system should also
provide opportunities for zonal scientists to work on applied research when additional knowledge is
required to solve a problem.
25.        Other factors affect the quality of research. Laboratory facilities are limited but there
needs to be a more planned approach to their use (for example, what role should a soils laboratory best
fulfil?). The library facilities seen by the mission were meagre and, to be effective, there would have to
be greater support to the provision of abstract and document delivery services from the SAU or ICAR.
Supervision by experienced scientists is also a major factor in ensuring research quality hence the need
for strong and continuous interaction between scientists at research stations and staff of the SAU
centre and ICAR institutes.
Basic Research
26.        Ten "basic" research programmes have been supported as a SP under the NARP II
following restructuring and a World Bank appraisal mission in July 1992. These programmes were
jointly undertaken by ICAR institutes and SAUs as well as one private institution. Although defined as
basic research programmes, these programmes could be more accurately defined as strategic research
in as much as they are attempting to generate new knowledge about certain specific problems or to use
sophisticated techniques like gene transfer to improve certain characteristics of plants. There is a need
to ensure that this type of research does not become isolated from the problems that are being
addressed at the applied and adaptive level.



47
Appendix B
Page 8 of 14
Management of Research
27.        As noted above the seasonal research programmes are promulgated by the individual
scientists at the zonal stations which are then scrutinised and approved by the ZREACs and the SAUs'
research staff, the research director at the SAU being ultimately responsible for managing all of the
zonal research programnmes in the state. During discussions with the SAUs' research directors and the
ADRs at the zonal stations visited by the mission, it emerged that this process was regarded as research
planning and priority setting, planning because it involved a consultative process and priority setting
because it involved participation by line agencies and farmers.
28.        However, this is only part of a system for developing a coherent and long term research
plan. What is needed is a research strategy at the state level which will map out a path for research for
the next five years and, with less detail, the following five. Strategic planning is a way of meeting future
changes in the agricultural production systems. Some formal priority setting techniques could be
advantageously used to set priorities for commodities and factors of production (e.g. water
management and soil fertility management). Such methods take account of the likely economic and
social benefits and research done elsewhere, in ICAR, in other SAUs and in the private sector. Some
areas of research which receive insufficient attention at present, such as post-harvest investigations and
socio-economic studies would also be included in the priority setting process. It should be emphasised,
however, that such techniques can only augment, not replace collective value judgements. The planning
and priority setting can be both bottom up and top down (i.e. the ZRSs would use similar information
and techniques for developing the programmes at the zonal level and these would form the basic
building blocks for the planning at the state level).
29.        Such a system would provide the SAUs and the zonal stations with several advantages.
It would enable them to plan their manpower requirements, particularly their training programmes and
their equipment requirements; a research strategy at the state level would indicate where there were
overlaps with other states and particularly with similar agro-ecological zones, making joint
programmes easier. It would also help identify problem areas where additional research skills (e.g.
those at ICAR institutes) could be called upon. Although the latter determine their research
programmes based on their own priorities there is considerable advantage in taking account of
priorities emerging from this bottom-up process of research planning.
30.        There are several methodologies which research managers could use to ensure more
effective and efficient use of research resources. One of these is the use of logical frarneworks which
enable the researchers to set out clearly the objectives of the research, the manpower needs, the
expected outcome(s), the verifiable indicators and the important assumptions. Management and
scientific information systems, to be developed under ARIS, will also improve the efficiency of research
management and provide a much clearer picture of research budgets.
31.        The role of the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM)
should be important but its influence on improving the quality of research management and providing



48
Appendix B
Page 9 of 14
research managers with training and better techniques for management is not clear. It organises a series
of courses in various aspects of research management and support systems for management, but has
not set up a formal system for training senior research managers. It should be emphasised that such a
programme must be systematic so that sufficient managers are trained at each institution to provide a
critical mass of trained people who will be mutually supportive in bringing about the major changes in
both attitudes and working methods that are essential.
Research Linkages
32.        There are a host of organisations and institutions involved in agricultural research in India.
There are the CGIAR international centres; the research system has strong linkages with IRRI,
ICRISAT and CIMMYT and these occur at both the ICAR and the SAU level though those at the
SAUs are less well developed. The formal linkages between the ICAR and its institutes and the SAUs
operate in a number of ways including overall guidance in research, providing financial and technical
support for SAUs, support through the centrally controlled research institutes and funding for KVKs.
At the SAU level the linkages between the university and the zonal stations are part of the management
of the system and their effectiveness is obviously a key factor in the quantity and quality of the research
programmes at the zonal stations. Such linkages need to support information flow in both directions -
from the zonal stations on the kinds of research for which they need support at the SAU and from the
experienced scientists at the SAU in providing zonal scientists with advice.
33.        Linkages among SAUs appear to be very limited. Two initiatives have been undertaken.
A series of regional group meetings, with five regional groups, were held in 1994/95. The participants
were Vice-Chancellors, Directors of Research, Associate Directors of zonal stations, other staff of
SAUs and state government, ICAR and World Bank staff. However, the minutes of these meetings
indicate that the discussions were dominated by such topics as funding research, the sustainability of
the programmes when NARP finished and other infra-structure and logistical problems. Similarly, two
meetings were organised between selected SAUs that were responsible for tribal areas. Unfortunately,
these meetings do not appear to have been used as a forum for discussing research programmes and
ways of developing collaborative and cooperative programmes.
Research - Extension Linkages
34.        Improving these linkages has been a major thrust of the NARP and the zonal station
concept was designed so that research scientists would interact closely with the extension agents of the
State DOAs, NGOs and the farmers at zonal levels. The formal mechanisms for such interactions are
now in place but there remains the question of their effectiveness. Such effectiveness demands a large
degree of collaboration from all sides and this takes time to develop. Three major concems have
emerged about the effectiveness of the linkages. Firstly, the links with the agricultural line agencies is
weak due to the cessation or frequent delay of regular meetings and scheduled training programmes for
extension staff (some states have discontinued the regular training for SMSs). Secondly, there is poor
collaboration between research and other line agencies involved with horticulture, livestock, forestry



49
Appendix B
Page 10 of 14
and fisheries. These agencies generally show little interest and commitment to the research
programmes, even though they are designed to cover their interests. The third concern is the present
and future role and effectiveness of the KVKs and the FTCs. KVKs are financed by ICAR, but in spite
of this the Council exercises no control over their programmes. Some are operated by NGOs, some by
the SAUs, some have research projects and some are moribund. FTCs have a parallel function in
training farmers but appear to operate independently. There appears to be no realistic strategy on the
exact role of farmer training institutes, taking account that their capacity can only cater for a minute
percentage of the farming community. Even so there appears to be a problem in attracting farmers to
the courses offered.
Impact of Research on Agricultural Development
35.        The ICAR has proposed and supported the publication of reports of the impact of the
technology developed under the project. Twenty-one SAUs have produced these reports to date.
These vawy substantially in quality and in the topics covered. They summarise the nature of the agro-
climatic zones for which the SAU is responsible, the output of the research system in terms of new
varieties, pest and disease control techniques, fertiliser recommendations, new implements and new
husbandry methods. Some present considerable details of the changes in area and yields, and increases
in inputs of fertilisers, pesticides and machinery, including tractors. The period over which these are
recorded vary; some reports take the period 1981/82 - 1991/92. Others use the periods pre-NARP,
1977/78 - 81/82, post-NARP period, 1982/83 - 86/87 and post-NARP period II, 1987/88 - 91/92.
From data generated on percentage adoption, additional yields (average yields with the new practice
less average yields without it) benefits and hence the impact are calculated. There is considerable
variation in the manner in which these are calculated. In their simplest form the area of the crop or the
numbers of animals in each zone is multiplied by the potential increase in yield or production using the
new technology and this increase then valued at current prices and attributed to an impact of research.
Other reports are more detailed, some quantifying adoption as a percentage, others giving a qualitative
estimate. The area involved, the costs of additional inputs and the yield increase are used to calculate
benefits. Inputs, particularly fertilisers must have had a substantial impact on yields as some areas
report four-fold increases in consumption over the period. Percentage adoption is also critical as some
technologies are much more readily adopted (e.g. new varieties compared to improved soil
conservation practices). Thus the level of adoption varies with commodities, within zones and with
technology.
36.        The data for determining incremental productivity appear to be more readily available in
India than in many other countries. However, even with this data the problem of linking cause and
effect, when many of the farmers' decisions are linked to exogenous effects, is formidable. Nevertheless
the concept of impact studies is excellent and is to be encouraged but clearly there needs to be a much
more rigorous approach to the question of measuring impact including a much more substantial
economic input. Furthermore such an approach should supply information, not only on what adoption
took place but also on why it took place, thus defining much more clearly the opportunities and
conditions for the spread of new technology. Finally it should be emphasised that the production of



50
Appendix B
Page 11 of 14
credible figures for the impact of research is very important from the point of view of enhancing
financial support for research, particularly from the State governments.
Project Benefits
37.        NARP II and its predecessor NARP, were designed to bring about a major
transformation in the structure of the research system. This was a large undertaking in terms of
institution building, to transfer much of the focus of research to a "grass roots" level with a strong
emphasis on adaptive research. Such a change was particularly necessary to serve the needs of rainfed
farming where the farming systems are generally more complicated, more diverse over short distances
and more risk-prone than irrigated farming where previous research had much of its impact. The
tangible benefits of such a process are the development of the research stations, the provision of
housing and laboratories, the creation of a cadre of scientific staff covering a wide range of disciplines
and the flow of new information and new technology. Equally important are the intangible benefits,
such as changes in attitude to the needs of farmers, the ability to conceptualise innovative problem
solving approaches to these needs and the ability to develop research programmes with a farming
systems perspective.
38.        It is not possible to determine the real impact of project research activities on farm
beneficiaries because of concurrent improvements in other factors of production, such as enlarged
irrigated area and increased availability of fertilizers, and the direct influences from other agencies
involved in promoting agricultural production (government extension, NGOs and private agricultural
sector companies). It is indicated, however, that in some areas, about 30% of fanners have adopted
technologies developed by local research. Some SAUs in their final impact assessment reports have
estimated large increases in production value attributed to research.
Project Sustainability
39.        The sustainability of the decentralized research system developed under the SAUs will
require continued support from ICAR and increased support from State Governments. The main
sustainability issues are adequate future budgets and a research environment which provides adequate
research facilities, incentives and support for scientists to remain at ZRSs and sub-stations. Some
apprehension exists in the SAUs that there will be insufficient budget available to ensure adequate
operations of research and maintenance of facilities, but contingency plans to establish altemative
sources of funding (revolving funds, etc.) are being considered. ICAR is also considering possibilities
for providing future support to the SAUs.
Bank and Borrower Performance
40.        Bank performance. The Bank undertook some 200 supervisory missions, involving
some 785 staff weeks, during implementation of the project. This represents an extremely high level of
supervision but is a result of the extremely complex nature of the project. Supervisory mission reports



51
Appendix B
Page 12 of 14
indicated that the missions undertook regular detailed reviews of implementation progress of the
project and while indicating deficiencies in implementation gave helpful and constructive advice to
overcome such problems. With very few exceptions, supervision missions were staffed from the WB
resident mission in India and local consultants, which provided more continuous contact and assistance
in implementation. There has been universal appreciation by SAUs and ICAR of the assistance given by
the Bank in the implementation of this project.
41.        Borrower performance. The SAUs and ICAR gave continued high priority and
attention to implementation of the project as proposed. Much has been achieved in terms of the original
project concept of establishing and developing functional research facilities in local AEZs and
improving research and technology development for local farming systems. Several factors, however,
both within and outside the control of the SAUs, such as delayed budget release, slow approval and
filling of incremental staff positions, much delayed implementation of the civil works programnme, and
some problems with technical aspects of research programmes and managerial performance in project
implementation were frequently cited in early reports of Bank supervision missions. Most SAUs were
able to satisfactorily resolve these problems with time, but the delays caused in project implementation
ultimately contributed to the necessity for extension of the project to fully achieve the original project
objectives.
Future Operational Plans
42.        The Borrowers Assessment (ICAR, June 1996) report of the project was provide to the
mission. While generally indicating a future strategy, the report did not provide specific, time-bound
plans for future development of the decentralized research system established under NARP. It was
indicated in the borrower's report that greater emphasis was required to improve feedback of problems,
develop technologies that were more demand driven, strengthen linkages with state development
departments and other development projects, develop inter-zonal cooperation, improve content of
status reports, increase research on farming systems and continue to sponsor training programmes in
specialized areas and computerisation. The borrower was requested to include details of time-bound
plans to achieve these desirable objectives when finalising the borrowers completion report.
Lessons Learned
43.        There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of this
project, including:
(i)    The concept of decentralisation of research, started under NARP and carried on
under NARP II is sound and its continued development is essential if the diverse
farning systems, particularly the rain-fed systems, are to benefit from new
technology. The local-specific nature of these systems can be served only by
adaptive research at the local (i.e. zonal) level.



52
Appendix B
Page 13 of 14
(ii)    Generally the decentralised research system has an adequate infriastructure in the
shape of buildings and equipment and requests for additions, particularly
scientific equipment, will need to be very carefully scrutinised.
(iii)    The project has been able to post sufficient numbers of scientific staff to the
zonal stations. However, some disciplines may be overstaffed while others,
particularly the social sciences need to be strengthened. Future rationalisation
and distribution of staff resources to ensure financial sustainability and research
effectiveness must be locally needs based. This requires improved planning and
management and a more rigorous system of selecting research priorities. The
nature of the farming systems and their great diversity of problems makes it
necessary to have more multi-disciplinary teams working in an inter-disciplinary
context.
(iv)    The system has generally been provided with adequate physical and human
resources, but the development of a productive and creative research system is a
long term process, in which the present system is at a relatively early stage. To
develop such a system, the sustainability of these resources and their more
effective and efficient management in the future is the most critical concern.
(v)    Financial sustainability appears to be jeopardised by the indicated inability of
some State Govemments to fully fulfil the terms of their MOUs to support the
system after the closure of the project. While there is a commitment to support
staff salaries, there are serious doubts about support for research operations.
(vi)    Sustaining the enthusiasm and improving the research capability of the scientific
staff at the zonal stations, often isolated from the mainstream of scientific
activity, require specific attention to training, reward systems and strong
technical support from the SAUs and ICAR.
(vii)    Although there may be some revenue earning opportunities for the research
stations through the sale of seeds and planting materials, resources for the system
will always be limited and more efficient use of these financial and staffing
resources will be essential. Concentration of research on high priority areas,
limiting the number of research stations and sub-stations, improving cooperation
among states with similar agro-ecological zones will be essential.
(viii)   The presence of formal linkages between research and the line agencies for
agriculture, forestry, livestock and fisheries does not ensure cooperation and
collaboration among these agencies at the zonal level. It is essential to improve
these so that there is a commitment of all concerned to develop and supply
appropriate technology for the range of farming systems in the zone. Joint



53
Appendix B
Page 14 of 14
training programmes in the management of R&D may be a way of inspiring and
support for the system.
(ix)    Impact studies are a useful tool for measuring progress of the research and
extension systems. However, most of the studies done so far need substantial
improvement in terms of sampling, calculation of benefits and attribution of
benefits to the differing factors involved in increased productivity.
E. Follow-up
44.        The mission will complete the preparation of the ICR for this project for submission to
World Bank by early August, 1996. The mission Aide-Memoire, with any amendments required, and a
copy of the ICAR Project Completion Report will be attached to this document.



54
Appendix C
Page 1 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
(Credit 1631-IN)
BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY
T. The Project and Its Objectives
The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP)-II is a continuation of NARP-I,
and became effective from April 21, 1986, originally for a period of 7 years, later extended by 3
more years up to June 30, 1996. Sponsored jointly by the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR) and the World Bank, the overall objectives of the project were to assist the
State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) to (i) strengthen zonal research capabilities to conduct
location-specific need-based research; (ii) decentralize research from main campuses to the zonal
research station(ZRSs), (iii) integrate all research activities in each zone to meet zonal needs
irrespective of the source of funding; (iv) strengthen research-extension linkages including
formulation of technology recommendations on a zonal basis and (v) encourage basic pulses and
oilseeds production under rainfed and mixed cropping systems in NARP-1. NARP-II covered
new areas such as irrigated fanning, horticultural and commercial crops, animal drawn
implements, agroforestry and animal nutrition.
II. Project Design/Project Formulation
2.1        NARP covered 120 agroclimatic zones in 17 major states in the country (excluding
the North East Hill Region). The project was unique in many respects. Funds were made
available to SAUs on a 100% grant basis for all infrastructure development and operating
expenses. This was subject to SAUs adopting the Model Act and related ICAR guidelines, and
the State Departments of Agriculture (DOAs) transferring all research stations to the SAUs.
Funds were released in advance on 6-monthly basis depending on requirements/utilization.
Reimbursement by the Bank was at 65% during first 7 years and at 90% during last 3 years.
Flexibility (within broad objectives) enabled close collaboration between the Bank, ICAR and
SAUs, and this facilitated modification of activities to suit implementation requirements (for
example, Status Report preparation; utilization of IDA credit savings for additional components,
etc.).



55
Appendix C
Page 2 of 6
2.2        The components originally supported under NARP-II were:  (i) 92 spill-over
subprojects which could not complete 5 years during NARP-1; (ii) 39 new research subprojects in
SAU zones not covered under NARP-I; (iii) 91 supplemental subprojects for zones which
participated in NARP-I to cover new areas like water management, animal nutrition, agroforestry,
commercial crops, etc.; (v) 6 special subprojects for training SAU scientists in ICAR institutes,
(v) 5 administrative subprojects for SAUs not covered in NARP-1 and (vi) strengthening of
Project Unit (PU) of ICAR.
2.3        Based on the Mid-Term Review Team's recommendations in 1989 for utilization of
credit savings, the Bank support 10 "restructured components."  These included costs for
completion of some civil works, additional books and journals, additional library and
documentation facilities, computers/software/training for zonal scientists; additional equipment
and vehicles for zonal stations; overseas study tours and training programmes for research
managers and scientists; establishment of the Agricultural Research Information System (ARIS);
and basic research in ICAR institutes and SAU campuses. Funds were also provided to APAU
for renovating two research stations badly damaged in the 1992 cyclone.
2.4        NARP was appraised by IDA  in October-November 1989 and, the Credit
Agreement was signed in February 1986. Subprojects proposed by SAUs were appraised by
expert committees, cleared by IDSP and PFC, and finally sanctioned by the PU, as was done in
NARP-I. For basic research, 10 subproject proposals from ICAR institutes and SAUs were
appraised by special ICAR - Bank joint team before sanction. The proposals for ARIS were
formulated by ISNAR, the Hague and the final design and plan document prepared by NCST,
Bombay.
2.5        The total ICAR commitment under NARP-II (including the IDA credit of US$75.5
M) as on March 31, 1996 was Rs. 2312.76 M (vide Annexure I of main report). This amount is
likely to go up further when final settlements were made. The various investments made were
appropriate, timely and essential to achieve the overall objectives of the project.
III. Project Implementation
3.1        Project implementation was slow up to end of 1987 due to inordinate delays in
receipt of MOUs from State Governments, delays in civil works, staff recruitment and purchase of
equipments on the part of SAUs. The PU also faced serious problems due to vacant positions.
Following appointment of the Project Director end of 1987, the pace of implementation picked
up, most subproject proposals were processed and got sanctioned during 1988 and 1989, and the
last 25 in 1990. During 1992-1993 most of the subprojects completed their tenure except 17 of
them which terminated by June 1994. All the basic subprojects were sanctioned in 1993 and will
complete their tenure by end of July 1996. The ICAR and the Bank closely monitored the
progress of all restructured components and found their implementation very satisfactory. Five
Regional Meetings of VCs, Drs and ADRs from SAUs, and representatives of PU and the Bank
were held at Bangalore, Jaipur, Pune, Bhubaneswar and Ludhiana during 1994-95 to review



56
Appendix C
Page 3 of 6
progress and discuss future strategies. Purchase and installation of ARIS equipments made good
progress. Study tours of 33 managerial scientists and training of 80 young scientists overseas,
arranged through FAO, have been completed. Deputation of 4 additional senior scientists on
study tours and 8 young scientists for overseas training are under way.
IV. Institutional Performance
4.1        The World Bank contributed significantly to the success of the project by working
very closely with the ICAR and SAUs at every stage of project formulation, identification of
components for support, appraisal of subprojects and their implementation. The close interaction
thus developed enabled the Bank to understand and appreciate the problems and delays
encountered during implementation, and to assist involving many of the problems through
discussions with VCs of SAUs and Secretaries for Agriculture of the State Governments during
supervision visits. Bank's assistance in preparing 4 model Status reports, and suggestions made
during supervision missions to SAUs and subsequently in their follow-up reports were invaluable
in correcting deficiencies. The Bank participated in all NARP workshops, ZREAC meetings,
Regional meetings, etc. and made several useful suggestions for improvement. The Bank gave
excellent support in the disbursement of credit, and adopted a very liberal view in the utilization of
credit savings for implementation of the restructured components during the last 3 years of the
project. The support received for establishment of the ARIS network now being installed, and the
overseas study tours and training for research managers and scientists deserve special mention.
4.2        The Borrower:
DG, ICAR and the Dy. DG (Education) gave full support to the PU in the overall management
and implementation of the subprojects. Despite some problems in the initial stages, all the new,
spill-over, supplementary and administrative subprojects were completed satisfactorily by end of
June 1994. All the basic research projects will formally terminate by June 30, 1996 as also
various other restructured components.
V. Project Results
5.1        With the completion of NARP-II, the main objective of decentralization of research
to zonal stations has been achieved in all the 26 SAUs in 17 states. The concept of zonal research
to meet the location-specific needs of the farrner has been accepted, and the relevance of close
linkage with the DOA and other development departments well understood. All the 120
agroclimatic zones now have full-fledged zonal research stations with the required staff,
laboratory and residential buildings, equipments, and library facilities, and above all good on-
going research programmes. But for NARP, research facilities could never have been built up in
tribal tracts, rainfed and desert regions, hill districts, etc. ZRSs which have formally completed
the NARP tenure are continuing with state government support for operational costs, through
inadequate in some cases.



57
Appendix C
Page 4 of 6
5.2         All zones completed preparation of status reports, especially the identification of
major farming situations and an analysis of farmer's problems and production constraints.
Research and extension linkages have been built up on a firm basis, and scientists from ZRSs
participated regularly in monthly meetings, ZREAC meetings, etc.  Interaction with other
development departments like animal husbandry, forestry, irrigation, etc. are on the increase.
There is a substantial improvement in the quality of research, and package of practices for various
crops and cropping systems are now being recommended on a zonal basis and widely adopted by
farmers. Research highlights are too many to be covered here, however examples of some good
findings selected at random from various zones are furnished in Annexure II. The establishment
of ARIS and overseas study tours/training's for scientists have enhanced the professional
capabilities of research managers and scientists to a great extent contributing to improvement in
the overall efficiency of the research system.
5.3 Lessons Leart and Future Strategy.
Though main objectives of decentralization of research in SAUs have been achieved,
there is vast scope for (i) improvement in the analysis and use of feed back information; (ii)
improvement in developing technology suited to the average farmers including those specific to
the major farming situations; (iii) strengthening of linkages with DOA and other development
departments and (iv) development of interzonal co-operation between adjoining zones with similar
features located in adjoining states.
5.3        The status reports require periodical updating and put to more fruitful use by zonal
scientists for research purposes. Research is weak in areas like horticulture, animal husbandry,
water management, commercial agriculture, etc. and needs further support. There is also need for
more attention to farming systems.



58
Appendix C
Page 5 of 6
ICAR COMMENTS ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
The Implementation Completion Report of National Agricultural Research Project II
gives a good account of NARP objectives, implementation, achivements, plans for future project
operations and sustainability and lessons for future projects.
It is mentioned that a series of regional meetings held to review progress in the
implementation of the project did not result in collaborative research programmes. In this
connection, it is submitted that development of collaborative research programmes was not the
objective of these regional meetings. These meetings were held to review the progress of
implementation and remove hurdles, if any, in the implementation of the project. This objective
was very well achieved.
It is also mentioned that the design of Agricultural Research Information System
(ARIS) is completed and the computer hardware and software ordered for installation but the
system is still not functional at SAU level. ARIS in NARP II was intended to create computer
awareness and initiate establishment of a computer-based information system. It was never
intended to be functional at SAU level. Computer hardware and software ordered in NARP II
have now been installed in most places and in few places connectivity with other SAUs and with
ICAR has also been achieved. Although not intended in NARP II, ARIS is functional in most
ICAR institutes and in some SAUs.
With regard to civil works in para 9, on page 3, it may be specified that many
buildings were incomplete at the closure of NARP I (and not NARP) because at the closure of
NARP II all buildings except one have been completed. One building which remains incomplete is
being completed by the SAU from its own funds.
"Serious delays occurred in purchase of equipment for research stations, even
though steps were introduced to simplify procedures for equipment procurement at SAUs"
mentioned in para 10, on page 3, may be deleted as it is factually incorrect. After simplification of
procedure, there was hardly any delay in the procurement.
Computer training is a long and continuous process. The present level of training
may be inadequate considering the thousands of potential users of the ARIS. But the ICAR is
committed to continue this process and necessary provisions have been made in the 9th plan of
ICAR for this purpose not only in number of trainees but also various kinds of computer-related
training programmes.
Management of Research, para 27, on page 7 needs to be reworded to indicate that
management training was meant for Directors of Research of all SAUs. In some of the SAUs
either the Director of Research was not in position or was about to retire. In such a situation the
senior most Associate Director of Research (ADR) was selected in place of Director of Research
for management training and hence it is not correct to say that none of the ADRs got benefit of



59
Appendix C
Page 6 of 6
training. Also, the resources of NAARM, Hyderabad were frilly utilized not only for computer-
related courses but also for management training and case studies.
Research-extension linkages para 29 on page 8 needs to be reworded to indicate that
project design did provide assistance in strengthening the linkages between ZRSs and KVKs.
Wherever KVKs were located near ZRSs, they were brought within the ZRS for sharing
resources, attending ZREACs meeting and developing common technical programme for the
zone.
In financial aspect, it is observed that project cost given in Table 8A and the detailed
subproject-wise report from Table I to 7 is not updated. The expenditure figures are up to 31-3-
96. Moreover, in Table 8A the figures are given in US dollar (US$M) but all our claims are in
Indian Rupees. It is therefore not possible at this juncture to provide project-wise details but up
to date head-wise release in Indian Rupees is as under.
Amount Released  Amount Reimbursed
S.N. Head                (Rs. in Crore)     (Rs. in Crore)
1. Civil works              75.11              63.94
2. Equipment & vehicles      96.69             82.81
3. Staff costs               37.50             26.89
4. Operating cots            31.40             23.05
5. Training                  2.72               2.74
FAO Training            4.69              4.69
Grand Total                 248.11             204.12
It may be desirable to use the latest figures provided by the World Bank in their
letter dated December 26, 1996 (copy enclosed) while closing the account and indicating that the
credit fully disbursed. It may however be mentioned that the ICAR has spent more than its share
as indicated above.
Signed
(A.P. Saxena)
Project Director (NARP)
21-1-97






i
i



IMAGING
Report No.:          16612
Type:     ICR



