Documnt of
The World Ban3k
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Rewt No. P-4154-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TBE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
September 26, 1985
Tbb domaet ls a resiied d_tbud" mi may be sad by  dpipests wiy I the pefornce S
ther  ECidd d&u  lb coui   may no oterwise be dscloed widhou Wiwd lank sihbrlntion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 11, 1985)
US$1.00         =  REs 12.32
Rs 1.00         =  US$0.081
Rs 1 million    =  US$81,169
The US dollar/rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except as
otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to R.s 12.00.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIMMYT          - Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
(International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center)
CIP             - Centro Internacional de la Papa (International Potato
Center)
GOI             - Government of India
IARI            - Indian Agricultural Research Institute
IBPGR           - International Board for Plant Genetic Resources
ICAR            - Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICRISAT         - International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
IRRI            - India Rice Research Institute
ISP             - Interdisciplinary Scientific Committee
PFC             - Project Funding Committee
PU              - Project Unit
SAU             - State Agricultural University(ies)
SMS             - Subject Matter Specialist



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
rNDIA
SECOND xATIoNAL ARrICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:   The Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and
State Agricultural Universities (SAUs).
Amount:          SDR 69.6 million (US$72.1 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
On-lending
Terms:           From the Government of India (GOI) to ICAR, and from ICAR to
SAUs, as a grant. GOI will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The project would strengthen the capability of SAUs to
conduct location-specific research in the main
agro-ecological zones in India initiated under the first
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I) and further
extend its scope to include the priority research needs of
these zones under rainfed, and irrigated farming conditions.
The project would support the following activities:
.(a  Completion of NARP I research subprojects; 1/
(b) (i) New areas of research such as irrigated farming,
animal-drawn farm implements, horticulture and commercial
field crops, agroforestry, and animal nutrition,
(ii) development of programs for field testing and refining
research results, and (iii) strengthening of training
facilities at Regional Research Stations.
(c) Individual research activities on priority topics emerging
or identified during project implementation and not covered
under (b) above;
(d) Strengthening of research administration in two SAUs; and
I/ Only those subprojects that have not completed five years of
operation.
IThis documcnt has a rmkesrcd disuibudion and may be used by rcpientS only in the perfomuuce of|
|their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorizton |



- ii -
(e) Continued funding of ICAR's Project Unit established under
NARP I, including the provision of training for research
scientists.
Benefits:        Major qualitative improvements in research program planning
and in the quality of experiments and findings -
particularly as they relate to specific farming situations
and to extension activities - are expected to result from
the project. There is already increasing evidence (under
NARP I and the Bank-supported extension projects) of gradual,
but significant improvements in the extent and quality of
support provided by the research institutions to the
reformed extension services. A recent ICAR review has
indicated substantial improvements in the capacity of
Research Stations and scientists to: identify farming
situations and constraints to increasing production,
determine research priorities for individual agricultural
sub-zones, improve the quality of individual experimen.s,
conduct field testing of on-station research findings, and
establish closer linkages and contacts with extension staff
and farmers. The review also indicates that tcchnology
recommendations are increasingly more refined and
appropriate to suit farmers' needs and constraints and that
extension workers are now better equipped than before with
relevant technical messages and are able to advise farmers
with greater confidence.
The project would also contribute to institution building
and be instrumental in solidifying the transformation of
India's agricultural research system into an efficient and
farmer-responsive research service. It would support
broadening of the research effort to include all identified
priority needs in each agroecological zone and strengthen
the research system's capability to provide support to
agricultural extension services through the development of
economically viable technologies and their adaptation to the
differing resource endowments and risk situations of
farmers. In addition, it would bring about significant
improvements in the efficiency of resource utilization in
agricultural research, through its emphasis on effective
research management.
Risks:           There is the possibility that the research results
generated may not be adequate to meet farmer needs under
actual farm conditions, or that these resuLts may not be
satisfactorily transmitted to farmers. To counter these
risks, the project provides for regional decentralization;
emphasizes research on location-specific farmer needs,



- iii -
field-testing and adaptation, increased cooperation and
communication between extension staff and farmers, and the
prompt feedback of research results. The Bank's support of
improved agricultural extension services and promotion of
close cooperation between agricultural research
institutions and State extension services would help to
ensure the early adoption of research results by farmers.
The administrative and organizational changes initiated
under NARP I and the careful preparatory work undertaken
for this project should be adequate to ensure that
implementation risks are at a minimum. The decision to
implement the project over a seven year period reflects
greater realism concerning the pace of implementation of
agricultural research projects and is aimed at the
completion of the project on schedule.



- iv-
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Estimated Cost: 1/                       Local       Foreign        Total
Civil Works                              26.58          -           26.58
Equipment and Vehicles                   12.35         1.37         13.72
Incremental Salaries                     29.94          -           29.94
Incremental Operating Costs               7.44         0.94          8.38
Base Costs                       76.31         2.31        78.62
Physical Contingencies                    1.58         0.10          1.68
Price Contingencies                      30.01         0.62         30.63
Total Costs                     107.90         3.03        110.93
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Financing Plan:                          Local       Foreign        Total
IDA                                      69.07         3.03        72.10
GOI Grants                               38.83          -           38.83
Total                           107.90        -3.03       110.93
Estimated Disbursement: 2/
(US$ Million Equivalent)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Annual          4.0    6.0    9.0   12.0    12.0   13.0   13.0    3.1
Cumulative      4.0   10.0   19.0   31.0    43.0   56.0   69.0   72.1
Rate of Return:         Not applicable
Appraisal Report:       No. 5469-IN, dated September 20, 1985.
1/ Includes about US$0.4 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
2/ According to IDA fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 69.6 million (US$72.1 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to strengthen and improve
agricultural research in the various agroecological zones in the country.
The proceeds of the credit would be channeled to the indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR) as a grant. ICAR would in turn provide these
funds on the same basis to participating SAUs for carrying out approved
research subprojects. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
760 million (in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36% of GDP, 23%
of exports and about two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in
population, which continues at a rate of 2.2% a year, has put increasing
pressure on natural resources, in particular cultivable land. By the mid-
1960s, nearly all productive land had been brought under cultivation. While
irrigation continues to increase total cultivable area, an increasing share
of the labor force will have to be absorbed in non-agricultural activities.
Industrial development has not progressed rapidly enough to provide employ-
ment opportunities for the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid
economic transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income
levels. As a result the long-term growth of per capita income has only
averaged about 1.4Z p.a. and close to one-half of India's population con-
tinues to live below the prverty line.  The pervasiveness and intensity of
poverty is such that its alleviation has been and remains at the core of
India's development strategy.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was
generally characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inf'.ation and a
sustainable external position. GDP rose at about 3.5Z, with agriculture and
industry growing at 1.82 and 4.8Z respectively; imports increased by 4.6Z and
exports by 5.8Z a year. India was able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain
imports from a peak of 14% of total foodgrain consumption in 1966167 to 4.5%
by 1969/70 through improvements in agricultural production, but progress in
poverty alleviation was slow mainly because of continued high population
growth.
5.      In the early to mid-1970s, in response to a sharp deterioration in
India's terms of trade, the Government introduced various policy measures



-2-
designed to stimulate exports. This resulted in a large increase in export
growth to about 7.3Z per annum in the 1970s compared with only 2.2% per annum
between 1950/51 and 1969/70. While expanding world markets, particularly in
the Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported
inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role. The success
in the export expansion effort coupled with continued import substitution,
particularly of foodgrains resulted in a surplus on current account between
1976/77 and 1978/79, which was further enhanced by increased concessional aid
flows. India was thus in a relatively favorable position to deal with the
increases in international oil prices, the sharp deterioration in the terms
of trade and a series of poor harvests. The comfortable foreign exchange
position also played a major role in the Government's decision to initiate
import liberalization.
6.      Towards the end of the 1970s, India again faced considerable domestic
difficulties. In 1979/80 it experienced one of the country's worst droughts
which caused a large reduction in agricultural production. In addition,
industrial production, plagued by labor unrest and a vicious circle of supply
shortages (coal, power and transportation), failed to expand. These events
coincided with a second round of international oil price increases. As a
result, the current account reverted to a deficit position and the remarkable
price stability that the Indian economy enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an adjustment program, which was
embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85). The program aimed
at raising the GDP growth rate from its historical level of 3.6% Lo 5.2% per
annum while adjusting the country's external balance to the adverse price
developments in world markets. The major elements of the program were
alleviation of infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy
independence, improved efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and
efficient import substitution.
Economic Performance Under the Sixth Plan
7.      Overall the Government's adjustment program has been effective
despite the severe drought in 1982/83 and a worsening of the external
environment in the early 1980s. During the Sixth Plan period, GDP grew by
5.1% per annum, 1/ well above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%.
However, overall growth during the first half of the 1980s has not been
steady, mainly because of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural
production. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from
the 1979 drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. The
recovery was particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped
output to rise by more than 15% in 1980/81 and 5.5% in 1981/82. A severe
drought in mid-1982 brought the economic recovery to a halt. Agricultural
output declined by 4Z, which in turn reduced GDP growth to only 1.8%, and put
further strains on the balance of payments and domestic resource situation.
The timely implementation of various economic policies relating to foodgrain
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.1Z per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-3-
imports, procurement and distribution, and the increased allocation of power
to irrigation pumps mitigated the adverse effects of the poor monsoon. An
excellent monsoon combined with satisfactory performance of the infrastruc-
ture sectors, in particular coal and transport, led to a recovery of the
economy in 1983/84. Agricultural output rose by 9%, industrial output by
4.5% and overall GDP by 7.4Z. The power sector, however, emerged again as a
constraint on higher growth, especially in industry. In 1984/85, despite a
mediocre monsoon and difficult political circumstances, the aggregate growth
of the economy is likely to range between 4 and 4.5%.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to grow
at an average annual rate of 2.6% a year-sufficient tc maintain a broad
balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The progress
achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to expand
irrigation, strengthen extension .id encourage efficient use of other
agricultural inputs which are being implemented. Bountiful harvests have led
to record foodgrain stocks in recent years. Over the past year, Government
held stocks have increased by more than 40%. Maintenance of ample, balanced
operating stocks to ensure smooth operation and even expansion of the public
distribution system remains a top priority of Indian agricultural policy.
Yet, the financial cost of foodgrain storage and subsidies represent a
rapidly growing burden on the budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was slow
and uneven. Industrial growth averaged about 3.4% a year-below the growth
rates achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. An inadequate policy environment,
coupled with depressed domestic demand, power and raw material shortages, as
well as labor unrest are the main causes for the slower than anticipated
growth of the industrial sector. After the severe drought in 1979/80,
manufacturing output grew at 1.7% in 1980/81 and 3.3% 1981/82. The drought
in 1982/83, which led to widespread shortfalls of agro-based raw materials
and a sharp drop in the demand for consumer durables, combined with a
prolonged textile strike in Bombay, reduced the growth of industrial output
to 1.7% in that year. Following the excellent t.monsoon in 1983/84, industrial
output gained momentum and grew by 5.0%.  Preliiinary estimates place the
growth of the manufacturing sector at about 5.5Z in 1984/85.
10.     The performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the
Sixth Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway
traffic grew by R.7%, 6Z and 2.5Z a year respectively, oil and gas production
increased by 22.6x. The rapid expansion of domestic oil production is lar-
gely the result of India's oil development program. Backed by substantial
financial commitment, performance under the program has been excellent with
real investment and oil production levels running well ahead of Plan targets.
In 1984/85 domestic oil production is estimated to have reached 29.4 million
tons. While the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and production
remains large, India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63Z of consump-
tion in 1979/80 to 30Z in 1984/85. About two-thirds of current output comes
from offshore fields around Bombay High. As most of these fields have now
reached tLeir mature stage, further increases in domestic oil production will
have to come mainly from new discoveries.
11.     India's economy has reverted from a situation of a resource surplus
in the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the Sixth Plan
period. The gap between gross investment and national savings increased from



-4-
negligible levels to an average of 2.1% of GDP in 1980-85. Cross domestic
capital formation increased from an average of 22.6Z of GDP in 1975-80 to
24.7% in 1980-85 while gross national savings remained constant at an average
of 22.6% of GDP in both periods. The increase in capital farmation mainly
resulted from an increase in the public investment rate, but it was largely a
financial rather than a real phenomenon since prices of investment goods
increased considerably faster than the general price level.
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to
provide sufficient resources for growth and planned investment while main-
taining inflation under control. However, the Sixth Plan period was charac-
terized by significant budgetary resource constraints. Despite massive
additional resource mobilization efforts, public sector deficits exceeded 7%
of GDP as compared to only 4-5% of GDP during the mid-1970s. The shortfall
was met by additional market borrowings, both domestically and from abroad
and by deficit financing. Major reasons behind the large deficits were
continued losses by most departmentally-run undertakings, unsatisfactory
performance of the two major non-departmental undertakings of the States (the
State Electricity Boards and the State Road Transport Corporations), and the
increasing importance of subsidies which are estimated to have reached 2.8Z
of GDP in 1984/85. Of these, fertilizer accounted for more than 0.8% of GDP,
and food subsidies nearly 0.5% of GDP.
13.     Developments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in the
balance of payments. Thus, India's current account balance, which had
recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits averag-
ing US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of CDP during 1980-85. Several developments
contributed to these relatively large deficits. First, the terms of trade
deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price
increases and continued to move against India during the first three years of
the 1980s. Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs
was pursued. Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off,
workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting slower development activity in the
Middle East), and payment of interest on higher levels of foreign debt
increased. Fourth, export growth was sluggish partly due to growing domestic
demand, and, perhaps most significantly, due to depressed foreign markets and
prices. Faced with a growing need for external capital inflows and stagna-
tion in the availability of concessional assistance, India drew
SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF and borrowed
significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.
14.     Price performance during the Sixth Plan period has been mixed.  The
overall improvement in economic performance in the early 1980s, combined with
more restrictive monetary policies in 1981/82 and 1982/83, resulted in a
sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices
declined from 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83. The lagged effects of
shortages of foodgrains in 1982/83 and of other agricultural products and
industrial goods in 1983/84 coupled with a rise in the domestic cost of
imports and rapid liquidity growth, gave a boost to inflationary pressures
towards the end of 1983/84. The annual average growth of wholesale prices
rose to over 9% in 1983/84, and the rate of growth of consumer prices
exceeded 12%. In September 1984, the Government took a number of measures to
dampen pressure on prices including increased imports of important agricul-
tural commodities (sugar, jute, coconut oil and others), releases of sugar



-5-
stocks for distribution through fair price shops, and a reduction in wheat
prices for flour mills. These measures, together with a decline in cereal
prices as a result of the bumper crop in 1983/84 and a generally restrictive
budgetary policy, led to a slowdown in the rate of increase of wholesale
prices to about 7.1% in 1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore
the progress that has been made in recent years towards accelerated CDP
growth, exter al adjustment, and increased investment.  The experien.e of
recent years illustrates that India has the capacity to grow and develop at a
more rapid pace. It is a tribute both to the fundamental soundness of key
policies and programs, particularly in agriculture, and to the strength and
effectiveness of public administration, that neithee the serious political
disturbances in Punjab, nor the assassination of Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi, resulted in significant disruptions to the performance of the economy
in the last year of the Sixth Plan. But the results during the Plan period
also highlight the disappointing performance of industry, the continuing
shortfalls in electric power generation, the rising public sector deficits,
the importance of regaining and sustaining momentum in export growth and the
need for continued prudent economic management so as to avoid a resurgence of
inflation while generating adequate resources for development. This mixture
of achievements and challenges provides the context for an assessment of
development prospects and policies.
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating pervasive
poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
Seventh Plan is expected to aim at sustaining an annual rate of growth of CDP
of at least 5%.  The Seventh Plan which will lay down the development
strategy for 1985/86-1989/90 is also likely to continue the emphasis on
agriculture, energy development, export promotion, domestic import substitu-
tion where economically justifiable and the removal of infrastructural
bottlenecks.
17.     Achieving a GDP growth of around 5Z a year will place heavy demands
on policy adjustment and entail ma4or challenges. India will need to:
(a) maintain the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural production;
(b) accelerate industrial production and export growth through policy changes
which enhance competition and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the
economy by improving basic infrastructure services and the availability of
energy; (d) improve the efficiency with which resources are used, including
particularly the existing capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and
(e) further improve the already high resource mobilization effort.
18.    Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade.
As possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth
will depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land
through further development of irrigation, better water management, more
intensive use of new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services,
and appropriate pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expan-
sion of the country's irrigable area through completion of ongoing irrigation
projects, as well as selective investment in new undertakings. Besides
creating new irrigation potential, the efficiency of irrigated farming will



-6-
have to be enhanced through the improvement of water management practices in
existing irrigation systems. Greater emphasis should also be given to
obtaining higher yields under rainfed and dryland farming conditions.
Finally, even greater efforts must be made to build and strengthen institu-
tions to ensure the efficient delivery of agricultural services, input
supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and
export growth to be attained through improved productivity and efficiency.
A key requirement will be greater competitive pressure on industry than has
been the case in the past. The size and domestic orientation of the Indian
economy make it necessary that this competitive pressure come mainly from
within the domestic economy. An important complement, however, will be
greater exposure to foreign trade to stimulate domestic competition as well
as to induce technological innovation and modernization.
20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to
allow freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater
reliance on market price signals. While the Government has taken various
initiatives in the above directions during the past several years, the most
significant were announced in the context of the 1985/86 Budget. These
include the broadening of licensing categories for certain industries,
delicensing for others, increases in the size limits for MRTP 1/ and small-
scale industries, reductions in the incentive for small-scale industries to
stay small and various initiatives to stimulate efficient indigenization of
'sunrise' industries (energy exploration equipment, computers, telecommunica-
tion equipment, motor vehicles and parts, general electronics). These are
significant advances that need to be sustained in future years.
21.     Changes in external trade policy will also be required to stimulate
export growth which is essential not only for current financing of imports,
but to enhance borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an impetus to
the economy from the demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs to the quality-
consciousness of competitive external markets. While some changes have been
recently introduced, there remains a need to: (a) provide greater access to
imported inputs and capital goods through continued import liberalization
(b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies and lowering their overall level;
and (c) modify trade policies in such a way that the net impact of incentives
is more neutral between exports and import substitution.
22.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently
constitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency
with which these investments are managed has an important bearing on t'e
efficiency of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy.
There is substantial evidence that better planning and management of public
investments in power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns
and lower the current capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use
of investment could be achieved by better water management in irrigation
projects, improved load factors in thermal power generation, better capacity
1/ Monopolies and Restrictive Tr.l.e Practices Act, 1969.



-7-
utilization in the fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in railway
transport.
23.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6%
in 1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income.
Nevertheless, the investment required to sustain the relatively high GDP
growth rates realized during the Sixth Plan period-while holding foreign
savings as a share of GDP at prudent levels-will require some further
increase in the aggregate savings rate especially in public savings. Because
there will continue to be well-founded demands for expansion of current and
capital expenditures in the public sector, the burden for a reduction in the
savings investment gap has to be put on the revenue side. Increasing tax
rates beyond their current high levels would be counter productive. Thus,
economically efficient pricing policies in public enterprises, supported by
improvements in their operational efficiency, are to be preferred over tax
increases as vehicles for increased public resource mobilization. The sheer
size of past and present public enterprise investment indicates that if
proper returns were made even only a part of them, an increase in revenues of
about 3% of GDP would be attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal
power, railways, and fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made--with Bank
assistance-to increase efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to
be improved and expanded into new areas.
24.    Balance of Payments. A policy of sustained GDP growth of 5Z per
annum will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance
of payments position. Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a
substantial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for con-
tinued import substitution of key bulk commodity items. Bank staff estimates
place the export volume growth necessary to support these growing import
requirements without excessive increases in external borrowing at about 8% a
year over the Seventh Plan period. Prospects for India to attain the needed
higher export growth rates appear to be reasoxYably good because India's share
in total world exports in value terms is only about 0.4Z, leaving ample room
for growth. Furthermore, India's exports are relatively less sensitive to
fluctuations in demand in the OECD industrial countries because exports are
well diversified with respect to both products and markets. Nevertheless,
success in India's export drive will depend heavily on changes in domestic
policy to improve the supply and profitability of exports.
25.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to
need substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 8% export growth, the 5Z GDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$34.5 billion
between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this
financing was provided in the form of official development assistance. In
more recent years the availability of concessional assistance to India has
declined. Total bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a
level of about US$1.3 billion per annum over the years 1979/80-1981/82 to
US$1 billion in 1983/84. Moreover, there was a large deterioration in the
terms of aid from multilateral sources. For example, while total lending
from the Bank Group continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element
declined from 71% to 41% as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of
$1,535 million in FY80 to $673 million in FY85.



-8-
26.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase
significantly from recent lcvels, nearly the full additional financing
required would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing
from official and commercial sources. This will increase India's debt serv-
ice ratio from the present level of 15.5% to 21.6% by 1989/90. Provided
India can in fact, expand export earnings along the lines described earlier,
and provided India's past record of prudent borrowing and debt management
continues, the country should be able to raise the projected amounts. While
its foreign resource requirements would be manageable, the increase in its
external debt exposure would leave it with little cushion to deal with
unfavorable eventualities and with the risks of policy change.
27.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy
described earlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase
borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there
are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth
objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.
White therefore a greater volume of both official concessional and non-
concessional assistance is warranted, concessional assistance, in particular,
will be invaluable in moderating the build-up in India's debt service burden.
Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional aid, there remains the
imperative to assist India in addressing the problems of pervasive poverty.
While India is now better placed than other poor countries to tackle its
development problems, the mobilization of additional resources to address
poverty problems is heavily constrained. Concessional assistance can also
play a very important role in relieving this constraint.
28.     Summary.  India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. If
the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0%
growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita
income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant
difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India. Development
prospects over the next few years will hinge on the extent to which the
economy can be brought into both internal and external balance, while at the
same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past. This will require
the continuation of the current development strategy which assigns high
priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improvement of
economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by adequate
flows of external borrowing and aid.
PART II - BANRK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
29.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1985.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March
31, 1985 totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent
over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of March 31, 1985.



-9-.
30.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as
of March 31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
31.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy
and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricul-
tural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricul-
tural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and
seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed
at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth
of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have
hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.  The Bank Group
has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving
the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations,
the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural
roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
32.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the
approach being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First,
high priority will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While
India has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will
have to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply
and to contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank
Group will continue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and
distribution, and agricultural extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's
efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster development of the
industrial sector, increased assistance will be provided for industrial
development. Third, the review of performance under the Sixth Plan confirms
the high priority that should continue to be given to the expansion and more
efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the development of
India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly the Bank Group will
continue to support the development of the energy, transport and telecom-
munications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in
both agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban develop-
ment and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also
continue in light of the growth in population which, despite successes in
lowering birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each
year.
33.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
India continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to
offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to



-10-
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
Sixth Plan period. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India
imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitive-
ness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign
exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly
the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
34.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 bil-
lion in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount
of IDA funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to
India's needs for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional
assistance will have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given
its development prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank
lending to supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already
underway to achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher
levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of
population growth should result in continued economic growth and improvement
in the balance of payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about
15.2% in 1984/85. This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90,
mainly due to the hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase
slightly over this level through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt
service ratios are considerably above historical levels, they are still
manageable and will not adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
35.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12Z of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37Z, respectively, in
1983/84. In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the
Bank Group's share was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's
US$1.8 billion). As of March 31, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India
held by the Bank totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain
to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL AND RESEARCH IN INDIA
General
36.    Agriculture is the most important sector in the Indian economy
accounting for about 36% of GNP. It provides employment for about 70% of the
country's labor force and accounts for about 24.5% of its exports of merchan-
dise (1982/83). The remarkable increases in foodgrain production in recent
years has resulted in India's attaining self-sufficiency, although a shortage
of edible oils persists. Nevertheless, further efforts to improve agricul-
tural productivity are needed to meet future demand increases for a popula-
tion that is growing at about 2.2% per annum. Moreover, in recent years the
rate of yield increases has been falling, and parts of the country (i.e., the
Eastern States, Assam, Orissa) have shown little growth in agricultural
production. The projections of demand for foodgrains by the terminal year of



-l-
the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1990) call for annual foodgrain production of
168-170 MT, compared with a 1983/84 production of about 151.5 MT. This
represents an annual growth rate of about 2.7Z, compared with the growth rate
of 2.5Z per annum over the past 15 years.
37.     Nearly 90% of food production increases in the post-Green Revolution
period have come from wheat and rice, predominantly in irrigated areas. Less
impressive results are expected in the future because cultivated areas
benefiting from high-yielding technology are beginning to experience problems
not confronted previously, including increasing incidence of pests and dis-
ease and micro-nutrient deficiencies, demanding more sophisticated
technology. Moreover, most of the future increase in foodgrain production
would have to come from rainfed regions, which are expected to constitute
more than 50% of the area under cultivation, even after the nation's irriga-
tion potential has been fully developed. Hence, greater problems can be
anticipated, both in developing the improved technology needed for such
heterogenous agroclimatic conditions and in transferring this technology and
know-how to farmers.
38.     The future pattern of agricultural development in India thus points
to the crucial role that improved agricultural research and associated
extension services would have to play in helping the country sustain its
self-sufficiency in foodgrains. The improvement of these services remains a
major, yet relatively low-cost means, of increasing agricultural
productivity, of making more effective use of past investments in infrastruc-
ture and research, and of reaching all farmers, especially small farmers.
Agricultural Research                       syo
39.     Constitutionally, agriculture is a state assigned subject in India,
and thus agricultural research is primarily a state responsibility. State
Agricultural Universities (SAUs) undertake this function on behalf of the
State Governments and receive the main part of their financial support mostly
in the form of grants. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)
serves as a national coordinating and supporting agency and assists SAUs in
the performance of their duties.
40.     The success of the research programs supported under the proposed
project would be positively influenced by the close association that has
developed between SAUs, ICAR and the international research institutions
(CIMMYT, IRRI, CIP, ICRISAT, and IBPGR) 1/. Collaboration in research
between these international institutions and SAUs has led to the free flow of
genetic material into SAU research programs, the exchange of staff and
information, and the regular attendance by SAU staff at research seminars and
conferences. This cooperation is strong and effective. and adequate for the
support of the agricultural research to be initiated under the proposed
project.
11 See Abbreviations and Acronyms section.



-12-
Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR)
41.     The ICAR was originally established by GOI in 1929.  In 1966, it was
reorganized following the recommendations of a national review committee on
agricultural research and education. The reorganization of the ICAR was
undertaken in recognition of the need to consolidate all centrally supported
research and higher education in agriculture, animal sciences and, fisheries,
including the various central agricultural research institutes. The Council
was also made responsible for providing central guidance and financial sup-
port to the SAUs and colleges and -or developing linkages with international
research institutions. The Union Minister of Agriculture was made the
Chairman of ICAR. Its Governing Body was placed under the chairmanship of
the Director General, who was chief executive of the Council. Since 1973,
the Director General has been designated Secretary to GOI for the Department
of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture, thus ensur-
ing closer liaison with GOI.
42.     The Director General is assisted by four Deputy Directors' General
(crop sciences; animal sciences; soils, irrigation, and agricultural
engineering; and education), a secretariat, and additional staff as required.
ICAR's staff of scientists number over 5,500. Fifteen scientific panels
covering various subjects are responsible for considering the various
research schemes and projects supported by the Council, for advising the
Governing Body on technical matters, and for drawing attention to gaps in
current research and training efforts.
43.     ICAR is not only active in managing research programs of its own, it
also serves as the apex national coordinating body for research carried out
in the states. To this end, ICAR: (a) provides overall guidance to research
and helps in setting priorities; (b) provides financial support for the
establishment of new SAUs, including the setting of appropriate academic and
research standards; (c) makes available financial and technical support for
the development of education and research at SAUs, including the development
of regional research capability; (d) finances and manages 38 centrally con-
trolled agricultural research institutes, five project directorates, and
about 60 national coordinated research schemes; (e) conducts national demon-
strations that promote the transfer of improved technology; and (f) funds
operational research projects, a national lab-to-land program, and Krishi
Vigyan Kendras (farm science centers) scattered throughout the country. ICAR
also acts as a channel in ensuring cooperation for the exchange of scientific
information, genetic material, and technical know-how with agricultural
research institutions and international organizations.
Agricultural Universities
44.     The present system of agricultural universities in India (23 SAUs in
17 states) has evolved over the past 20 years or so with the objective of
creating a system of scientific education and research serving the needs of
the farming community. The basic objectives of the SAUs are similar to those
established under the United States of America's Land Grant College System
(i.e., to integrate research and teaching). Their development has neverthe-
less been somewhat uneven, resulting from differences in the local political
situation, the strength of initial leadership, and the support accorded by
state governments. Most SAUs have, however, now developed sufficient



-13-
capability to be able to effectively address the agricultural problems con-
fronting farmers in India's varying agro-ecological zones.
Main Achievements of Indian Agricultural Research
45.     Central, state, and international cooperative research has achieved
major advances in foodgrain production during the past 20 years, the most
notable achievements being for wheat and rice. Since the early 1960s, wheat
production has increased almost threefold and rice production has gone up by
more than 50x. Significant, but less spectacular, were the gains made with
pearl millet and sorghum. Although the earlier momentum in the production
of hybrids of pearl millet received a setback from disease (downy mildew and
ergot), new sources of resistance have been identified and hybrids and com-
posites that resist these diseases have been made available to farmers.
Suitable sorghum hybrids to be grown in the kharif (monsoon) season in the
Deccan have also been developed. Similar success has been achieved for the
cotton crop.
46.     The above examples illustrate the fact that India has the institu-
tional base, management system, and scientific capability of making substan-
tial progress toward the development of the appropriate technology required
to meet the present and future demands of agriculture. This capability has,
however, not been adequately developed in a number of areas, and much basic
research infrastructure is still lacking at the SAU level. Moreover, there
is scope for greater progress in adapting the new technology to suit the
varying socio-economic conditions of farmers and in meeting the specific
needs of the diverse agroecological zones encountered in a country as large
as India.
Previous Bank Activities in the Sector
47.     While SAUs have resp-nsibility for research and generation of
appropriate technology, the State Departments of Agriculture are responsible
for extension. In order to achieve a more broadly based increase in agricul-
tural output, GOI introduced in 1974, with IDA assistance, a different
approach to agricultural extension through the training and visit (T&V)
system. The T&V system is directed towards increasing farm productivity and
the income of farmers by simultaneously addressing constraints to the trans-
fer of new agricultural technology and to the dissemination of the results of
research, as well as by obtaining feedback on actual farm problems. The
earlier T&V projects in the States of Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal,
Assam, and Rajasthan included research components to strengthen SAU research
facilities at regional stations. Research funds were provided in state
government budgets but in the absence of a free flow of funds to SAUs, the
research programs had a minimum impact in these States. With the growing
demand for IDA assistance in reforming statewide agricultural extension



-14-
systems on the one hand, 1/ and the need to narrow the gap between ongoing
research programs and the requirements of farmers for new technology and
information on the other, there was an urgent need to expand the scope of
agricultural research and to involve ICAR fully in this effort. Toward this
end, it was decided to support agricultural research at the state level
through the medium of a National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I),
(Credit 855-IN, 1978).
48.     NAPP I was designed to strengthen the capability of SAUs to conduct
zonal research in support of the reformed agricultural extension system. The
project focused on the research needs of the country's main agroecological
zones and placed special emphasis on foodgrains (cereals and pulses) and
oilseeds grown under rainfed conditions, as well as on the integration of
cropping patterns and animal husbandry practices. NARP I has helped to
provide the foundation for future agricultural research through a strengthen-
ing of the institutional capability of SAU campuses to conduct basic research
in topics critical to the long-term agricultural deve'lopment of the State.
It has also provided for essential infrastructure to support research
activity at SAU main research stations and substations, for the strengthening
of SAU research administration, and for the organization of regional com-
modity and discipline oriented training workshops.
49.    Program achievements under NARP I include the detailed Research
Reviews completed for 16 States. These reviews have identified the general
constraints to increasing production, provided information on yields and
yield potential, and contain a detailed review of present research efforts,
needs, and future priorities of the main agroecological zones within each
State. The Reviews are supplemented by Status Reports on subzones within
each of the agroecological zones prepared by a multidisciplinary group of
scientists interacting with farmers and the extension service. These Reports
provide: (a) a clear identification of different farming situations
(topography, soil types and depths, rainfall, irrigation, etc.); (b) a review
1/ The Bank has assisted in the financing of the following agricultural
extension projects in 14 Indian States: The Orissa Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 682-IN, April 1, 1977); the Madhya Pradesh
Agricultural Extension and Research project (Cr. 712-IN, June 1, 1977);
the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN,
June 1, 1977); the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN,
June 30, 1977); the Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 737-IN, November 14, 1977); the Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 761-IN, January 6, 1978); the Composite Agric-itural
Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN, February 16, 1979-covering the States of
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka); the Kerala Agricultural Extension Project
(Cr. 1028-IN, June 25, 1980); the Maharashtra Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1135-IN, May 7, 1981); the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1137-IN, May 7, 1981); the Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 1138-IN, May 7, 1981); and the Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1219-IN, May 5, 1982).  The National
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1523-IN, October 2, 1984) covering the
States of Madhya Pradesh, Rajastnan and Orissa, and the Second National
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1569-IN, March 26, 1985) covering the
States of Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, and Jammu and Kashmir.



-15-
in each farming situation of cropping patterns, existing yields and yield
potential gaps; (c) an analysis of available meteorological data so as to
develop "contingency plans" for cropping in different rainfall situations and
(d) information on production constraints and priorities for research.
50.     SAU scientists have made use of the finuings of Research Reviews and,
more recently, Status Reports in the design of three broad groups of experi-
ments to determine: (a) the suitability of present crop varietiea and prac-
tices in different farming situations; (b) the development of farming systems
for farming situations requiring multi-disciplinary experimentation on the
interaction of soil and water management practices, cropping systems, and
cultivation methods; and (c) adjustments to recommended practices, especially
recommendations on the type of fertilizers that suit farmers' resources and
skills, and to other extraneous factors such as vagaries of monsoon rains,
reliability of irrigation supply, input availability among others.
51.     The constant interaction with farmers and extension workers has
resulted in an overall improvement in the quality of experiments, and the
earlier emphasis on varietal improvement alone has given place to experiments
that have a bearing on farmers' problems under different conditions and on
farming systems research. Scme examples of this are: the development of low
cost water harvesting techniques on farmers' fields (Gujarat); adjustment of
recommendations for fertilizer use based on farmers' resource capability
(Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu); simple techniques to overcome poor
emergence of pearl millet due to soil crust formation (Rajasthan); evolving
gal midge-resistant rice varieties accompanied by appropriate cultural prac-
tices (Madhya Pradesh); advancing soyabean sowing dates (under rainfed
conditions) to ensure double cropping (Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan); farming
systems research (rainfed areas) to develop a seed-cum-fertilizer drill for
proper placement of fertilizer in the wheat crop (Madhya Pradesh); mixed
cropping of sorghum with legumes to overcome the parasitic weed, striga
(Karnataka); developing a low cost groundnut sheller (Andhra Pradesh); and
minimum tillage in paddy/wheat rotation (Punjab).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.     The proposed project was prepared by the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR). It was appraised in October/November 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington in August 1985, with the Government of
India represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. Prithvi Singh, Director
of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -- National Agricultural Research Project
II" (No. 5469-IN, dated September 20, 1985) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached
as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale
53.     The proposed project would help to broaden the scope of agricultural
research undertaken by ICAR to include irrigated farming, particularly under
field conditions in command areas; agricultural implements to suit both
irrigated and rainfed farming conditions; horticultural and commercial crops;
agro-forestry for hilly regions, marginal and submarginal soil conditions,
and animal nutrition. In doing so, the proposed project would supplement
and help to strengthen the research activities begun in 82 of the 121



-16-
agroeclogical zones identified under NARP I in 17 Indian States, and support
the implementation of new research subprojects in the balance of the 39 zones
not previously covered. Through its involvement in this project, the Bank
would also complement its efforts in agricultural extension (see para. 47) by
ensuring that appropriate technology is developed and linkages are
screngthened between research and extension organizations. Research results
specific to India's diverse agroecological zones are needed to develop
appropriate messages for dissemination through the extension services cur-
rently being strengthened and reorganized with Bank assistance. The proposed
project would contribute to the reorientation of India's agricultural
research efforts which previously (prior to NARP I) emphasised on-campus work
under controlled conditions toward applied research activities conducted in
research stations and actual farm situations in the country's main
agroecological zones. The project would seek to achieve its objectives
through the following investments:
(i) Research Subprojects
54.     Approximately US$81.94 million of total project costs including
contingencies would be devoted to financing three types of research
subprojects. These include: (a) supplemental subprojects designed to
broaden the scope of activities undertaken at Regional Research Stations
established under NARP I; (b) new subprojects designed to establish 39 more
Regional Research Stations and (c) special research subprojects.
55.     (a) Supplemental Subprojects: Under the supplemental subprojects,
the research support provided by ICAR to the 82 agroecological zones covered
under NARP I would be broadened where necessary to meet the priority agricul-
tural research needs of each zone. Additionally, the subprojects would
emphasize new research related to irrigated farming, animal-drawn agricul-
tural implements, horticultural and commercial field crops, agroforestry and
animal nutrition. Special attention would also be given to developing a
field testing/verification program to serve the needs of farming situations
not covered by regional stations in each zone and to providing facilities for
training Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) of State Departments of
Agriculture. Such research support would be provided on a selective basis,
as dictated by the priorities identified by ICAR.
56.     (b) New Subprojects: The new Regional Research Stations to be estab-
lished would support crop production research under both rainfed and
irrigated conditions in the remaining 39 agroecological zones not covered
under NARP I. The research program for these subprojects would be closely
patterned along the lines of the research activity being undertaken and
contemplated for the supplemental subprojects. There would also be provision
for testing/verification programs as well as for facilities for SMS training,
as with the supplemental subprojects.
57.     (c) Special Research Subprojects:  While the funds for supplemental
and new subprojects would be specifically tied to an identified research
program, a small proportion of funds (about US$0.55 million excluding
contingencies) would be earmarked for research into special problems likely
to be encountered. These ad hoc assignments couLd be either at SAU campuses
or in selected zones. The identification and preparation of such subprojects
would be done jointly by ICAR, the concerned SAU, and the State Department of
Agriculture.



-17-
58.     The majority of subprojects would comprise the development of main
research stations and substations. Based on the experience of NARP I and
recent appraisals, the average unit cost per subproject excluding contingen-
cies has been estimated at Rs 3.0 million (four years) for supplemental
subprojects, Rs 10.5 million (five years) for a new subproject, and Rs 1.65
million (five years) for a special subproject. The types of investments
financed would include civil works (laboratories, office and classroom space,
dormitory, staff housing, farm development), equipment, incremental staff and
operating costs, and facilities for training of extension staff. Approval
and sanction of the research subprojects would be completed in a phased
manner by project year three.
(ii) NARP I Subprojects
59.     Under NARP I, SAU sanctioned subprojects were funded for a period of
five years after which the financial burden for the continuation of the
research activity became the responsibility of the concerned State
Government. There are, however, 90 subprojects under NARP I which were at
various stages of implementation at credit closing (September 30, 1985). IDA
would continue to support the research activity under these NARP I sub-
projects until they complete five years, at which time they would become the
responsibility of State Governments. Approximately US$26.90 million of
project costs would be allocated for this purpose.
(iii) SAU Research Administration Subprojects
60.     Under NARP I, subprojects were prepared to strengthen SAU research
administration. Of the 23 SAUs in India, administrative subprojects have
been sanctioned for n. These administrative units are responsible for
coordinating the preparation of research subprojects, monitoring project
progress, and providing assistance in procurement. They also maintain a
close liaison with the ICAR Project Unit in progress reporting, the provision
of statements of expenditure and audit reports, and for arranging training
programs. Administrative subprojects for the remaining two SAUs (in West
Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir) would be financed under the proposed project
(US$0.26 million). These subprojects would strengthen the office of the
Director of Research, and would include: (a) incremental staff and related
costs for planning and monitoring the university's research program,
(b) organization of regional, commodity, and discipline-oriented training
workshops for SMS, and (c) the costs of short-term training of scientists at
advance centers of research in India.
(iv) ICAR Administration
61.     The Project Unit (PU) established under NARP I, headed by the Deputy
Director General (Education) in ICAR as Project Administrator would assist in
the preparation and appraisal of subprojects and be responsible for monitor-
ing their implementation. The PU has functioned satisfactorily under NARP I.
In order to meet the increased workload resulting from the proposed project,
it would be further strengthened and provided with funds to enable the use of
local consultant assistance in subproject appraisal and monitoring.
Provision would also be made for organizing training workshops for SAU scien-
tists and for discipline oriented courses. Apprnximately US$1.83 million of



-18-
project costs would be expended on this component over the project implemen-
tation period.
Project Implementation
62.     Under NARP I, a Project Funding Committee (PFC) was set up by ICAR as
the executive authority re;ponsible for selecting SAUs to participate in the
project, to approve or reject subprojects and research reviews, and to super-
vise project execution. PFC is chaired by the Director General of ICAR and
is made up of the Agricultural Commissioner, GOI, the Chief (Agriculture)
of the Planning Commission, two SAU Vice Chancellors (nominated by the GOI
Minister of Agriculture); and the Project Administrator. An Interdisciplinary
Scientific Panel (ISP) of agricultural scientists provides PFC with technical
advice as necessary, while the PU functions as the PFC secretariat. Both PFC
and ISP have played a key role in the implementation of NARP I and would
continue to function in the same capacity under the proposed project.
Subproject Preparation and Appraisal
63.     Responsibility for the preparation of subprojects rests with SAUs.
The PU would, however, provide all necessary assistance to ensure their
adequate and timely preparation. Subproject proposals prepared in SAU are
initially cleared by the State University Board of Management and endorsed by
the state government (Ministry of Agriculture) before their formal submission
to ICAR. The first four research subproject proposal3 prepared by SAUs (two
supplementary and two new) would be made available to IDA for review and
comment prior to their appraisal by PU.
64.     Subproject appraisal reports would be initially reviewed by ISP (see
para 62) which would decide on the importance of the research proposal to the
State's agricultural development effort. Among other considerations, ISP
would pay particular attention to the capacity of the SAU to execute the
subproject, while at the same time ensuring that there is no duplication of
the research effort. ISP would also ensure that the eligibility standards
established for sanctioning supplementary research subprojects are followed.
Following ISP review the proposed subproject would be forwarded to PFC for
its consideration. The decision of PFC would be guided by, inter alia, the
recomoendations of ISP. PFC would either reject, approve, or defer a deci-
sion on each subproject. Those in the latter category would be returned to
the SAU concerned either for specified amendment or for extensive
modification. Close liaison would be maintained with IDA, which would
receive all relevant documents through ICAR. ICAR would make an annual
on-site supervision visit to each participating SAU and all subproject sites.
ICAR would also submit to IDA a six-monthly report on the physical implemen-
tation of approved subprojects. Additionally, ICAR would be responsible for
furnishing IDA with the PUs annual work program and for preparing a project
completion report.
Coordination with Irrigation Research
65.     Research program formulation and implementation would involve the
close cooperation among SAUs, the State Departments of Agriculture and State
Irrigation Departments. Towards this end, ICAR would nominate the Secretary,
Department of Irrigation (GOI) or his representative as a member of PFC; and



-19-
set up a State Level Committee comprising the Secretary, Irrigation
Department; the Commissioner, Command Area Authority; Chief Engineer,
Irrigation Department; Secretary, Department of Agriculture, the Director of
Agriculture and Director of Research, SAU in the concerned state with respon-
sibility for: (a) fixing priorities for irrigation projects to be taken up
for on-farm research, and (b) deciding on the specific roles played by
irrigation, agriculture, and research staff in planning, preparation, and
implementation of research programs. At the zonal leveL, coordination would
be ensured through the Zonal Research Advisory Committee. The Superintending
Engineer of the State Irrigation Department would be a member of the zonal
committee and would help in the identification of irrigation research needs
as well as coordinate the execution of research programs.
Mid-Term Review
66.     Given the duration (seven years) and expanded scope of the proposed
project, and the priority being given to irrigated farming research, a mid-
term review of the project would be undertaken by a joint team from
GOI/ICAR/IDA within the first quarter after completion of the third year of
the project. The exercise would include a review of progress made in project
implementation and provide for mid-course corrections. It would also include
the identification of future priorities in agricultural research.
Administration of University Research
67.     The Director of Research is responsible for the planning, monitoring,
and administration of all research programs in the SAU under the direction of
its Vice Chancellor. The office of the Director of Research has been
strengthened in SAUs participating under NARP I through the provision of
incremental staff, resulting in better planning and monitoring of research
activities, organization of workshops and training programs and evaluation of
the research effort of the university as a whole. At the zonal level, an
Associate Director of Research, working under the Director of Research, is
responsible for research within each agroecological zone and for developing
linkages with the state extension service in the zone. To achieve this, he
works through the Zonal Research Advisory Committee, organizes monthly
workshops for SMS, and uses other informal mechanisms. He would also be
responsible for preparing a Status Report for the identification of farming
situations and improvement of existing knowledge of farming constraints under
each situation; ensuring a multi-disciplinary effort to research program
formulation; and supervising and reporting on the research effort in the
zone. These arrangements which have helped to improve the quality of
research programs and their execution under NARP I, would continue under the
proposed project.
Research-Extension Linkages
68.     Better research-extension linkages under NARP I have resulted in
improvement of the quality of experiments at Regional Research Stations.
These linkages would be further strengthened under the proposed project. A
number of extension related activities carried out by SAUs, such as Krishi
Vigyan Kendras (farm science centers), National Demonstrations, Lab-to-Land
Programs,and Farmer's Training Centers would be integrated in such a manner
as to provide necessary support to the extension agency. SAU Directorates of
Extension would concentrate on providing formal extension training and teach-



-20-
ing of training methods to extension staff and be responsible for carrying
out on-farm studies in collaboration with the State Department of
Agriculture.
Project Costs and Financing
69.     The total project cost is estimated at US$110.93 million, of which
US$3.03 million represents the foreign exchange costs. Physical contingen-
cies (US$1.68 million) have been applied to civil works, vehicles, equipment
and operating costs. Price contingencies of US$30.63 million have been added
to local costs at 8.5% for 1985/86 through 1990/91 and 6% for 1991/92, and
for foreign costs at 6.3% for 1985/86, 7.8X for 1986/87, 8.0% for 1987/88
through 1989/90, 6.4% for 1990/91, and SZ for 1991/92.
70.     The proposed credit of US$72.10 million equivalent would finance
about 65% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, almost all of it
for local costs. The balance of funds (US$38.83 million) required for the
project would come from GOI. GOI would make the proceeds of the credit and
its own contribution available to ICAR as a budgetary allocation. ICAR would
utilize a part of these funds to cover the administrative costs of the
Project Unit, and channel the balance as grants to SAUs to finance the cost
of approved subprojects. The project provides for retroactive financing of
up to US$1.95 million for expenditures incurred after September 30, 1985, to
meet the costs of spillover subprojects and the additional staffing require-
ments of the Project Unit. ICAR is required to sanction all subprojects to
be financed by September 30, 1988 and along with GOI, would be responsible
for the provision of funding for the completior. of subprojects that extend
beyond June 30, 1993.
Procurement and Disbursement 1/
71.     Annex IV attached, details the manner in which items would be
procured undei the project. All civil works (US$37.88 million) are rela-
tively small and consist of research facilities, housing, and farm develop-
ment mostly located at some distance from major cities and would be under-
taken over time by different universities throughout the 17 States. It would
neither be feasible nor economic to group such works into large contracts for
submission to international competitive bidding (ICB). Consequently, all
civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding. The procurement procedures would be based on those in use at
universities whose local competitive bidding procedures have been reviewed by
the Project Funding Committee of ICAR, and selectively checked during
appraisal, and found to be satisfactory to IDA. These procedures were
adopted under NARP I and have been working satisfactorily.
72.     The procurement of vehicles and equipment (US$19.66 million) would be
undertaken by the participating universities in small quantities and would be
distributed over time. Orders would, therefore, be small, and adequate
maintenance and availability of spares would be of critical importance.
These items would thus not be suitable for ICB but would be procured by
1/ All figures in parentheses are inclusive of physical and price contin-
gencies amounting to approximately US$32.31 million.



-21-
standard university procedures that are satisfactory to IDA (see para. 71).
The balance of project costs (US$53.39 million) would consist of incremental
staff costs (US$41.31 million) and incremental operating expenditures
(US$12.08 million).
73.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the cost of
civil works (65Z of expenditures); equipment and vehicles (10OZ of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures, ex-factory and 61X of items
procured locally); and 65% of expenditures on incremental staff costs and
incremental operating costs. As SAU subprojects are financed by ICAR on a
1OOZ grant basis SAU would not have to bear any cost of this expenditure
during the project period. ICAR would ensure that on completion of five
years of operation of each subproject, State Governments/SAUs would continue
to finance these costs. Consequently, the necessity for disbursing against a
declining share of expenditures on incremental staff salaries and operating
costs does not arise. Disbursements to GOI for individual subprojects would
be against certified statements of expenditure which would be audited
annually. The audit report and supporting documents for zhese expenditures
would be retained by ICAR and SAUs for inspection in the course of project
review missions. Since most SAUs have insufficient financial resources of
their own to pre-finance investments under ICAR schemes, ICAR currently
advances funds six months ahead of expenditure on the basis of budget
estimates, less amounts unspent from the previous six months period verified
according to a certified statement of expenditure. This same procedure has
worked satisfactorily under NARP I and would continue under the proposed
project. IDA would however, only disburse against actual ICAR disbursements
to SAUs as summarized at six-month intervals by ICAR. ICAR would cause SAUs
to maintain separate accounts for each subproject. SAUs would also be
required to furnish ICAR with a grant expenditure certificate prepared by
independent auditors in respect of each subproject not later than nine months
after the end of each SAU finaacial year. ICAR woald maintain a separate
account of its own project expenditures which would be audited annually and
the audit report along with certified copies of its financial statements
submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year.
Benefits
74.    Major improvements in research program planning and quality -  par-
ticularly as they concern specific farming situations and extension
activities - are expected from the proposed project. There is already
evidence (under NARP I and Bank-supported extension projects) of gradual but
significant improvements in the extent and quality of support provided by
research institutions to the reformed extension services. A recent ICAR
review of the operation of cwo RegLonal Research Stations (Tirupati in Andhra
Pradesh and Bawal in Haryana, both with five years of operation) found sub-
stantial improvements in the capacity of the stations and its scientists to:
identify farming situations and constraints to increase production; determine
research priorities for the individual subzones; improve the quality of
individual experiments, conduct field testing of on-station research
findings, and establish closer linkages and contacts with extension staff and
farmers. The ICAR review also indicates that technology recommendations are
increasingly more refined and appropriate to suit farmers' needs and that
extension workers are now better equipped than before with relevant technical
messages and are able to advise farmers with greater confidence. Similarly,



-22-
monitoring and evaluation studies of IDA-supported agricultural extension
projects in India have shown that: (a) increased fertilizer use by a sub-
stantial number of farmers is dependent in large measure on the provision of
extension recommendations appropriate to farmers' resources and skills, and
(b) the impact of extension is increased considerably through emphasis on
low-cost practices and inputs. Both these aspects have been addressed under
NARP I and have resulted in the development of research programs and technol-
ogy that emphasize farmers' immediate needs.
75.     There is also considerable evidence available to show that investment
in agricultural research has potentially very high rates of return. 1/
Studies of returns to agricultural research spanning the period of the Green
Revolution in India have found that, with lags of 5 to 7 years, the rates of
return from investments in agricultural research have ranged from 35Z to as
much as 112Z in different states. It is, however, virtually impossible to
obtain any reliable ex-ante quantification of economic benefits from this
type of project and it is equally difficult to be precise even ex post. 2/
The technology improvements developed, the rate and extent of their adoption
by farmers, and the productivity and output gains attributable to their
application cannot be predicted with any certainty and are Likely to vary
among agroecological zones. Moreover, future gains in agricultural produc-
tivity and production would be attributable not merely to the adoption of
technological innovations developed and/or adapted to local conditions by the
research establishment, but to the combined impact of various supportive
services (input supply, extension services, etc.), as well as to that of the
economic environment in general (e.g., raising incomes and ability to invest)
and of economic policies in particular (e.g., incentive pricing). Delays in
farmer adoption of research findings may also be due in large measure to the
failure of other support services to provide the inputs and services needed
by farmers to adopt recommended practices. No attempt has been made,
therefore, to quantify the benefits expected from this project.
76.     The project is expected to make a substantial contribution to
institution building and be instrumental in solidifying the transformation of
India's agricultural research system into an efficient and farmer-responsive
research service. It would support a broadening of the research effort to
include all identified priority needs in each agroecological zone and
strengthen the research system's capability to provide support to agricul-
tural extension services through the development of economically viable
technologies and their adaptation to the differing resource endowments and
risk situations of farmers. In addition, it would bring about significant
improvements in the efficiency of resource utilization in agricultural
research, through its emphasis on effective research management.
1/ See Agricultural Research (IBRD Sector Policy Paper, June 1981), Annex 3,
pp. 64-65.
2/ For a discussion of the difficulties involved and of various models for
ex  ante estimation of the costs and benefits of agricultural research,
see G.E. Schuh & H. Tollini, Costs and Benefits of Agricultural Research:
The State of the Arts - World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 360, Oct. 1979.



-23-
Employment and Poverty Impact
77.     The project would have only a comparatively smaLl direct employment
impact, both during construction and during operation. Far more important
will be its indirect impact on employment and income generation throughout
rural India. Through the dissemination and adoption of improved agricultural
production and farm management techniques, the project will lead to increases
in on-farm productivity and farm output, thereby generating substantial
additional employment and income for farmers, their household members and
agricultural laborers on millions of farms of all sizes. About 80Z of
India's poor live in rural areas, most of whom are engaged in agriculture
either as small farmers or as hired labor. While the new farming tech-
nologies developed under the project are more likely to be adopted initially
by prosperous farmers, and thus indirectly benefit hired labor, the extensive
use of the T&V system of agricultural extension would ensure that these
benefits would also accure to small farmers as well.
Risks
78.     The most serious risk in any agricultural research project is the
possibility of research results being irrelevant to farmers' needs under
actual 3n-farm conditions. There is also the possibility that these results
may not be adequately transmitted to farmers and may therefore fail to gener-
ate benefits as early and as fully as desired, or that changes in economic
policy may render the adoption of technological advances uneconomic. To
counter these risks, the project provides for regional decentralization;
orientation of research toward clearly identified location-specific farmers'
needs, resources, and sk-lls; emphasis on location-specific research and on
field-testing and adaptation; and increased cooperation and communication
with extension staff and farmers for intensified feedback on research
results. The second potential cause of non-adoption and/or lagging adoption
of technological advances is already being effectively dealt with through the
Bank's support of improved agricultural extension services throughout India
and encouragement of intensive and regular cooperation between the State
extension services and agricultural research institutions. Where the T&V
extension system has been in full operation, it has proven highly effective
in spreading improved cultivation practices and technologies to farmers. The
risk of new technologies being rendered unsuitable to adoption by farmers due
to changes in economic policies would be addressed through improved research
management-mainly at the planning stages when economic policy objectives and
research goals and priorities are formulated, including a greater involvement
of economists in research planning, monitoring and evaluation.
79.     Implementation risks attributable to administrative and/or organiza-
tional changes are minimal. The basic reforms initiated under NARP I, which
the proposed project would further support and extend, have been strongly
supported by both the agricultural research community and administrators.
Budgetary support for agricultural research has been provided on an increas-
ing scale over the past two decades in recognition of the substantial
benefits that could accrue. Staffing problems have eased as increasing
numbers of university trained scientists become available every year, and
as improved service conditions and incentives for work at the SAUs and their
research stations have helped attract and retain scientists. The risk of
major delays and/or slippages in physical project implementation are minimal
because of the preparatory work that has been undertaken and the experience



-24-
gained under KARP I; the institutional framework and procedures for project
implementation are well established and problems encountered during the
initial phases of NARP I have been resolved. The decision to implement the
project over a seven-year period reflects greater realism concerning the
feasible pace of implementation.
State Government Funding
80.     Another potential risk is that of inadequate recurrent expenditure
funding for regional Research Stations by state governments after completion
of individual subprojects. In most states, this risk is considered minimal,
and state governments are fully funding subprojects completed under NARP I.
Moreover, adherence to the subproject sanctioning and fund release criteria
by ICAR would ensure that subprojects are implemented only if adequate con-
tinued state funding can be assured. To further minimize this risk, written
undertakings were be obtained that adequate O&M funding would be provided for
subprojects to be continued beyond five years (para. 70).
Dilution of Research Effort
81.     The risk that the establishment of 121 Regional Research Stations in
17 States with additional research capacity may lead to a dilution of the
overall agricultural research effort is being carefully monitored under NARP
I through a review of 'Status Reports' for each agroecological region.
Through an assessment of each zone's agronomic potential and constraints,
essential information on research priorities is expected to be provided as
the basis for improved research management, including efficient resource
allocation and utilization, within each state and each zone. ICAR's own
coordinating function for SAU's research efforts and its direct respon-
sibility for administering and funding national research schemes should help
to ensure that the available resources are appropriately directed to national
research objectives.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
82.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. i. Clausen
President
September 26, 1985



ANNEX 1
TAbLE S                                         Page 1 of 6
INDIA                 - *OCUL INDICATUR  DATA 
NDeIA                               _ENECE SOPM tWISTErD AVUkMS)
'8T                     CMUn (eIW oaro An) l
.  CINT           LOW l1CSE            tWOLZ ENCOOS
19 -b      197oLb zaTmATs: b       ASIA & 1PACInc        ASIA & PACIIC
mu  Tmasm   .M)
TOTAL                            32S7.I     3287.6     3297.6
AI;IlCIATlURL                    1763.5     V e0.s     1911.4                .
Gwnt CAPI  (N                         ..         ..        140.0             278.3                  1011.1
- mmmwnm a CwI
(CILOIU  OF aIL SQUVALNT)         79.0       113.0      138.0             285.7                  536.8
OA LS aim  STmn
POPUIATIUN.2SD.TZAR CTWOUSIIN) 434869.0   367569.0   733248.0
_MM  POPULATION CI Or TOTAL)      16.0        19.3       26.4              22.3                    33.9
POULATIO  ifJICONS
POPULATION IN lER 2000 (CILL)                         IV.
sTAflOsan FOPUIATION (MILL)                          1700.0
POPLTIN  -OMN                                           1.6
POPULATION OSm
PER go. la.                     132.2      166.6      223.0             173.8                   386.9
iR  50. @1 ARI. LA              266.6     3207.S3      95.8             253.3                  1591.2
POPUmAT=OS AGmSsT   R  (2.)
0-1 YIRS                        40.6       42.7       39.5             32.3                     35.2
15-66 MS                        34.4        54.1       36.5              59.4                    57.7
65 ASD AMO08                     6.6         3.0        3.9               4.3                     3.5
PancunoW Gcui mAM CZ)
TOTAL              I8                        2.3        2.2               2.0                     2.3
UR1S                             2.5         3.3        3.9               4.1                     4.1
cums 21m  mATs C M   iom)         47.7        4LS.       33.9              27.5                    30.1
QMMI DUAiI RATZ (CPE STUS)        23.9        17.9       12.5              10.2                     9.4
GRSS RUUUCTI  RAWE                 2.9        2.8         2.3               1.7                     1.9
FANXILI PLtJgWC
ACCTOS. A_ .L (Cr30S)            66.0     3782.0     68260 k .
sRI CZOP o AUCED V1EN)           ..         11.7       32.0              49.4                    56.5
INX or 8O0 PROD. PER CAPI
(1969-71-100)                     96.0       102.0      113.0             116.6                   126.4
Pa Cair SUPPLY o
CALR  IE    or ORSUIENS)        96.0        91.0       92.0             106.3                   115.7
PR-uum  (CRAS P  DT)            56.0       30.0        50.0             60.1                     60.3
wan  ANAL  D PULSEV             17.0       15.0       13.0 I            14.4                    14.1
-UILD (CAa2  1-4) mA  Rma         26.3        19.7       11.0               7.3                     7.2
LIVE MlCT. AT  IRT CEAS)          42.2        *7.3       54.9              60.5                    60.6
15AMr MM. RAT CPER TAOas)        165.0       139.0       93.0             69.2                     66.9
ACcQS TO SAM WATLS CPOP)
TOTAL                                       17.0       41.0 /c           44.2                    46.0
uR                                          60.0       77.0 lo         o 77.2                    37.6
AL                               ..          6.0       3LOA j            34.6                    37.1
AC5S TO S CCWrA DLSPOSAL
CZ o0 POPULATIO)
TOTAL                             ..        IS.0        6.0 /c            7.8                    50.1
URBAN                            ..          5.0       27.0 7            2s.B                    52.9
RAL                              ..          1.0        iO 7W             5.3                    44.7
POPPLATD PER PRSICA             6850.0     4890.0      3690.0 la        3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NUSDIN MESON           10980.0 If  7420.0     36o60.0           4690.7                  26668
PO. M HOSPTUL mm
TaL                            2180.0     1630.0     1290.0 4          1039.2                  1112.1
gSuam                            ..          .        370.0 jj          219.1                   651.4
RAL                              ..          ..     10610.0 A          6028.2                  2396.9
ASRISIONS PER RISPITAL NED         ..         ..          ..              32.3                     41.1
AVERACE SIZE OF wrusrOL
TOTAL                             5.2        5.6
guR                              5.2        5.6
DUAL                             5.2         5.6
AVERE 5. OF PERSONSIROOI
TOTAL                            2.6         2.8
URBA                             2.6         2.8
RURAL                            2.6         2.8
PERCT   OF DSELUICS  XTUH RLW.
TOM                               ..         ..
wmuAn                            ..          ...
aL                                ..         ......



ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                         Page 2 of 6
INDIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATODS DATA BNEET
INDIA                               RESJRENCE OUPS (tEGE  AVEAGES) /a
moST                    (MOST RCET ESTIATE) lb
C/b    T              LOW INCOM            MLE ITCy-a
1960k      19701- ZCiiSTDtA4T/b     ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 4 PACIFIC
ADJUSTE  KINOLLJUN  RATIOS
PRINARIa  TOTAL                  61.0        73.0       79.0 IC            92.6                    100.7
KLA                    80.0       90.0        93.0 7;;         105.5                     104.4
FrNJLE                 40.0       56.0        64.0 7;           79.3                     97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 20.0        26.0       30.0 Ic            31.3                     47.8
mILE                   30.0       36.0        39.0 7;           40.8                     5O.6
PUL                    10.0       15.0        2o.o 7T           21.9                      4.8
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)         2.8         1.0         ..                3.2                     16.4
PupnL-7EACMER PATIO
PRIAW                            46.0        41.0       54.0 /c            38.0                     30.4
SECONDA                          16.0        21.0         ..               17.4                     22.2
PASSENGER CAXS/TUSAD POP            0.6         1.1        1.4 /h             0.1                     10.1
RADIO RICEUVEERS/NOUSANID POP       4.9        21.5       55.S              129.8                    172.9
Ty RECEIVERSITMOUSAND PO            0.0         0.0        2.9               19.8                     58.5
NEWSPAPEI C"DAILY GENERAL
DINEEST") CIRCfLX`.ON
PER TEOUSAN  POPULATXOM           10.6        16.2       19.4 /h            25.7                     65.3
CWLA ANNWAL AITINDANCE/CAPITA       3.2         6.2        6.6                6.0                      3.4
LAM
TOML LAMMK fOZ (TUoS)           185951.0   219194.0   284251.0
PEZI (PERCNT)                    30.7        32.5       31.4               33.2                     33.6
AGRICULURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0       71.0 /c            69.6                     52.2
TnDSm (PERCET                    11.0        11.0       13.2 7ig           15.8                     17.9
TCIPATM   RATZ (PZRCENT)
TOTAL                            42.8        40.0       38.8               41.9                     38.9
RALZ                             57.0        52.4       51.7               53.6                     50.8
FENALE                           27.3        26.9       25.3               29.1                     26.8
E-OuOiiC DECY RATIO                 1.1         1.1        1.1                1.0                      1.1
l1CN Di2ln
PERCENT Ofp PMIATE INOI
RECEIVED By
HIGHE  ST 0 OF HOUSELDS          26.7        26.3 1.
HIGHEST 20Z OtP  USERODS         51.7        48.9 79     ..                 ..                      4.0
LME3ST 20S OF IOUSEODS            4.1         6.7 71     ..                 ..                       6.4
LOWEST 401 OP HOUSEHOLDS         13.6        17.2 7      ..                 ..                      15.5
-         D Z
ESTED  ASUTE POVER  INCONE
LEVEL CUS PER CAPIT
mRmA                              ..          ..       131.0 /h           133.2
RURAl                             --          *-       114.0 7ii          111.6                    151.9
-SINE UELATMV  PV             INCOME
LEVL (CUS PER CAPITA)
UUAN                              ..          ..          ..                ..                     177.9
..                                            ..         ..                61.7                    164.7
ESrIAMATD PO. BrLOW ABSOLUTE
PoVErT INCOME LmL (z)
IRYUM                             ..          ..        40.3 lb            43.8                     23.5
RURAL                             ..          ..        50.7 _Th           51.7                     37.8
rOT AVAILALZ
N.OT APPLICABLE
NOTES
/a  The group werage for each indiator are popalatioa-uelIbted arztmetlc meas. Co,ere of cont,i
amug the Indicators depends on awailahility of data and Is not uvifom.
/b  Dnless otborwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any yer betwen 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Kst  Recant  atinate" betwen  1981 aid 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1977; to 1978; If 1962; .a 1976; /b 1979; ft 1964-65.
JUN. 1985



ANNEX 1
DEF1NmONs OF SOCPL MMCAFORS                                   Page 3 of 6
Noek ANtbough te data are dmawn from sourcu gnrllyjudgd the most authoilatuive and retlab4e. It should alo be noted that they may not be inrnatally
comp2rable bemson or the lack of sandardlzd dellniions and concepts med by difeenm countrie In collcti the data. The data ar, nonethekls useul to
dercribe orders of magnitude indIcte trends. and chaactrie cetan majcr dlffrem  bween t countries
The referece g-oupa s ai () the me county group of the aubpcl county and (2) a coumiry goup with somewhat h     avrg  m thn tbe coury
roup orthe ubjiec cownt (eept ro rtHi  Income Oil Exporlm  group where Middle Ineome North Africa ad Middl East Isohsen bemu of sronger
sdodcultural aminiti). In the reerene grup data thr evera  are poputon wehgted arithmetic rean rore ch Indiagor and shw only whn majority
of iecountrks in.a group ha data ror that Indicator. Snce the covee ocountries among the indicaon depends on the availabity ofdata and Is not uniform.
caution must be ced in rdeting avags ofone indicalor to aother. The avemrs are only usefl in comparing the vaWlue of one Indicator at a time among
the country nd rerence groupL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                        Cruk JWt Rate (paw tiea_d)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface arca comprsng land are and inland wates   per thousan of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                                      Crdk Dtk Rate (per damand)-Number or deaths in the year
Agric4  mi-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or  pcr thousand of mnid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
pemnendy ror crops, pastures, market and kitchen ardens or to  Grass Rgpredoa Rae-Averge number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expi
present ag-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPrTA (USS)-GNP per capita cstimates at current      in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prics calculated by same conversion method as World    Fauy Pm wAt (ahmsads)-Annual num-
Ban A rho (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                         berof acceptorsof birth-control devices under auspices or national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning progam.
consumption of commnrcl pnmary energy (coal and lignite,      Fadly Plafi-Ls (p;dp   erct fJ-'ted mauJh-The percen-
petrokum, natura gas and hydro-. nucear and geothermal e*c-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are praicing any form of contrueption. Wonen
1982 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are generaly women aged 15-49. although for
soce counties contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSllCS                               groups.
TetalPrp.Itia, Mid-Year (Ithosadu)-As of July 1;1960. 1970,   FOODANDNUTRITION
and 1983 data.
IadexofFoodPradwcsi Per Capita (1969-71 - EM)--Index of per
L4*. PopeLai., (percee jr tw)-Ratio of urban to total         capita amual production of all food commodities Production
population. dfferent defintions of urban areas may affect compar-  cludes animal reed and seed for agricuture. Food commodiues
ability of data among counties; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    indude primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
'Palad  Prejeaims                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
opdlation i year 2000-Te projection of populabon for 2000.    excluded); they comprise ceeals, root rops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separtely. Starting with information on  vegetabes. fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livesock, and
total population by age and sex fertility rates, mortality rates and  livestock products Aggregate production of each country is based
international migation in the base year 1980 these parametes  on natonal average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genealized  1982 data.
assmwUptions until the population became stationary.          Per Caipt S fy efCalres (p{ee  afreqafreme-tso-Comput-
Sta,dnary poprqadc-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed overa long period, while age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertlity rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion isnports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nonnal activity
size was estimated on the basis or the projectd charactedstics of  and health cnsideing environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                    waste at household lel; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popudation Momenaun-ls the tendency for population growth to  Plr Capibt SWply of Pein (mper aly-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacemcnt-klvel fertiity hac been  percapitanetsupplyof foodperday. Netsupplyorfoodisdefined
achievecd that is, even after the net reproduction rate bas reached  as above. Requirments for al countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r, gven thc assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. TheSe standards.are lower than those of
nwett lvel from year r onward, 1985 data.                     75 grams of tota protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PJeLsk  DC                                                    averag for the workL proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              PAr Caia PhwewrapplyfeArrAmwud rProtein  supply
Per sokm agricsutura land-Computed as above for agricultural  of foodderived from animals and pulsesingramsperday; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Powpatim Age Structure (pervent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Ciid (ags i-) Death Rate (prw tahsaud)-Number of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) aspeentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year- For most developing countries data derived
Population Groh RAte (percentJ--toral--Annual growth rates of  from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Popaties Growtk Rate (percent)-arhan-Annual growth rates      Lie Expeutawy as Rirk (yeas)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 195060. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX 1
Page    of 6
a the dim  of of ta birth we  to sy the s    toughout its fr.  PyM.usahwr RCatio - primar, and reendap-Toal students e-
1960,1970 and 19U3 dat.                                       roiled in prmy   and secondazy lvels divided by numbers of
IqJt  Mart   Ra  (per ulaumd)-Number of infants who die        achers in the correponding veb.
before reaching an year of ag per thound live birhs in a given
year; 1960. 1910 and 1983 data.                               coreuwnoN
Acom  te Sf WSWr (purm   f p         u       f         d_    umie  Cm" (poershs.u.           utle.)- FI senger car ann-
NlL-Number of people (totaL urbn     rual) wth reonable       pre motor ca      ng les thani dit pasons; excludes ambul-
-0131 to sfe waSr muO   Incudes treae  s         wats or  u uae, hearses and nilitay vhiceL
unuretd but u      minsted water such a that from prolcted    lade Radom (pe lhhsadpW.ail.J-Al tp  of lmee
boreholes i sp    and sanity was)a petaesm P of ther trup     for radio brokadc  to ener pubic per thsd of population;
tive popadons. In an urban am a paW: fountain or standpost    exclud    un-licensed receve  in countie  and in years when
locaed not mor dta 2DD  eers fron a howe may be      -        registration of radio eu wa in deect; da  for recent yer may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural are  not be compabe ince most countie aboshed lici.
aonable ac wou  imply thathethousewifeormemlbersofthe                    (                   -FM           f
housdhold do not hbe to spend a dsproportonate pet of the day  TIgnealo (pu   r ts   p           tocueienforbrosdct
in feWiing the fwns %-&ter needs                             to geee public per tmiid pop;bi    emcludes unliened TV
in fetahing thC ~~~   ~                       receivers In coutries and in yemr when registration oTV set was
Am  to Exeta Dlspd (per s  afIDpek         )-lcon, anr.       in effetd.
aid mwl-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by
excre  dispsa as percentages of their respective populations.L                     (F ak)-Shows !e a
Excta dispol may indcude te coLection a     pos, wh           age dcirculawio  of 'dsily pneal interesl newspea   defind a a
without treatment, of hum   ecreta and wate-war by wter       periodl pubaon devoted pimaily to  crdig pnal news
borne syms or the use of pit prvis and sinstaio                is considered to be 'daif ifit ppears at leat four times a week
ftpl.leu per Phy_.-Pupation divided by number of pac-         Claur Av,a Auuda cer Caita per Ye-aBued on the
tiring physicia  qualfied from a medical school at umive.dty kwL  number of tick  sold during the yer. icluding admisons to
Aoulari per NoAw*  Pmrm-Population divided by number of       drive-in cnema and mobile units.
pratng male and female graduate nurs  assista,nt nuses,
practcl nures and nuning au ar Le                                     FOCE
PipAfmt.-m per Hpd 5.-W    w*= ad ,          1  P opultdon    Toea Labor AmFac ( rhsus)-Economically active person, in-
(totaL urban, and rur  divided by their respectie number of   dludig armed fores and unemployed but ecdimg huwives
hosptl beds avible in public and prvateageel and specislied   students. etce      g populat uon of all ags Defintws i
hospitals and rehabilitation center  Hospitals re  ist m      varous antre  not comparabl; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently stffed by at Iat one physicia  Esblishments prey-  F_ (jer)-Femae  l bor force as percentage of total labor
iding princpay custodl  care are not incuded. Rura hospia,    force.
however, inclde halth and inuical cente not permaently saffed  Aprkwe (poca)-Labor force in armi   fostry, hutig
by a physician bu by a mcdial asstnt, nure midwife, cet)      and fishing a percentage of toWal ab  forcc; 1960. 1970 and 1980
whic offer m-paent accommodatn and provide a imited range     data.
of medical Iholtitie                                         radssity (percaut-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Adxuiois pfr HM epitl 8cf-Total number of admissions to or    fcuring and electricity, water and gas as perentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds       force; 1960, 1970 and 1930 data.
Pwd*oiu  Ate (perewaU-raeai de,  _faoe-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or acovity rat are computed as total, male, and fema labor force
Aerg SMz of HewshM (pers pr p .usehld)-md, urma_              as pecentage of total, male and female population of al ages
and rurol-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respctived. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are basd on ILO's
Eving qurs and their main meaL A boarder or lodger may or     prates relecting age-s  strctbe of the popatn, and
may not be included in the household for statisical purpos.   long time trend. A few estmates are from national sources
Avere Nkuwr of Peos pe Rem-o.isI u ,sad rural-                Ecaumnde Depe_dewy Rasio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 1S-64).
occupied conventional dwdllings. respectivdy. Dweig exclude
non-permanent strnures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIDUTION
Prcenae of Dwlis wt Eketr,id*y-14o  urban, asd rura-          Pecra  of Todal Dreuu   A         (awk in cash  aind)-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in lving quarters as percen-  Accruing to perentile groups of households mrnked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respedively.        hold incom.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARtGEr GROUIPS
A4usWed Efrabiet Anes                                         The rfolowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
PFima, schol - towl, male and f     tmfe-Gross total, male and  kvekl and should be interpreted with considerable cauton.
female enro!lment of aD ages at the primary levd as pecentas of  Estimad Abs t PhberO' cme La! (lSSpier capi)-urbax
rspctive pnmary school-ae populaons. While many countries       d rra-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income klvel
conside primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below whiCh a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnes in country practies in the age5 and duration of school  n:n-food requirements is not affordable
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countris with uniersal  Euiau Rd e   Jorty farm  Level (USS per capkta) -wrm
education, gross enrolment may ceed 100 perit si  some          d FrIL-Rural relative poverty incom  kvel is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the country's standard pinmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban lvel is
age                                                           derived from the rural lvd with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconday school - total. mak and fJaae-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
scondary education rquires at least rour years of approved pri-  Em,ae Popuatn Edow Absolite A0erty luce  Leel (pe-
mary instucon prvides generaL vocationaaL or teacher training  c or        and r - Pacent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc; correspond-  who are absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatonal Fironi (percert of sc Wy)-Vocational institu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial. or other progams which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of sndary insitutions.                                June 1985



Pse 5 of 6
ESCEIC DIWULPIU   DATA
CwP PS CAL.rrA DN 1W3-M$260 
CGOSB DOMUC 7FROMC= IN 1983/64 bi                                        ANNAL HA7E OP CRDmi CZ. Cntant Pries) e/
55/6-59/60  60/61-8465  65/6649/70  70/71-74175  7/$76-79/80 30o81-8283
B5i Un.    2
GUP at Market Prie.m            189.81    100.0                  3.7         3.6         3.7         2.9         4.1         5.1
Cros Domatic laveutment          45.94     24.0
Cro" Matinal Saving              43.17     22.7
Current Accut Ralane            -2.17      -1.5
OuTPuT. lAsO roZ ABED naoucvmn 'Ll 1931
Valu added (at factor cost)      Labor Fore s     V.A. Pr Worker
US$ BSl.              X           il-.     S      US   X of National Averse
Mriculture                       52.5                 35.9       172.7    70.6    304        51
rodustry                        34.5                 23.6         31.6    12.9   1092       103
Services                         59.2                40.5         40.3    16.5   1469       246
Total/Average                   146.2                100.0       NETr   100.0    596        ThE
Cosmizsr tNANCE
Cnrsl C rnnt e                                  Central doarer   t
Re. DIn.           I of CDP                 Hs. Bin.          I of CDP
1983/66     1983/84  1979/30 -191384        1983184    1963/84    197901983784
Current Receipts                378.54        19.3          19.5            201.67       10.3            10.3
Current Expenditure.            397.12        20.3          19.4            225.42       11.5            10.9
Curret Sorplu_lDficit           -13.58        -1.0           0.1            -23.75       -1.2           -0.6
Capital Expedtures ft           149.66         7.7           8.0            114.12        5.8            5.8
Exteal Assistance Coat) d/       19.16         1.0           1.1
USNZ. CUSIr AND PICS            1970/71 1975/76 197Z179 19790  1990/81  2El91/2 1982/83 1983/3  Juary 193  Januar" 1985
CHa Billie outstanding at nd of period)
-ony end Qu1i  ney              109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9         835.1        993.9
Rek Cdit to Co_ant Cnet)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.6   407.7               403.1        483.9
ank Credit to Comrcial Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7           55.5         685.0
(Psrcsntag  or Indez umbers)                      Anril-Jen 83/34   April-Jan 84/U5
:'ney end quasi tney a a I
of CUP                         27.3     30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    M.0
*ol eese Prie Index
01970/72 - 100)               100.0    173.0   185.9   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2        313.6            336.7
Amns Percenta  cragee In:
Umolesi  Price Index              7.7     -1.1      -      17.1    18.2      9.4      2.6     9.2        9.2             7.4
Rek Credit to Coverant (not)   15.0       22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3         16.9 jt          23.2 h/
Beek Credit to Comrcial Sector  19.4      22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    13.7         13.S g           15.6 hA
a/  Us per oaita GNP estiate is at arket price. using  orld Rek Atler thaodoloy. ba perod 1981-43.
All other convesion  to dollar2i  this tahbl are at the average sxhag rats prevailing during the period cover"d.
bh  Qudik zstites. Central Statistical Orso tion.
Cputed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series. ilqding on- obsrvation befd*e first year and me obsrvation after
last year of listed period.
dI Wrld Reek estimtes of net diabnwseeft of concesional add ad 1DRe.
g  Tranfers betse  Centre and States bee boee netted out.
AU loans an edvanes to third peiss have be1 netted out.
g/ Prctse chn  from ed-Mrch 1983 to  -Ja_.84.
h  Percene changs fr   end-Mar 1984 to end-JA.85.
i  Total Labor Force and percetes breakdown from 1981 Censu.  Excludes data for Assun.



i tof 6
?11ELef.1sPARnIIT1Hh                            1 116I/N ,1 eCIWNDUU                                   1 _XPORTsLA    1960/U1-1"3/4) gl
Rports of Cowot a/                     3.519      *,290       6,353       6,724       Ragierng GOOd"                 1115      13
Reports of Cood It                   -15.301    -14.290    -14,040    -14,301         TeR                             49        6
Trade Delaice                        - 6,782   - *,000      - 5,63      - 53777       COs                            1009      12
Ws (nt)                                1.002        935         94        l.a         Clothg                          6U3       a
leather ad Leather Producte    342        4
Resource  sles.                      - 5,780    - 3.065    - 4.737      - 4,673       Jut Nenutresfc                  269       3
Ira Ore                         400       3
Intrest Inces (ue) I                     330   -   302    -  66         -  735       CIot TOeles                      316       4
Net Tranaferm  /                       2,317      2.504       2.U0        2.930      =ugr                             106       1
balace on Curret Account             - 3.113   - 2.363      - 2.521     - 2.533       O
Direct I"a     t                          10         65          62          61
Total                          11417    100
Offical Loans 4 Crate (ut3             1.681      1.901       1.961       1,944
Groes Disbuar ts                       2,269      2.313       2,373       2.3         SisaL DUFT. NMAR  31. 19U4
Aortizaln                                583        612         617        61
DESS hilling
Private (orrowi Ct)                      233        366         52           4                                              U4
Outetanding OA  Digreed                  21.5
Mon-leetdet Deosits                      260        573         903         6m        oedlaured                                10.4
Traneactis .vwth Dl (net)                 90      1.960       1,295          70       Outstandin  includin  Ondisuaraed        31.9
A11 other It   3/                    - 2,264    - 1,522     - 1,347      I- 683
lacrese in llserves                    2.398   -   504      -    2 a      - 303       DST  SI  RATIOU  19"3/N4  l 3           13.6 per cet
Ctoss Remerve (end year),/             4.46U1     4.965       3.,47       6.150
Net Reserves (ed yer) Mr               3.497      2.039       1,697       2.250
ahol end Ralated Materlial.                                                      IRDtD   UDIDG.  1           31. 19635 /
hl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W bfllinnd lt iz
Report. Cletrolem) gl                  5,553      4.614       2,9U3       3.026                                           ltID      IDI
of ikeb: Crude                       3.921      3.139       2.183       1,023
Products                   1.632      1.475         am        2,010      tOutAdig ed Diahuned                 2.158    8.902
Dodisbhred                          4.326    3,748
Outstanding includin  Undihurd    6.484   12,650
Ju  1966 to  i&-Dcher 19          :  I1651.00 - Is 7.50
Is LW  -   80.13333
id-DlAcsr l971 to _d-Jume 1972:  1331.00 - Is 7.2727
Is 1.00 - 1U00.137376
After end-Jun  1972               :  7lating  ea
Spot R      dAte end-rwch 1934   :   =1331.00 - Is 10.721
Is 1.00 - 11330.0933
Spot Rate ad-trk 196 IN          :  11.00 - Is 12.3457
Na 1.00 -  m0.0n10
jZetinsed
greagven coewr all iave t _imue b_wt). Major aymtA ar Interet - faoeian les aod chsrpd to 3I1F,
ad uqor receipta IS Internet eaned on fLard. asets.
:Jie  gin include vare' reittaces but exclode officia  Pat  sasistnc  uhich Is included witin  official lam
ad rats. ed n-residet daests ehbir.k -   shout searately.  -
"I trlude nt Me of i    credit.
_   imrtint   ad Interet paDeas - foreig  loe_s - a prcentep of totel curet receipt.
i   Includs exch    rat edjutms to the valuo1ti  of reerve  ad finencin  of Imalances in  upe  trede.
pt Exludin  mold.
at Net of petrale st  ports



AMEN 1I
Page 1 of 4
TIE STATUS OF BMMK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATE1ENT OF  AN  LOWAS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31. 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Pur wse                         Bank        IDA jj      Undisburited ;J
52 Loans/                                             2,379.0          -
96 Credits fully disbursed                                 -       5,589.2
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0           6.06
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development        -           18.0           0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0          -             3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0           8.05
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0           1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Exteniion & Research               -           12.0           6.34
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             1.90
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage             -          107.0          32.50
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0           4.85
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0          -             1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third KorbaTrombay Thermal Pover          105.0         -             0.02
788-IN    1978     Karuataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Pover                   -          200.0          23.31
806-IN    1978     Jamma-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0           9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0           2.29
1592-IN    1978      Telecoamunications VII             120.0          -             7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -          150.0          27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         119.03
844-IN    1979     Railvay Modernization
& Naintenance                      -          190.0          14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           0.40
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0           0.18
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0           0.06
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Pover             50.0          -            45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0          26.82
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0           0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0           3.25
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0           2.70
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0          14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -           46.0          23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          16.81
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0          84.89
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -           22.0          14.74
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0         124.04



Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Apuroval -     Purpose                        Bank         IDA jj     Undisbursed 2/
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -           10.0          6.28
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -           56.0         15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -           54.0         24.87
1046-Il   1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0         44.81
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   99.2         -             3.96
1053-IN   1980      Farakka Thermal Power                -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -            18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0           9.75
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -           83.0         35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -          140.0         74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecommuications VIII               -         314.0          71.66
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -          54.0          33.13
1125-IN    1981     REazira Fertilizer Project           -         399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Naharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -          28.0          14.27
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0          23-98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0         62.87
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -         400.0         243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -         220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -          25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                          150.0         -            44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundnm Thermal Power II        300.0         -           264.07
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -            6.0           4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           248.98
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -          72.0          57.11
1286-IN    1983     Jamm_/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0         22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Nadhya Pradesh               -           -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0         17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0        101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5         -           121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0        167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -          197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II             -         101.0          87.73
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -         170.0         142.99
2178-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -           156.01



Page 3 of 4
Us$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Aunroval       Puruose                        Sank         IDY        Undisbursed O
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -         147.0         128.60
1383-IN    1983     Nahareuhtra Water Utilization        -          32.0          24.45
2308-IN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization       22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Pover Transmission         250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Nanaganent      46.2         -            45.82
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1         -            23.80
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -         105.0          76.24
1424-IN    1984     Nainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -          31.0          29.14
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -          70.0          65.63
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -          27.0          21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0         -           247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0         -           150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5         -           241.90
2415-IN    1984     Nadhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6         -           200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation               -         125.0         116.47
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation            -         172.0         145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*          280.7         -           280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Pover*          300.8         -           300.80
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4         -           157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarowar Hydroelectric*        -         129.8         129.80
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Pover*      135.4         -           135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -          36.5          34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -          36.5          34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -          17.5          16.46
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -          17.5          16.46
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III       -          220.0        205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry               -          31.8          30.33
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I*         -          39.1          39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*            -         138.0         138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1.269.9       194.f
Total now outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total nov held by Bank and IDA I/       5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,575.90    3,333.48
jf IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
SJ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cmulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
if Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



Page 4 of 4
D.  STATNEMEN  OF IFC INMVSTMJETS
(As of Narch 31, 1985)
Anount CU-SS  illion)
Fiscal
lCowvany                    Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.B.3. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra lgine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Laksbhi Nachine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jaysbree Chemicals Ltd.               11        0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Pinance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coramandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Nahindra, Nahindra Limited           15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5        -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      3.5         -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          8.9       0.8       9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      20.5        -      20.5
1985            Nodi Cement                          12.0        -       12.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS       251.9       12.9    264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1       6.2    145.3
Now Held                   112.8        6.7    119.5
Undisbursed                 72.8        0.8     73.6
-            m      _--



ANNEX III
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Seven months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date of
first mission to consider the project
September 13, 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 22, 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
September 3, 1985
(f) Planned date of effecti-eness
February 20, 1986
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) The first four research subproject proposals prepared by
SAUs in project year one would be made avaiLable to IDA
for review and comment prior to their appraisal by P.U.
(para. 63);
(b) A mid-term review of the project would be undertaKen
jointly by GOI, ICAR and IDA within the first quarter
after completion of the third year of the project
(para. 66).



ANNEX IV
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD /a
(US$ Million)
Project Element                ICB      LCB       N.A.        Total Cost
Civil Works                     -      37.88        -            37.88
(24.62)                  (24.62)
Equipment and Vehicles          -      19.66        -            19.66
(12.75)                  (12.75)
Incremental Staff and           -        -        53.39          53.39
Operating Costs                         _      (34.73)        (34.73)
57.54     53.39         110.93
(37.37)   (34.73)        (72.10)
,'a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Credit.



a'.
._/                                                  ,<vtEHI!t\.    HIN
PAKISTAN  INEALL=~.BH TA
P A K I S Tf"O,l A NA8 t t 
.~~~~~~~~~~~ EX  L I -.
<  XN   ~~~~ -    #;aO&v/~~~BHUTAN
RAJA   H AN-'                   P     E                _
a/  tV tf ItxJ v@k lX VI            E
GT V[II                               X                          IX?      - IV 1 GANGLADESH
=~~~I                                I XR>   VtX)
v                             ~~~~~~~~~~~A \
r \ C MAHARTRA  EIIISE IRCH:-R-JH-TI
-~~~ ~~~~~~~                 AGOWLGCItZN X  EUNDAR'IE, 
\ X\ \<  SV  \    9 t -  ;S N:A1IQNALFlfNN   R CA--I--L
) > tVX g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .: -,-...
AND   ~         TTEADUIN ERTR bUDRE
Arabian Sea                     TA  IL - -         INTERNATIONALEDARI SH
XV  TIIEA -R-EGOECOLOG      LCAL ZONES IN.l
-A -OE  TER MB RS-
fgmbpI ' '- ! NAL
760~~~~~~~~~~~0






