CREDIT WUMBER 1631 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Research Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMER 1631 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           U 61              , 1986, between
INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Indian Council
of Agricultural Research (hereinafter referred to as ICAR) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
'Borrower will make available to ICAR the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and ICAR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ICAR of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subproject" means a project for which a grant is made
or proposed to be made under the Project;
(c) "State" means a concerned State of India where a
Subproject is being implemented;
(d) "SAU" means a state agricultural university pursuant to
the relevant laws of a State;
(e) "PFC" means the Project Funding Committee maintained by
ICAR;
(f) "PU" means the Project Unit maintained by ICAR;
(g) "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by
ICAR to a SAU for the purpose of financing a Subproject out of
the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
ICAR by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
and
(h) "Rupees" or "Rs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty-nine million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 69,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1996 and ending
July 15, 2035. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on July 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-4-
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause ICAR to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
ICAR therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ICAR to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall, in accordance with the Borrower's
normal arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India and the Borrower's agencies, make the proceeds of the
Credit available to ICAR on a grant basis to carry out the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by ICAR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) ICAR shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ICAR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ICAR or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and ICAR; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by ICAR , and is legally
binding upon ICAR in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                         Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) SAU Subprojects
(a) Civil works           22,000,000       65%
(b) Equipment and         12,260,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                               expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory) and
61% of items
procured locally
(c) Incremental           23,490,000       65%
staff costs
(d)  Incremental           7,160,000       65%
operating
costs
(2) ICAR Administration
(a) Equipment and             39,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                               expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory) and
61% of items
procured locally


﻿-9 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) Staff costs              675,000       65%
(c) Operating costs          440,000      65%
(3) Unallocated                 3,536,000
TOTAL                69,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "Incremental Staff Costs" means salaries and
allowances of incremental staff who occupy positions which shall
have been sanctioned for carrying out the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 1,880,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after September 30, 1985.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen regional
research by financing approved research Subprojects at SAU's in
the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Completion of about 90 on-going Subprojects.
Part B:   New Subprojects on agricultural research to cater to
the priority needs of each agroecological zone.
Part C:   Special Subprojects on individual research activities
on priority topics emerg.ng or identified during
Project implementation and not covered under Part B
above.
Part D:   Supplementary   Subprojects   as   required   in   each
agroecological zone.
Part E:   Subprojects    for     strengthening    of     research
administration of two SAU's.
Part F:   Subprojects for strengthening PU of ICAR and training
of research scientists.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1992.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   - 5  -   day of      ..
198 (.
FOR SECRETARY


