RESTRICTED
CIRCULATING COPY             Report No.   P-1081
To BE REURNED TO REPORTS DESK
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ELEKTROPRENOS-ELEKTROPRIVREDNO PREDUZECE ZA PRENOS
ELEKTRICNE ENERGIJE-SARAJEVO
and
HIDROELEKTRANE NA TREBISNJICI-PREDUZECE ZA PROIZVODNJU I PRENOS
ELEKTRICNE ENERGIJE-TREBINJE
and
"ELEKTROPRIVREDA" - ZDRUZENO PODUZECE ELEKTROPRIVREDNIH ORGANIZACIJA
RIJEKA
and
"ELEKTROPRENOS"-SPLIT-ORGANIZACIJA ZA PRENOS ELEKTRICNE ENERGIJE U
SASTAVU ZDRUZENOG PODUZECA "ELEKTROPRIVREDA DALMACIJE`-SPLIT
and
"ELEKTROPRIVREDA"-ZAGREB-PODUZECE ZA PROIZVODNJU, PRIJENOS I KUPOPRODAJU
ELEKTRICNE I TOPLINSKE ENERGIJE-ZAGREB
and
"ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO"-PRETPRIJATLJE ZA PROIZVODSTVO I PRENESUVANJE NA
ELEKTRICNA ENERGIJA-SKOPJE
and
"ELEKTROCRNAGORA"-PREDUZECE ZA PRENOS ELEKTRICNE ENERGIJE I IZGRADNJU
ELEKTROPRIVREDNIH OBJEKATA-TITOGRAD
and
"ELEKTROISTOK"-ORGANIZACIJA ZA PRENOS ELEKTRICNE ENERGIJE U SASTAVU
ZDRUZENOG ELEKTROPRIVREDNOG PREDUZECA SRBIJE-BEOGRAD
and
SAVSKE ELEKTRARNE LJUBLJANA-ORGANIZACIJA V SESTAVU ZDRUZENEGA
ELEKTROGOSPODARSKEGA PODJETJA SLOVENIJE-MARIBOR
and
DRAVSKE ELEKTRARNE MARIBOR-ORGANIZACIJA V SESTAVU ZDRUZENEGA
ELEKTROGOSPODARSKEGA PODJETJA SLOVENIJE-MARIBOR
and
SOSKE ELEKTRARNE NOVA GORICA-ORGANIZACIJA V SESTAVU ZDRUZENEGA
ELEKTROGOSPODARSKEGA PODJETJA SLOVENUE-MARIBOR
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
June 1, 1972



CW.RXNCY EQUIVALENT
I US dollar = 17.0 dinars
1 Dinar        5.88 US cents



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
ELEVEN YUGOSIAV ELECTRIC POWER ENTERPRISES
WITH THE GUARANTEE CF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A Pa4ER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the electric power enterprises in Sarajevo, Trebinje, Rijeka, Split, Zagreb,
Skopje, Titograd, Belgrade, Ljubljana, Maribor and Nova Gorica (the Borrowers),
with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the
equivalent of US $75 million to help finance a project for power transmission.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 7¼ percent per annum. In addition to the Bank and the eleven
power enterprises, the loan agreement would be signed by the Union of Yugoslav
Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) as the project coordinator and as the channel
for disbursement and repayment of the loan.
PART I - THE ECONONY
2.   An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in October/November 1971, and its
report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Yugoslavia" (EMA-48a)
dated May 26, 1972, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Basic
data on the economy of Yugoslavia are given in Annex II.
3.   Yugoslavia has had rapid growth and rising living standards during the
lastdecade, with total GDP at constant prices having increased at about 5½
percent per year and per capita .GDP at over 4 percent per year. Economic
growth has proceeded in an environment of major institutional and organiza-
tional changes, characterized by the decentralizing of eoonomic management,
the creation of a market economy, and the opening up of the economy to
international trade, with the object of increasing economic efficiency and
improving the allocation of resources.
4.   The population growth rate has averaged 1.0 percent per year during the
last decade, with the growth rate in the less-developed republics being 1.6
percent and in the developed republics 0.7 percent. There is little open
unemployment. There is, however, some evidence of growing regional and
occupational imbalances of labor demand and supply. This results from the
low mobility between labor surplus less-developed regions and labor-scarce
developed regions, and a discrepancy between the skills needed in a fast-
changing eccnomy and those supplied by the current education system.
5.   Economic development in the less-developed regions has increased at about
the same rate as that of the more developed regions, but their per capita
income has increased more slowly because of higher population .growth.
Consequently, regional inequalities have widened. Yugoslavia has had an
active regional development policy for more than two decades. The policy



aims at reducing regional inequality by achieving a growth rate above the
national average in the less-developed regions, financed by a transfer of
resources mainly through the Fund for the Accelerated Development of
Underdeveloped Regions. In addition, Federal budgetary grants are provided
to the less-developed republics for current expenditure for social purposes
such as health and education.
Recent Developments
6.   Economic development since 1968 has been characterized by a relatively
rapid increase in exports and production (averaging 12 and 8 percent per year,
respectively, during 1969-1971), the emergence ox serious inflationary
pressures and substantial balance of payments deficits. The trade deficit
increased from $660 million in 1969 to $1.2 billion in 1970 and about $1.4
billion in 1971. This was mitigated by the sharp rise in workers' remittances
($630 million in 1971) and growing surpluses in the balance of services. The
current account balance of payments deficit was $108 million in 1969, $3140
million in 1970 and about $320 million in 1971. The deficits reflect the
simultaneous existence of rapid growth, domestic inflationary pressure and
import liberalization.
7.   To counter the rising inflationary pressures and improve the external
payments position, the Government since 1970 has adopted measures aimed at
restricting monetary expansion, limiting public expenditures, strengthening
price controls and developing an incomes policy. In addition, the Government
has resorted to a more flexible exchange rate policy in order to neutralize
the effect of inflationary pressure on the balance of payments. After a long
period of unchanged rates, following a major devaluation in 1965, the dinar
was devalued by 16.6 percent in January 1971. In the course of the inter-
national currency realignment in December 1971, Yugoslavia devalued again by
18.8 percent against gold and by 11.8 percent against the dollar.
8.   The effects of the policy measures undertaken became evident in the
second half of 1971, when import growth declined, export growth picked up and
the investment boom began to slow down. These trends were even more pronounced
on the first quarter of 1972 when exports rose significantly above, and imports
fell below, the levels of the first quarter of 1971. Foreign exchange reserves,
which were equivalent to about one month's imports in 1970 and 1971, have
increased, and at the end of April were equivalent to nearly two months'
imports.
Prospects
9. Real GDP is expected to grow by about 5 percent in 1972 (compared with
8 percent in 1971) reflecting Government policies to slow down the expansion
of investment and consumption. The reduction of excess aggregate demand,
together with the recent devaluation and the imposition of restrictions on
the import of luxury consumer goods, is expected to lead to export growth of
about 12 percent and import growth of about 6 percent in 1972. Consequently,
the balance of payments deficit is likely to be significantly lower than in
1970 and 1971. Inflationary pressures are expected to be reduced by a
continuation of price controls and restrictive demand management.



- 3-
10. The 1971-1975 Social Plan, which has yet to be approved by the Republics
and the Federation, aims at an overall growth rate of 7.5 percent per year
wlth gross investments growing at the sane rate as production, and private
consumption and government expenditure somewhat slower - 7 percent and 6.5
percent per year, respectively. Exports are projected to grow at about
11-13 percent per year and imports at some 9-11 percent. The Plan stresses
the importance of achieving domestic stabilization, improving resource
allocation and increasing productive efficiency in attaining these targets.
It also stresses that an increase in the production of power and the
expansion of the transmission network system are preconditions for attaining
the plan targets. Domestic savings rates are expected to be maintained at
present levels - around 22-24. percent of GDP, and would finance about 80
percent of gross investment. The bulk of the projected external resource
gap would be met by rising factor income receipts (workers' remittances).
11. The prospects for continued economic growth in the medium term are good.
The endowment of natural and human resources, together with the pragmatic
and dynamic approach to the solution of economic difficulties, the readiness
to consider and undertake necessary institutional changes, and the strong
commitment to an open market-oriented enonomy give ground for a favorable
assessment of future prospects.
External Assistance
12. Gross capital inflows have almost doubled in the last five years
reaching US $636 million in 1970, and an estimated US $715 million in 1971.
Most of these funds were medium-term commercial credits, reflecting the
limited assistance coming from governments, and the liberalization of foreign
trade and borrowing regulations following the 1965 Economic Reform. The
inflow of suppliers' and financial credits has come largely from the United
States, Germany, Switzerland, Italy and the United Kingdom. IBRD loans have
been the main source of long-term capital since 1968. Yugoslavia has, so
far, not been able to issue bonds in the world's capital markets. However,
a private placement (medium-term) of US $100 million has been made in 1972
and other possibilities for raising long-term funds are being explored.
13. The Government has tried to encourage private foreign investment
through special legislation in 1967. Response of foreign investors has so
far been relatively disappointing: by November 1971, 38 joint venture
agreements had been signed between local and foreign enterprises, involving
an investment of about US $90 million. The conditions for foreign partners
in joint ventures with Yugoslav enterprises have recently been further
improved in an effort to encourage foreign investment.
External Debt Management
14. The pattern of capital inflow since the mid-1960's led to a deterioration
in the maturity structure of external debt. The Government, aware of the
dangers in the unregulated growth of external debt, has embarked on an active
debt management policy. Since mid-1971 all foreign credits have to be



registered with the National Bank to ensure that contracted credits remain
within the ceilings determined by the Federal Government and the National Bank,
and that the terms of borrowing are appropriate to the transaction and to the
general economic situation. Following the Standby Agreement with the IMF in
July 1971, the Government decided to limit outstanding short-term credits to
1970 levels, and medium- and long-term loans incurred or guaranteed by the banks
to US $900 million, and has kept borrowing within these limits.  In April 1972,
a new system for regulating external borrowing was adopted which operates by
influencing the cost of external borrowing through varying dinar deposit
requirements. The Government has also approached a number of countries to,
reschedule or refinance existing debts and to extend longer term credits.
The United States has agreed to reschedule US $58.5 million of debt payments
falling due in 1971 and 1972, and Italy, Germany and France have agreed to
extend financial credits of US $75 million, US $93 million and US $18 million,
respectively. Active bilateral negotiations for similar credits are proceeding
with other countries.
15. External public and publicly-guaranteed debt outstanding and disbursed
on December 31, 1970, was US $1,208 million. In addition, there was US $863
million non-publicly guaranteed external debt outstanding on that date. Total
debt service payments in 1971 are estimated to be about US $575 million,
mostly in convertible currencies. The service of external debt in 1971
represented 18 percent of foreign earnings. Excluding debts and earnings
in non-convertible currencies, the ratio becomes 25 percent. Debt service
is expected to remain at about present levels durlng the next five years.
Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the new measures
for improved external debt management, Yugoslavia is judged creditworthy for
continued Bank lending.
Local Currency Financing
16. High priority projects in Yugoslavia, especially those designed to improve
infrastructure and accelerate development in the less-developed regions, have
relatively low foreign exchange components due to the relatively advanced stage
of Yugoslav industry and the increasing competitiveness of Yugoslav contractors.
Were the Bank to confine its lending to the foreign exchange costs of projects,
an adequate contribution to Yugoslavia's external capital needs could be made
only by spreading the lending over a large number of projects, including some
of lesser priority. The latter alternative would make excessive demands on
Bank manpower and restrict the Bank's ability to provide support for specific
structural reforms. Local expenditure financing is therefore justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
17. The Bank has made twenty loans to Yugoslavia totalling US $585.7 million.
Two previous loans (277-YU in 1961 and 318-YU in 1962) were for power projects,
three others for p4jects with a power component. The most recent of the latter
was the Ibar Multipurpose Water Project (777-YU) in FY 71. Otherwise, Bank
lending has been concentrated in transportation (five highway loans totalling



- 5 -
US $150 million and three railway loans totalling US $115 million), tele-
communications (us $40 million), industry (three loans totalling US $45:Million)
and tourism (two loans totalling US $30 million). IFC has made four investments
for total commitments of US $31.4 million in Yugoslavia. Its most recent
investment (US $12.6 million) in the FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler Banz joint
venture for the production of heavy commercial vehicles was approved by the
Executive Directors in February 1972.
18. Progress under most loans has been satisfactory, except for the Railway
Modernization Program of FY65 (Loan 395-YU) and lengthy delays in making
effective the four loans approved in June 1971 (751, 752, 777 and 782-YU).
Annex I contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1972, and notes on the execution of on-going projects with
particular reference to those which are encountering problems in execution
and giving rise to delays in disbursement.
19. The major objectives of Bank lending to Yugoslavia are (a) to accelerate
development in the less-developed regions of the country; (b) to promote
structural reforms in major sectors of the economy through improved coordination
the strengthening of institutions and technical assistance; and (c) to help
provide Yugoslavia with external capital at long term and thus help redress the
excessively short term character of Yugoslavia's external borrowings; (d) to
help alleviate Yugoslavials shortage of foreign exchange by financing foreign
exchange earning projects. These objectives are basically the same as those
which guided lending in previous years. The recent constitutional changes,
and the consequential changes in Yugoslavia's economic system, have confirmed
their validity. However, efforts to give special support to the less-developed
regions will be strengthened, and a continuing high level of technical
assistance will be provided in appropriate cases. Given these objectives, the
emphasis in future Bank lending will be on infrastructure projects which, due
to the changes in the economic system, now seem to have less access to internal
and external capital than other sectors of the economy.
20. In furtherance of these objectives, further support for railway
modernization (see Annex I) and loans for the expansion of the port of Bar,
highways, a water and sewerage (tourism infrastructure) project in Dubrovnik
and a gas pipeline project are envisaged within the next two years. Lending
in this period is also planned to include loans for an agro-industry project
in Macedonia, a development finance company-type operation and one or two
specific industrial projects of particular importanr.e for the country as a
whole. A tourism project in Jaz (Montenegro) is also being prepared for Bank
lending. All these projects would fit well into the Bank's lending objectives,
and would, particularly, increase the share of lending going to the less-
developed regions. Several projects have been in preparation for some time and
are expected to be appraised within the next few months, others are still in
an early stage or preparation. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities in various sectors, including vehicle tire production.
21. In addition to significant help with the preparation of projects for Bank
financing, the Bankts recent technical assistance to Yugoslavia has included
reviews of the power and transportation sectors. A tourism sector mission is



- 6 -
now in the field. Other current activities include assistance in establishing
a project appraisal training institution and the training of some of its
teachers, a study of the Yugoslav capital market, and training of auditors
in Yugoslavials Social Accounting Service which audits several Bank-financed
projects.
22. Bank lending to Yugoslavia has averaged almost t1; $100 million annually
in the past two years. Although this represents only a relatively small
proportion of the country's needs for external finance, it is about two thirds
of the long-term capital inflow. It is expected that Bank lending will
continue at about the same level in the next few years. On this assumption,
the outstanding debt to the Bank mould rise from 11 percent of Yugoslavia's
total external debt in 1970 to 16 percent by 1977. Service on Bark loans as
a proportion of total debt service would increase from 4 percent to 6 percent.
PART III - THE ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
23. The Yugoslav power systems have developed mainly on a regional basis as
a result of political, geographical and technical considerations. Hydroelectric
plants were sLted in the valleys close to the nearest industrial centers. Thermal
plants were located next to the lignite mines which predominate in the central
part of the country, to supply nearby industrial centers. There are abundant
resources of lignite and o-f 1JVdroelectricity which have not yet been exploited.
24. Demand for power is projected to increase from 25,370 GWh in 1970 to about
43,860 GWh in 1975. Domestic consumption has been increasing at the rate of
18 percent for some years and, by 1970, 83 percent of all cities, towns and
villages had electricity. With the capacities and outputs of plant now in use
or under construction the projected demand will not be met for some years; a
deficit of about 1,500 GWh, 4 percent of energy demand, is likely by 1975. If
all industrial plants now in the planning stage were to be completed by 1975,
the deficit would be approximately three-and-a-half times this much, but it is
unlikely that all will be completed by 1975.
25. There are also substantial regional imbalances between demand and available
capacity. The existing transmission network has insufficient capacity,
particularly in the east-west direction, to transmit power from areas of
surplus capacity to those with a shortage. Thus regional shortages exist from
time to time even though there is an overall surplus of capacity. The fact
that steam plants burning lignite, which must be operated at a fairly constant
plant factor, constitute almost 50 percent of present thermal capacity increases
the need for adequate transmission capacity between systems, since there are
times when the output of these plants cannot be fully utilized in the
particular system of which they form a part. M4oreover, about half the hydro-
electricity capacity is in run-of-river plant.
26. Hitherto, the integration of power generating capacity has been carried
out on a regional rather than a national basis. At present, therefore, the
systems are characterized by a series of lines at 220 kV and lower voltages,
primarily connecting generating and load centers within valley regions. Since



- 7 -
Yugoslavia has several mountain ranges parallel with the Adriatic coast, the
present 220 kV transmission system is predominantly north-south oriented and
has experienced voltage drops of more than 20 percent below normal in Slovenia,
in the Zagreb region of Croatia, and in Macedonia, resulting in substantial
interference with industrial production. The links to adjacent countries are
mainly limited to 110 kV lines.
27. The limited integration of the electric power system severely limits
the transfer of power between regions and therefore imposes on the Yugoslav
economy a heavy cost of inadequate supply while not fully utilizing existing
generating capacity. Studies have shown that, with the expected growth of
the market and the corresponding additions to generating capacity, still more
lines at 220 kV would not be a satisfactory solution either physically or
economically. This conclusion is reinforced by the approaching completion
of the large Djerdap hydroelectric plant on the Danube river, the final
capability (1,050 3W) of which cannot be fully utilized until a large part
of the planned 380 kV transmission system is completed. The voltage of
380 kV was selected as the optimum following studies which included a
500 kV alternative. It is also the appropriate voltage for interconnection
with neighboring countries.
28. A Bank review of the electric power sector in October 1970 confirmed
that the development of the proposed 380 kV network was of the highest
priority. In considering this project the Bank was concerned as much to
support increased coordination in the construction and operation of the
system as to help eliminate an important and damaging gap in Yugoslavia's
infrastrcuture. Another important objective was to ensure that the
electricity enterprises would be in a position to provide a reasonable
proportion of investment financing from internally generated funds, which had
become necessary because of the changes in the system of financing power
projects in recent years (see paragraph 30).
29. There had been practically no coordinated planning of construction in
the sector, apart from the proposed transmission project, since 1965. A
national plan for power development, prepared by the Union of Yugoslav
Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) in 1970, provided some preliminary information
on the investment plans of the various power enterprises but without agreed
priorities for their implementation. Based on this information it can be
expected that capital expenditures for 1972-1976 by the eleven enterprises,
which would be responsible for the construction of the 380 kV transmission
network, would be in the order of UJS $740 million. In view of the presently
uncertain nature and cost of this investment program, it is difficult to
Judge its technical, financial and economic feasibility. At the request of the
Bank, JUGEL has accordingly initiated a study of the economic and geographic
priorities for future investments in the power sector. Completion of the
study and the investment plan is scheduled for mid-1972 and their submission
to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The
eleven Borrowers and JUGEL agreed to consult with the Bank from time to time
on the implementation of the investment plan.



- 8 -
30. Until 1962 power projects were financed entirely by credits on soft
terms from the general investment fund of the Yugoslav Investment Bank.
Since then, the enterprises have had to finance a growing share of their
investments, and since January 1, 1971, they have had to cover their operating
costs and finance new investments without aasistance from the Federal
Government. However, not all enterprises have been equally able to generate
internal funds and raise local bank credits. Their major problem has been
the need for substantial increases in bulk electricity tariffs to raise the
level of self-financing from an average of 16 percent of the planned
investments on the basis of existing tariffs to 30-40 percent. This would
enable the electricity enterprises to finance their development with the
assistance of a reasonable amount of internal and external borrowing, so
that the resulting debt service would not be such a burden as to inhibit
financing of development in the even longer term.
31. In accordance with the Electricity Act of 1965, which ended a system of
centralized Federal control, the pomer industry is now decentralized and broadly
separated into a distribution sector and a generation and transmission sect6r.
The 26 distribution enterprises, which are organized in an association, and
the bulk consumers buy power from the generation and transmission enterprises.
The tariffs charged by the distribution enterprises have so far been sufficient
to cover all expenses and practically all funds needed for their expansion.
The generation and transmission enterprises are members of JUGEL, which is
responsible for overall coordination among its members in interconnected
system planning and operations, preparation of tariff proposals, technical
regulations, collection of statistics, and promotion of research.  However,
it has no executive authority over its members and no income of its own.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32. The proposed project was identified during a sector review mission in
October 1970. A feasibility study prepared by JUGEL, in cooperation with
Yugoslav consulting engineers and the eleven power transmission and generation
enterprises responsible for power sector planning, was submitted to the Bank
in March 1971. As a consequence of the complexity of the project and the
continuing changes in institutional, financial and legal arrangements in the
power sector and in the country as a whole, several missions to Yugoslavia
were required for the appraisal of the project. An appraisal mission visited
Yugoslavia in May and June 1971. This was followed by three further visits in
the period July 1971 to January 1972. Because of the large number of
institutions involved in the project on the Yugoslav side, negotiations were
held in Yugoslavia in April 1972. The Yugoslav delegation included repre-
sentatives of all the institutions mentioned above and was led by Mr. Gavra
Popovic, Assistant Federal Secretary for Finance, and Mr. Lazar Ljubisa,
General Manager of JUGEL.
ProJect Description
33. The project is the first phase of the construction of a 380 kV power
transmission network of mainly single circuit bundle conductor design. This
network will serve all Republics and Provinces of Yugoslavia and involve the
construction of about 3,000 km of single-circuit (except for about 50 km of



- 9 -
double circuit) 380 kV transmission lines and 12 transformer substations
with an aggregate capacity of 7,900 MVA, and the expansion of one 380 kV
substation. Preliminary works only would be undertaken at five other
substations with connecting lines operating initially at 220 kV. The
individual lines and substations are shown in the attached map. Technical
assistance and training has also been included in the project (see paragraph
36 below). A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III. The appraisal
report, entitled "Appraisal of Power Transmission Project - Yugoslavia" (PU-87a),
dated May 22, 1972, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
34. The construction of the planned 380 kV project will be the responsibllity
of the Borrowers, which are the eleven member enterprises of JUGEL concerned
with power transmission, each within its service area and using Yugoslav
contracting firms or force account, as appropriate. Corstruction would begin
late in 1972 and proceed by stages towards completion by the end of 1976.
Each Borrower is an enterprise, i.e. an independent legal and economic entity
in accordance with the general Yugoslav concept of decentralized economic
control and workers' self-management. The basic management structure is
common to all the power enterprises. The Workers' Council, elected by and
drawn from the personnel of the enterprise, acts as the top policy-making
body in much the same way as the board of directors of a corporation in a
non-socialist country. The Workers' Council approves major investment plans,
decides on the disposition of income and appoints the General Manager, who
is the chief executive officer of the enterprise.
Coordination
35. The project thus involves the active participation of eleven independent
power enterprises operating in all six Republics and the two Autonomous
Provinces. It has, therefore, been a major objective of the Bank to ensure
that the project should be planned, constructed, operated and expanded as one
integrated 380 kV transmission network. To this end there is a single Loan
Agreement with all eleven enterprises, which establishes JUGEL's role as
coordinator for all aspects of the project, including procurement and disburseme;
arrangements (see paragraphs 43 and 44 below). The Borrowers have also agreed
on cooperation with each other and with JUGEL in planning, operating, maintaining
and expanding the 380 kV transmission network. Moreover, coordination and
cooperation will be strengthened as a consequence of the study on investment
priorities (see paragraph 29 above), which is to lead to an agreed plan of
investments in the power sector.
36. JUCELts and the Borrower's efforts towards greater coordination would be
supported by the technical assistance included in the project, the foreign
exchange cost of which would be financed under the proposed loan. Whereas the
management and staff of the eleven Borrowers are competent to deal with normal
business matters, and are operating thL.r enterprises efficiently, they have
less experience with the technical and financial problems of a growing inter-
connected power system. The Borrowess and JUGEL will therefore review, with
the aasistance of consultants, their existing management information systems
and their interconnected system planning and operation practices and procedures.



- 10 -
They would submit to the Bank, no later than 12 months after the effective
date of the loan, the report of the consultants and their plans to implement
the consultantst recommendations. They would also submit a draft plan
satisfactory to the Bank for the training of financial and technical officers
in management methods for interconnected electricity systems: this would be
a condition of effectiveness.
ProJect Costs
37. The project is estimated to cost a total of US $225 million, excluding
import duties. Except for the foreign currency items, the cost estimate was
prepared by JUGEL, assisted by consultanta and the Borrowers, and is
generally based on current construction costs and ex-factory prices of
transmission line materials and substation equipment manufactured in
Yugoslavia. The foreign exchange component is difficult to estimate, since
there. is little experience in Yugoslavia with international competition in
electrical equipment supplies. Yugoslav marmfacturers could supply all but
about 25 percent of the materials and equipment needed; but since their
capacity is limited, and the 15 percent preference for local manufacturers
(see paragraph 42 below) would provide less protection than the import
duties, which vary from 30 to 40 percent, it seems realistic to assume that
about 50 percent of all equipment would be supplied from abroad. Including
the foreign exchange costs of consultants and training, the foreign exchange
component of the project would then be $65 million, and the local expenditure
component $160 million, equivalent. The physical contingencies of 5 percent
reflect recent experience in Yugoslavia on this type of work. The price
contingencies of 15½ percent are based on expected price increases at an
annual rate of 5 percent from mid-1971.
ProJect Financing
38. The proposed Bank loan would be for US $75 million equivalent and would
cover the foreign exchange component and about US $10 million of local costs
(see paragraph 16). It would represent one-third of the cost of the trans-
mission projrt and about 10 percent of the total investment program in power
facilities contemplated during the period of project execution, 1972-1976.
The major part (US $65 million) of the loan would be distributed among the
eleven Borrowers in proportion to the estimated cost of the part of the
project within the operating area of each Borrower. The remainder (US $10
million) would, in addition, be distributed among the Borrowers operating
in the less-developed regions to take into account the larger financing needs
of these areas.
39. Yugoslav banks would participate with loans totalling $71.3 million,
equivalent, or about one-third of total project cost. The Bank has received
a letter of intent from all six local banks involved in the project (one in
each Republic), according to which the banks will make lonns to the
respective enterprises and also undertake to cover any cost overruns (except
for the enterprises in Split and Belgrade, for which the Associations of
Power Enterprises of Dalmatia and Serbia, respectively, would undertake the
overrun commitment). The canclusion of the local loan agreements, providing



- 11 -
for an interest rate of not more than 8 percent and a repayment period of
16 years after the coming into operation of the individual parts of the
project, would be & condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
40. The remainder of the transmission project cost would be financed from
internal funds of the Borrowers. Their financial position has been generally
satisfactory in the past but is not adequate to carry out their very large
investment programs. Basic changes in the pattern of financing their
investments are needed, particularly as Federal funds on soft terms are no
longer available (see paragraph 30 above) and they cannot be fully replaced
by loans from domestic banks. In order to provide a financially sound basis
for the whole power sector and to reduce the future debt burden of the
Borrowers, the Bark proposed, and the representatives of the Governments and
the Borrowers agreed, that the Borrowers should be enabled to finance from
internal revenues a reasonable portion not only of the proposed transmission
project but of all future investments in power. The loan agreement therefore
provides that the Borrowers will establish and maintain rates for the sale of
power or take similar measures as described below, sufficient to cover from
revenues all operating expenses, debt service and the financing of an average
of not less than 35 percent of the power investment cost during any Yugoslav
plan period. The Bank has received a letter from all Borrowers outlining the
initial measures they will take to comply with this obligation. These measures
in general include a 15 percent rate increase which was authorized in May 1972,
and will come into force when approved by the Governments of the Republics
and Provinces. In the case of the Borrowers in Rijeka and Zagreb, part of the
funds would be provided from specific charges on consumers; in the case of the
Borrowers in Split, Belgrade and Slovenia from the internal funds of the
Associations of Electric Power Enterprises of which they are members.
Satisfactory evidence that these measures have been taken would be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan. The responsibility for establishing upper limits
to increases in power rates has now been transferred from the Federation to
the Republics and Provinces, and the Guarantor, the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, would also undertake to conclude agreements with the Republics
and Provinces by which they would agree to enable the Borrowers to comply with
their obligation concerning power rates. The conclusion of these agreements
would also be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. The aggregate OD the
financing plans of the eleven Borrowers is shown in Annex III.
41. The financial position which is expected to be aciieved by the Borrowers
by 1977, on the basis of the financing plan outlined in Annex III and of a
growth of sales in the order of 8 percent annually, can be illustrated by
the following ratios:
Debt/Equity Ratio           Debt Service Coverage
Enterprises      1972        1977            1972            1977
Sarajevo         60/40      58/42              3.2             4.0
Trebire          75/25      69/31             4-5             2.5
Rijeka           75/25      63/37             1.5             1.2
Split            56/1414    64/36              3.8            2.6
Zagreb           74/26      54/46             1.7             1.6



- 12 -
Debt/Equity Ratio            Debt Service Coverage
Enterprises      1972         1977            1972             1977
Skopje           77/23       74/26             2.7              1.9
Titograd         67/33       57/43             4.2              3.1
Belgrade         78/22       68/32             1.5              14.
Ljubljana        28/72       38/62             1.9              1.2
Maribor          58/42       51/49             1.3              1.4
Nova Gorica      26/74       34/66             2.0              1 .9
These figures show that the planned expansion program, if financed as proposed,
would not impair the financial viability of the Borrowers and would in most
cases improve their financial positions. Improvements in the debt/equity
ratio would be a result of the increase in self-generated funds available for
reinvestment in the enterprises, while the debt service coverage remains at
acceptable levels. The detailed forecasts show that the Borrowerg would be
able to finance at least 35 percent of their presently planned investment for
1972-1976-from internal funds and special levies. The only probable exception
-is Skopje, which may require a further tariff adjustment in 1976.  ,Until the
share of the expansion program to be borne by each of the eleven enterprises is
defined, following completion of the study of priorities mentioned in paragraph
29 above, these forecasts must remain tentative.
Procurement
42. The Bank loan would be applied to the purchase of materials and equipment
for the transmission lines and substations required for the project, and
contracts for these items would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
Domestic manufacturers of materials and equipment would be accorded a margin
of preference, for purposes of bid comparison, which would be the existing
rate of custom duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of c.i.f.
costs, whichever is lower.
43. During negotiations, the Borrowers and JUGEL agreed to establish a
Coordinating Committee for the procurement of material and equipment and the
coordination of construction. The Committee would be composed of the General
Managers of the eleven enterprises and the General Manager of JUGEL, serving
as its chairman. It would be assisted by a new department at JtJELts
headquarters with full-time staff provided by JUGEL and headed by a manager
experienced in transmission line construction and procurement. The manager
would be responsible for the organization of the department and its day-to-day
operations. The Coordinating Committee would be responsible inter alia for
preparing and approving the plans, detailed designs and technical specifications
of the project; for preparing bid documents, asking for bids and evaluating
them; and for reviewing the Borrowers' proposals for awarding contracts and
forwarding these proposals to the Bank. Identical materials and equipment
would, to the extent possible, be included in one single bid requiring a
coordinated delivery schedule, but each Borrower would sign a separate contract
for the delivery of material and equipment required for its part of the
project.



- 13 -
Disbursements
44. The amount of the loan allocated to material and equipment would be
disbursed for 100 percent of contracts for such items until the amounts
allocated to each enterprise were fully disbursed. It would be possible to
reallocate the loan between the categories for equipment and for consultant
services for each individual Borrower, but not between the Borrowers.
Disbursements for local expenditures would be made only if and when all
expected foreign expenditures were covered. This procedure is possible
because all major contracts are expected to be awarded relatively early in
the construction period. The amount of the loan allocated to consultants'
services and training would be disbursed for 100 percent of foreign expenditurea.
The Borrowers have agreed that JUGEL should act as the channel for disbursements,
and also for repayment of the loan and payment of interest and other charges.
The Borrowers would designate JUGEL as their representative for the purpose
of taking any action in this respect and JUGEL would assign qualified and
experienced staff for this task, for the cost of which JUaEL would be
reimbursed by the Borrowers.
Justification
45. Major existing and future generation and load centers are to be supplied
from the new 380 kV network. Although the layout of this network has been
made without a firm program of additional generating plants, it was tested
using two alternative programs, representing in many ways somewhat opposite
extremes, and found to serve both equally well. The testing took into account
different generating capacities and loads for 1975, 1980, 1985, mxwdmum and
minimum load conditions and hydraulic conditions, and transmission line
failures characteristic of this type of line. The testing showed that the
layout had been optimized as far as is practical with respect to trade-offs
between lengths of line, costs of substations, etc., and that the scale of
the transmission ring could not be reduced and still provide an adequate
standard of reliability.
46. It has not proved feasible to q.antify the benefits attributable to
the 380 kV transmission ring and, therefore, to calculate its economic
return. This is due partly to the fact that the long-term system plans in
Yugoslavia have not been defined in detail and partly to the complexity of
carrying out the return calculation on a "with and without the trannidssion
line" basis. The Justification of the project rests basically on the
unquantifiable benefits brought about by an interconnecting transmission
ring, e.g. the pooling of generating plants of different operating character-
istics, the reduction in the total reserve plant capacity required for a good
standard of service, the ability to locate power stations at optimum sites
and of optimum characteristics to take advantage of econonies of scale, and
the flexibility to allow the best positioning of tapping of loading points.
47. Studies which have been done in other countries for smilar 380 kV systems
and the limited studies which have been -ade in Yugoslavia all indicate
strongly that all other types of solution would have a greater net cost.



- 14 --
Moreover, in the case of Yugoslavia, any delay in installing the 380 kV
transmission ring would be the direct cause of future power shortages in some
of the Republics, and there is every indication from the present supply
position that the corresponding loss of economic and social benefits would
greatly outweigh the savings in cost due to the delay.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48. The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, Elektroprenos-elektroprivredno
preduzece za prenos elektricne energije, Sarajevo, Hidroelektrane na Trebisnjici-
preduzece za proizvodnju i prenos elektricne energije, Trebinje, "Elektroprivreda"
zdruzeno poduzece elektroprivrednih organizacija, Rijeka, "Elektroprenos" - Split
Organizacija za prenos elektricne energije u sastavu zdruzenog poduzeca
"Elektroprivreda Dalmacije", Split, 'lElektroprivreda"l - Zagreb - poduzece za
proizvodnju, prijenos i elektricne kupoprodaju i toplinske energije, Zagreb,
"Elektrospopanstvoll - pretprijatije za proizvodstvo i prenesuvanje na elektricna
energija, Skopje, "Elektrocrnagorall - preduzece za prenos elektricne energije i
izgradnju elektroprivrednih objekata, Titograd, "Elektroistok" - organizacija
za prenos elektricne energije u sastavu zdruzenog elektroprivrednog preduzeca
Srbije, Beograd, Savske Elektrarne Ljubljana - organizacija v sestavu zdruzenega
elektrogospodarskega podœetja Slovenije, Maribor, Dravske Elektrarne Maribor -
organizacija v sestavu zdruzenega elektrogospodarskega podjetja Slovenije,
Maribor, and Soske Elektrarne Nova Gorica - organizacije v sestavu zdruzenega
elektrogospodarskega podjetja Slovenije, Maribor (the eleven Borrowers), and
Zajednica jugoslovenske :elektroprivede - Beograd (JUGEL), the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
49. Each of the Borrowers would only be liable for the repayment of a share of
each maturity of the loan proportionate to the part of the loan allocated to it
and for payment of interest and commitment charges accruing on such part. JUGEL
would sign the loan agreement not as a borrower but because of its various
responsibilities as a project coordinator and as a channel for disbursement and
repayment of the loan described above. Given the number of Borrowers, it would
seem impractical to provide for bonds, and any reference to bonds in the General
Conditions and in the loan agreement would therefore be dileted. Several other
changes would be made in the General Conditions in order to reflect the fact
that the loan agreement would be signed by a multiplicity of Borrowers and by
JUJGEL.
5C I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECaMENDATION
51. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
J 7,Te 15 1972



ANNEX I
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATICNS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as at April 30, 1972)
US$ million
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number Year    Borrower                   Purpose    Bank          Undisbursed
Eight loans fully disbursed                          200.7             _
395     1964   Yugodav Investment Bank    Railways    70.0            2.8
504     1967   Yugoslav Investment Bank   Industry    10.5            0.8
531     1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank   Railways    50.o           21.6
554     1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank   Industry    16.0            3.1
608     1969   Socialist Federal Republic Highways    30.0           12.6
of Yugoslavia
654     1970   Yugoslav Investment Bark   Industry    18.5            5.0
657     1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank   Telecommu-  40.0           37.0
nications
678     1970   Socialist Federal Republic Highways    40.0           34.7
of Yugoslavia
751*    1971   Socialist Federal Republic Highways    35.0           35.0
of Yugoslavia
752*    1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran   Tourism     10.0           10.0
777*    1971   Socialist Federal Republic Multipur-   45.0           45.0
of Yugoslavia            pose Water
782*    1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko       Tourism     20.0           20.0
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik
Total                                        585.7          227.6
of which has been repaid                    67._4
Total now outstanding                        518-3
Amount sold                 6.2
of which has been repaid 5 Q                 1.2
Total now held by Bank                       517.1
Total undisbursed                                           227.6
* Not yet effective



ANNEX I
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVE$TNENTS
(as at April 30, 1972)
Arwunt in US$ million
Year   Obligor                        Type of Business   Loan   Ecquity Total
1970   International Investment       Investment           -      2.0    2.0
Corporation for Yugoslavia     Corporation
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava          Automotive           -      8.o    8.0
Fiat S.P.A.                    Industry
1971   Tovarna Avtomobilov in         Automotive          7.5     1.7    9.2
Motorjev Maribor (TAM)/        Industry
Kl8ekner-Humboldt Deutz
A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler     Automotive         l0.4     2.2   12.6
Benz A.G.                      Industry            _      -
Total gross commitments                           17.9    13.9   31.8
less cancellations, terminations,                 -      1.2    1.2
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                 17.9    12.7   30.6
Total undisbursed                                 17.2     4.9   22.1
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
1.   The execution of most projects has been satisfactory, except for the
Railway Modernization Program of FY 65 (395-YU) and delays in making
effective the four loans approved in FY 71 (751, 752, 777 and 782-YU).
The railway project has been delayed by financial, planning, and technical
difficulties. After 1966 the Yugoslav Railways suffered a continuous
deterioration of their financial position and liquidity for a number of
related reasons. Project cost estimates increased nearly threefold between
1963 and 1971 because of inflation, devaluation of the dinar and revaluations
of some European currencies. Payments for railway freight services were held
back by the lack of liquidity in the whole economy. The five Railway Transport
Enterprises which, under the Yugoslav system are expected to operate on a
commercial basis, were restricted by Government regulations in their ability
to respond to changed market conditions. Furthermore, the obligation of the
Federal Government to meet railway deficits has been transferred to the
Republic Governments, which have not yet been able to meet this responsi-
bility in full.



ANNEX I
Page 3
2.   In order to be able to make proposals for dealing not only with the
difficulties with the Bank project, but also with the basic problems of the
Yugoslav railways as a whole, it was agreed with the Government that the
Bank undertake a thorough review of the railways' problems. Following
this review, which was carried out with the assistance of a consultant team,
the Bank is now having discussions with the Federal and Republic Governments
and the railways on a program designed to put Yugoslav railways back on a
sound basis. This will require a clarification of governmental responsibility
for the railways and an overall plan of action both for the Yugoslav railways
as a whole and for each Railway Enterprise, which include inter alia clear
marketing and related operational and financial objectives, a revised tariff
policy, investment and disinvestment proposals and proposals for dealing with
labor redundancy problems and for improvement in management. Any further
delay in carrying out a minimal modernization program could further jeopardize
the competitive position of the railways in relation to road traffic and
would extend the period in which the economy would not benefit fully from
the large investments made with Bank assistance since 1964 in the Moderniza-
tion Program. In view of the importance to the Yugoslav economy of a solution
to the railway problems and subject to satisfactory completion of the dis-
cussions mentioned above, the Bank is prepared to consider another railway
loan in FY73 or 74.
3.   The four Bank loans approved in mid-1971 were affected by difficulties
in the governmental process arising from the constitutional amendments
introduced at that time and which delayed their effectiveness. In some
respects, the amendments were broadly stated and left important specific
problems to be resolved in subsequent legislation. It took some time for
the Federal and Republic Governments to adjust to the new procedures
provided by the constitutional amendments. These difficulties of adjust-
ment were aggravated by some internal political and economic problems and
initially caused considerable delays in decision making. Meanwhile,
however, the Federal Government has developed a system of Inter-Republican
committees, chaired by members of the Federal Government and with repre-
sentatives for each of the Republics, which should lead to more efficient
decision-making.
4.   Further delays were encountered because, under the new constitutional
amendments, ratification of the two loan agreements and two guarantee
agreements by the Federal Assembly (which took place on February 29, 1972)
had to be preceded by approval of the agreements by the Assemblies of all
Republics and Provinces. The two tourism loans (752 and 782-YU) have also
been held up by delays in land acquisition and in the decisions by the
Republic Assemblies concerned with the approval of legislation for the
payment of interest subsidies for tourism projects; responsibility for
these subsidies was transferred from the Federation to the Republics under
the constitutional amendments. The formal procedures of approval of the
loan agreement for the Ibar Multipurpose Water Project (777-YU) had been
linked with the request by the Province of Kosovo that the more developed
Republics provide funds for the development of this Province in addition



ANNEX I
Page 4
to their coxtributions to the Fund for the Accelerated Development of
Underdeveloped Regions. A compromise to meet this request has been
agreed upon by all Republics and Provinces. Substantial progress towards
making these loans effective has been made recently; all the problems of
substance now appear to have been resolved, and the only conditions still
to be fulfilled concern the legal opinions and the submission of supporting
documentation.



IV0NTRY DATA - YUC0MAVIA                                                       ANNEX_I
Area. 255,804                                                Population,  20.5 rilAn   (1971)                                  Density. 80 per eq. km.
Rate of Groethl 1.0 poroent (fron 1961 to 1971)                   ibid    1629 per eq. IeD. of arabln load
popuation Charaterietioe:            A                                                                      Health.
CrDude Dir th Ra°te rper 1,000)     T8      (1970)                                                          PopulatiOt per phyioian     1220  (1969)
Crude Death Rate (pr 1,000)           6.9   1970)                                                           Population per hoepital bod  187  (1970
Infant Mortality  per 1,000 livabirthe)55.2  1970
Nutrition,
Per oapita oalorie intake         3141  (1970)
Per capita protein intake (graotes) 91.1 (1968)            GRP er oapita. 4650   (1971)                   Eduoatioan
Adult litronoy rate       84.8 (1971)
Primary sohool enrollment 93.0 (1970)
GRPn Nationale Prd.ot190         Valuo Inj U.8. S=in.                                                     Annual Rate of Growth (percent, constant prince)
GNPF at market prices                  14443.0          100.                                              196-0-65           1965-70              1970
Gr-ee Inveetment                        4150.0           28.7                                                6.6               4.7                 5.7
Grnae National Savinge                  3712.0           25.7                                                6.0                3.5                12.3
Current Aocount Balance                  438.0            3.0                                                7.4                3.1                 3.4
Output. Labor Porno and
Produotivity in 1970,
Value Added                           Labor Forte                                  Value Added Per Worker
VSS millson  nS,   Millsoba  S PoroaFt                         ~~~~~~(UE,83   % of national  Varae"
006 million  PDEmneet                  Mtllo                                         C8    ~ 
Agriculture                             2291.0   17.8                      3.86       44.0                           593.5                    40.5
Induetry                                5721.0   44.6                     2.03        23.1                          2818.0                   192.5
Services                                4829.0   17.6                     2           126                                                    114.S
Total/Average                       12   .0  100.0                      8.77      100.0                          1464.0                   100.0
Publio Piuenone in 1970:
(Amont)       8h of GOHP  9 ;  GDP 1969-70
Current Receipte                               14367.0         8.1           8.1
Current Expondituros(inol. tranefore)          12692.0         7.?           7.5
Curr,et 8urplue/befioit (-)                     1675.0         0.9           0.6
Development Expenditure                          304.0         0.2           0.2
xternoal Assistance (net)
Prices end Crodit,                 Wholeoelo Prine Indox*            Bank Credit
(1971 . ioo)                   Din. zln.
Index        % Change       (Amount)       9 Change
1968                              77.0         4.1            125988.0        19.0
1969                              81.0         5.2            130549.0         3.6
1970                              87.0         7.4            162568.0        24.5
1971                              10.0        14.9            185771.0        14.3
Balance of Pa8ents.                 1969        1970       1971                                                      Merohandizc Exports (Average of 1968-70)
(iiillione U85)                                                                                        8 =In.)     O
Exparts of Goods, NRi             2134.0       2501.0     2804.0                                                    He000 and Live Anitole       153.4    10.4
Importo of Goode, 2TP             2405.0       3232.0    3713.0                                                     Wood and bood Products       124.0     6.4
Resource Gap (defioit      -       271 .0ilo  7.231L0    - 209.0                                                    Baos Plotale                 145.0     9.6
Transport iquipont           150.8    10.2
Interoat Pyemente (net)            -88.0      - 110.0    - 115.0                                                    Textiloe                      70.6     4.o
Workern  lerittaooee               206.0        440.0      630.0                                                    Other                        829.5    56.4
Other Pantor Poy=ente (net)          -            -         -                                                             Total                 1473.3   100.8
Net Tranefora                       45.0         61.0      70.0
Balenoc on Current Anoount        -108.0        3 140.0  - 324.0
b xtonal Debt on Doe=Cber 31, 1970  (4 mit.)
Direot Poroign Inveetrent            -            -         -
Miodium- and bong-tern Loane (not)  253.0       269.0      295.0                                                     Kediun and Long-term Cradite, Publio  120b.0
Dieburaeecnt.                  (517.0)       (636.0)   (715.0)                                                    Oon-Guanrnteod Priv-zo               882.7
Amortization                   (264.0)       (367.0)   (420.0)
Official Grante                                                                                                      Total Outstauding and Disburood     2060.7
Other Capitol (net)                  3.2        141.0    -159.0                                                                              d/
Inorease in Offriial Hoer-oce      121.0       -113.0      72.0                                                      Debt scrvice  atilo (1970)_           17.0
All Other Itow                      56.0        183.0     - 95.0                                                     IRRD/IDA Londin, Aoril 30,1972      (S edn.)
Drose Offoial Reservea             253.0        140.0     212.0   439.0(end April 1972)                                   Dia,uraedo                 357.9
1Dot R.eeroo                        n..,         n.a.      n.a.                                                           Undiaburaed _/             227.6
Outstanding incl. undia-
Current Rate of Exchanges    CS 01.00 - 17.00 Dinare                     bureod 2.'            513.1
Diner 1.00 . UBS$ o.S88
a/ lxoluding agricultural goods
W Total baok credit, inoluding oredite to Governecnt,eonterpricee and other entitioe
S/ Inoluding Joint Voture Capital                                                                                          Burope, Uli.dle Saet ind Sorth Afrifi
A/ Inoluding corica on non-publioly guaranteed dobt                                                                                  Dioprtment
i/ Including 810 million of loane not yet effective                                                                                  i.uy 1 ,1972



ANNEX III
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:          Eleven independent power enterprises with headquarters in
Sarajevo, Trebinje, Rijeka, Split, Zagreb, Skopje, Titograd,
Belgrade, Ljubljana, Maribor and Nova Gorica.
Coordinator:        The Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) would
sign the Loan Agreement as coordinator for planning,
engineering, procurement and technical assistance, and as
agent for disbursement and repayment of the Loan.
Guarantor:          Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amo-urnt:           US $75 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Loan Distribution:  US $65 million, equivalent, of the loan would be
distributed among the eleven Borrowers in proportion
to the estimated cost of the project within the
operating area of each Borrower. The remaining US $10
million, equivalent, would be distributed similarly among
the Borrowers operating in the less-developed regions.
Each of the Borrowers ,ould only be liable for the repayment
of a share of each maturity of the loan proportionate to the
part of the loan allocated to it and for payment of interest
and commitment charges accruing on such part.
Terms:              Amortization in 20 years including a 5-year period of
grace, through equal semi-annual installments beginning
October 1, 1977, and ending April 1, 1992. Interest
rate 7¼4 percent.
Project             The project is the first phase of the construction of a
Description:        380 kV power transmission network of mainly single-circuit
bundle conductor design. About 3,000 km of transmission
lines and 12 transformer substations with an aggregate
capacity of 7,900 MVA will be constructed and equipped.
The project includes a review of the management information
systems and the procedures for interconnected system
planning and operation, and the training in these fields
of key officers af the Borrowers and JUGEL.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:                       Local            Foreign          Total
-omponent(us $ millions equivalent)
Component
Land                               7.3                               7-3
Construction of lines             42.9               _42.9
Construction of substations       14.7               -              14.7
Equipment for lines               41.2             22.5             63.7
Equipment for substations         153             30.4             45.7
Technical assistance and
training                         4.4              2.0              6.4
Overhead and miscellaneous          9.6              -               9.6
Physical contingencies             6.o              2.6              8.6
Price contingencies               18.6              7.5             26.1
Total                       160.0            65.o             225.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:
Aggregate of Financing Plans of the eleven Borrowers for their total
projected investments in power in 1972-1976:
Dinars       US $ Millions
Souro of Funds                     Millions        Eguivalent       %
Earnings
Net funds provided from
earnings at present
tariffs                       1,973.3         116.1         15.7
Additional funds derived from
an increase in tariffs       1.50.             91.2         12.3
Funds provided from earnings  3,523.9         207.3         28.0
Spebial Resources
Additional funds provided by
surcharges, levies, common
internal funds of associate
power enterprises             1,206.7          71.0          9.6
Total internal funds            4,730.6         278.3         37-6
External Resources
For Transmission Prolect
Loans from domestic banks      1,211.3           71-3          9.6
IBRD loan                      1,275.0           75.o         10.1
For Other ProJects
Future borrowings              4,783.7          281-4         38.0
Future suppliers' credits
(local and foreign)            584.9           34.4          4.7
Total external funds          7,854.9         462.1         62.4
Total funds available        12.585.5        7104t         100.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Dinars       US $ Millions
Application of Funds:              Nillions        Equivalent       %
380 kV Construction program       3,825.0o         225.0         30.4
Investments in generation and
transmission already planned    7,678.2          451.7         61.0
Estimated additional investments
during 1976 including working
capital requirements            1,082.3           63.7          8.6
Total  funds applied           12,585.5          7h0.4        100.0
Expenditures to be financed by Bank loanY           (US $ million equivalent)
(a) Material and equipment for
transmission lines and substations                   73.0
(b)  Consultants' services and training                    2.0
Estimated Disbursements:                     US $ million
1972     1973       1974   1975     1976
2.0     18.0     25.0     21.0      9.0
Procurement Arrangements:  Procurement of material and equipment would be on
the basis of international comipetitive bidding.
Yugoslav manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
15 percent preference or the prevailing customs
duty, whichever is lower. It is estimated that the
Bank loan would cover the likely foreign exchange
component (US $65 million) and about US $10 million
of the local costs of the project.
Consultants:               Consultants to be employed for engineering, review
of management information systems, and review of
interconnected system planning and operation
practices and procedures.
Rate of Return:            No estimate possible (see paragraph 46).
Appraisal Report:          Report No. PU-87a, dated May 22, 1972.



A   U   S  T  R  I  A  (                                                 -    A,   AUGRY  U
>  r~~~~~ __. .f  /t   ,\       H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  N G  ARY         R&.     '" ,
t   S  g  E ~~~N  I A| ,r                            r    r  - ,                  >      1
O.      'K-,\     tt  <_/_ o 1 '9 tNs8 5 4 .  d.
4  V   Ri,Ik\     C,,                    D1dk4     r      c\ J v  O  D I N AD N -,
X <  H  \~~~~        ~~~~~~~ 0\ SSI. N) I A Hl E R'-)G0
-  -. Ijono  ArSo                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 
\~~~~~~ ~  ~~        ~      ~~~~  ~     ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~ Be  X   iph   | V
GAFAM                                                          A _ N E G
Zr Y O 3) 0 v  0 / /  S ArEACE
Q''  '-,  V  I VODINAN   \  AMC     N T I 
/ Z  g   YKOSOWR   )  '1
YUGOSLAVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    UGAE I 
P ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         R   Eow EE CS  E
n   P tPD1@d p pV P UD:WUS  v   4         k          \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\.j*ntacrcUoo 
*   E^SJrsSb"x>OEelaualt2P<VnwtxlW  sp   i          \          l~~~~~~
0 E AF.OaD  *A  Vs)5tdr
A'.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~UG S A I -ler1vx '--rI-u'          &o            P h>.            '<..'
INITIAL PHAS OF.. AAAs.sE 38KIRNIIISO  YTM,#..      .   X.                  ,
*r     E r    E.A..r                 EP       r   P, oA IA               G  R  E  E  C



