RESTRICTED
p0 |TS    E                          FRi-COPY                                       Report No. PU-87a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
May 22, 1972
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVAEINTS
Ourrency Unit                              Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
US$1                           =           Din 17.0
US$1 million                   =           Din 17,000,000
Din 1                          =            uS$0.058
Din 1 million                  =           Us$58,824
UNITS AND EQUIVALDITS
kW                             =            Kilowatt
MW                             =           Megawatt
kWh                            =           Kilowatt hour
GWh                                        Gigawatt hour
kv                             -           Kilovolt
MVA                            =           Megavolt-ampere
One kilometer (km)                         0 =.6214 miles
One square kilometer (km<2)    =           0.386 square miles
ABEREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
JUGEL          =          Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
ZEPS                      Union of Electricity Enterprises of Serbia
DALMACIJA      =          Union of Electricity Enterprises of Dalmatia
BGS            =          Association of Electricity Enterprises of
Slovenia
YIB                       Yugoslav Investment Bank
FCC            =          Federal Committee of Coordination of
Distribution Enterprises
SAS                       Social Accounting Service
EHV            -          Extra High Voltage
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                    Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . .................              i
I.   INTROIDUCTION ............................ to,...........  1
II.   THE POWER SECTOR .......e.......e........***e.ooo** o*  2
General Background  . *......**   .................  2
Organization of the Power Sector        ................  2
Management of the Power Enterprises ............. 3
Financing of the Power Sector ...................  4
The Power Market .............5............*..*.     5
Development Program and System Planning    .........  6
III.   THE PROJECT ...................*........                 8
Description of the Project        ......................  8
Cost Estimates  *........ .........................  8
Amount and Distribution of Loan ................. 9
Procurement .........................00 ....... 10
Disbursement .     ....................**..,.... 10
Engineering  * .................................... 10
Construction ..........*.**...*..***.. ********   11
Ecological Aspecta ...   ...... ...................  11
IV.  JUSTIFICATION ........................  12
V.   LENDING ARRANGEMENTS * **.**...*......**....*. 14
General Background .........                        14
The Borrowers .............................. 14
The Role of JUGEL  .............................. 15
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS    ....................o .......... 16
Objectives .......................... ..... ..... 16
Financial Statements .......................... 16
Present Financial Position    ....       .......... 17
Financing Plans ............................... *0 0.6.. 18
Financial Covenants ...... * .................. 20
Financial Forecasts ...* * * * * .. * a   .* * * a  * * * *..   . . . . 22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .............  24
This report - prepared by Mesrs. Jacob, Bloor and Nwasiuk - is based on
the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Yugoslavia in May 1971
and consisted of Messrs. King, Jacob, Bloor and Ewasiuk, and on information
obtained during updating miasions in Augast and November 1971 in which at
various times Messrs. Jacob, Evasiuk, Kopp, Wlser, and Engvall participated.



I



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF POWE TRANSMISSION PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1. Pages 1 & 2   Organization of the Power Sector
2.                 List of Borrowers
3.                Power Plants Installed and Under Construction in 1970
4.                 Hydroelectric Projects Identified for First Priority
Construction
5.                 Thermal and Nuclear Power Stations Identified for
Future Construction
6.                Project Facilities
7.                 Cost Distribution Among Enterprises
8.                Estimated Schedule of Diabursements
9.                 Coordination of Engineering - Procuxement and
Construction Activities
10. Pages 1 to 14 Financial Information for the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina -
Power Enterprises Sarajevo and Trebinje
11. Pages 1 to 20 Financial Information for the Republic of Croatia -
Power Enterprises Rijeka, Split, and Zagreb
12. Pages 1 to 8 Financial Information for the Republic of Macedonia -
Power Enterprise Skopje
13. Pages 1 to 8 Financial Information for the Republic of Montenegro -
Power Enterprise Titograd
14. Pages 1 to 8   Financial Information for the Republic of Serbia -
Power Enterprise Belgrade
15. Pages 1 to 22  Financial Information for the Republic of Slovenia -
Power Enterprises Ljubljana, Maribor, and Nova Gorica
Map                 Location of the 380 kV tranamission line and the
substations.



*



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONICLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Project for the construction of a 380
kV transmisaion system serving all parts of Yugoslavia. The Project would
be carried out by eleven power enterprises (the borrowers) operating in
the six Republics and two autonomous provinces of Yugoslavia. These
enterprises are the principal bulk suppliers of power in the country and
are members of the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Induatry (JUGEL), an
association of all economic organizations involved in generation and
transmission of electric power in Yugoslavia. The Project has the highest
priority in the power sector because the existing 110 kV and 220 kV systems
are becoming inadequate and studies have shown that tranamission at higher
voltage is needed, especially in view of the approaohing completion in 1972
of a 1,050 MW hydroelectric plant on the Danube River.  The Project consists
of mainly 3,000 km single circuit, 380 kV tranamisaion lines and 12 sub-
stations having an aggregate capacity of 7,900 MVA, and is estimated to cost
US$225 million equivalent. The Project represents 30% of the electricity
industries' estimated total construction program for 1972-76.
ii.       A Bank loan of US$75 million is proposed which would cover the
estimated foreign exchange component of uS$65 million and local expenditures
for material and equipment of US$10 million equivalent. The Bank loan would
represent about 33% of the total project cost. The remaining balance would
be provided in about equal portions from internal resources of the eleven
power enterprises which would construct and operate the Project, and through
local bank loans which have been firmly arranged.
iii.      The Bank has made two previoua power loans of US$30 million
equivalent each in 1961 and 1962 to help finance two hydroelectric plants
and a major part of the 220 kV tranasmision system. Three other loans were
made for projects with a power component, the most recent of which was
for the Ibar Multipurpose Water Project in 1971. Since the earlier lending
operations, the Yugoslav power sector has undergone considerable changes in
its organizational structure, its financing methods and its planning proce-
res. These changes were part of a general process of decentralization
of economic control in the country which reached its climax in the recent
enactment of a new constitution, under which the responsibilities of
economic organizationa,and of the Federation, the Republics and the Provinces
have been redefined.
iv.       The reduction of the governmental role in the economy is clearly
reflected in the major current problems of the power sector - lack of
coordinated planning, serious financial problems and poor provision for
new investments in generating and transmission facilities.
V.        Demand for electric power has been increasing at about 12%
annually for the past ten years. Supply has been inadequate during this
period and the power shortages experienced are likely to become worse before
additional generating plant can be put in operation. The Project would not



- ii -
reduce the deficit expected in power supply, but its absence could cause
the deficits (mainly on account of regional imbalances) to be much higher,
due to the lack of sufficient transmismion line capacity to transmit the
power available.
vi.       Only about 16% of the investments of about Din 12 billion
tentatively planned over the period 1972-1976 can be provided by internal
cash generation of power enterprises on the basia of existing tariffs for
the sale of electricity. Since local banks are expected to provide not
more than about one third of the total requirements in the form of loans,
the balance is proposed to be provided from (i) tariff increases, special
levies, surcharge., and common internal funds of associated enterprises
equivalent to a roughly 25% increase in revenue per kWh over the five year
period, (ii) suppliers' credits, and (iii) additional external assistance.
vii.      The financial requirements of the power sector as a whole and
of the individual power enterprises which would carry out the Project
cannot yet be defined with finality because the development plans for each
enterprise and for the sector are still incomplete. The conclusions of a
study of priorities and geographical locations of future power projects
will not be available before July 1972. Present financial plans, which
are based on tentative investment programs, are thus also tentative.
However, the urgent need for the tsanminsion facilities makea it impractical
for the Yugoslav power industry to await finalization of its plans before
proceeding with the Project. The Project is technically and economically
sound, and the enterprises are capable of carrying it out satisfactorily.
viii.     In view of the present deficiencies in -the sector, the Yugoslavians
have agreed:
(a) to assure completion of the Project by the effective
coordination of the eleven power enterprises in engineering,
procurement and construction (JtJGEL will act as a coordinator
and as a channel for disbursement and repayment of the Bank
loan), and by the provision of adequate internal funds
and local bank loans in addition to funds provided by the
Bank loan;
(b) to assure that overall investment, in the sector are
economically planned by having a study of priorities
of future power projects and of their geographic location
carried out by JUGEL;
(c) to assure that adequate internal funds are generated by
the power enterprises by making im_ediate tariff increases
and by maintaining tariffs to provide a minimum internal
contribution of 35% towards future expansion; and
(d) to promote improved management with the assistance of
consultants in the areas of system planning, reviewing manage-
ment information systems and training key officers of the
eleven power enterprises and JUGEL in management of inter-
connected power eyatems.



iii
ix.       The Baik loan would be made to the eleven borrowers under one and
the same loan agreement; JUGEL would oign the loan agreement as coordinator
without assuming any financial obligations. The loan would be guaranteed by
the Federal Government and would be allocated to the eleven power enterprises,
in principle on a pro rats basis according to the share of each enterprise
of the total cost of the Project, except that enterprines operating in the
lesser developed region would receive an extra allocation of about 37% of
their pro rata share.
X.        Yugoslav induBtry would participate in international competitive
bidding for equipment and material orders with a 15% margin of preference.
Disbursements would be made for 100% of the coot of local and foreign orders
for material and equipment and of the foreign coBts of consultants to the
extent of each borrower's share of the proposed loan. Foreign orders would be
fully disbursed before disbursements for local currency awards would be made.
xi.       The eleven power enterpriaes have agreed to increase by 15% the
average rate per kWh for the sale of electricity effective July 1, 1972 and
in some cases to take other measures satisfactory to the Bank to attain the
level of revenue sufficient to finance internally at least 35% of their
future investment programs. The Federal Government has undertaken to enter
into agreements with the Republics and Provinces to authorize the borrowers
to establish and maintain electricity rates sufficient to provide, together
with other measures satisfactory to the Bank, the necessary revenues specified
in the loan agreement.
xii.      Local banks have agreed to provide to the eleven power enterprises
specified amounts in local loans on terms satisfactory to the Bank which in
the aggregate will cover about one-third of the estimated cost of the Project.
The local banks have alsoc agreed to cover any cost overruns in the project
costs, except in two cases where these overruns have been agreed to be
covered by regional power associations.
xiii.     The execution and authorization or ratification of (a) the local
bank agreementa, (b) the agreements with the regional power associations,
(c) the agreements between the Federation and the Republics and Provinces,
regarding the power rates and (d) the implementation by the eleven borrowers
of measures designed to provide the revenues specified by the loan agreement
would be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
xiv.      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$75 million for a
period of 20 years, including five years grace, on the basis of the
foregoing.



v
4



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
I. INTROtW CTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Yugoslavia has requested a Bank loan of
US$75 million to help finance a 380 kV transmission project of the Union
of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) to be carried out by eleven
power enterprises (the Borrowers) operating in the six Republics and two
autonomous provinces of Yugoslavia, with an estimated total cost of US$225
million equivalent.
1.02      The Bank has made two previous power loans to Yugoslavia, each in
the amount of US$30 million equivalent; Loan 277-YU for the Senj 216 MW-
hydroelectric plant, made in February 1961, and Loan 318-YU for the Bajina
Basta 240 MW-hydroelectric plant, made in July 1962. Each loan financed
equipment for substantial parts of a 220 kV transmission network, and
generating plant. The plants and the transmission system have been in
successful operation since 1967. In addition the Bank made three other
loans for projects with a power component, the most recent of which was
for the Ibar Multipurpose Water Project in 1971. (Loan 777-YU).
1.03      The proposed Project was identified during a sector review mission
in October 1970. A feasibility study prepared by JUGEL in cooperation with
Yugoslav consulting engineers and eleven transmission and generating enter-
prises responsible for power sector planning was submitted to the Bank in
March 1971. The Project is considered to be urgently needed. A study to
determine the priority of other intended power projects is under way and will
serve as a basis for final decisions about the overall sector development
plan for the period 1972-76.
1.04      The appraisal of the Project required a number of extensive
missions to Yugoslavia in 1971 because continuing changes in institutional,
financial and legal arrangements in the power sector and in the country as
a whole have affected the way the eleven power enterprises, JUGEL, six
Republican Governments, the Federal Government and various local banks in
each of the six Republics would join together to carry out the Project.
An appraisal mission consisting of Mebsrs. King, Jacob, Bloor and Ewasiuk
visited Yugoslavia in May/June 1971. This was followed by visits of Mr.
Ewasiuk to each of the enterprises in July/August 1971 to obtain additional
financial information, and by a mission in November 1971 consisting of
M4essrs. Jacob, Kopp, Walser, Ewasiuk, and Engvall to discuss financial
and legal arrangements with JUGEL, the enterprises, local banks and the
Federal and Republican Governments. Mr. Bloor visited Yugoslavia in
January 1972 to discuss arrangements for the coordination of engineering,
procurement and construction.



- 2 -
II. THE POWER SECTOR
General Background
2.01      Yugoslavia is a Socialist Federal Republic comprising six republics
and two autonomous provinces, with a population of about 20 million people.
Per capita income is presently estimated at about US$650 equivalent.
Mining and manufacturing compose 36.5% of the econonm and industrial production
has had the highest growth rates of all sectors. The economr has been
growing by some 8% annually since 1968, but the regional distribution of this
growth, and also of per capita incomes,have been very uneven.
2.02      One of the prerequisites of continued industrial growth combined
with alleviation of the existing regional disparitiea in economic conditions
is an improvement in the electric power sector, which is presently charac-
terized by inadequate and uneven availability of electric power, poor
planning and serious financial problems. These deficiencies have their
roots in the increasing decentralization of government which was initiated
in 1950 and was further emphasized and accelerated as a result of the 1965
economic reform. A major consequence of the lessened governmental role
has been the growing difficulty since 1965 of coordinating the allocation
of investments and finance among sectors and regions.
2.03      The 1971/75 Development Plan, which waB to be adopted in 1970,
has been delayed by disagreements on the changes needed to deal with the
present problems. The recent (1971) Constitution has defined the broad
areas of responsibility of Federal and Republican Governments and of the
various economic organizations, but a multitude of specific issues, such
as prices of essential commodities and public services, remain to be settled.
Laws of the Republics which are to be substituted for now expiring Federal
laws still need to be enacted and development plans for each of the Republics,
consistent with the availability of funds to implement them, still need to
be approved.
2.04      The long and still continuing  transition from a centralized to a
decentralized economyn, the economic and constitutional reforms, the two
recent devaluations of the dinar and the price freeze to combat inflationary
pressures have all had a profound, and thus far adverse, effect on the
organization, finances, management and development planning of the power
sector.
Organization of the Power Sector
2.05      In accordance with the Electricity Act of 1965, which euperseded
a sytem of centralized Federal control, the power industry is now decentralized
and broadly separated into a distribution sector and a generation and
transmission sector. The 26 distribution enterprises are organized in an
association and are represented on a Federal Comimittee for Coordination (FCC).
The distribution enterprises and 27 bulk consuwers buy power from the
generation and transnission enterprises. The tariffs charged by the distri-
bution enterprises, which are approved by the Federal Institute of Price



- 3 -
Control, cover all expenses and practically all funds needed for expansion.
As long as retail tariffs continue to be set by these standarda, the distri-
bution enterprises will be able to pass on rate increases for bulk power
purchased from the generation and tranamisBion enterprises and will thus be
free of problems in financing the expansion of distribution facilities to
meet load growth.
2.06      The generation and transmission sector, with which this report
deals, consists of 20 independent power enterprises. The organizational
pattern in which the power enterprises are combined is different in each
of the six Republics. An organization chart is shown in Annex 1, page 1.
2.07      All generation and transmission enterprises are members of the
Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL). JUGEL, which also
includes six research institutes, two so called business associations and
one firm of ccnsulting engineers, has so far performed mainly the function of a
professional association. It is responsible for overall coordination among
its members in interconnected system planning and operations, preparation of
tariff proposals, technical regulations, collection of statistics, and
promotion of research; it has no executive authority over its members.
2.08      JUGEL acts through an Assembly, a Board of Management and a
Director General appointed by the Assembly subject to approval by the
Federal Government.  The Assembly consists of representatives of member
enterprises and of representatives of JUGEL.
Management of the Power Ehterpriaea
2.09      Each power enterprise is an independent economic organization in
accordance with the general Yugoslav concept of decentralized economic
control and workers' self-management of "social property".  The basic
management structure is common to all the power enterprises and is illus-
trated in Annex 1, page 2. The Workers' Council, elected by the personnel of the
enterprise, acts as the top policy-making body in much the same fashion as
the board of directors of a corporation in a non-socialist country. The
Workers' Council appoints the General Manager, who is the chief executive
officer of the enterprise. Each enterprise is subdivided into Working
Units, each of which has its own Workers' Council and manager, to assure
workers' participation in management throughout the enterprise.
2.10      Management and staff of the 11 enterprises which would participate
in the Project (see Annex 2) are competent to deal with normal business
matters. The enterprisea are operated efficiently. They are, however,
less able to deal effectively with the problems of a growing system of
interconnected power enterprises. The agreements presently being negotiated
between the enterprises, under the auspices of JUGEL, to improve coordination
of development programs and the planning of construction of new projects, do
not substitute for much needed mangament training. Present shortcomings of
management and the recomended solutions are discuesed below (paras. 2.20,
2.21, 2.22, 6.o4, and 6.06).



-4-
Financing of the Power Sector
2.11      An even more difficult problem than the coordination of management
in the financing of the capital works program. In the past, this problem
was not as pronounced as it is now because of the substantial financial
participation of the Federal Government. Until 1962 power projects were
entirely financed by credits from the general investment fund of the
Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB) on soft terms (50 years repayment and 2%
interest).  Since then, the enterprises have had to bear a growing burden
of financing their expansion, through hArder loan terms and requirements for
increasing self-generation of funds. Until 1970 enterprises were obliged
to deposit these internally generated funds with local banks, but could
borrow against them for new power projects, generally for 15 years at an
average 5.5% interest.  The Federal Government continued to subsidize
enterprises in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Serbia for operating
losses out of the Federal budget,until the end of 1970. The effect of
these past financing arrangements is reflected in the present financial
position of the eleven power enterprises, whose financial statements are
shown and analyzed in detail in Annexes 10-15.
2.12      Since January 1, 1971, all generation and transmission enterpriaes
have had to cover their operating costs and finance new investments without
assistance from the Federal Government. However, not all enterprises have
been equally able to generate internal funds and raise local bank credits
(paras. 6.08 and 6.09). Their major problem is the need for substantial
increases in bulk electricity tariffs to raise the level af self-financing
from an average 16% of the planned investmenta (para. 6.10) on the basis
of existing tariffs.
2.13      Late in 1970 new bulk tariff proposals were made to the appropriate
authorities by JUGEL and the FCC. The tariffs proposed would cover operating
costs, including adequate depreciation and would, after allowing for debt
service in excess of depreciation, generate funds for new investments in
generation and transmission facilities. The Federal Go*ernment has recently
reached agreement in principle with the Republics and Provinces to increase
bulk electricity tariffs l5% effective July 1, 1972. The implementation of
the rate increase would be a condition of effectiveness. Under new legislation
the Republics and Provinces are to be given authority to set maximum levels
of electricity tariffs.  However, should this authority on tariffs not be
transferred to the Republics and Piovinces, the covenants in the Glarantee
Agreement (3.02 b) bind the Federation to allow the borrowers to set tariffs
at levels required to provide the funds necessary under para. 6.14.
2.14      The Republican Govermnents are already empowered to enact special
levies and surcharges to provide additional funds for financing electric
power ino-vz;tments.  Tl1a Re2-'l_5 of Cwzx-:La aud Sl-.ia aie nvw raisitig
funds for the electricity enterprises through special levies and surcharges
the proceeds of which are earmarked for financing of investments in power
facilities.



- 5 -
2.15      The tentative aggregate financing plan for the eleven borrowers
(see para. 6.10) indicates that the enterprises and the Republics
are aiming at achieving a level of financing from internal resources of
about 38% with a combination of tariff increases, special levies, sur-
charges and rechannelling of common internal funds by way of long-term,
low-interest credits, and granta. The remaining 62% of funds for future
expanaion of generation and transmission facilities for the period 1972-76
estimated to be Din 7.8 billion will have to be raised through local bank
borrowings, foreign suppliers' credits, the Bank loan and possible future
foreign assistance.
2.16      The need for borrowing fram local banks is markedly higher than
that in other sectors.  For instance, in the telecommunications sector
(Loan 675-YU) only Dinars 950 million representing 12% of the total capital
requirements for 1968-75 had to be raised through local borrowings and a
large share of this is provided by the postal savings system. A general
liquidity problem has resulted in serious delays in the provision of invest-
ment funds for some ongoing projects in other sectors. Firm commitments by
local banks for the financing of the Project are therefore essential and
letters of intent to this effect have been received (para. 6.14). These
ccmmitments for the Project would cover about Dinar 1.2 billion, or about
10% of the tentative sector program. The Bank loan would also represent
about 10% of this program.
The Power Market
2.17      The generation enterprises of JUGEL supply about 90% of all
electric power in the country; the remaining 10% is generated by other
industries or by small hydroelectric or thermal plants (10 MW or less)
operated by the distribution enterprises. Actual and projected consump-
tion for Yugoslavia (excluding new very large industrial consumers) at
plant terminals are:
Average
Annual Increase
GWh                 in Output %
1960            8,705
1965           15,135                   11.7
1970           25,372                   11.1
1975           43,86o                   11.5
1980           65,350                    8.3
2.18      The change in pattern of consumption shown below reflect.
primarily the very rapid growth in domestic consumption.  Domestic consumption
has been increasing at a rate of 18% for same years and by 1970, 83% of all
population centers, ranging frcm 100% in Slovenia to about 50% in Boania-
Herzegovina, had electricity.



-6 -
% of Total
1960     1965     1970     1975      1980
Domestic and Commercial        23.5     28.8     32.7     36.5      39.5
Industrial                    61.5      56.3     54.3    50.1       47.5
Traction                        1.1      1.2      1.1      1.1       1.1
Losses                         13.9     13.7     11.9     12.3      11.9
2.19      Projected demand will not be  met adequately for aome
years. With the capacities and outputs of plant now in use or under
construction as euamarized below (ee Annex 3 for further details), a
deficit of 1,500 aWh, 4% of expected energy demand, iB likely by 1975.
In            Under            Total        Correaponding
Operation     Construction          MW         Annual Output
MW       (Coqpleted 1975)                       GWh
mw
Hydro            3,980           1,170            5,150          2u,900
Thermal 3_64o                       675           4,315          21,500
Total          7,620           1,845            9,465          42,400
If industrial plants now in the planning stage should be completed by 1975
the deficit would be about 3.5 times this much without new capacity, but the
possibility of all these industrial plants being completed by 1975 is
remote. The Project cannot reduce this deficit, but its absence
would cause regional deficits to be much worse since the Project will assist in
distributing the output of plants now in operation and under construction,
especially of the Djerdap bydroolectric plant which will have an average
annual output of 5,000 GWh. Capacity to meet peak-loads is also inadequate.
Plants burning lignite, which have little operational flexibility and must
be run at minimam loads of 60%-80% of nominal capacity, account for 1,780
MW or 41% of thermal capacity; and about half of the hydroelectric capacity
is run-of-river plant.
Development Program and Wystej Planning
2.20      Since 1965 there has been practically no coordinated planning
of construction in the power sector. The last Federal Power Program was
intended to meet demand until 1973. Subsequent initiatives taken by the
various power enterprises were to met only local or regional demand.
Late in 1970, JUGEL prepared a national plan for power development which
includes the completion of the 380 kV tranamission qsytem as an item of
first priority, the installation of a maull amount of peak-load generating
capacity by adding new plant to existing hydroelectric power stations, and
several new hydro and thermal plants, including a joint project of the
Republics of Slovenia and Croatia for a 630 MW nuclear plant to be coqpleted
by 1978. Uhfortunately, the information presently available about this
national power development plan is sketchy. The plan is thus far primarily
an inventory (see Annexes 4 and 5) of intentions of the various power



-7-
enterprises, without agreed priorities for implementation of all the planned
facilities. Nevertheless, the order of magnitude of the tentative construc-
tion program of the major power enterprises for the next few years can be
seen in the following forecasta of capital expenditures for 1972-76 by the 11
enterprises which would be responsible for the construction of the 380 kV
trangdission network.
Tentative Construction Program 1972-76
380 kV         Other Generation &
Transmission        Transmission
Project           Construction             Total
Republics     Enterprises  Din. Mill. US$ Mill. Din. Mill. US$ Mill. Din. Mill. US$ Mill.
Boania-       Sarajevo        691.9      40.7       645.2     37.9      1,337.1     78.6
Herzegovina  Trebinje        98.6        5.8     1,439.4     84.7      1,538.0     90.5
Croatia       Rijeka          217.6      12.8       795.5    46.8       1,013.1     59.6
It         Split          164.9        9.7       246.4     14.5       411.3      24.2
to         Zagreb         544.0       32.0     2,695.0    158.5     3t239.0    190.5
Macedonia     Skopje          253.3      14.9     1,681.4     98.9      1,934.7    113.8
Montenegro    Titograd        214.2      12.6       256.2      15.1       470.4     27.7
Serbia        Belgrade     1,195.1       70.3       809.7     47.6      2,004.8    117.9
Slovenia      Ljubljana       166.6       9.8        64.7      3.8        231.3     13.6
to         Maribor        193.8       11.4       167.5      9.9        361.3     21.3
If         Nova Gorica     85.0        5.0        17.1      1.0       102.1       6.0
Total            3,825.0      225.0     8,818.1    518.7    12,643.1    743.7
Mo==
The investment shown in transmission and generation is believed to represent
the bulk of the sector'a capital works program through 1976, to the extent
that the program has been defined.
2.21     In view of the presently uncertain nature and cost of this generation
and transmission program, it is difficult to judge its technical, financial
and economic feasibility. At the suggestion of the Bank, JUGEL has accordingly
initiated a study to evaluate the program. The market will be restudied,
giving more realistic consideration to the needs of industrial expansion;
projects will be more clearly identified, priorities will be determined, and
a construction program established. Ccmpletion of the study is scheduled for
mid-1972.
2.22     However, the need for improved system interconnection ia evident now,
and steps have been taken to realize this objective. A first annual operating
agreement among the 11 major enterprises was signed in 1970 under the auspices
of JUGEL, replacing an inadequate earlier aystem of bi-lateral agreements
between individual enterprises. The Project, in which the key enterprises
in each Republic will participate, under the coordination of JUGEL (see paras.
3.05 and 5.06), will make possible thi needed interconnection. To assist in
improving the processes of interconnected operation and system planning,
provision for the services of foreign consultants is included in the US$2
million amount provided in the loan for technical assistance and the training
abroad of key officers engaged in interconnected system management. For such
training JUGEL and the borrowers would propose to the Bank a program for its
acceptance as condition of effectiveness.



-8-
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The existing primary tranamission astem iB 220 kV and reaches
most parts of the country. Operating experience has shown that it is
deficient for transmitting power in the east/wvat direction; and market
studies show that it will become saturated by 1975. The 1,050 MW Djerdap
hydroelectric plant on the Danube is approaching completion. Most of its
output will have to be transmitted toward the west. To carry this power,
six 220 kV lines or two 360 kV lines would be needed. The more economical
380 kV solution has been selected and construction of the two lines has
been started.
Description of the Project
3.02      The Project, the first phase of a 380 kV transmission network,
involves the construction of nearly 3,000 km of single-circuit and about 50 km
of double-circuit, 380 kV transmission lines and 12 sub-stations having an
aggregate capacity of 7,900 MVA; five sub-stations would be equipped with one
or two 300 MVA transformers and the remaining with one or two 400 MVA transformers
each. The individual lines and sub-stations which form the Project are listed in
Anmex 6. The Map indicates the extent of the 380 kV network proposed. Preliminary
works only would be undertaken at six other sub-stations with connecting lines
operating mainly at 220 kV initially. Technical assistance and training (paras.
2.22, 3.07, and 6.o6) has also been included in the Project.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated cost of the Project, and the respective shares of
the 11 enterprises, are shown in Annex 7. The summarized cost estimate
is as follows:
(In Million Dinara)          (In Million US Dollars)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Items             Currency  Currency  Total  Currency  Currency  Total
1.  Land                      123.5              123.5      7.3               7.3
2.  Construction for lines    730.0              730.0    42.9               42.9
3.  Construction for sub-
stations               250.4              250.4     14.7              14.7
4. Equipment for lines         700.9    382.6  1,083.5      41.2      22.5   63.7
5. Equipment for sub-
stations               260.3    517.3    777.6      15.3      30.4   45.7
6. Technical Assistance
and Training            74.1      34.0    108.1      4.4        2.0    6.4
7. Overhead and Miscel-
laneous                163.4              163.4      9.6               9.6
8. Physical contingencies
@ 5%                   101.9      45.1   147.0       6.0        2.6    8.6
9. Price contingencies
@ 15ig                 315.5    126.0   441.5    18.6           7.5   26.1
Total             2,720.0  1105.0  3 825 0    160.0         65.0  225.0
,l~~~ -   ,    



- 9 -
These estimates, except for the foreign currency items, were prepared by
JUGEL assisted by consultants and the technical staff of the enterprises, and
are generally based on current construction costs and ex-factory prices of
transmission line materials and sub-station equipment manufactured in
Yugoslavia. The estimates do not include import duties. The likely foreign
exchange component is uncertain since there is little experience in Yugoslavia
with international competition in electrical equipment supplies.. Yugoslav
manufacturers could supply all but about 25% of the materials and equip-
ment needed; but since their capacity is limited and the 15% preference for
local manufacturers (see para. 3.05) would provide less protection than the
import duties which vary from 30-40%, it is, therefore, estimated that 50%
of all equipment would be supplied from abroad. This assumption approximates
actual experience in other countries where aimilar conditions exist. The
physical contingencies of 5% reflect recent experience in Yugoslavia on this
type of work. The price contingencies of 15iA are based on expected
price increases at an annual rate of 5% fram mid-1971. The local contingencies
are based on recent Yugoslav experience and the foreign contingencies are based
on several similar projects for which the Bank haa recently made loans.
Amount and Distribution of Loan
3.04      The proposed Bank loan would be for US$75 million equivalent
determined on the basis of the financial requirements of the Project (Chapter
VI). While it is likely that foreign content, including that for technical
assistance, would approximate US$65 equivalent, the loan could be used
to finance local currency expenditures as required (para. 3.06). The
distribution of the loan among the 11 enterprises will be, in principle, on
a pro rata basis in relation to the cost of the Project within the operating
area  of each enterprise.   The allocation includes, in addition to the
straight pro rata share, a roughly 37% increase in the pro rata allocation
for enterprises operating in the less developed regions. These are the
power enterprises Sarajevo, Trebinje, Titograd, Skopje, and Belgrade.il} The
amounts are as follows: (See Annex 7 for further details).
Republics             Enterprises       Share of IBRD Loan
(US$ Million)
Bosnia-Herzegovina   Sarajevo           16.4
It            Trebinje            2.3       18.7
Croatia              Rijeka               7
split              2.8
Zagreb             9.2        15.7
Macedonia             Skopje                         5.9
Montenegro            Titograd                       5.1
Serbia                Belgrade          2E7t        22.1
Slovenia             Ljubljana           2.8
Maribor             3.3
Nova Gorica                    7.5
Total                    75.0
1/ The 37% increase was calculated in the case of Belgrade on the basis of the
proportionate cost of the project relating to the Kosovo province.



- 10 -
Procurement
3. 05     The Bank loan would be applied to the purchase of materials and
equipment required for the Project (except materials required for civil
works) and the procurement would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Yugoslav manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference
of the CIF price at port of entry excluding oustom duties or the existing
level of custom duties, whichever is less. UB$2 million would be made available
for payment of consulting services (review of integrated system planning and
operation and of the management information systmsa) and for financial and
technical management training of key personnel of the borrowers and JUGEL.
The eleven borrowers have agreed that the responsibility for the Project will
be delegated to a Coordinating Committee set up by the borrowers to represent
them in the execution of the project (para. 3.07 and Annex 9). The borrowers
and JUGEL have agreed to make arrangeaent. which will permit the uwe of common
specifications for the entire systsm; calling for tenders on large quantities
of goods; and a uniform approach to contract awards. These arrangements are
described fully in Annex 9 and incorporated in the loan agreement.  The ques-
tion of preferences on the import of equipment does not arise as Yugoslavia
is not a member of any trading blocks granting preferences.
Disbursement
3.o6      It is estimated that the portion of the proposed loan which applies
to financing of material and equipment would cover about 58% of their total
cost. It would be impractical to apply this or any other percentage to the
disbursements for payment of foreign or local contracts because it would then
be impossible to apportion the loan to the individual enterprises according to
their share in the total project cost, given the varying equipment and material
component in each case. At the same time the borrowers would be deprived of
the opportunity to make direct foreign payments under the Bank loan and it
woUld not be ensured that all anticipated foreign expenditures would be covered
by the loan. They would have to obtain foreign currencies first before applying
for partial reimbursement from the Bank loan. This would involve a time-
consuming proceas of applications and approval through local banks. Individual
disbursements will therefore be made for 100% of the local and foreign expendi-
tures for material and equipment and of the foreign costs of technical assistance
of each of the borrowers to the extent of their sharein the total loan, with the
intention of covering first all foreign exchange requirements before payments
for local contracts. No disbursement will be made for civil works or materials
for civil works. It is estimated that the loan would be drawn down as shown in
Annex 8.
Engineering
3.07      The overall planning of the Project and the detailed design for
thepart already built have been done by JUGEL assisted by technical staff
of the enterprises, the consulting engineering firm, Energoprojekt, Belgrade,
and several of the technical institutes which are members of JUGEL. Similar
arrangements would be continued through the detailed design and construction
supervision stages. These arrangements are satisfactory since the consulting
firm and institutes mentioned above have the necessary technical competence.



- 11 -
The Borrowers and JUGEL have agreed to engage for the different
project execution stages, specialized consulting firms or institutes (to be
employed by JUGEL and/or the Borrowers) for specific and singular projectwide
responsibilities. JUGEL and the Borrowers have agreed to complete arrangements
to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank before the loan is made effective.
Construction
3.08      Each enterprise would be responsible for the construction of the
facilities in its operating area, as described in Annex 9, using Yugoslav
construction firms or force account, as appropriate. There are construction
firmsin Yugoslavia capable of constructing the Project, as evidenced by
the work done on the 220 kV gystem and the work already done on the 380 kV
system, and some enterprises have the capability of doing some of the work
by force account.
3.09      Construction has been started on the 380 kV transmission aystem;
lines from the new DJerdap hydroelectric station have been completed to
Belgrade and to Bor (totalling 300 km) and sub-stations have been completed
in Belgrade and Bor.l/ Preliminary work on other parts of the proposed
eystem are under way, such as purchase of land and clearing, but no con-
struction has begun nor has any equipment been purchased. Construction of
the Project is scheduled to start during the latter part of 1972, and be
completed in 1976.
Ecological Aspects
3.10      Very little land will be taken out of production, and much of the
right-of-way traverses very rough country of little value. JUGEL and the
enterprises have agreed that the lines will be laid to have the minimum
adverse esthetic impact, especially in areas of scenic beauty.
1/ This portion of the program is not included in the work to be financed
by the proposed loan.



- 12 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The Yugoslav power systes have developed predominantly on a
regional basis as the result of political, geographical and technical
considerations. The country has several mountain ranges parallel with
the Adriatic Coast. Hydroelectric plants were sited in the valleys close
to the nearest industrial centers so that transmission was localized.
Thermal plants were located next to the lignite mines which predominate
in the central part of the country, to supply nearby industrial centers.
Such integration of power facilities that waa carried out was on a republican
rather than national basis. At present, therefore, the systems are character-
ized by a series of lines at 220 kV and lower voltages primarily connecting
generation and load centers within valley regions.
4.02      While the regions are now interconnected, East-West power transfer
is quite limited because of inadequacies in the existing network. This weak
national integration severely limits the tranfer of power between regions and
so imposes on the Yugoslav economy a heavy cost of inadequate supply while not
ful)y -utflizing existing generating capacity because the hydrological character-
istics of the rivers differ widely and thermal plant, which is geographically
concentrated, must largely be operated at base load.   The present
220 kV transmission system with its predominantly north/South orientation
has experienced voltage drops of more than 20% below normal in Slovenia, the
Zagreb region of Croatia, and Macedonia, resulting in substantial inter-
ference with industrial production. Some additional 220 kV lines are under
construction to help alleviate these problems, but studies have shown that,
with the anticipated growth of the market and the corresponding additions
to generating capacity (see paras. 2.17 and 2.18), still more lines at this
voltage will not cope with the needs, either physically or economically.
This conclusion is reinforced by the approaching completion of the large
Djerdap hydroelectric plant on the Danube River, the capability of which
cannot be fully utilized until a large part of the proposed 380 kV trans-
mission system is completed.
4.03      The construction of large generating facilities, particularly
thermal, with correspondingly low unit costa, is largely precluded by the
nature of the present transmiasion system. The benefits of interconnection
with the systems of adjacent countries are also precluded by the present
links being mainly limited to 110 kV. The national transmission voltage in
these adjacent countries is 380 kV. Integration at this voltage is
accordingly an immediate Yugoslav objective.  It would offer a long-term
outlet for the sale of surplus energy, ability to purchase energy in time
of need, and thus reduce standby and reserve capacity requirements.
4.04      In brief, an EHV transmission grid for all of Yugoslavia is needed
both for reasons of economy and improving supply, to permit bulk transfers
of power among regional systems, to permit optimum utilization of thermal
and hydroelectric generating facilities according to their different operating
regimes, to improve the stability and the quality of power supply including
proper voltage control, and to effect interconnection with neighboring
countries.



- 13 -
4.05      The voltage of 380 kV was selected as the optimum following studies
which included the 500 kV alternative. It is also the appropriate voltage
for interconnection with neighboring countries.
4.06      The proposed 380 kV 8ystem would link Djerdap, with two lines
needed to carry the plant's output, to a national loop with tap connections
at appropriate points extending to the northweat corner of the country. Major
existing and future generation and load centers would be connected to the
380 kV ring. Although the layout of this ring has been made without a firm
program of additional generating plant, it was tested using two alternative
programs representing in many ways somewhat opposite extremes and found to
serve both equally well. The testing took into account different generating
capacities and loads for 1975, 1980, 1985, maximum and minimum load
conditions, maximum and minimum hydraulic conditions and transmission line
failures characteristic of this type of line . The testing showed that (a)
the layout had been optimized as far as it is practical with respect to trade-
offs between lengths of line, costs for substations etc. and (b) the scale
of the transmission ring could not be reduced and still retain an adequate
standard of reliability.
14.07     It has not proved feasible to quantify the benefits attributable
to the 380 kV transmission ring and, therefore, to calculate its internal
economic return. This is partly due to the fact that the long term system
plans in Yugoslavia have not even been defined in outline and partly due to
the complexity of carrying out the return calculation on a "with and without"
the transmission line basis. The justification of the Project rests basically
on the unquantifiable benefits brought about by an interconnecting trans-
mission ring, e.g., pooling of generating plants of different operating
characteristics, reduction in the total reserve plant capacity required for
a good standard of service, ability to locate power stations at optimum sites
and of optimum characteristics to take advantage of economies of scale and
the flexibility to allow the best positioning of tapping of loading points.
4.08      Studies which have been done in other countries for similar 380 kV
systems and the detailed studies which have been made in Yugoslavia all
indicate atrongly that all other types of solution would have a greater net
cost. Moreover, in the case of Yugoslavia today, any delay in installing
the 380 kV transmission ring would be the direct cause of not utilizing
fully the 1050 NW capacity of Djerdap H.E.-station and of future power
shortages in some of the Republics, and there is every indication from the
present supply position that the corresponding loss of economic and social
benefits would greatly outweigh the savings in cost due to the delay.



- 14 -
V. LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
General Background
5.01      The two loans made for power in 1961 (277-YU) and in 1962 (318-YU)
were made to the Yugoslav Inve stznt Bank (TIB) with a guarantee from the
Federal Government. Since these two loan operations, the organizational
structure of the Yugoslav power industry has undergone a considerable change
(paras. 2.05-2.07) and lending through the YIB is no longer appropriate.
The lending arrangsnwnt for this complex project needs to be consistent
with the objectives of (i) binding each of the eleven power enterprises which
will carry out its part of the Project and bear sole responsibility for its
own financial obligations, and (ii) promoting maximum cooperation between
them for smooth administration, including arrangements for procurement
and disbursement.
5.02      Possible ways of achieving these objectives were extensively
discussed by the Bank with the Yugoslav enterprises, JUGEL, and the Federal
and Republican Governments. The lending arrangement proposed as a result
of these discussions obliges each of the eleven enterprises to carry out
its part of the Project and to repay ita share of the Bank loan. There
would be one loan agreement to which the eleven enterprises and JUGEL
would be signatories.   JUGEL would not have any financial obligations under
the agreement and act only as a coordinator. The guarantee agreement would
be signed by the Federal Government and would inter alia provide that the
Federal Government would enter into agreements withthe Republics and
Provinces, providing for then to authorize the borrowers within their
jurisdictiona to establish and smintain power rates sufficient to fulfill
the requirementB of the rate convenant in the loan agreement; in addition
these agreements would provide for certain other measures to be taken by
the Republics and Provinces to provide revenue to the borrowers as required
under the rate covenant (para. 6.20).
5.03      To assure adequate provision of local bank funds for completion
of the transmission project letters of intent (para. 2.16) have been given
by the local banks regarding their lending of specified amounts to the
borrowers, and the providing of addition4l aounts, if and when required,
to cover overruns in project cost; in two cases the overrun cost commit-
ment will be given by the regional power association to which two of the
borrowers belong.
The Borrowers
5.04      The borrowers would be the eleven independent power enterprises
listed in Annex 2. These enterprises would construct and operate their
respective parts of the Project.
5.05      An independent economic organizations under Yugoslav law, the
borrowers alone are responsible for covering their operating expenses and



- 15 -
their debt service and obtaining sufficient funds from internal cash
generation and from borrowings to finance their capital expenditures.
However, the financial autoncex of these enterprises is limited inasmuch
as the Republics, and Provinces, have regulatory authority over electricity
tariffs (para. 2.13). The complex and varied financial conditions under
which the eleven borrowers operate are analyzed in detail in Annex 10-15.
The Role of JUGEL
5.06      JUGEL (para. 2.07) would be a signatory to the loan agreement
but would not receive any part of the loan or assume any financial obliga-
tions. Its role would be that of a project coordinator, with the functions
described in Annex 9 and which are incorporated into the loan agreement,
to ensure efficient coordination of engineering and procurement. JUGEL
would also be an agent for disbursement and repayaent of the Bank loan.



- 16 -
VI. FIKANCIAL ASPECTS
Objectives
6.01      Because full responsibility for providing funds for their own
investments has been carried by the individual power enterprises only since
January 1, 1971 (para. 2.12), the enterpriseB are only now beginning to
appreciate how critical is their future financial performance to achieving
their ambitious expansion programe. These programs can only be financed
from internal funds and borrowings, in such proportions as are dictated by
the limited availability of local bank credits and the need to restrict
future debt service to the ability of the enterprises to cover it. The
Federal and Republican Governments are supporting the general objective
that internal contributions towarda future expansion be at least 30-40%.
However, the conditions under which such internal contributions can be
achieved differ widely among Republics.
Financial Statements
6.02      The form of financial statements of all Yugoslav enterprises is
prescribed by the Federal Government. Bookkeeping follows the double-entry
system and the accrual system for recording transactionb. The fundamental
principle of the Yugoslav system is accounting for the use of assets which
are regarded as "social property" entrusted to the working community.
However, there are many deficiencies in the way these principles are
implemented in the power sector.
6.03      The data collected at the working level are not meaningful as a
tool for financial management. Accounting principles are not consistently
applied, and frequent changes in the presentation of data are made without
attempting to reconcile revised statements with previous statements. This
is apparently due to the long tradition of reporting plan implementations
and the rather short experience in the consistent recording of operating
results.  Internal financial control within the enterprises is deficient.
6.04      The accounts of each enterprise are verified once a year by the
Social Accounting Service (SAS), and examined by the SAS in greater detail
at irregular intervals of between one and three years.  The main purpose of
these external controls is to examine whether the financial transactions of
the enterprises comply with Yugoslav laws. The methods used could not be
considered professional audit practice. In order to have such audit
conducted in accordance with sound auditing principles, and in a manner
appropriate to the nature of the operations of the borrower and the accounting
methods to be used by it, the Social Accounting Service may have to modify
and adapt its procedures and, to that end, to train the staff that will be
assigned to auditing the power enterprises in the modern procedures and
techniques for auditing power enterprises. In the event that the Social
Accounting Service is not able to achieve a consistent and satisfactory
standard of auditing, the borrowers have agreed to retain, at the request
of the Bank, a competent, experienced, and independent auditor or auditing
f.1:m or organization selected by the borrowers after consultation
with the Bank.  During negotiations, the eleven borrowers agreed to



- 17 -
submit financial statements, audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles and prepared in accordance with Yugoslav laws, to the Bank within
four months after the end of each fiscal year together with appropriate
explanatory notes.
6.05      Yugoslav financial principles differ from those generally applied
in non-socialist countries in the concept of ownership, priority of obliga-
tions of an enterprise, and disposition of net income. They do, however,
recognize the need to generate from revenue sufficient cash to cover all
operating expenses (including depreciation) and to provide funds for debt
service and additional investments in the business or social facilities
for the workers. The financial forecasts are therefore shown in this report
in the format commonly used to measure financial performance. Future
financial statements of the enterprises, as prepared under Yugoslav
regulations, would be reconcilable with these pro forma statements.
6.06      While present financial statements would provide sufficient
information for project supervision,they do not produce sufficiently
detailed and up-to-date information for management nor are they required
to. The enterprises are free to organize and maintain their accounting
records as they please, apart from the regular statements prescribed by
law. During negotiations, the eleven enterprises and JUGEL agreed
to review existing management information systems with the assistance of
consultants familiar with interconnected electric power systems, to determine
what improvements are needed in the organization and maintenance of account-
ing records of the enterprises. This review Would be concluded not later
thani twelve months after effectiveness of the loan, and the Bank be informed
of plans to implement its recommendations. JUGEL and the enterprises would
also propose to the Bank a training program in modern electric utility
management methods for key officers of the borrowers and JUGEL
(para. 2.22).
Present Financial Position
6.07      In view of the particulars of sector history and financial records
referred to in earlier parts of this report (para. 2.11) the existing record
of past operating results of the eleven borrowers is not meaningful.
However, past financial transactions have affected the present financial
position of each borrower.    The following key financial  ratios reflect
past financial obligations for which the enterprises will continue to be
responsible and which will thus affect their ability to incur new debt and
their need for tariff increases.
Republics      Enterprises      Debt/Eauity Ratios     Debt Service Coverage
19"70     1971        ---T0        1971
Bosnia-        Sarajevo           57/43    57/43           3-4       2.5
Herzegovina
11       Trebinje          81/19    77/23            2.2      3.8
Croatia        Rijeka             78/22    76/24           2.0       1.1
If          Split              33/67    48/52           3.0      2
if          Zagreb            68/32    69/31            3.6       1.4
Macedonia      Skopje             74/26    78/22            2.3      1.8
Montenegro     Titograd           50/50    54/46            5.1      5.1
Serbia         Belgrade           78/22    79/21            1.4      1.6
Slovenia       Liubljana          29/71,   29/71           1.3       1.5
WM&ribor                     58/42    58/42            1.4       1.3
it'         Nova Gorica       22/78    23/77            3.2      2.5



- 18 -
6.08      More detailed financial data for each individual borrower are
included in Annexes 10-15.  The above table reveals clearly the marked
differences in terms at which the borrowers have been able to borrow in the
past. The enterprises with high debt service coverage are not uniforily
the ones with the low debt equity ratios.  The Slovenian enterprise ratios
also reflect the fact that they are regulated to cover only the cost of
operations. For the future, however, the enterprises will incur debt
on similar terms, since funds will have to be raised from the local banks
and foreign lending institutions, without interest subsidies. The extent
of borrowings required in the future and the effect on the financial position
of the various enterprises is described in the following paragraphs.
Financing Plans
6.09      The financing plans for each of the eleven borrowers for the
period 1972-77 are shown in Annex 10-15.  They reveal the need for substan-
tial increases in internal funds, beoause local banks are only expected to
be able to provide between 30% and 40% of the funds needed.
6.10      The aggregate of the individual financing plans, shown below,
indicates the order of magnitude of the amounts required from various
sources:



- 19 -
AGGREGATE OF TENTATIVE FINANCING PLANS
OF THE ELEVEN POWER ENTBtPRISES
1972-1976
US$
Dinars       Millions
Millions     Equivalent       %
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Net Funds Provided by present       1,973.3        116.1         15.7
Tariffs
Additional Funds Provided by        1,550.6         91.2         12.3
Increased Tariffs
Funds Provided from Tariffs   3,523.9        207.3         28.0
Special Tax Resources
Additional Funds Provided by        1,206.7         71.0          9.6
Surcharges, Levies and
Common Internal Funds of
Associated Enterprioes
Sabtotal            4,730.6        278.3         37.6
External Resources
For Transmission Project
Loans fron Domestic Banks         1,211.3         71.3          9.6
IERD Loan                         1,275.0         75.0         10.1
For Other Projects
Future Borrowings                 4,783.7        281.4         38.0
Future Suppliers' Credits           584.9         34.4          4.7
(Local and Foreign)
Subtotal            7,854.9       1462.1         62.4
Total Funds Available   12,585.5       1740.4        100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Construction Program           3,825.0        225.0         30.4
Investments in Generation and         7,678.2        451.7          61.0
Transmission Already Planned
Possible Additional Investments for
1976 & Subsequent Years Plus
Workin  Capital Requirements         1,082.3         63.7          8.6
1972-176---
Total FTunds Applied    12,585.5        740.4         100.0
_  - _    _     , 



- 20 -
6.11      The eleven power enterprises now intend to raise about Dinars
1.6 billion through tariff increases, which together with revenue raised by
present tariffs would provide about 28% from self financing. An additional
Dinars 1.2 billion would be provided by surcharges, levies and long term, low
interest loans of common internal funds. Together with funds to be generated
from tariffs, this would provide about 38% of the estimated capital require-
ments. The remaining are intended to be obtained from future borrowings (47%),
from the Bank (10%), and from Suppliers' (5%). As the program becomes more
definite, these percentages will change, probably in the direction of
increasing availability of external assistance.
Financial Covenants
6.12      Given the apecial circumstances of each of the eleven borrowers,
the absence at this time of a common basis of valuation of assets and of
precise annual amounts of capital expenditures, debt service, operating
costs, and sales revenue, reliable individual forecasts are not available
as bench marks against which actual performance could be measured.
6.13      Accordingly the borrowers agreed during negotiations to provide
a reasonable internal contribution towards future expansion. A covenant
of this form is clearly understood by all the borrowers and can be effectively
monitored during supervision of the Project.
6.14      The borrowers agreed to establish and maintain prices for the
sale of electricity to provide revenues:
(a)  to cover operating expenses, including depreciation, and
interest;
(b) to meet repayments of indebtedness to the extent that such
repayments exceed the provision for depreciation; and
(c) to produce a surplus of internal funds sufficient to cover
at least 35% of the cost of expansion of their power
facilities .
If the maximum price of electricity permitted by legislation were less than
that required under the covenant, this test would consider as revenues
proceeds from special surcharges and levies received by the borrowers exclu-
sively for financing their expansion program as well as common internal
funds of associated power enterpriose rechanneled to the borrowers by way
of long term, low-interest credits and grants. The Federal and Republican
Governments have agreed to take such action as to enable the enterprises
to meet this covenant.
6.15      Since a plan period of the guarantor is the only period for which
capital expenditures can be firmly determined in Yugoslavia, the test of
performance, under the covenant, for achieving the 35% internal contribution
would be made annually but it would be related to each of the guarantors'
plan periods which would occur during the life of the loan. At the present,
these plan periods are for 5 years. A moving four or five year period as



- 21 -
a test basis, which might be used under other circumstances, would require
arbitrary estimates of capital expenditures by individual power enterprises,
for which no authorization through approved development plans existed, and
would thus be impractical in the Yugoslav context.
6.16      A combination of different steps are proposed to generate the
required internal funds in each of the six Republics (details are included
in Annexes 10-15). The different categories of action intended to be taken
are as follows:
(a) Tariff increases, resulting in a increase in average revenue
per kWh of 15% as a first step in 1972 followed by further
increases as required to fulfill the terms of the rate
covenant;
(b) Surcharges and electricity taxes on new industrial invest-
ments, to be used only for financing capital expenditures
of the power enterprises, would be levied in the Republic
Slovenia;
(c) A 10% tax on the profits of all local banks and export
campanies, for the exclusive use of the power enterprises,
would be levied in the Republic of Croatia;
(d) A surcharge on electricity consumption would be levied by
the enterprises in the Republics of Slovenia and Croatia;
(e) A connection charge based on electricity demand to be
levied by the Republic of Croatia; and
(f) Rechanneling of common internal funds of associated power
enterprises by way of long term, low interest credits or
grants in Slovenia, Serbia and the Region of Dalmatia.
6.17      These measures to generate additional funds for expansion are
expected to result in the following increases in receipts per kih through
1974.
Percentage Increase in Receipts per kWh
Republics            Enterprises          1972           1973            1974
Bosnia-              Sarajevo              15
Herzegovina
Trebinje             15
Croatia              Rijeka                16             13               4
it                Split                 22
to                Zagreb                47
Macedonia            Skopje                15
Montenegro           Titograd              15
Serbia               Belgrade              15              15             15
Slovenia             Ljubljana             15
Maribor              15
Nova Gorica          15



- 22 -
Arrangements are already in hand to make the 15% rate increase effective
July 1, 1972. With regard to the other measures, it was agreed during
negotiations that the eleven borrowers will introduce or cause to be
introduced promptly and in any case to implement no later than July 1, 1972,
such measurea as are satisfactory to the Bank which would provide the above
increases in receipts per kWh of sales for 1972.
6.18      Local banks have agreed to provide firm commitments to the eleven
power enterprises for funds aggregating about Dinars 1.2 billion (para. 6.10)
and on terms satisfactory to the Bank. The local banks have also agreed to
cover any cost overruns in the Project with the exception of two cases where
these overruns have been agreed to be covered by regional power associations.
The execution and authorization or ratification of (a) the local bank agree-
ments; (b) the agreements with the regional power associations; (c) the agree-
ment between the Federation and the Republics and Provinces to authorize
any borrower to establish and maintain tariffs as will provide revenues
referred to in paragraph 6.14 and (d) the implementation of the measures
listed in paragraph 6.16 would be the conditions of effectiveness.
Financial Forecasts
6.19      The financial forecasts presented in Annexes 10-15 for each of the
eleven enterprises are based on the assumption that: (i) action is taken as
outlined in paras. 6.16 and 6.17; (ii) the remaining funds required would be
borrowed from local sources and from the Bank in the orders of magnitude
shown in para. 6.10; (iii) both the local and foreign borrowing would be on
conventional terms (interest, 6-7.5%; repayment, 15 to 20 years); (iv) growth
of sales would be in the order of 8% annually which is reasonable;/; and
(v) operating expenses would increase in proportion with sales. Information
on past and current operating expenses does not provide a basis for a more
refined forecast.
1/ This is the projected saLles growth after taking into account the
anticipated shortage in generating capacity mentioned in paragraph 2.19.



- 23 -
6.20      The financial position, which is expected to be achieved by the
eleven enterprises by 1977 can be illustrated by the following ratios:
Debt Services
Debt/E4ui!Z           Coverage
Republics             Enterpriaes        1
Bosnia-               Sarajevo           60/40   58/42        3.2   4.0
Herzegovina
"t                 Trebinje           75/25   69/31        4.5   2.5
Croatia               Rijeka             75/25   63/37         1.5   1.2
"I                 Split              56/44   64/36        3.8   2.6
It                 Zagreb             74/26   54/46        1.7   1.6
Macedonia             Skopje             77/23   74/26         2.7   1.9
Hontenegro            Titograd           67/33   57/43         4.2   3.1
Serbia                Belgrade           78/22   68/32         1.5   1.4
Slovenia              Ljubljana          28/72   38/62         1.9   1.2 1/
Maribor           58/42   51/49         1.3   1.4
Nova Gorica       26/74   34/66         2.0   1.9 1/
These figures show that the planned expansion program, if financed as
proposed, would not impair the financial viability of the borrowers and
would in some cases improve their financial positions. The debt/equity
ratio improves due to the increase in self generated funds available for
reinvestment in the enterprises, while the debt service coverage approaches
acceptable levels due to the conventional debt now being incurred. The
detailed forecasts show that the enterprises would be able to finance at
least 35% of their presently planned investment for 1972-76 from internal
funds and special levies. The only probable exception is Macedonia which
will require a future tariff adjustment.
6521      Until the share of the expansion program borne by each of the
eleven borrowers is defined with certainty - after JUGEL's study of the
priorities and setting of all projects (para. 2.21) has been completed
later in 1972 - the above forecasts mast remain tentative.
1/ Coverage decreases because of internal pricing arrangements whereby
revenues of these enterprises are controlled by the Electricity
Association (EGS).



- 24 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the borrowers
on the following principal points:
(a) to hire foreign consultants to review and asaist in
improving interoonnected system planning and system
operation techniques (para. 2.22);
(b)  JUGEL's role as coordinator for engineering and procurement
of the Project (para. 3.05 and 3.07);
(c) JUGEL's role as agent for disbursement and repayment of
the loan (para. 5.O6);
(d) to retain auditing firms (para. 6.04);
(e) the employment of consultants to review management information
systems (para. 6.06);
(f) to implement a training program for key officers of the
eleven borrowers and JUGEL in management methods of
interconnected power systems (para. 6.06); and
(g) to establish and maintain tariffs for the sale of
electricity (para. 6.14).
7.02      During loan negotiations the following events were agreed as
conditions of effectiveneses
(a) the submission to the Bank of a study of the power market
and investment program (para. 2.21);
(b) the submission to the Bank of a training program for key officers
of the borrowers and JUGEL in management methods of intercon-
nected power systems (para. 2.22);
(c) the employment of engineering consultanta (para. 3.07);
(d) the execution and effectiveness of:
(i)  the loan agreements between the local banks and
the borrowers (para. 6.18);
(ii)  the agreements on cost overruns between two borrowers
and the regional power associations (para. 6.18);
(iii)  the agreement between the Federation and the
Republics and Provinces regarding the establishing
and maintaining of tariffs (para. 6.18); and



- 25 -
(e) the implementation of the measures designed to provide the
revenuea specified by the loan agreement (para. 6.18).
7.03     On the basis of the foregoing, the Project ia suitable for a
Bank loan of U$75 million equivalent for a period of 20 years including
5 years of grace.
May 22, 1972



I



YUGOOSLAVI A
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
DISPAICHINC SERVECE ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        AI.'
WECAI ^ AI.ME:ISI AA1 ON DEP1 ~      ~           ~            ~           ~           T.-T            1                                                                               -
E   at   *  N  mz 4 g ~~~~~~~~~~~T-                                                                                            ..... FSOEI OOI;O;;'q
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.m. ... '.46To=vS.,........ ................. ......V PO^O<  E8AEA6AT 
....~~~g ...    ...V89 LVNA &lGN
-  HuGOJAK HTIVS  0  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------                                                                                                                                                                                                               -----
T,O-..    -S01A ;  NT-1.   M 
TE tA:RER   _  _                                                             L          TO LJV                                                    r            lSe OIEROtP          X~~~~~~~~~........................... 
tLE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- ----------------------- =
T l 95 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ..
[ w QENg LAi1- l TE MORAVA J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------   ...........
.................                  ,.->.t^;
.    1972I 



I



YUGOSLAVIA
TYPICAL ENTERPRISE ORGANIZATION CHART
|Workers Council
|Managing Board
Geea tlanage, 
F     Director of EngiD                                                              Dieco of Adiitai                                                              I       Director of F nna
Operative Working Units for                                                      Operative Working Units for                                                       Operative Working Units for
HVdro                     Steam                     Research                 Constructio                                                                                      Bugtn>Acutn
Itrasmission                  'ower                     Power                         &                               on             Public Relations                                                            &                          &                 P
Services                   Pants                      Plants                    Planning                 Maintenance                   Archives                                                            Statistics              Interval Control AuiNay   tf 
AuxiNliarn  Staff                                                                                                       N  Z
>Z
Note: Er,ch Dep.rt-ent h.. in raddition to r. manaiging head a council of -ok-r for self ran-ig-mnt.                                                                                                                                     World Br.nk-6435 (R)    Ul4 -






ANNEX 2
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Tranauission Project
List of Borrowers b Republic
Republic                             Borrower
Republic of Boenia-Herzegovina - Elektroprenos Sarajevo, Sarajevo
- Hidroelektrane Na Trebianjici Trebinje,
Trebinje
Republic of Croatia            - Elektroprivreda Rijeka, Rijeka
,,                    _- ElektrOprenos Split, Split
i'                     - Elektroprivreda Zagreb, Zagreb
Republic of Macedonia          - Elektrostopanstvo Skopje, SkoPe
Republic of Montenegro         - Elektrocrnagora Titograd, Titograd
Republic of Serbia             - Elektroiatok Belgrade, Belgrade
Republic of Slovenia           - Savake Elektrarne LJublJana, Ljubljana
- Dravske Elecktrarne Maribor, Maribor
- Soske Iaektrarne Nova Gorica, Nova Gorica
April 1972



l   w                                                                                                                                      l              w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Transmission Project
Power Generating System
Power Plants Installed and Under Construction in 1970
Hydro Plants                 Thermal Plants
Capaoity                  Capacity
Republic              Name              (MW)         Nam          (MW)
Bosnia
Herzegovina     Rama                    160          Kakanj        238
Jablanica              144          Tuzla         565
Trebinje               162          Zenica         21
Dubrovnik              216          Other         109
Jajce                   78 (a)
Other                   16
Subtotal                          776                        933
Montenegro      Perucica               190           Various        21
Mratinje               360
Other                    7
Subtotal                          557                         21
Croatia         Kraljevac (Milj.)       68 (a)       Plcmin        125
Orlovac                237          Zagreb(IE-TO) 64
Zakucac (Split)       216 (a)       Sisak         210
Peruca                  42          Jertovec       40
Rijeka                  36 (a)      Zagreb (TE)   23
N. Tesla (Vinodol)      84          Vlaska         10
Senj                   216          RiJeka          7
Sklope                  23          Other         116
Gojak                   48 (a)
Varazdin                86 (a)
Manojlovac              24
Other                   41
Subtotal                        1,121                        595
Macedonia       Mavrovo                  81 (a)      Madzari        16
Globocica               42          Other          40
Spilje                  66
Tikves                  47
Kalimanci               13
Raven                   13
Vrben                   13
Vrutok                  75
Other                   17
Subtotal                          367                          56
(a3  Run-of-river plants
b)  Lignite plants



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2 pages
Hydro Plants                     Thermal Plants
Capacity                Capacity
Republic           Name                  (MW)       Name           MW)
Slovenia        Doblar                  36 (a)      Trbovlje     181
Plave                  16 (a)       Ljubljana     64
Moste                  16  a)       Sostanj      410
Medvode                17 (a)       Brestanica    26
Dravograd              21 (a)       Other         56
Vuzenica               53 (a)
Ozbalt                 60  a)
Fala                   35 (a)
Otok Marib.            51 (a)
Zlatolicje (Dray.)   133 (a)
Vuhred                 60 (a)
Other                  36
Subtotal                         534                        737
Serbia          Djerdap             1,050 (a)       Morava       125
Vlasina (Vrla)         58          Kosovo        795 (b)
Ovcar Banja             7 (a)       Obrenovac    420 (b)
bdjuvesje               7 (a)       Belgrade (TO)105
Potpec                 54 (a)       Kostolac     149
Zvornik                88 (a)      Kolubara      161
B. Basta (Perucac)    380 (a)       Belgrade (TE) 30
Kokin Brod             20           Other        189
Biatrica              103
Other                  28
Sabtotal                       1,795                      1,974
TOTAL YUGOSLAVIA:
Hydro Plants: 5,150 MW (run-of-river plants: 2,697 MW)
Thermal Plants: 4,315 MW (ligaite plantst 1,780 MW)
April 1972



ANEX 4
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Transmission Project
Power Generation
Hydroelectric Projecta Identified for First Priority Construction
Installed         Average
Name of Hydroelectric       Water Course       Capacity          Annual
Station                 or River           MW              Production
GWh
1. Split II                    Cetina              270                 272
2. Trebianjica II stage        TrebisnJica         305                 850
Var.Capljina with Gorica
3. Variation Dubrovnik II                           216                410
4. Perucica III                Zeta                120                 150
Vlasina II stage with
Bozica                      Vlasina               70                165
Sub-total i-4                             -     98$1              1,437
5. Bijeli Brijeg               Tara                274                 758
6. Bub Bijela                  Drina               432               1,146
7. Dubravica                   Drina               648               1,720
8. Konjic                      Neretva             129                 395
9. Zur I and II                Priz.Bistr.          280                552
10. Kozjak with Matka II        Treska              135                 463
11. Dabar                       Zaloamka             90                 321
sub-total 5-11                                1,986               5,355
12. Drava II                    Drava               112                 581
13. Varazdin                    Drava                87                 479
Sub-total 12-13                                  199              1,060
14. Salakovac                   Neretva             138                 573
15. Grebovica                   Neretva              76                 343
16. Visegrad                    Drina               300               1,004
17. Gradecq                     Vardar               54                 300
Subtotal 14-17                                   5613             2,2N
18. Senj-storage reservoir      tribut.of Like       -                  220
Koeinj   _--
Total 1 - 18                                   3,736             10,292
19. Cebren                                          127                 410
20. ZavoJ                                            50                 150
21. Kraljevo                    Morava              114                 410
22. Andrijevo                   Moraca               85                 450
23. Bileca                      Trebienjica          33                 110
24. Hydro station cm the        Sava                210                 820
Save River
25. Vuhred                      Dra                 250                 250
26. Djale                                            42                 160
27. Obrovac                                          48                 360
28. Djurdjevac                                      100                 500
Total 19 - 28                                  1,059              3,620
April 1972



I                          I



ANNEX 5
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Transmission ProJect
Power Generation
Thermal and Nuclear Power Stations
Identified for Future Con8truction
Installed Capacity
Name and Thermal Station                          MW
Thermal Station Kosovo V                           3x200
Thermal Station Kosovo VI                          4X300
Thermal Station Oalomej                            2x100
Thermal Station Skopje I                            200
Thermal Station Plevlja I                           200
Thermal Station Gacko                               200
Thermal Station Dalmacija I                         250
Thermal Station Dalmacija II                       2x250
Thermal Station Rijeka I                            250
Thermal Station Koper I                             200
Thermal Station Rijeka II                           250
Thermal Station Ljubljana I                         200
Nuclear Station Krsko                               630
Thermal Station Sostanj III                         275
Thermal Station Sisak II                            210
Nuclear Station Slavonija                           360/600
Thermal Station Tuzla V                             300
Thermal Station Tusla VI                           2W300
Thermal Station Obrenovac III                       300
Thermal Station Obrenovac IV                        300
Thermal Station Obrenovac V                        4x300
Thermal Station Sostanj IV                          320
Thermal Station Plevlja II                          300
Nuclear Station Krsko II                            640
Thermal Station Dalmacija III                       500
Thermal Station Rijeka III                          500
Nuclear Station Krivolak                            360/600
Thermal Station Skopje II                           300
Total                                            11,345/11,835
April 1972



ANNEX 6
'ruaOSI& VIA
Power Tranamiesion Project
Project Facilities
Tranamission Lines                                   km
Obrenovac-Belgrade VIII                              55
Novi Sad - Obrenovac                                 98
Djakovo - Obrenovac                                 165
Obrenovac-Kragujevac-Nis                            257
Zagreb-Djakovo                                      245
Tuzla-Djiakovo                                      130
Zagreb- [reko/Maribor                               106 (a)
Ljubljana-Podlog-Maribor                            103
Ljubljana-Divaca/Rijeka                             150
Rijeka - Split                                      290
Mostar - Split                                      130
Tit ograd-Trebinje -Mostar                          249
Tuzla - Mostar                                      208
Titograd - Kosovo                                   220
Kosovo - SkopJe                                     105
Skopje - Kavadarci                                   80
Nis - Kosovo                                        132
Bor - Nis                                            99
Kavadarci - Orcka                                    72
Sarajevo - Buk Bijela                               100
Total        2,994
Substations (b)                                     HVA
Nis                                                 700
Kragujevac                                          600
Kosovo                                              800
Skopje                                              800
Ljubljana                                           800
Maribor                                             600
Zagreb                                              600
Djakovo                                             6oo
Obrenovac                                           h00
Mostar                                              800
Tuzla                                               800
Novi Sad                                            h00
Total        7,900
(a)  50 km of this line to be double circuit due to right-of-way congestion
between Zagreb and Krsko.
(b)  Additional minor switchgear additions will be made at the following
six substations:  Trebinjo, Rijeka, Split, Divaca, and Belgrade VIII.
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
Power Transmission Project
Cost Distribution Among EIterprises
U.S.$ Million
Conatruction                     Eagineering
and                           Tech.Asst.
Erection       Equipent        and Training        Miscl.         Contingency        Total
Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Total
SARAJEO    11.7      -       7.9    11.4    0.7       0.3      1.9      -       4.9    1.9    27.1       13.6     40.7
TREBIDJE    1.5      -       1.8      1.6    0.1    0.1        0.5      -       0.1     0.1      4.0      1.8      5.8
RIJ3         4.3     -       2.7      2.8    0.1    0.1        1.4      -       0.9     0.5      9.4      3.4      12.8
SPLIT        3.2     -       2.1      2.2    0.2    0.1        0.7      -       1.0     0.2      7.2      2.5.     9.7
Z&zRE        7.9     -       8.2      6.5    o.8      0.3      2.8   - _        3.8     1.7    23.5        8.5i   32.0
SKOPJE      3.6      -       3.5      4.0    0.3      0.1      1.0      -       1.8     o.6     10.2      14.7    14.9
TITORAD     3.8      -        2.2     3.5    0.3      0.1      0.9      -       1.4     0.4       8.6      4.0     12.6
BLaRLDE   15.9       -      19.8    15.1    1.4       o.6      5.6      -       8.0     3.9    50.7       19.6    70.3
LJUBLJANA    2.0     -       3.1      2.1  / 0.2      0.1      0.9      -       1.0     0.4       7.2      2.6      9.8
MIRIBR,      2.6     -        3.3     2.7    0.2      0.1      0.9      -       1.4     0.2       8.4      3.0     11.4
NOVA oRIcA  1.4      -        1.6      0.9    0.1     0.1       0.3             o 0.3    0.3      3.7      1.3      5.0
TOTAL    57.9     -      56.2    52.8      4.4    2.0    16.9        -      24.6   10.2   16o.o    65.0    225.0
April 1972



ANNEF 8
IUUOBIAVIA
Power Tranminuaion Project
Estimated Schedule of Diuburusmenta
IBRD Fiscal Year                          CuOwlative Disbursements
and Quarter                                at Eh  Of Qu4rter
1972/73
December 31, 1972                                    2.0
March 31, 1973                                       6.o
June 30, 1973                                       10.0
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                  15.0
December 31, 1973                                   20.0
March 31, 1974                                       26.0
June 30, 1974                                       32.0
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                  38.0
December 31, 1974                                   45.0
March 31, 1974                                       52.0
June 30, 1974                                        58.0
1975/76
september 30, 1975                                  63.0
December 31, 1975                                    66.0
March 31, 1976                                       69.0
June 30, 1976                                        71.0
1976/77
september 30, 1976                                   73.0
December 31, 1976                                    75.0
April 1972



ANE 9
Page 1 of 3 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Trandission ProJect
Coordination of Engineering and Procurement Activities
Eleven enterprises are involved in the transmission project. The
transmission circuits will run through their respective operating areas and
each enterprise will own the facilities located in its area and will
be responsible for constructing and financing the facilities, Each enter-
prise will contract with suppliers for equipment and materiala which are
to be located in its operating area.
On the other hand, characteristics of equipment and facilities
designed for the transmission system should be common (not necessarily
identical) in all 11 enterprises in the interest of uniform operation,
standardization, economy and efficient maintenance.  It is essential,
therefore, to provide appropriate coordination to ensure this result, as
dealt with in the following paragraphs. 1/
Coordination
The enterprises have designated JUGEL as coordinator of the project,
responsible for coordinating engineering and procurement activities of the
enterprises. Each enterprise has agreed to provide a qualified technical
representative to a committee to be established for this purpose. The Bank
would be advised as to the experience of each representative. The committee
(Coordinating Committee) will be chaired by JUGEL and would meet as frequently
as necessary. There would be a permanent operating staff.
De sign
The Committee would settle upon the basic parameters for the
design of the transmission line after taking into consideratimi the wishes
and interests of the enterprises. It would do the same for sub-station
design. To the extent that enterprises and JUGEL do not have the expert
personnel needed for this purpose, they would seek the assistance of
qualified consulting engineers whose experience would be reviewed by the
Bank.
1/  The Bank'  "Guidelines br Procurement" and the normal Bank supervision
over bidding documents, award of contracts, etc., will apply although
not mentioned hereafter.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3 pages
Specifications
The technical specifications would be prepared by cansultants
engaged by the enterprises and coordinated by JUGEL, on the basis of
parameters already agreed. The Coordinating Committee would submit
them to the borrowers for final approval. The general terms of the
specifications would be prepared to reflect domestic practice in Yugoslavia
and international practice based on the principle that equipment will be
purchased on a competitive international basis. They would etipulate that
the basic unit price would be the saiw for all enterprises with variations
being allowed only for delivery and similar expenses.
Quantities
The general principle would be that, in the interest of simplicity
and economy, a single order would be placed for the needs of all 11 enter-
prises for any single commodity. However, the enterprises with coordination
by JUGEL, after determining the required delivery schedules, would have to
ascertain that there would be reasonable competition for such large orders
and use more than one order if there is reasonable doubt. The Coordinating
Committee, under the direction of JUGEL, would verify the individual
quantities required by each enterprise and the aggregate amount. Having
obtained the agreement of the enterprises, international bids would then
be called. The bidding document would stipulate the portion of the total
quantity being purchased by each enterprise, and that the respective enter-
prise would itself make a contract with the supplier for its portion of the
total amount called for by the bidding documents. It would also stipulate
that each enterprise would be responsible for payment for its portion under
the general terms of payment applicable.
Bid Evaluation
Bids would be evaluated by the Coordinating Committee and the
consultants with resulting recommendations to the enterprises. The
Coordinating Committee would review the enterprisea' proposals about
making the award and forward much proposals to the Bank for its concurrence
whereupon JUGEL would advise the firm winning the award and arrange that
appropriate contracts would be entered between the winner and the eleven
enterprises.
Administration of Contracts
JUGEL, on behalf of the Coordinating Committee and the enterprises,
would administer the contracts so awarded insofar as technical matters,
schedules and the like are concerned. It would also be responsible for
pre-award correspondence with prospective suppliers on matters concerning
technical and other interpretations of the contract. Post-award correspond-
ence concerning contract formalities, including payment, would be carried
out by JUGEL on behalf of the enterprises.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3 pages
Scheduling
The Coordinating Committee and the borrowers will be responsible
for preparing a schedule for the Project in its entirety and by enterprise.
The general principle would be to extend the existing 380 kV system in such
a manner that various sections can be used as soon an completed. JUGEL would
coordinate with the various suppliers schedule of deliveries to the various
enterprises, consistent with the overall schedule of the Project.
Construction
Each enterprise would be responsible for construction of facilities
within its service territory. The plans of each enterprise for construction
of facilities would be reviewed by JUaEL and the Coordinating Connittee in the
interest of proper coordination and adherence to the overall schedule for
the Project.
Construction Supervision
Supervision of construction would be the responsibility of each of
the respective enterprises in accordance with common standards reached by
JUGEL and the Coordinating Committee. Supervision by qualified consulting
firms would be encouraged.
Commissioning
In general, arrangements for testing and commissioning of the
facilities would be devised by JUGEL and the Coordinating Committee and, as
each phase of the Project became ready for commissioning, arrangements in
accordance therewith made with the respective enterprise, which would be
responsible for actually carrying them out.  The use of qualified consulting
firms to assist in this work would be encouraged.
April 1972






ANNEX 10
ag89 1 of 14 pagp
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Tran8mi6sion Project
Financing of Power haterprises
In the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
I. Basic Inforuation
1.        The two enterprises involved in the Project in this Republic are:
(a)  Elektroprenos   J MVO
(b) He Na Trebivijici TREBINIJE
This annex will contain for each of these enterprise.:
(i) Caments on the recent performance and financial position;
(ii) Caments on capitalization of the enterprises;
(iii) C(ments on the financing plans;
(iv) Actual and Forecast Incom Statements (1970-1977);
(v) Actual and Forecast Sourceu and Applications of Funds
(1970-1977);
(vi) Actual and Forecagt Balance Sheets (1970-1977); and
(vii)  Appropriate explanatory noto to the incom  statements and
sources and applications of ftUlnds.
2.        To finance capital expansion during the period 1972-1976, both
enterprises will, following authorization by the Republican Government, adjust
present tariffs so that average revenue will be increased by 15%. This
tariff adjustment will be made effective no later than July 1, 1972.
Projections based on the above aasmmption indicate that Sarajevo will
generate cash not of debt service and contributions to enterprises equal to
40% of funds required to meet the construction program and that Trebinje
will also generate 40%.
3.        The Privredna Banks of Sarajevo will provide a comuitment to lend
170.9 million dinars to SarUevo and 25.0 million dinars to Trebinje to be
used exclusively for financing project costs. In addition, t    loc   bank
will provide a commitment to both enterprises to cover cost overruns.



MO    10
Pg!  2 Os14 pagpe
II.  Power Iat-iW     Sar&Jevo
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.       Dtring 1971, sales of enerp increased over the previoua year by
1.4% uhile reveoe, due to tariff increases which cm  into effect in April,
increased by 22%. The debt equity ratio rewAined steady at 57/43 while the
ratio of current asssts to current liabilities decreased slightly from 1.7
to 1.4. Debt service covErap at 2.5 tim. is more than adequate.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at Deoewber 31, 1971 is
aumiarized in the following table s
US$
Dinars      Millionsa
Millions    Equivalent      %
Equity Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                          233.3         13.7        414.l;
Reserve Fund                             4.1           .2          .6
Suibtotal Equity      237.4        13.9         42.0
Long Teru Debt
Local Currency                         325.1         19.2        58.0
Total Capitalization       562.5                    100.0
3.        The level of debt at preaent (58%) is reasonable and in on
relatively soft terms (2% over 35 years to 50 years).  These soft term
funds are, however, no longer available and Sarajevo will, in future, have
to rely on credits from suppliera with tern. requiring repayment over period
of 10 to 15 years at interest rates of 6% to 6J9 per annum. In addition,
any loans available from the Fund for Under-Developed Regions will also
contain terxn more stringent than those previously available (5% over 20 to
25 years).



ANE 10
Page 3 of 14 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 in as follows:
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)     822.9        48.4
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterpriaes                  265.6        15.6
Net Internal Funds         557.3        32.8        40.3
External Resources
Donestic Banks & Republican Funds    515.0        30.4        37-3
Suppliers' Credits                    31.2         1.8         2.2
Proposed IBRD Loan                   278.8        16.4        20.2
Subtotal              825.0        48.6        59.7
Total Funds Available              1382.3         81.4       100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Construction Program            691.9        40.7        50.1
Other Capital Investmnts &
Wbrking Capital Adjustments          690.4        4.749
Total Funds Applied       ,;            81.4       100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital with
substantial cash resources. IWhile plans for the second five years
covering the period 1976-1981 are only teutative, capital expansion in
1976 and 1977 is expected to continue at a strong pace due to a possible
Joint construction program with Croatia. Based on rate adjustments which
will increase average revenue by approximately 15% during 1972-1976, cash
generation net of debt service and contributions to other enterprises will
provide approximatelyr 4C% of funds required to met the construction
program. The balance required for the Investment program would be made
available by (a) local banks (37%), and (b) by small suppliers' credits
and the proposed IBRD loan (23%).



ANNEX 10
Fa'e4of 14 pagea
6.        on an annual baJiJ debt service coverae would improve from 3.2
in 1972 to 4.0 in 1977. This is due to the very soft terms received
on loans previously incurred, and to the relatively low level of future
debt financing required. The ratio of current aseta to current liabilities
varies from a low of 1.5 to 1.7 and is adequate. The debt equity/ratio
after reaching 60/40 in 1972 would decrease to a level of 58/42
in 1977 and reflects the satisfactory level of retained earnings (Business
Fbnd).
7.        The construction program of Elektroprenoe Sarajevo during the
period 1972-1976 is large. Its cost of 1,337.1 million dinars is 2.4
times the gross plant expected in service at the end of 1971. Included
in this program is 612 million dinara for the 380 kV tranoniasion project,
300 million dinars for increaaed 11O kV and 220 kV transmission facilities
and 400 million dinars for increased generating facilities to be jointly
constructed with the Republic of Croatia.



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRENOS SARAJEVO
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
ACTUAL                                                  FORECAST
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                          1970          1971           1972          1973           1974          1975           1976          1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                         4,707         4,773          5,184         5,857          7,620         8,266          9,996        10,305
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                10.8           13.0          14.8           15.4          15.0           14.7          14.7          14.7
Revenue 1/
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises             208.4         277.3          345.2         402.6          455.5         491.4          538.8          555.3
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Consumers                50.8          119.4         150.7          206.9         402.2         507.3          721.4         750.3
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises                    228.9          218.8         265.5         286.4          278.8         209.4          202.2         202.2
Miscellaneous Revenue                                      21.5            5.0           5.0           6.o            6.5           7.0            7.0           7.0
Total Revenue                      509.6          620.5         766.4          901.9       1,143.0        1,215.1       1,469.4       1,514.8
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                   395.2         515.0          600.8         703.9          905.6         969.7        1,062.8       1,092.2
Salaries and Wages                                         14.9          18.4           20.3          22.3           24.6          27.0           32.4          35.6
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                      26.6           24.1          33.7          38.2           47.7          51.5           74.2          78.6
Statutory and Contractuial Obligations                     18.5            3.4           3.6           4.4            5.6           6.5            9.0          10.9
Tax on the Business Fund                                    3.3            4.8           4.9            5.2           5.9            6.3           6.8           7.3
Depreciation                                               24.9           28.6          32.9           36.8          40.6           44.o          72.2          75.3
Total                              483.4          594.3          696.2         810.8       1,030.0        1,105.0       1,257.4        1,299.9
Operating Income                                              26.2           26.2          70.2           91.1         113.0          110.1         212.0         214.9
Interest on Loans                                              9.4           13.2          19.3          25.7           32.4           37.9          41.4          46.4
Net Income                                                    16.8           13.0          50.9           65.4          80.6           72.2         170.6          168.5
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME                                                                                                                                                   u|
Business Fund                                              12.2           11.6          47.8           61.4          75.7           67.8         160.4          158.4      e
Reserve Fund                                                 .8             .4           1.0            1.3           1.6            1.4           3.4            3.4
Transfers to Other Enterprises                              3.8            1.0            2.1           2.7           3.3            3.0           6.8            6.7
For explanatory notes see Annex 10, page 14
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRENOS SARAJEVO
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 19'70 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                    ACTUAL                                                  FORECAST
1970          1971          1972           1973          1974           1975          1976 r         1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                  26.2          26.2           70.2          91.1         113.0          110.1         212.0          214.9
Depreciation                                      24.9          28.6          32.9           36.8          40.6           44.o          72.2           75.3
51.1          54.8         103.1          127.9         15-37          154.1         2 W.2         290.2
Borrowings 2"
Foreign Exchange (IBRD)                                                                      68.6          87.8           73.6          48.8
Local Currency- Banks                             48.o          38.8         115.6           89.5          96.3          123.6          90.0           99.9
Suppliers Credits                 2.3                           .2           16.4          14,4             .2
TOTAL SOURCES                101.4           93.6         218.9          302.4         352.1         351.5          423.0         390.1
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                 63.6          92.4         173.3          264.2          290.5         27,3.9        339.2          310.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                       5.7           8.5          13.1           15.8          18.2           20.6          23.3           26.3
Interest                                           9.4          13.2          19.3           25.7          32.4           37.9          41.4          46.4
15.1          21.7          32.4                                        58.5          64.           72.7
Contributions to Other Enterprises .                  3.8           1.0           2.1            2.7           3.3            3.0           6.8            6.7
Net Variation in Working Capital                     27.5         (22.6)           5.5          (2.8)           1.3            .7           (4.8)         (4.1)
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS           110.0           92.5         213.3          305.6         345.7          336.1         401.9         385.3
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                               (8.6)          1.1            5.6          (3.2)           6.4          15.4          21.1            4.8
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                                                                                                                                        0
Internal Cash Generation                               3.4           2.5            3.2           3.1            3.1           2.6           4.4            4.o
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of'
Construction Program                                  51.           35.            40.           33.            34.           94.            63.           68.           m
For explanatory notes see Annex 10, page 14
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRENOS SARAJEVO
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                    ACTUAL                                                    FORECAST
1970          1971           1972          1973           1974           1975          1976           1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                             502.9         574.0          664.o         750.6          838.5          990.8       1,946.3        2,296.3
Depreciation                                       146.8         175.4          208.3         245.1          285.7          329.7         401.9          477.2
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                         356.1         398.6          455.7          505.5         552.8          66t.1       1,544.4        1,819.1
Work in Progress                                       84.9         106.2          189.5         367.1          569.7          691.3           71.0          31.0
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                            20.7          21.8           27.4          24.2           30.6           46.0          67.1           71.9
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                     123.3          105.4          107.5         109.9          115.3          120.9         125.8          130.6
Total                          144.0         127.2          134.9         134.1          145.9          166.9         192.9          202.5
Other Assets                                           28.2          30.4           27.3          26.5           29.4           30.5           31.0          31.5
TOTAL ASSETS                   613.2         662.4          807.4       1,033.     2  1,297.8         1,549.8   2,084.1
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                      221.7         233.3          281.1          342.5         418.2          486.o          646.4         804.8
Reserve Fund                                         3.7           4.1            5.1            6.4           8.0            9.4           12,8          16.2
Total                          225.4         237.4          286.2          348.9         426.2          495.4          659.2         821.0
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits         294.8          325.1          427.8          517.9         610.4          713.6          780.3         853.9
IBRD                                                                                            68.6         156.4          230.0          278.8         278.8
Total                          294.8         325.1          427.8          586.5          766.8         943.6        1,059.1       1,132.7
Current Liabilities                                    86.2          92.4           85.6           88.7          96.5          100.3          110.5         115.2
Other Liabilities                                       6.8           7.5            7.8            9.1           8.3           10.5           10.5          15.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES              613.2         662.4          807.4        1,033.2       1,29'7.8       1,549.8        1,839.3       2,84.1            Ho
________                        =            ~~~~~~~~~0    0
Debt/Equity Ratio                                         57.           58.            60.            63.            64.           66.            62.            58.
Os
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                         1.7            1.4           1.6            1.5           1.5            1.7            1.7r          1.7
For explanatory notes see Annex 10, page 14



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I



ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 1J4 pages
III. Power Enterprise Trebinje
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.        During 1971, sales of energy increased over the previous year by
1% while revenue, due to tariff increases which came into effect in April,
increased by 17%. The debt/equity ratio decreaaed from 81/19 to 77/23
while the ratio of current assets to current liabilities is high at over
20.0.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
swaurized in the following table:
Us$
Dinars      Millions
Mwillions    1Bvaen         %
Equity Capital and Reserves
Basiness Fund                          199.2         11.7        22.2
Reserve Fund                            31.3           .7         1.3
Subtotal Equity       210.5        12.4        23.5
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                         686.7         40.4        76.5
Total Capitalization       897.2        52.8        100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (77%) while high is on relatively
soft terms (2% over 35 years to 50 years). These soft tern funds are,
however, no longer available and Trobinjo will, in future, have to rely
on credits from suppliers with terms requiring repament over periods of
10-15 years at interest rates of 6%-&A per annum. In addition any loans
available from the Fund for Under-Developed Regions will contain terms
more stringent than those previously available. (5% over 20 to 25 years).



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I               



ANNEX 10
pap 9 Of 14 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total expansion program
1972-1976 is as follows:
US$
Dinars     Millions
MilJions    Eqosivalent     %
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)    847.6        49.9
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Bterprises                  228.6         13.4
Net Internal Funds         619.0        36.5       40.3
External Resorces
DamDstic Banks & Republican Fuds    775.9        45.6         50.5
Proposed IBRD Loan                    39.1         2.3         2.5
Suppliers' Credits                  103.7         6.1         6
Subtotal             918.7        54.0        59.7
Total Funds Available             14537.7         9          100.0
A4pplicationa of Funds
380 kV Canstruction Program            98.6          5.8        6.4
Other Capital Investment &
Working Capital AdJutments         1,439.1        84.7        93.6
Total Funds Applied     1,537.7        90.5       100.0
5.       The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and
for the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on rate adjust-
ments which will increase averapg revenue by approximately 15% during 1972-
1976, cash generation net of debt service and contributions to other enter-
prisea will provide 40% of the investmnt requirement. The balance
required for the investment program would be mAe available by (a) local
banks (5%), (b) by the TIRB  loan (2%), and (c) by suppliert credits (7%).



ANNZZ 10
Page 10 of 14 pages
6.       On an annual basis, the debt ervice coverage Varying between
4.5 times (1972) and 2.5 times (1977) in high and due mainly to the very
soft term received on loans previously incurred. The debt/equity ratio
after reaching a peak of 75/25 in 1972 would decrease to a level of 69/31
in 1977, and reflects the satisfactory level of the retained earnings
(Business Fund).
7.       The construction program of Trebinje during the period 1972-1976
is large. Its estimated cost of 1,538.0 million dinsra is 2.1 tims the
gross plant exected in service at the end of 1971. Included in the
construction program are 97 million dinera for the 380 kV tranmiasion
project plus approximately 1,500 -ilUion dinars for increased generating
facilities identified as Trebinjo "2" and Caplinje plus the required
transmission lines and circuitry.



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE HE NA TREBISNJICI TREBINJE
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                        ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
1970          1971          1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                         1,984         2,000         2,000          2,020         2,o40          2,o40         3,100          3,600
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                 6.7           7.8            9.1           9.7            9.7           9.7           9.7            9.7
Revenue i
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Consumers
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises                    132.9         156.0          183.7         195.9          197.8         197.8         300.7          349.2
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Revenue                      132.9          156.0         T83.7                                      1975.                        349.2
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                                                                                                           6.o            7.0
Salaries and Wages                                         11.2          12.8           13.0          14.0           16.0          18.0          25.0           28.0
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                       6.9           9.0           11.1          13.2           17.2          17.3           24.0          26.0
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                       5.4           5.7            6.0           6.1            6.4           6.7          12.0           14.0
Tax on the Business Fund                                    2.0           2.2            2.2           2.3            2.4           2.4            7.0          10.0
Depreciation                                               59.7          60.4           61.4          65.2           73.3          73.4           92.0         100.0
Total                               85.2           90.1          93.7          100.8         115.3          117.8         166.0         185.0
Operating Income                                              47.7          65.9           90.0          95.1           82.5          80.0         134.7          164.2
Interest on Loans                                             16.9          18.3           18.7          19.9           21.1          22.2          37.0           37.2
Net Income                                                    30.8          47.6           71.3          75.2           61.4          57.8          97.7          127.0
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCONE
Business Fund                                              21.8          44.6           67.0          70.7           57.7          54.3           91.8         119.4         HH
0
Reserve Fund                                                3.4           1.0            1.4           1.5            1.2           1.2            1.9           2.5         o
Transfers to Other Enterprises                              5,6           2.0            2.9           3.0            2.5           2.3            4.o           5.1        H
For explanatory notes see Annex 10, page 14
April 1972



REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE HE NA TREBISNJICI TREBINJE
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                    ACTUAL                                                  FORECAST
1970          1971          1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                  47.7          65.9           90.0          95.1          82.5           80.0         134,7          164.2
Depreciation                                      59.7          60.4          61.4           65.2          73.3           73.4          92.0          100.0
107.4         126.3         151.4          160-.3        155.8         153.4          -267T          264.2
Borrowings 5/
Foreign Exchange (IBRD)                                                                       9.6          12.3           10.3           6.9
local Currency - Banks                                                       107.8          163.3         203.6          203.8          97.4          109.5
Suppliers Credits                                             35.7           8.0           30.0          30.0
TOTAL SOURCES                107.4          126.3         294.9         341.2          401.7         397.5          331.0         373.7
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                 58.1          73.4          254.0         321.0         344.3          368.0          250.7         250.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                      31.0          15.0          15.0           20.0          20.0           20.0          20.0           70.0
Interest                                          16.9          18.3          18.7           19.9          21.1           22.2          37.0           37.2
47.9          33.3           33.7          39.9           T-.T          42.2          57.0          107.2
Contributions to Other Enterprises                    9.0           2.0            2.9           3.0           2.5            2.3           4.o            5.1
Net Variation in Working Capital                    (11.3)         (1.0)           2.4           4.1            3.8           2.7            5.0           4.5
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS           103.7          107.7         293.0          368.0         391.7         415.2          316.7         366.8
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                3.7          18.6            1.9         (26.8)          10.0         (17-7)         14.3            6.9
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                                                                                                                                       0
Internal Cash Generation                               2.2           3.8           4.5            4.0           3.8            3.6           4.o            2.5
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of                                                                                                                                     '0
Construction Program                                  87.          l00.+          45.            37.           33.            30.           66.           61.
For explanatory notes see Annex 10, page 14
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA hERZEGOVINA
ENTERPRISE HE NA TREBISNJICI TREBINJE
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                      ACTUAL                                                      FORECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975            1976           1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                               732.8          735.0          740.0          801.0          805.3           813.3        1,761.0        1,961.0
Depreciation                                         96.3           156.7          218.1          283.3          356.6          430.0           522.0          622.0
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                           636.5          578.3          521.9          517.7          448-7           383.3        1,239.0        1,339.0
Work in Progress                                         31.8          103.0          352.0          612.0           952.0        1,312.0          615.0          665.o
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                             17.3            35.9           37.8           1l.0           21.0            3.3           17.6            24.5
Investments, Accounts
Receivable and lnventories                        176.7           178.0          180.0          184.0          187.0          190.0          195.0          200.0
Total                           194.0          213.9          217.8          195.0          208.0           193.3          212.6          224.5
Other Assets                                             13.2           12.0           13.0           14.0           15.0           16.o            17.0           18.0
TOTAL ASSETS                   875.5           907.2        1,104.7        1,338.7        1,623.7        1,904.6        2,08.6         2,246.5
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                       154.6           199.2          266.2          336,9          394.6          448.9           540.7          660.1
Reserve Fund                                         10.3            11.3           12.7           14.2           15.4           16.6            18.5           21.0
Total                           164.9          210.5          278.9          351.1           410.0          465.5          559.2          681.1
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund end Credits           701.7           686.7          815,2          966.5        1,180.1        1,393.9        1,471.3         1,510.8
IBRD                                                                                                9.6           21.9           32.2            3l.1           39.1
Total                           701.7          686.7          815.           976.1        1,202.0         1,426.1        1,510.4        1,549.9
Currernt Liabilities                                      7.4            8.0            8.5            9.0             9.0           10.0           11.0           12.0
Other Liabilities                                         1.5            2.0            2.1             2.5            2.,            3,0            3.0             3.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES               875.5          907.2        1 104 7        1,338.7         1,623.7        1,904.6        2.C83.6        2,246.5          o
Debt/Equity Ratio                                           81.            77.             75.            73.            75.            75.             73.            69.
Current Assets/Current Liabilities
X  Berause covcra,we is higb (over 20 time; it has n.,t teen inclucti.
Por explai,atory notes see Anr.ex 10, page
Ap-i 1  )172



s                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 14 papes
Notes to the Inc a  Statementa
1/        Revenues have been calculated based on a tariff adjufftmnt which
would increase the averae revenue per kWh  of the both enterprises by
15%.
2/        Bales of energy of Sarajevo (Amnex 10, page 5 ) increased during
T973/74 due to the connectionof uiaalumimu  and electrolysis plant presently
under construction. The sales of energy of Trebinje (Annex 10, page 'il)
increase due to completion of construction of generaTing plant Trebinje "2".
3/        Net income has been appropriated 94% to the Business Fund, 2% to
the Reserve Fund for possible future losses and 4% as a contribution to
other enterprise (i.e. housing, apartment, or resorts established for the
social benefit of the workers of the electricity enterprise).
Notes to the Sources and Applications of Funds
I/        Funds required for capital expansion are provided through tariff
adjustments, Bank loans, and suppliers' credits (see Basic Information,
Annex 10, page 1).
*,V       See item 3 above regarding contributions and transfers to other
enterprise a.
7/        In calculating net internal cash generation and the rate of
self financing, debt service and enterprise contributions are deducted
from isternal cash generation.
8/        Work iA progress (Annex 10, page 13) ia large in 1975 due to
construction of generating facilities, Trebinje "121" and Caplinje. These
generating stations are expected to be conissioned in 1975/76.
April 1972



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I 



ANNE I11
Page 1 of 20 pages
YUJGOSLAVIA
Power Tranainssion Project
Financing of Power Katerpriess
In the Republic of Croatia
I. Basic Information
1.        The three enterprises involved in the Project in this Republic
are:
(a)  Elektroprivreda RIJEKA
(b)  Elektroprenoo       T
(c) Elektroprivreda ZAGaEB
This annex will contain for each of these enterprises:
Mi)  Coments on the recent performanee and financial position;
(ii) Caoments on capitalization of the enterpries;
(iii) Comments on the financing plans;
(iv) Actual and Forecast Income Btatemwnts (1970-1977);
(v)  Actual and Forecast Sorces and Applications of Funds
(1970-1977);
(vi) Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets (1970-1977); and
(vii) Appropriate explanatory notes to the incme statements and
sources and applications of funds.
2.        To finance the large capital expansion program during the period
1972-1976, the enterprises will, following authorization by the Republican
Government, adjust present tariffs so that average revenue will be increased
by 15%. This tariff adjustment will be made effective no later than July 1,
1972. In addition the Republican Government has passed legislation whereby
special surcharges and levies are &assesed on selected businesses and all
consumers of electricity. The funds generated by these surchargea and levies
would be used exclusively for capital expansion of the electricity enter-
prises and are as follows:
(a)  economic expansion io assessed a turcharge of 4%;



ANNEX 11
Page-2 of 20 pages
(b) banks, and export-import companies are assessed a 10%
profit tax;
(c) households are assesaed a charge of three (3) paras per
klh on their usage of electricity;
(d)  industrial consusesr  are assessed a charge of one (1)
para per kWh on their usage of electricity; and
(e) connection charge based on increased electricity demand.
Item (a) and (b) are to be repaid to the enterprises who provided the
funds at 6% over 15 years. An additional % will be charged by the local
banks for handling the transactions. Items (c), (d), and (e) are increases
in tariffs and will either be replaced or increased as needed by adjustments
to the present tariffs. These levies should provide approximately 60
million dinars per year.
3.        While Rijeka and Zagreb which are independent enterpriaes would
be the direct recipients of the effects of the above legislation, the
situation with regard to Split is different. Split, a transmission enter-
prise, is a imeber of the association, Elektroprivreda Dalmacije Split
(DalmaciJe). This association which retails power to various enterpriaes
would be the recipient of the effects of the above legislation. Dalmacije
would allow Split to increase its internal price for transmitting elec-
tricity so that at least 35% of Split'i capital expansion program would be
provided from internal funds. 9hould additional funds be required,
Dalmacije would lend Split these funds at intereat rates not exceeding
2V per annum over a 25 year period.
4.        The application of surcharges and levies and internal price
adjustments has been used in the projectionz of the financial statements.
These projections indicate that the net cash generation towards the capital
expansion program would be 47% for Rijeka, 35% for Split and 40% for Zagreb.
The Privredna Banks of Zagreb will provide a commitment to lend 78.5 million
dinars to RiJeka, 59.6 million dinars to Split and 197.2 million dinars to
Zagreb.  In addition a coimitaent will be provided by the local bank to
cover project cost overruns for Rijeka and Zagreb. Cost overruns in the
case of Split will be covered by Dalmacije.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 20 pages
II. Power Enterprise Rijeka
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.        During 1971, the sales of energy remained unchanged yet revenue,
due to a tariff adjustment in April, increased by 30%. The debt/equity
ratio decreased slightly from 78/22 to 76/24 while the ratio of current
assets to current liabilities decreased from 1.3 to 1.1.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
summarized in the following table:
Us$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Equity Capital and Reaerves
Business Fund                           411.1        24.2        23.2
Reserve Fund                              4.5          .2           .2
Subtotal Equity       415.6         24.4        23.4
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                        1,354.7        79.7         76.6
Total Capitalization     1,770.3        10l.1       100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (76%) is high but is on relatively
soft terms (2% over 35 years to 50 years). These soft term funds are,
however, no longer available and Rijeka will, in future, have to rely on
credits from suppliers with terms requiring repayment over periods of 10
to 15 years at interest rates of 6% to 634 per annum. In addition loans
from local banks and the Republican Government will be subject to more
stringent interest and repayment terms.



ANNE 1U
Page 4 Of 20 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 iB ae follows:
US$
Sources of Funds                         Dinars       Millions
Millions    Equivalent       %
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)   1,060.6         62.4
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterprises                   661.3        38.9
Net Internal Funds          399.3       23.5          46.6
External Resources
Domestic Banks & Republican Funds    394.1         23.2         46.o
Proposed IBRD Loan                     62.9         3.7          7.4
Subtotal              457.0        26.9         53.4
Total Funds Available                 856,3        50.4        100.0
Aplications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project             217.6        12.8         25.3
Other Capital Investments &
Working Capital Adjustments           638.7        37.6          74.7
Total Funds Applied         856.3       50.4         100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash positioh.  Based on tariff increases
of 15% during 1972-1976, plus fwads provided by special measure, cash generation
net of debt service and contributions to other enterprises will provide 47% of
the investment requirements. The balance required for the investment program
would bWA,ad*--available by (a) local banks (46%) and (b) by the IHRD loan (7%).
6.        On an annual basis debt aervice coverage varying between 1.5 (1972)
and 1.2 (1977) is satisfactory and is due mainly to the very soft terms
received on loans previously incurred. The ratio of current assets to
current liabilities varies from a low of 1.2 to a high of 1.3 in 1977. The
debt/equity ratio after reaching a peak of 75/25 in 1972 decreases to a
level of 63/37 in 1977, and reflects the satisfactory level of the retained
earnings (Business Fund).
7.        The construction program of Rijeka during the period 1972-1976 is
large. Its estimated cost of 1,013.1 million dinars will almost double the
gross plant expected in service at the end of 1971 . Included in the
construction program is 217.6 million dinars for the 380 kV transmission
project plus 795.0 million dinars for increased generating facilities of
the stations known as Rijeka Urini and Senj i Vinodol.



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRIVREDA RIJEKA
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(Tn Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                        ACTU-AL                                                  FORECAST
1970          1971          1972          -1973          1974          1975           1976          1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                         1,679         1,672         1,830          1,830         1,830          1,815         1,810         1,810
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                11.4          15.2           17.6          19.8          20.3           21.0          21.6          21.6
Revenue J
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises             193.1         215.9         277.4          317.8         317.4          317.3         326.6         327.0
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Consumers
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises                      -            35.2           41.3          41.3          51.3           60.7          6o.7          60.7
Miscellaneous Revenue                                       -             3-0            3.0           3.0           3.0            3.0           3.0            3.0
Total Revenue                      193.1          254.1         321.7         362.1          371.7         381.0         390.3          390.7
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                    37.4           -             -              -             -
Salaries and Wages                                         20.9          27.8           30.2          33.3          36.6           39.7          40.3          43.0
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                      35.5          75.7           85.3          88.6          90.8           95.0          98.o         115.7
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                      13.7          16.0          17.1           17.4          17.8           19.9          20.1          20.1
Tax on the Business Pund                                    5.8           6.6           6.6            6.6           6.6            7.6           8.7           8.7
Depreciation                                               42.8          58.1           59.2          61.6          63.0           68.0          69.8          91.2
Total                              156.1          184.2         198.4         207.5          214.8         230.2         236.9          278.7
Operating Income                                              37.0          69.9          123.3         154.6         156.9          150.8         153.4          112.0
Interest on Loans                                             16.1          50.0           60.3          60.8          61.4           62.9          62.9          94.7
Net Income*                                                   20.9          19.9           63.0          93.8          95.5           87.9          90.5           17.3
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME 4x
Business Fund                                              16.4          19.9           63.0          93.8          95.5           87.9          90.5           17.3        0 H
Reserve Fund                                                                                                                        -             -                         o
Transfer to Other Enterprises                               4.5           -      -                     -             -              -             -              -0
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
* Net Income appropriated in total to the Business Fund.
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRIVREDA RIJEKA
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                     ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
1970          1971           1972          1973           1974           1975          1976           1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                    37.0          69.9          123.3          154.6         156.9          150.8          153.4         112.0
Depreciation                                        42.8          58.1           5%22           61.6          63.0           68.o           69.8          91.2
79.8         128.0          T8M75         216.2          219.9         2-17.7         223.2          203T.2
Borrowings L/
Foreign Exchange - IBRD                                                                         15.5          19.8           16.6           11.0
Local Currency                                    531.2           39.0          107.4         130.5           58.9           59.1           38.2          90.1
TOTAL SOURCES                  611.0         167.0          289.9          362.2         298.6          294.5          272.4         293.3
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                 362.3           69.5          159.3         251.6          250.4           203.6        148.2          130.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                        23.5          60.8           63.4           65.4          68.o           77.0           79.2          80.0
Interest                                            16.1          50.0           60.3          60.8           61.4           62.9          62.9           94.7
39.6        X11-07          123.7         12C.2          12-9.4         139.9         177.71         177.7
Contributions to Other Enterprises                      4.5           -              -              -             -              -              -             -
Net Variation in Working Capital                      188.4         (13-5)         (24.1)         (43-5)        (61.4)        (114.4)          (1.0)        (15.8)
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             594.8         166.8          258.9          334.3         318.4          229.1          289.3          288.9
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                 16.2            .2           31.0          27.9          (19.8)          65.4         (16.9)           4.4
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                       2.0           1.1            1.5            1.7           1.7            1.6            1.6           1.2         [0
Internal Cash Generation                                                                                                                                                    0
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of                      10.           25.            37.            36.           36.            39.            55.           22.
Construction Program
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEXTROPRIVREDA RIJEKA
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                       ACTUAL                                                       FORECAST
1970           1971           1972            1973           1974           1975            1976           1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                             1,369.6         1,420.8        1,537.2         1,691.4        1,950.4         2,196.1        2,403.6        2,632.3
Depreciation                                         227.6           285.7          344.9           406.5          469.5          537.5           607.3          698.5
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                         1,142.0         1,135.1        1,192.3         1,284.9        1,48C.9         1,658.6        1,796.3        1,933.8
Work in Progress                                          50.1           68.4           111.3          208.7           200.1          158.0           98.7
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                              18.4            18.6           49.6            77.5           57.7          123.1           106.2          110.6
lnvestments, Accouints
Receivables and Inventories                        230.0          241.3           250.3          258.1           278.7          281.6           283.9          286.3
Total                           248.4           259.9          299.9           335.6          336.4          404.7           390.1          396.9
Other Assets                                             550.7          570.1          541.3           503.7          425.0           348.2          309.9          302.7
TOTAL ASSETS                  1,991.2         2,033.5        2144.8         2                      4          569.5                         633.4
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                        391.2           411.1          474.1           567.9          663.4           751.3          841.8          859.1
Reserve Fund                                            4.5            4.5            4.5             415 4.5                        4.5            4.5           14.5
Total                            395.7          415.6          478.6           572.4          667.9           755.8          846.3          863.6
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits          1,376.5         1,354.7        1,398.7         1,463.8        1,454.7        1,436.8         1,395.8        1,405.9
IBRD                                                                                                 15.5           35.3           51.9            62.9           62.9
Total                         1,376.5         1,354.7        1,398.7         1,479.3        1,490.0         1,488.7        1,458.7        1,468.8
Current Liabilities                                      191.4          243.2          247.5           261.2          264.5           305.0          290.0          301.0
Other Liabilities                                         27.6           20.0            20.0           20.0            20.0           20.0           -               -
TOTAL LIABILITIES             1,991.2                2448                          9        2424           2,569.5         2,2.63314
Debt/Equity Ratio                                            78.             76.            75.            72.             69.            66.             63.            63.           
0
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                            1.3            1.1             1.2            1.3             2.3            1.3             1.4            1.3
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
Apr1 1972



I



ANNEX 11
Page   of 20 pages
III. Power Enterprise Split
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.        During 1971, tranamission of energy decreased by 10% due to the
creation of a new enterprise while revenue, due to a tariff adjustment in
April increased by 7%. The debt/equity ratio increased from 33/67 to
48/52 but is acceptable. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities
remained constant at 1.5 times coverage.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
swmuarized in the following table:
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Equity Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                           212.2        12.5        49.6
Reserve Fund                             12.3          .7          2.7
Subtotal Equity       224.5        13.2         52.3
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                         .204.6        12.0        47.7
Total Capitalization       429.1         25.2       100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (48%) is reasonable and is on
relatively soft terms (2% over 35 years to 50 years).  These soft term
funds are, however, no longer available and Split will, in future, have
to rely on credits from suppliers with terms requiring repayment over
period of 10 to 15 years at interest rates of 6% to 6&4 per annum. In
addition, loans from local banks and the Republican Government will be
subject to more stringent interest and repayment terms.






ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 20 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 is as follows:
Us$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %~
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)      219.8        12.9
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterprises                    74a1         4.4
Net Internal Funds         145.7          8.5        34.7
External Resources
Domestic Banks & Republiesn Funds    223.5         13.2        53.9
Proposed IBRD Loan                     47.6         2.8        11-4
Subtotal              271.1         16.0        65.3
Total Funds Available                 416.8        24.5       100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project             164.9         9.7         39.6
Other Capital Investment &
Working Capital Adjustments           251.9        14.8        60.4
Total Funds Applied        416.8         24.5       100.0
-0           =on        -2=9
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on internal price
adjustments and funds provided by special measures, cash generation net of debt
service and contributions to other enterprises will provide, over the period
1972-1976, 35% of the investment requirements. The balance required for
the investment program would be made available by (a) local banks (54%) and
(b) by the IBRD loan (11%).



ANNEX 11
Pige 10 of 20 pages
6.        On an annual basis debt service coverage varying between 3.8
(1972) and 2.6 (1977) is satisfactory and is due mainly to the very soft
terms received on loans previously incurred. T1o ratio of current assets
to current liabilities is constant at a ratio of about 1.5 coverage.
The debt/equity ratio of 56/4$4 in 1972 increases to a level of 64,36 in
1977, and reflects the satisfactory level of the retained earnings
(BUsiness Fund).
7.        The construction program of Slit during the period 1972-1976
in large. Its estimated cost of 411.3 million dinars is 2 times the gross
plant expected in service at the end of 1971. I=luded in the construction
program is 165.0 million dinars for the 380 kV transmission project plus
an approximate 246 million dinarJ for increased transmission facilities
and upgrading of present facil5ties.



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRENOS SPLIT
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                          ACTUAL                                                    FORECAST
1970          1971           1972           1973           1974          1975           1976           1977
Transmission of Energy, GWh                                   1,872  /       1,678          1,786          2,739          2,879         4,041          4,100          4,100
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                   2.5           3.1            3.8            2.6            2.7            2.1           2.2            2.4
Revenue 1
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises                 -             -              -              -              -             -              -              -
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Consumers                   -             -              -              -              -             -              -              -
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterpises                        40.o          40.7           53.1           54.5           60.0          67.0           70.0           75.0
Miscellaneous Revenue                                         8.2          10.9           15.6           17.0           19.0          20.0           22.6           24.o
Total Revenue                        48.2           51.6           68.7          71.5           79.0           87.0           92.6           99.0
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                      -              _              _              _             _              _              _              _
Salaries and Wages                                            8.o           8.6            9.9           11.5           13.0          14.5           16.6           19.0
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                        11.3          12.9           16.2           17.5           20.8          23.0           24.0           24.5
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                          .8           1.2            1.5            1.6            2.0            2.0           2.3            2.7
Tax on the Business Fund                                       .3             .3            .4             .5             .5             .5             .7             .8
Depreciation                                                 13.8          14.6           26.1           31.0           32.0          36.o           38.0           40.0
Total                                34.9           37.6           54.1          62.1           68.3           76.o           81.6           87.0
Operating Income                                                14.o          14.o           14.6            9.4           10.7           11.0          11.0           12.0
Interest on Loans                                                4.3           4.5            5.4            6.8            8.0            9.0          10.0           11.1
Net Income                                                       9.7           9.5            9.2            2.6            2.7            2.0            1.0            .9          H
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME                                                                                                                                                            H
Business Fund                                                 9.7           9.5            9.2            2.6            2.7            2.0            1.0             09
Reserve Fund                                                  -             -              -              -              -              -              -
Transfer to Other Enterprises                                 -             -              -              -              -              -              -              -
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
* Net Income appropriated to the Business Fund.
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPJBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRENOS SPLIT
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Thrsugh 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                   ACTUAL                                                    FORECAST
1970          1971           1972          1973           1974          1975           19 76          1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                   14.0          14.0          14.6            9.4           10.7          11.0           11.0           12.0
Depreciation                                      13.8           14.6          26.1           31.0           32.0          36.o           38.0           40.0
-7  -                         7~~~~~~~9.0    52.0
27.8 40.7                             4     0 , 4   T4?. 7          4 77o15.0
Borrowings S
Foreign Exchange - IBRD                                                                       11.7           15.0          12.6            8.3            -
Local Currency                                   107.5          104.8         100.5           30.0           31.4          37.2           24.4            7.1
TOTAL SOURCES                 135.3         133.4          141.2          82.1           89.1           96.8          81.7           59.1
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                122.0          120.0         130.2           63.5           73.8          79.8           64.o           40.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                       5.0            5.2            5.3           6.1            7.6           7.8            8.1            9.0
Interest                                           4.3            4.5           5.4            6.8            8.0           9.0           10.0           11.1
9.3           9.7           10.7          12.9           15.6          181T                          20.1
Contributions to Other Enterprises                    - -            -             -              -              _                            -              -
Net Variation in Working Capital                       3.0           3.7             .3            .1           ( .3)            .2          ( .4)          (1.0)
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             134.3         133.4          141.2          76.5           89.1           96.8          81.7           59.1
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                1.0            -             _              5.6            -             -              -              -
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                      3.0           2.9            3.8           3.1            2.7           2.8            2.7            2.6         o H
Internal Cash Generation
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of                     15.           16.            23.           43.            37.            38.           48.            80.
Construction Program
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPJBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRENOS SPLIT
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millioris of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMER 31                      ACTUAL                                                      FORECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975           1976            1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                              348.7          410.6          440.8          530.8          54o.o           58o.0         630.0           863.9
Depreciation                                        84.6            99.2          125.3          156.3          188.3          224.3          262.3           302.3
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          264.1          311.4          315.5          374.5           351.7          355.7          367.7          561.6
Work in Progress                                        21.9           80.0          180.0          153.5          218.1           257.9          271.9           78.0
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                             8.4             8.4            8.4           14.0           14.0           14.0           14.0            14.O
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                       50.2           53.3            55.6           59.7           62.4           64.6           68.2           68.2
Total                           58.6           61.7           64.o           73.7            76.4           78.6           82.2           82.2
Other Assets                                            18.0           20.0           20.0           20.0           20.0            20.0           20.0           20.0
TOTAL ASSETS                   362.6          473.1          579.5          621.7           666.2          712.2          741.8          741.8
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                       202.7          212.2          221.4          224.C          226.7          228.7          229.7           230.6
Reserve Fund                                        12.3            12.3           12.3           12.3           12.3           12.3           12.3            12.3
Total                          215.0          224.5          233.7          236.3          239c.0          241.0          242.0          242.9
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits          105.0           204.6          299.8          323.7          347.5          376.9          393.2           391.3
IBED                                                                                              11.7           26.7           39.3           47.6           47.6
Total                          105.0          204.6          299.8          335.4           374.2         416.2           440.8          438.9
Current Liabilities                                     37.0          41.0            42.0           46.o           49.0            51.0           55.0           56.0
Other  Liabilities                                       5.6            4.0            4.0            4.0             4.0            4.0            4.0            4.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES              362.6          173.1          579.5          621.7           666.2          712.2          741.8          741.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                                          33.            48.             56.            59.            61.            63.            65.            64.           w
0
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                          1.6             1.5            1.5            1.6            1.6            1.2            1.5            1.5          JR
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
April 1972



I                           I



ANNEX U
Pap 14 of 20 pages
IV. Poier 0t.rpriw Za&b
Recent Performanco and Financial Position
1.        During 1971, this enterprise suffered losas from its operation
due to inadequate tariff.. These loose were oovered by "pecial Republican
subsidies. Sale. of a.ergy deoreased slightly over the previous year (8)
due to the creation of a new electrioity enterpriae yet reveoes (not
includlng the 100.0 mllion dina subsid) inoreased by 19%. The debt/
equity ratio increased sliWitly from 68/32 to 69/31 and the ratio of current
assets to current liabilities iproved trm 1.7 to 2.1.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 in
smmarized in the following tables
US$
Dinars      HMillic
Mil.lions    Equivalent     I
Eqity Ca,pital and ReserYos
Business Fund                          370.9        21.8        27.8
Reserve Fund                            42.4         2.5         3.2
Subtotal Equity       413.3        24.3        31.0
Lmog Term Debt
Local Carrency                         920.9        54.2        69.0
Total Capitalization     1,3i.2         78.5       100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (69%) in high, but in on relatively
soft terms (2% over 35 years to 50 years). These soft term funds are,
however, no longer available and Zageb will, in future, have to rely to
a greater measure on credits from suppliers with terms requiring repaylents
over periods of 10 to 15 years at interest rates of 6% to 6  per annm.
In addition, loans from local banks or th  Republican Goverment will be
subject to more stringent interest and repsymet terms.



I



ANNEX 11
gagi5 J~ of 20 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 in as follows:
US$
Dinars      Milliono
Mil ionM    EquiAlent       %
Sourcea of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)   2,259.3        133.0
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterprises                1.043.0         61.4
Net Internal Funds       1,216.3         71.6        39.5
External Resources
Donmetic Banks                     l,711.1        lOO.6        55.4
Proposed IERD Loan                   156.4          9.2         5.1
Subtotal            1,867.5       109.8         60.5
Total Funds Avilable               3 083.8        181.4       100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project            544.0         32.0        17.6
Other Capital Investments and
Working Capital Adjustments        2,539.8        149.4        82.4
Total Funds Applied      3,083.8       181.4        100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for the maintenance of a satisfactory
cash position. Based on tariff increases of 15% during 1972-1976 plus funds
provided by special measures, cash generation not of debt service and
contributions to other enterprisea will provide 40% of the investment
requirements. The balance required for the investmnt program would be
made available (a) by local banks (55%) and (b) by the IERD loan (5%).



ANNEX U1
Page 16 of 20 pages
6.       The ratio of current assets to ourrent liabilities varies from
a low of 1.2 to a high of 1.8 in 1977. The debt/equity ratio after reaching
a peak of 74/26 in 1972 decroases to a level of 54/46 in 1977, and reflects
the satisfactory level of the retained eaminpg (Business Fund). Debt
servioe coverage varying botween 1.7 times (1972) and 1.6 times (1977) is
adequate and is due mainly to the very soft term received on loans
previously incurred.
7.       The construction program of Zagreb during the period 1972-1976
is large. Its eatimated Cost of 3,239.0 mlllion dinars is 3.0 times the
groas plant expected in sortice at the end of 1971. Included in the
construction program is 544 million dinars for the 380 kV transmission
project plus an estimated 2,695 million dinars for increased generating
facilities aa follows:
(a) Hydro Varasdin (86 MW)
(b) Hydro Zakucac (105 MW)
(c)  Therml Tuzla (100 MW)
(d) Thermal Obrenovac (100 MW)
(e) Gas Turbine Zagreb (70 MW)
(f) Nuclear Krsko (338 MW)



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRIVREDA ZAGREB
Actual and Forecast Thcome Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Othe,rwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                          ACTUAL                                                    FORECAST
1970          1971           1972           1973          1974           1975           1976           1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                           3,630 L       3,397          3,737          4,134         4,574          5,003          5,156          5,369
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                  11.2          17.7           25.7           27.3           27.0          25.0           25.0           25.0
Revenue /
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises              311.6          518.5          601.7         925.8        1,021.7        1,129.0        1,159.2       1,225.1
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Consumers                 40.7           70.7          112.1         130.2          141.7          143.0          154.7          167.1
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises                       53.5           -              -              -             _              -              -              -
Miscellaneous Revenue                                        4.0                           -              -             -              -              -              -
Total Revenue                       409.8          58'.2          713.8       1,056.0        1,163.4        1,272.0       1,313.9        1,392.2
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricly2                                    250.7          253.0          286.9         34.6          420.6           42.9          108.4           51.1
Salaries and Wages                                          32.8           4o.5           45.3           51.0          57.3           77.7           83.2           90.4
Other Operating and Maintenance Cocte                        60.6         189.9          215.8          218.7         224.7          490.4          493.7          597.5
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                        5.0            7.0            8.6            9.1           9.5           17.7           18.2           20.8
Tax on the Business Fund                                     )7             5.1            6.3            6.3            6.3          (63             6.3            7.1
Bepreciatlon                                                2             _2.9            48.8           704?          87.2          111.9          135.8          160.8
o.sl                               380           5,,11            1.7          702.n          805.6         746, o,        845.6          927.7
Operating Income                                                27-.          60.8         I0.1            35i.1,         357.8         525.1          468.3          464.5
Intercst on Loans                                                6.8          33.0           l- 6           5'             64.3         191.1          197.2          228.8
Net Tncome                                                      20.7            7._            .5          2 3,8,         293.5          331,0         271.1          235.7
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCO!'-
Business FThd                                                 1C0                         50.3          280.4          275.9         311.1          254.8          221.6           t
Reserve Furml                                                                              1.0            6.C            5.9           6.6            5.4            4.7
Transqfer to Otler Enterprises               .                             1 1            2.2           11.9           11.7          13.3           10.9            9.4
For      __ r   -    --_-- -e'' tm 
For explanetno,:, nozes ses I-.n  I0   - ''
fon i 1 2. 



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRIVREDA ZAGREB
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                    ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
1970          1971           1972          1973           1974          1975           1976          1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                   27.5           60.8         102.1          351.4         357.8          525.1         468.3          464.5
Depreciation                                       28.5           32.9          48.8           70.9          87.2          111.9         135.8          160.8
56.0          93.7          150.9         422.3          445.0         637. 0041                    625.3
Borrowings J
Foreign Exchange - IBRD                                                                        38.5          49.3           41.3           27.3          _
Local Currency                                    148.6          120.0         462.6          336.2         301.2          382.1         229.0           -
TOTAL SOURCES                  204.6         213.7          613.5         797.0          795.5       1.060.4          860.4         625.3
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                 214.9          151.3         570.9          699.4         741.8          680.4         553.5          151.3
Debt Service
Amortization                                        8.9           34.6          38.6           43.8          53.5          142.1         157.7          172.9
Interest                                            6.8           33.0          48.6           53.1          64.3          194.1         197.2          228.8
15.7         67.7                          96.9         13354.9                                     401.7
Contributions to Other Enterprises 6/                  7.7            1.1           2.2           11.9          11,7           13.3           10.9           9.4
Net Variation in Working Capital                     (19.2)          ( .1)         (66.3)        (61.8)         (59.2)         35.5          (66.9)        (48.1)
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            219.1          219.9          594.0         739.4          812.1       l.045.4          852.4         514.3
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                               (14.5)          (6.2)         19.5           57.6         (16.6)          15.0           8.o          111.0
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                       3.6           1.4            1.7           4.4            3.8           1.9            1.7           1.6 6
Internal Cash Generation                                                                                                                                                  0
Net Internal Cash Generation as %S of  .                 15.            16.            11.           45.            43.           42.            43.          100.+         a
Construction Program
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROPRTVREDA ZAGREB
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                       ACTUAL                                                     FORECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974            1975           1976           19177
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                               756.9          917.6        1,312.9        1,988.,        2,552.9         3,288.3        3,846.8        4,428.1
Depreciation                                         220.0          252.9          301.7          372.6           459.8          571.7          707.5          868.3
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                           536.9          664.7        1,011.2        1,615.4        2,093.1         2,716.6        3,139.3         3,559.8
Work in Progress                                        559.6          550.2          725.8          743.1           920.0          865.0           860.0          430.o
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                              30.1           23.9           43.4          101.0            84.4           99.4          107.4          218.4
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                       359.3           264.0          264.o          264.0          264.0           314.2          314.2          314.2
Total                           389.4          287.9          307.4           365.0          348.4          413.6           421.6          532,6
Other Assets                                              8.9           22.3           22.3            22.3           22.3           22.3            22.3           22.3
TOTAL ASSETS                  1,494.8        1,525.1 2,066,7                               3               ,      4,843.2 4,584.7
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                        344.8          370.9          421.2          701.6           977.5        1,288.6        1,543.4        1,765.0
Reserve F-nd                                          41.8           42.4           43.4           49.4            55.3           61.9           67.3            72.0
Total                           386.6          413.3           464.6          751.0        1,032.8        1,350.5        1,610.7         1,837.0
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits            835.5          920.9        1,344.9        1,637.3        1,885.0         2,125.0        2,196.3        2,023.4
IBRD                                                               _                               38.5            87.8          129.1          156.4           156.4
Total                           835.5          920.9        1,344.9        1,675.8         1,972.8        2,25481        2,352.7         2,179.8
Current Liabilities                                     233.1          136.3          227.6           250.3          275.4          302.9          351.6           393.5
Other Liabilities                                        39.6           54.6            29.6           68.7          102.8          110.0           128.2          134.4
TOTAL LIABILITTES             1,898.8 1,525.1               2,066.7        2,785.8         3,303.8        8,017.5         ,43.2                7
Debt /Equity Ratio                                          68.            69,             74.            69.            66.            63,             59.            54.           p v
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                           1.7            2.1             1.4            1.5            1.5             jo             1.7            1.8
For explanatory notes see Annex 11, page 20
Ap-ril 1972



I



ANNEX 31
Page 20of 20 pages
Notes to the Incwae Statements
I/        Revenues have been calculated based on the average revwnue per kWh
being increased as follows and includes the effect of funds provided by special
measures.
(a)  RiJeka 16% - 1972, 13% - 1973, 4% - 1974
(b) Split 22% - 1972
(c) Zagreb 47% - 1972
2/        The decrease in the sales of energy is attributable to the
creation of a new enterprise (Elektroslavonija Ouijek).
3/        Purchase of electricity by Elektropriweda Zagreb decreases
aring 1974 and 1977 and is attributable to generating facilities at
Varasdin and Zakacac becoming operative.
4/        Net income has been apportioned 94% to the business fund, 2%
to the reserve fund for possible future losses and 4% as a contribution to
other enterprise (i.e., housing, apartments, or resorts established for the
social benefit of the workers of the electricity enterprises).
Notes to the Sourcea and Applications of Funds
5/        Funds required for capital expansion are provided as explained
imder Badic Inforuation. Part of the loans received in 1970 by Rijeka
and Split were for financing capital construction completed in prior
6/        See item 4 regarding contribution and transfers to other
enterprises.
7/        In calculating net internal cash generation and the rate of
self financing debt service and enterprise contributions are deducted from
internal cash generation.
8/        The other liabilities contain payablea related to the construction
program.
April 1972



t                                I
I



ANNEX 12
Pa g 1 of 8 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Tranimiesion Project
Financing of Power Enterprise
Ia the Republic of Macedonia
I. Basic Inforzation
1.        The enterprise involved in the Project in this Republic ist
Elektrostopanstvo SKOPJE
This annex contains:
(i)  Coments on the recent performance and financial position;
(ii)  Coments on capitalization of the enterprise;
(iii) Coments on the financing plan;
(iv) Actual and Forecast Income Statement (1970-1977);
(v)  Actual and Forecast Source  and Application  of Funds
(1970-1977);
(vi) Actual and Forecaat Balance Sheet (1970-1977); and
(vii)  Appropriate explanatory notes to the incme statemnt
and source and application of funds.
2.        To finance capital expansion during the period 1972-1976, the
enterprise will, following authorization by the Republican Government, adjust
present tariffs so that average revenue will be increased by 15%. This
tariff adjustment will be made effective no later than July 1, 1972. The
enterprise will apply for tariff increases in subsequent years in order to
maintain the level of internal funds provided for capital expansion at a
minimum of 35%. Projections based on the above tariff adjustment indicate
that Skopje will generate cash, net of debt service and contributions to
other enterprises, equal to 30% of funds required to meet the construction
program.
3.        The Stopanska Banka of Skopje will provide a commitment to lend
64.4 million dinare to Skopje to be used exclusively for financing the
ProJect.  In addition a comitment will be provided by the local bank to
cover cost overruns.



ANNEX 12
Mage 7 of 8 pages
II. Power Enterprise Skopje
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.        Daring 1971, sales of enery increased by 7% while revenue, due
to a tariff adjustment in April, increased by 19%. The debt/equity ratio
increased from 74% to 78% and is due  ainly to the large expanrion program
which required heavy borrowings. The ratio of current asets to current
liabilities has decreased from 2.5 to 2.2 and is adequate.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
mwnarized in the following table:
Us$
Dinars      Millions
mllion    Eguivalent        %
Equity Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                          364.9        21.5         21.6
Reserve Fund                             3.9          .2          .2
Sabtotal Equity       368.8        21.7        21.8
Long Toru Debt
Local Currency                       1,324.8        77.9         78.2
Total Capitalization     1,693.6        99.6       100.0
3.       While the level of debt (78%) is high it in on relatively soft
terms (2% over 35 years to 50 years). Thee soft term funds are, however,
no longer available and Skopje will, in future, have to rely to a greater
measure on credits from suppliers with terms requiring repayments over
periods of 10 to 15 years at interest rate, of 6% to 6&A per annum. In
addition, loans from local banks or the Republican Goverment will be
subject to more stringent interest and repayment terms (5% over 20 to 25
years) .



ANEY 12
Page 3 of 8 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital ewpansion
program 1972-1976 is as follows:
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)  1,173.1          69.0
Debt Service & Tranafer to
Other Enterprises                  552.4         32.5
Net Internal Funds         620.7         36.5        29.9 2
External Refsources
Domestic Banks                        906.2        53.3        43.6
Suppliers' Credits                    450.0        26.5        21.7
Proposed ITRR Loan                    100.3         5.9         4.8
Subtotal            1,456.5        85.7         70.1
Total Funds Available               2,077.2       122.2       100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project             253.3        14.9        12.2
Other Capital Investments &
Working Capital Adjustments         1,823.9       107.3        87.8
Total Funds Applied      21071.2        122.2       100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on rate adjustments
which will increase average revenue by approximately 15% during 1972,
cash generation net of debt service and contributions to other enterprises
will provide 30% of the investmnt requireumnts.  The balance of funds
required for the investment program would be made available (a) by local
banks (44%), (b) by suppliers' credits (32%), and (c) by the proposed
IERD loan (4%).
1/ The percentage contribution would be increased to 35% to comply with the
rate covenant by a tariff increase of approximately 8% in 1976.



ANEX 12
Page 4 of 8 pages
6.        The ratio of current assets to current liabilities varies from a
low of 2.0 (1973) to a level of 1.6 (1977) and is adequate.   The
debt/equity ratio after reaching 77/23 (1972) decreases to a level of
74/26 in 1977, and reflects the improved level of the retained earnings
(Business F=d).  On an an=4al basis the debt service coverage is over 2.0
and is directly attributable to the rather lenient terms received on earlier
loans. It in anticipated that future loans at torns reflecting more stringpnt
conditions will tend to reduce this ratio.
7.       The construction program of ScopJe covering  the period 1972-1976
is large. Its ostimated cost of 1,934.7 million dinars is 1.5 times the
gross plant expected in service at the end of 1971. Included in this program
is 253.0 million dinrs for the 3*0 kV tranwmission project plus an estimated
1,700.0 million dinars for increasing the thermal generating facilities at
Oslomj and the bydro generating facilities at Gradec and Oaiak plus the lines
and circuitry as required.



YUGOSIAVIA
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO SKOPJE
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(Ira Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                         ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
1970          1971          1972           1973          1974           1975           1976          1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                         1,959          2,090 2       1,665          1,940         2,465 -        3,505         3,657          3.824
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                12.2           13.6          16.9           16,9          16.6           16.4          16.4           i6.4
Revenue 2
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribistion Enterprises            108.1          136.3         194.1          224.2         245.5          275.9         287.8          301.0
Bulk Encrgy Sales to Large Direct Consumers               100.5          148.8          87.3          105,6         163.7          298.9         311.9          326.1
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises                     18.3
Miscellaneous Revenue                                      18.5
Total Revenue                      239.4          285.1         281.4          329.8         409.2          574.8         599.7          627.1
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                    99.8         130.8           58.1          77.5          139.8 -/       68.6           65.6          86.9
Salaries and Wages                                         24.8           28.5          31.5           34.7          39.2           55.8          61.4           67.5
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                      37.0           20.8          26.0           27.2          29.6          103.1         103.1          103.1
Statutory and Contractual Obligation                        5.4            5.7           6.6            7.0           7.2           12.6          12.6           12.6
Tax on the Business Fund                                    5.3            6.4           8.0            8.5           8.5           14.8          14.8           14.8
Depreciation                                               31.8           47.3          75.9           80.3          83.9          124.3         124.3          124.3
TI'otal                            204.1          239.5         206.1          235.2         308.2          379.2         381.8          409.2
Operating Tncome                                              35.3           45.6          75.3           94.6         lOl.O          195.6         217.9          217.9
Interest on Loans                                             16.5           24.6          26.2           32.9          35.4           70.0          75.0           80.4
Net Income                                                    18.8           21.0          49.1           61.7          65.6          125.6         142.9          137.5,
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME  /n
Business Fund                                               9.9           16.3          46.1           58.0          61.7          118.1         134.3          129.2         *
Reserve Fund                                                2.0            1.9           1.0.           1.2           1.3            2.5           2.9            2.7        OD
Transfers to Other Enterprises                              6.9            2.8           2.0            2.5           2.6            5.0           5.7            5.6
For eaxplanator'y notes see Arnex 12, page 8
April 1972



YUGOSLAVTA
REP[IBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROSTOPANSTVO SKOPJE
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Ulnless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                      ACTUAL                                                      FORECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975           1976           1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                    35.3            45.6           75.3           94.6          101.0          195.6          217.9          217.9
Depreciation                                        31,8            47.3           75.9           80.3           83.9          124.3          124.3          124.3
92.9          151.2          179            184.9          319.9          342.2          342.2
TBorrowings /
Foreign Exchange (IBRD)                                                                           24.7           31.7           26.5           17.4
Local Currency- Republican Government              115.4          348.5           101.9          208.7          120.9          121.9          152.8
Economic Bank                                                                                                                200.0          306.3
Suppliers Credits                                                                             100.0           175.0          175.0
TOTAL SOURCES                  182.5          441.4          253.1          408.3          437.5           643.3          887.4          648.5
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                  115.6           372.0          225.0          300.0          320.0          470.0          619.7          384.9
Debt Service
Amortization                                        12.3            27.2           29.3           36.3           41.4           91.0           97.1          102.1
Interest                                            16.5           24.6           26.2            32.9           35.4           70.0           75.0           80.4
s5.5       6~97.2         --7i172.1                                   TT
27             -51.8          55.5           %776.                        ; 67.o                        172.5
Contributions and Transfers to Other Enterprises 8/  6.9                2.8            2.0            2.5            2.6            5.0            5.7             5.6
Net Variation in Working Capital                        23.7           33.5          (69.9)          (6.8)          (8-5)         (29.2)         105.9           105.5
Other Than Cash
TOTATL APPLICATIONS            175.0          460.1          212.6           364.9          390.9          606.8          903.4          678.5
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                   7.5          (18.7)          4o.5           43.4           46.6           36.5           (16.0)         (30.0)         CD
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                                                                                                                                               0 X
Internal Cash Generation                                  2.3            1.8            2.7            2.5            2.4            2.0             2.0            1.9          co
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of 2/                                                                                                                   l/
Construction Program                                     27.            10.            42.            35.            33.             33.            27. -          40.
For explanatory notes see Annex 12, page 8
April 1972



YUG,OSLAdVI A
RFULIBLIC O' MIALEDOIJIA
FSTERPRISE ELEKIRCFSTOIDAJOSi\V9 S2OP.TE
Actual ard Forecast Balance Sheel-, 10'70 Through 1'77
(in Millio,,s of Mi--s's U,llesE Othe.eise Steted)
FTSCAL YEAk ENDING DECEMBER 31                            ACILAL                                                     FOKECAST
1970           1y71           12)72          1973           1Y74           19'3           1              1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                             1,175.8        1, 430.9       1,499.         I,n20.C        1.715,0        2,31 2          2,845.         3,245. C
Depreciation                                         -10.0          257.3          333,2          113.5           97.4          ,'21.7         o7.0           c70.3
Net Fixed Assets in Operati,n                           965.8        1,073.r        1,165.8        1 _ 6.5        1,2961 .       1,688.5         2,039.'        2,37417
Work in Progress                                        3R. 65 '.9 4                   6r2.3         P41            96.2            941l.               1 .0,01i0.O.'
Current Assets
Cash on Hand an.d in Bank                             14.0           (4.7)          3538           79.?2         125.8          162.3           146.3          116.3
Trivestimienits, Accounts
Receivables snd Invenltories                      330.()         300.0           239.1          136.)          135.0          110.5         1j 6201.-
Total                           344.0           95.3          267.9          21i .1          26,0.8         272.8          31?.9          317.9
Other Assets                                             12.5           15.4           le8.           21.8           19. 2          10.5           fO.,           130.,
TOTAT, ASSETS                 1,710.8        1,989.7        2,114.5        2,283.7        ?,559.9        2,912.)         3,498.        3,834.3
ITABI1ITIF:S
Capital and Reserves
Suisiness Ftud                                      348.6,          364.9          411.0          469.0          530.7          648.9           783.1          912.3
Reserve Fund                                           2.0            3.9            4.9            6.1            7.4            9.9            12.8           15.5
TIot T                          350.6          368,6          415.9          475.1           538.1          6 58-7         795.9          927.8
Lono Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund erd Credits         1,003.5        1,324.8         1,397.4        1,569.8        1,749.3        1,955.2        2,385.9        2,590.1
TBRD                                                                                               24.7           56.4           82.9           1010.3         100.3
Total                         1,003.5        1,324.8        1,397.4        1,594.5        1,805.7         2,038 1        2,486.2        2,690 ... 4
Carrent Liabilities                                     136.2          136.1          136.2          136.1          156.1          176.1           19f,.1        196.1
Other Tiabilities                                       220.5          160.0          165.0           80.0           6o.o           40.0           20.0            20.0
TOTALI TIABI1ITIFS            1710.8        1,989. 7       2,114.5        2,285.7         2,559.9        2,912.9        3,498.2        3,834.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                                           74.            78.            77.            77.             77             76.            76.            74.          o r
(D
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                           2.5            2.2             2,0            1.b            1.7            1.5            1.6            1.6
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For explanatory notes see Arnex 12, page 8
April 1972



I                            I
I



ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 8 pages
Notes to the Incine Statement
1/        Revenues have been calculated based on a 15% tariff increase for
1972.
2/        Decrease in energy sales (1971/72) is due to the steel works in
Sksopje providing their own generating facilities.
3/        The large increase in sales of energy (1974/75) is due to the
Ferro Nickel plant being put in service.
4/        The decrease in purchase of power is due to Te Olomse comCing on
'ine .
5/        Net income has been apportioned 94% to the business fund, 2% to
'he reserve fund for possible future lossea and 4% as a contribution to
other enterprises (i.e., housing, apartments, or resorts established for
the social benefit of the workers of the electricity enterprise).
Notes to the Source and Application of Funds
7/        Funds required for capital expansion are provided through tariff
adJustments, bank loans and sappliers' credits.
8/        See item 5 regarding contribution and transfers to other
enterprise.
9/        In calculating net internal cash generation and the rate of
self financing debt service and enterprise contributions are deducted frem
internal cash generation.
10/       The percentage contribution would be increased to 35% to comply
with the rate covenant by a tariff increase of approximately 8% in 1976.
April 1972



I



ANNEI 13
Page   of 8 pages
Power Transmission Project
Financing of Power Enterprise
In the Republic of Montenegro
I. Basic Information
1.        The enterprise involved in the Project in this Republic in.
lektrocrnagora TITOGL&D
This annex containss
(i) Comments on the recent performance and financial position;
(ii) CommeDnts on capitalization of the enterprise;
(iii)  Ca ents on the financing plan;
(iv) Actual and Forecast Income Statement (1970-1977);
(v) Actual and Forecast Source and Application of Funds
(1970-1977);
(vi) Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet (1970-1977); and
(vii) Appropriate explanatory notes to the income statements
and source and application of funds.
2.        To finance capital expansion during the period 1972-1976, the
enterprise will, following authorization by the Republican Government,
adjust present tariffs so that average revenue will be increased by 15%.
This tariff adjustment will be made effective no later than July 1, 1972.
Financial projections based on the above tariff adjustment indicate that
Titograd will generate cash net of debt service and contributions to
other enterprises and the Underdeveloped Regions Fund equal to 38% of
funds required to meet the construction program.
3.        The Investiciona Banka of Titograd will provide a commitment to
lend 52.5 million dinars to Titograd to be used exclusively for financing
the Project. In addition a commitment will be provided by the local bank
to cover cost overruns.



ANNEX 1 
Pal2 ofU8 pages
II. Power Enterprise Titograd
Recent Performnce and Finanoial Position
1.        During 1971, weals  of energy increased by 12% end revenue, due to
a tariff adjustment in April, increased by 23%. The debt/equity ratio
increased slightly from 50/50 to 54/46 and is acceptable. The ratio of
current assets to current liabilities decreased slightly from 1.6 to 1.5
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalisation estimated at December 31, 1971 is
summarized in the foalowing table:
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions   Equiialent       ,1
Equity Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                           74.4          4.4        43.6
Reserve Fund                             3.6           .2         2.0
Subtotal Equity        18.0         4.6         45.6
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                          93.0          5.5        54.4
Total Capitalization       171.0        10.1        100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (54%) is reasonable and is on
relatively soft terms (2% over 35 yers to 50 years).  These soft term
fundl are, however, no longer available and Titograd will, in future,
have to rely on credits from suppliers with terms requiring repqeymnts
o-wr periods of 10 to 15 years at interest rates of 6% to &O per anrmm.
In addition, loans from local banks or the fund for underdeveloped regions
will be subjeoct to more stringent interest and repayment terms, (5% over
20 to 25 years).



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 8 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 is as followas
Us$
Dinars      Milions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Sources of FundB
Internal Resources
Internal Caah GOneration (Gross)      288.1        16.9
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Baterprises                    88.8         5.2
Net Internal Funds          199.3        11.7        38.4
External Resources
Domestic Banks & Republican Funds    233.7         13.7        44.9
Proposed IERD Loan                     86.7         5.1         16.7
Subtotal              320.4         18.8        61.6
Total Funds Available                  19.7        30.5 2100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project             214.2        12.6        41.3
Other Capital Investments &
Working Capital Adjustments           305.5        17.98.7
Total Funds Applied        519.7         30.5       100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory caah position. Based on tariff increases
of 15% during 1972, cash generation net of debt service and contributions
to other enterprises will provide 38% of the investment requirements. The
balance of funds required for the investment program would be made available
(a) by local banks (45%) and (b) by the IERD loan (17%).



NO-4-f  8 papa
6.        The ratio of current &ts to ouret liblities "rlue fr   a
lw of 1.5 to 2.2 Ina 377. The dbt/.quty ratio after reaching a peek of
74/26 in 1973 derorean to a IevX of 57/43. ISM77, ad refects the
satisfactory level of the retained eawnin   (hal.... Fund). Debt servioe
oorapge varying between  4.2 time (1972) and 3.1 tims (1977) is
extrwly high and is due mmia3' to the wry soft ters reciwed on loans
previously incurred. The dovward trand (1972-1977) of this ratio in
attributable to the changing borrowing terns.
7.       The construction program of Titognd oowvring the period 1972-1976
is larp.  Its estimated cost of 470.0 dillio  dinra in 2.4 tims the grosm
plnt expelted in eoryioe at the end of 1971.  Doluded in thim progrm is
214.0 mion dinera for the 380 kV tra.nissij  projeot pus  3roxte
200.0  illion dins for increased pasating feoalties,  rtina (30 M4W)
and Pljeria (200 14W) plus lines ad circuitry as required.



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROCRNAGORA TITOGRAD
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                        ACTUAL                                                  FORECAST
1970          1971          1972          1973          1974           1975          1976          1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                          918         1,031         1,259         1,497          1,884         2,110         3,024          3,024
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras                                9.5          10.4          12.8           13.5          14.0          14.3          14.3           14.0
Revenue 21
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises             32.0          53.8          61.5           87.5         103.9          89.6         128.4          128.7
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Cons  rs                12.3          35.7          98.8          113.6         139.8         178.3         300.5          291.7
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises /                  41.9          16.5           -              -            18.0          31.5           -              -
Miscellaneous Revenue                                    _  .8            .8            .8            1.0           2.0           2.3            3.5           3.1
Total Revenue                       87.0         106.8         161.1         202.1         263.7          301.7         432.4         423.5
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                   58.4          76.3         130.2          140.1         178.2         206.8         298.6          307.2
Salaries and Wages                                         6.2           7.0           7.7           8.9            9.1          10.0          11.5           12.7
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                      5.7           6.6           7.4            9.4          10o8          12.2           14.7          14.9
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                       .7            .8           1.1           1.1            1.3           1.9           2.1            2.4
Tax on the Business Fund                                   1.2           1.2           1.3            1.6           2.0           2.3            2.6           2.7
Depreciation                                               7.0           7.9           8.2           11.2          15.2          17.5          20.1           20.2
Total                               79.2          99.8         155.9         172.3          216.6         250.7         349.6          360.1
Operating Income                                              7.8           7.0           5.2           29.8          47,1          51.0           82.8          63.4
Interest on Loans                                             1.5           1.4           1.5           4.2            6.4          10.3          15.2          16.6
Net Income                                                    6.3           5.6            3.7          25.6          40.7          40o7           67.6          46.8
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME 2                                                                                                                                                 x
Business Fund                                              4.7           4.3                         20,3          34.5           34.2          63.5          44.0       0 w
Reserve Fund                                                .9            .3                           .4            .7             .7           i.4            .9
Transfer to Other Enterprises                               .7           1.0                           .9           1.5            1.5           2.7           1.9      t
Contribution to Underdevelopment Fund*                                                 3.7            4.0           4.0           4.3            -             -
CD
For explanatory notes see Annex 13, page 8
* During 1972-.4975 the enterprise must appropriate funds for Underdevelopment Fund as shown.
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
ENTERPRISE ELEKTFOCRNAGORA TITOGRAD
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                     ACTUAL                                                     FORECAST
1970          1971           1972           1973           1974           1975           1976           1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                    7.8            7.0            5.2           29.8           47.1           51.0           82.8           63.4
Depreciation                                        7.0             7.9           8.2           11.2           15.2           17.5           20.1           20.2
ITT8          114.9          I4             41.0           62.T3 T75                    102.9           837
Borrowings          6
Foreign Exchange - IBRD                                                                         21.3           27.3           22.9           15.2
Local Currency - Domestic Banks                      5.0          20.3           46.2           30.0           16.3           18.2
Fund for Underdeveloped                                        23.0           70.0           30.0
Regions
TOTAL SOURCES                  19.8           35.2           82.6         16.                           109.6          118.1            83.6
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                  16.9           31.7           63.7          160.0          100.8           81.2           64.7           80.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                        1.4            1.5            1.7            3.6            5.9            7.2           10.2           10.5
Interest                                            1.5            1.4            1.5            4.2            6.4           10.3           15.2           16.6
2.9           2.9            3.2            7.7           12.3           17.5           25.4           27.1
Contributions to Other Enterprises and U.D.F./           .7           1.0            3.7            4.9            5.5            5.8            2.7            1.9
Net Variation in Working Capital                         .8             .4           1.0            1.2            1.0           ( .2)           1.0            1.0
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             21.3           36.0           71.6                        119.6       lo10.
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                 (1.5)          ( .8)         11.0          (11.6)          16.3            5.3           24.3          (26.4)
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                       5.1            5.1           4.2            5.3            5.1            3.9            4.1            3.1         co
Internal Cash Generation
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of V                    66.            35.           10.            18.            44.            56.           loo.+           68. 
Construction Program
For explanatory notes See Annex 13, page 8
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
IEPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROCRNAGORA TITOGRAD
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Milliorns of Dinars (Jnless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR EGDING DECEMBER 31                      ACTUAL                                                     FORECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975           19176            977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                              163.9           197.4          209.8          303.6          426.1          491.3          652.9           698.5
Depreciation                                         46.2           54.1            62.3           73.5           88.7          106.2          126.3          146.5
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          117.7           143.3          147.5          230.1          337.4          385.1          526.6           552.0
Work in Progress                                         20.2           18.4           69.7          135.9          114.2          130.2            33.3           67.7
Current Assets
Cash o  Uland and in Bank                             6.5            5.7           16.7            5.1            21.4           26.7           51.0            24.6
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                         9.9           10.9           12.5           14.8           15.2            18.0           18.0           18.0
Total                            16.4           16.6           29.2           19.9            36.6           44.7           69.0           42.6
Other Assets                                              3.3            3.6            4.3            5.3            6.3            7.3             8.3            9.3
TOTAL ASSETS                    157.6          181.9          250.7          391.2          494.5           567.3          637.2          671.6
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Busineas Fund                                        70.1            74.4           74.4           94.7          129.2          163.4           226.9          270.9
Reserve Fund                                          3.3             3.6            3.6            4.0            4.7            5.4             6.8            7.7
Total                            73.4           78.0           768.           98.7           133.9          168.8          233.7           278.6
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits            74.2           93.0           160,5          256,9          297.3          308.3          298.1           287.6
TBND                                                                                               21.3           48.6           71.5            86.7          -86.7
Total                            74.2           93.0          160.5           278.2          345-9          379.8          384.8           374.3
Current Liabilities                                      10.0           10.9           12.2          14.3           14.7           18.7            18.7           18.7
Other Liabilities                                         -              --                                    -                      -              -
TOTAL LIABII,TIT3S              157.6          131.9          250.7          391.2           494.5          567.3          637.2           671.6        J|
Debt/Equity Ltatio                                          50.            54.             67.            74.            72.            69.            62.             57.          o
co
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                           I.6            1.5            2.4            1.4             2.5            2.4             3.7            2.3
For explanatoaw niotes see Annex 13, page 8
April 1972



I



ANNEX 13
Page ti of 8s page a
Notes to the Incme Statewnt
1/        Revenme have been calculated based on a 15% tariff increase for
1972.
2/        The large increase in sales of energy (1974/75) is due mainly to
the connection of an aluminum plant presently under construction.
3/        The bulk energy sales to other enterprises will eventually be
phased out due to increaned requirements for electric energ within the
Republic.
4/        Net incoim  has been apportioned 94% to the business fund, 2% to
the reserve fund for possible future losses and 4% as a contribution to
other enterprises (i.e., housing, apartments, or resorts established for
the social benefit of the workers of the electricity enterprise).
Notes to the Source and Application of Funds
5/        Funds required for capital expansion are provided through tariff
adjustments and bank loans. (See Basic Information)i
6/        See item 4 above regarding contribution and transfers to other
enterprises.
7/        In calculating net internal cash generation and the rate of
self financing debt service and enterprise contributions are deducted from
internal cash generation.
April 1972



I                     I



ANN~EX 14
Pap I Of 8 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Transmission ProJect
Financing of Power Ehterprise
In tbe Republic of Serbia
I. Basic Information
1.        The enterprise involved in the Project in this Republic is:
Elektroistok BELGRADE
This annex contains:
(i)  Coments on the recent performance and financial position;
(ii)  Coments on capitalization of the enterprise;
(iii) Comwenta on the financing plan;
(iv) Actual and Forecast Incame Statemmnt (1970-1977);
(v) Actual and Forecast Source and Application of Funds
(1970-1977);
(vi) Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet (1970-1977); and
(vii)  Appropriate explanatory notea to the income statement and
source and application of funds.
2.        The function of this enterprise is to transmit electricity on
behalf of the Electric Power Industries of Serbia (ZEPS).  For performing
this function, the enterprise charges ZEPS all of its operating costs plus
0.15 paras/kWh as a profit margin to be used for investment in new plant.
Following authorization by the Republican Government,ZEPS will apply for a
15% increase in its tariffs.  The enterprise Belgrade will benefit from
this tariff revision in as much as ZEPS will allow the enterprise to increase
its profit margin by 15% per year until such time as cash generation net of
debt service and contributions to other enterprises will equal 25% of funds
required to meet the enterprise Belgrade's construction program. The balance
of funds necessary to meet the requirement that at least 35% of funds needed
for capital expansion be provided from internal resources will be in the
form of soft loans from ZEPS (2i, interest rate over 25 years). ZEPS will
also enter into a commitment to meet all cost overruns.
3.        The Beogradaka Banka of Belgrade - Centrala will provide a
ccmmitment to lend 401.1 million dinars to be used exclusively for financing
Project costs.



ANEx 14
PsgeT2of 8 page g
II. Power Bnterpris Belgrade
Recent Performance and Financial Posdtion
1.        During 1971, the amount of energy tranamitted by this enterprise
increased by 21% and revenue, due partly to a tariff adjustment in April,
increased by 47%. The debt/eqaity ratio increased sightly from 78/22 to
79/21 while the ratio of current asset. to current liabilities remains
strong at over 4.0.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
umarized in the following table:
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Equity Capital and Reserves
Butsiness Fund                         289.1        17.0         20.7
Reserve Fund                           __..9           .1          .1
Subtotal Equity       290.0        17.1        20.8
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                       1,107.4        65.1         79.2
Total Capitalization     1.397.4        82.2       100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (79%) is high and is due mainly to
heavy capital expansion over the last few years. MNch of the debt is on
relatively soft terms (2% over 35 yasr to 50 years). These soft term
funds are, however, no longer available and Belgrade will, in future, have
to rely to a greater meaaure on credits frcu suppliers with terms requiring
repayment over periods of 10 to 15 years at interest rates of 6% to 6% per
annum.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 oL 8 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 is as follows:
us$
Dinars      Millions
Mlllions    Equivalent       %
Sources of Funds
Internal Resourcea
Electric Power Industries of           207.1
Serbia (ZEPS)
Internal Cash Generation (Gross)   1.247.9
Subtotal            I;b455          85.6
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterprises                   753.4         44.3
Net Internal Funds          701.6        41.3         35.2
External Resources
Dncmstic Banks                        918.6         54.0         46.o
Proposed I3RD Loan                    375.7         22.1         18.8
Subtotal            1,294.3         76.1         64.8
Total Funds Available               1,995.9        117.4        100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project           l,195.1         70.3         59.9
Other Capital Investments &
Working Capital Adjustments           800.8        147.1         40.1
Total Funds Applied       1.995.9        117.4       100.0
The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on tariff adjust-
ments which will increase the average revenue by 15% per annum during the
period 1972-1976, cash generation net of debt service and contributions to
other enterprises, plus soft term loans to be provided by ZEPS will provide
35% of the inveatment requirements. The balance of funds required for
the investment program would be made available by (a) local banks (46%)
and by (b) the proposed IBRD loan (19%).



WP 4 Of8 apage
6.        The ratio of current assets to current liabilitiet vlioa from
4..3 (1972) to a high of over 37 in 1977. The debt/equity ratio after
reaching a peak of 78/22 in 1972 decrases to a level of 68/32 in 1977, and
reflocts the satisfactory lovel of the rotained earnings (painess Fwd).
on an annual basis the debt servioe cooYrage varying betwen 1.5 tims
(1972) and 14 tima (1977) in adequate.
7.       The oontl'uotim program of Belgrade oowrizg the period 1972-
1976 is larp. Its estimated coo of 2,004,.0 million dine  is oe and a
half time gross plant oxpected in servioe at toe end of 1971. Included in
this progrp in 1,200.0 uifi3i dinrs for tbe 380 kV transmission project
plus an estimated 800.0 miimn dinsrs to cover improved 1l10 kV and 220 kV
transmisuion facilities.



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROISTOK BELGRADE
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR EILING DECERBER 31                            ACTUAL                                                     FOJECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975            9             1977
Transmission of Energy, GWh                                     8,300         10,067         11,504         13,114         14,500         15,145          17,370         19,290
Average Revenue per k-Wh, Transmitted, Paras                     1.71           2.07           2.15           2.45           2.84           2.84            2.66           2.66
Revenue 1
Bulk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises                 99.6          172.9          208.3          279.3          366.8          380.1          407.0           455.1
Bulk Energy Sales to Large Direct Consumers
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises
miscellaneuus Reveuue                                         42.5           36.o           39.0           42.0           47.o           50.0            55.0           58.0
Total Revenue                        142.1          208.9          247.3          321.3          411.8           430.1          462.0          513.1
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Wages                                            29.2           35.8           39.4           43.3           47.6           52.3            58.6           65.6
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                         40.3           48.1           53.5           60.3           65.7           71.0            80.9           91.4
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                          3.8            4.1            4.3            4.5            4.7            4.9             5.2            5.4
Tax on the Business Fund                                       3.7            3.7            4.9            5.3            5.6            6.o             6.6            7.3
Depreciation                                                  30.7           39.7           49.0           56.0           63.0            69.7           83.6           97.5
Total                                107.7          131.4          151.1          169.4           186.6          203.9          234.9          267.2
Operating Income                                                 34.4           77.5           96.2          151.9           225.2          226.2          227.1          245.9
Interest on Loans                                                27.0           35.0           39.5           49.6           58.5            66.7           81.6           95.1
Lot incoec                                                        7.4           42.5            56.7          102.3          166.7          159.5          145.5           159.8        Id
APPROPRIATIOA OF NET INCOME
Business l,und                                                 7.0           39.9           53.3            96.2          156.7          149.9          136.8          141.7
Reserve FuAd                                                    .4             .5            1.1            2.0             3.3            3.2            2.9            3.1         co
Transfer to Other Enterprises                                  -              2.1            2.3             4.1            6.7            6.4            5.8             6.e
For explanatory notes see Annex 14 page 8
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
ENTERPRISE ELEKTROISTOK BEIGRADE
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                       ACTUAL                                                      FORECAST
1970           1971           1972            1973           1974           1975            1976           1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                      34.4           77.5            96.2          151.9           225.2          226.2          227.1           245.9
Depreciation                                          30.7            39.7           49.0           56.o            63.0           69.7           83.6            97.5
65.1         117.2          145.2           207.9          288.2          295.9           310.7          343.
Borrowings 5/
Foreign Exchange - TBRD                                                                             92.4          118.3            99.1           65.9
Local Currency - Beogradska Banka                    208.1           236.9          138.5          250.0          269.9           187.8           72.4           185.8
Electric Power Industries                                         27.6          105.4            49.5           13.3            11.3            4.8
of Serbia ( ZEPS)
TOTAL SOURCES                   273.2           354.1          311.3          65557           7              596.1          460.3           534. 0
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                    209.9          242.6           211.5          534.6          942.8           405.5          310.4           300.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                          19.5            39.7           57.0           72.5            82.5           94.2          126.0           142.1
Interest                                              27.0           35.0            39.5           49.6           58.5            66.7           81.6           95.1
46.:T95                        122.1          155T1.0        1h0.9                          237.2
Contributions to Other Enterprises                        -               2.1            2.3            4.1             6.7            6.4             5.8            6.o
Net Variation in Working Capital                         (11.6)          (2.1)          (1-9)           (3-0)          (1.8)           4.o             5.0
Other Than Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              244.8           317.3          308.4          657.8           688.7          576.8          528.8           5 2
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                   28.4            36.8            2.9           (2.1)           37.2           19.3           (68.5)          (9.2)
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                          1.4            1.6            1.5             1.7            2.0             1.8            1.5            1.4          C.
Internal Cash Generation                                                                                                                                                           Id
Net Internal Cash Generation as % of 7/                     18.            17.            22.             15.            26.            32.             31.            33.           a
Construction Program
For explanatory notes see Annex 14, page 8
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC 05 SERBIA
RNTERPRISE ELEKTROISTOK BELRIBADE
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                   ACTUA           __T.                                   FORECAiP
1970          1971          1972          1973           1974          1975           1976          1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                         1,137.3        1,362.5       1,573.0       2,1U7.6       2,68u(.4       3,095.9       3,460.3        3,656.3
Depreciation                                     222.9         262.6          311.6         367.6         430.6          500.3         583.9         681.4
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                       914.4       1,099.9        1,26i.4       1,740.0       2,249.8        2,595.o       2,822.4        2,974.9
Work in Progress                                     121.6         139.0         140.0         140.0          110.0         100.0         100.0          150.0
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                          62.8          99.6         102.5          100.4         137.6          156.9          88.4           79.2
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                    128.5          139.0         140.0         140.0         140.0          145.0         150.0          150.0
Total                         191.3         238.6          242.5         240.4         277.6          301.9         238.4         229.2
Other Assets                                            .8           .9            1.0           1.0           1.2            1.2           1.2            1.2
TOTAL ASSETS                1,228.1       1,678.         16669         2121.         26386          2,998.7       3,162.0        3,355.3
LIABILITIES
Capital and Resernes
Businiess Fund                                   249.2          289.1         342.4         438.6          595.3         745.2         882.0        1,023.7
Re serve Fund                                       .4            .9            2.0           4.0            7.3          10.5 a13.4                   16.,
Total                         249.6         290.0          344.4         442.6         602.G          755.7         895.4        1,04o.2
Long Tern Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits        910.2       1,107.4        1,216.5       1,499.4       1, (36.3       1,843.2       1,800.9        1,849.4
IBRL                                                                                         92.4         210.7          309.8         375 7          375.7
Total                         910.2       1,107.4        1,216.5       1,591.8       1,947.0        2,153.0       2,176.6        2,225.1
Current Liabilities                                  48.4           56.o          57.0          59.0           60.0          61.0           61.0          61.0
Other Liabilities                                    19.9           25.0          27.0          28.0           29.0          29.0           29.0          29.0
TOTA, LIABILITIES           1228.1         1,678.        1,64.9        2121.6          2,638.6        9162.0                     3,355.   rx
Debt/Equity Ratio                                        78.           79.           78.            78.           76.           74.            71.           68.
Id
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                        3.9           4.3           4.3           4.1            4.6           4.9            3.9           3.7
For explanatory notes see Annex 14, Page 8
April 1972



I



Pae 8  of 8 pages
Notes to the Incom Statemet
I/     sRveme ham been calculated based on a 1$% tariff inamaDe
in 1972 and an additional 15% increase in each of the years 1973 and
1974.
3/       Not incom  has been apportied 94- to the buisss fund, 2% to
ho   serve fund for possible futur  lommes and 4% as a contribution to
other enterpris  (i.e., housing, apartmutes, or resorts established for the
social benefit of the workers of the leotricity enterpris).
Notes to the Source and Application of Funds
4/       Funds required for capital exansion are prowided frwi profits
Lid by loans from local banks and fra ZIPS. (See Basic Information).
5I        See item 3 regarding contribution and transfers to other
enterprises.
6/        In calculating net internal cash genration and the rate of self
'inancing debt oerice and enterprise  catributions are deducted from
internal cash generation.
April 1972



I                    I
a



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 22 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
Power Transmission Project
Financing of Power Enterprises
In the Republic of Slovenia
I. Basic Information
1.        The three enterprises involved in the Project in this Republic are:
(a) Savake Elektrarne LJUBLJANA
(b) Draveke Elektrarne MARIBOR
(c) Soake Elektrarne NOVA GORIGA
This annex will contain for each of these enterprises:
(i)  C    nts on the recent performance and financial position;
(ii) Comments on capitalization of the enterprises;
(iii)  Coaments on the financing plans;
(iv) Actual and Forecast Income Statements (1970-1977);
(v) Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
(1970-1977);
(vi) Actual and Forecaot Balance Sheets (1970-1977); and
(vii) Appropriate explanatory notesto the income statements
and sources and applications of funds.
2.        In 1972 an association of electricity enterprises located in
Slovenia was established known as Elektrogoipodarstvo Maribor (EGS). These
three enterprises are members of this association. The association (EGS)
purchases electricity from the enterprises and retails to its various
customers in Slovenia. The revenues of the member enterprises are regulated
by the association through the internal pricing structure to cover the
following:
(a)  operating, maintenance and payroll costs;
(b) depreciation;
(c) debt service and insurance;



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 22 pages
(d) miscellaneous membership feea and contributions; and
(e) percentage contribution toward capital investments.
Any revenue surpluses not used for investment by the enterprises are channelled
by the Republican Government to local banks which then lend these funds to
various enterprisea to cover capital expansion. However, revenues accruing
from the operation of heating plants are exempt from this proviso and remain
at the disposal of the enterprisea.
3.        Capital expansion is also financed bys
(a)  special levies (20-25%) on the calculated billing of the
low and high voltage consmrs} and
(b) a 2% surcharges on new investments within the republic.
4.        Following authorization by the Republican Government, EGS will
apply for a 15% increase in its tariffs. This tariff adJustment is to be
effective no later than July 1, 1972. The enterprises Ljubljana, Maribor,
and Nova Gorica will benefit from this tariff revision in as much as EGS
will allow the enterprises to increase the internal price so that cash
generation net of debt service and contributions to other enterprises will
equal 35% of funds required to meet the individual enterprises construction
programs.
5.        The Ljubljanaka Banka of Ljubljana will provide a commitment to
lend 60.7 million dinarc to Ljubljana, 69.9 million dinars to Maribor and
31.5 million dinars to Nova Gorica. These funds are to be used exclusively
for financing Project costs. In addition the local bank will provide a
commitment to cover cost overruns.



ANNEXU
22 pages
II. Power Enterprise Ljubljana
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.        Daring 1971, sales of energy increased by 6% over the previous
year, while the level of revenue, due to a tariff adjustmaent in April,
increased by approximatelJy 23%. The debt/equity ratio was unchanged at
29% and current assets to current liabilities increased slightly from
1.6 to 1.9.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
smmarized in the following tables
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Equity Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                           173.9        10.4        70.3
Reserve Fund                              3.1          .1           .7
Subtotal Equity       177.0        10.5         71.0
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                           72.6         4.3        29.0
Total Capitalization       249.6         14.8       100.0
3.        The level of debt at present (29%) is low and is on relatively
soft terms (2% over 35 to 50 years). This enterprise has not experienced
any large capital expansion programs with the result that borrowings have
been negligible. Capital expansion in future years is expected to increase
and result in larger borrowing. While this will cause the debt level to
increase, it will remain within acceptable limits.



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 22 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital program
1972-1976 ia as followas
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      %
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation             165.3         9.7
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterprises                   84.6         5.0
Net Internal Funds          80.7         4.7         35.6
External Resources
Dameatic Banks                        97.1         5.7         43.2
Proposed IBRD Loan                    47.6          2.8        21.2
Sdbtotal              144147        8.5        64.4
Total Funds Available                225.4        132         100.0
Applications of Funda
380 kY Transmission Project            166.6         9.8         74.2
Other Capital Investments &
Working Capital Adjustments           58.8         3.4         25.8
Total Funds Applied        225.4        13.2       100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on funds provided
by adjusted tariffs, effective July 1, 1972, internal cash generation net
of debt service and contributions to other enterprises will provide over
the period 1972-1976 - 36% of the investment requirements. The balance of
funds required for the investment program would be made available by the
local bank (43%) and by the IBRD loan (21%).



ANNEX  5
Page 5 of 22 pages
6.        The ratio of current assets to current liabilities varies from 1.9
to a low of 1.6 and is acceptable. The debt/equity ratio increaseE from a
level of 28/72 to a level of 38/62 in 1977, but still reflects a satisfactory
level. On an annmal basis, debt service coverage at a level of 1.9 (1972)
and 1.2 (1977) ia attributable to the internal pricing agreement within the
association and is acceptable.
7.        The construction program of Ljubljana during the period 1972-1976
is large.  Its estimated cost of 231.0 million dinars represents an increase
of over 82% over gross plant expected in service at the end of 1971.



I



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE SAVSKE ELEKTPRARNE LJUBLJANA
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEnMER 31                          ACTUAL                                                     FORECAST
1970          1971           1972           1973           1974          1975           1976           1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                           1,711         1,807            146            146            146            I46            146           146
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras  Generation                      12.3          14.3           12.8           12S.9          12.9           13.2           13.4          13.5
Transmission                                                 1.0           1.1            1.3            1.7            1.7            1.5
Revenu
Builk Energy Sales to Distribution Enterprises             160.7          215.6
Bulk Energy Sales to E,G.S.                                  23.1          29.8           23.5           29.0           44.1          72.8            57.2          51.5
Bulk Energy Sales to Other Enterprises                      12.9
Miscellaneous Revenue                                        13.6          13.6           13.6           13.6          13.6           13.6           13.6           13.6
Total Revenue                       210.3          259.0           37.1           43.5           57.7          86.4           70.8           65.1
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                    180.0          226.2
Salaries and Wages                                            7.9           8.4            9.0            9.4          10.3           11.1           12.0           13.0
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                         8.2           9.6           10.1           10.1          11.0           11.2           11.3           11.4
Statutory and  Contractual Obligations                        1.9           1.9            1.9            2.0            2.3           2.4            2.4            2.4
Tax on the Business Fund                                      2.5           2.5            2.5            2.5            2.8           2.8            2.8            2.8
Depreciation                                                  7.3           7.6            8.1            3.3           11.7          16.0           16.3           16.6
Total                               207.8          256.2           31.6           32.3           38.1          43.5           44.8           46.2
Operating Income                                                 2.5           2.8            5 . 5         11.2           19.6           42.9           26.0          18.9
Interest on Loans                                                2.5           2.8            2.9            4.3            5.0          12.8           13.0           13.3
Net Income  i                                                    _             _              2.6            6.0           14.6           30.1I          13.0            5.6
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME 5/
Business Fund                                                 -              -              2.6           6.0)          14.6           3C.1           13.0            5.6
Reserve Fund                                                                               -                     -                      -              - _     
Transfer to Other Enterprises                                 -             -              -              -              -              -              -             -           M
For explanatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
Effective 1972 electricity transmitted and generated is sold through EGS.
Average revenue, therefore, represents two components.
April 1972



I



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC F SC,OVENIA
EXTTERPE ISE SAVSKE ELI-KTRAIMIE LUB1,TA iA
Actual and Forecast Sources anid Applicastis of Tunds, 1970 'ihroiijm   197-7
(Tn Millions of Dinars llnless Otherwise St.aitted)
FISCAL YEAR ENDTITG DECE REE  31                    ACTUAI                                                      t!fRECAST
1c70           19'(1i         197'           197 3          1974            1975           19V            1977
SOURCES OF FRNDS
Ilnternal Cash Generation
Operatinrg Income                                     2.5            2.8            5.5           11.2            1.              F?>                           18.9
Depreciation                                          7.3            7.6            8.C            8.l           11 .            1b.o           16. 3          1i.n
9.8          -10.4           13.5           19.3            31.3           58.            42,3           35.5
Borrowings
ForeigTo Exchange - IBPD                                                                          11.7            15.            62.             8 3
Lccul Currency 7/                                    12.3            3.0                          12.7f           27.             -7.4          2                 .3
<STAT SOURCES                   22.1           13.4           13.5            43.4           73.3          1:57 ._                         35.8
APPLI '.ATIONS OF FUNiSE
Capital Expendituires                                      7            8.8           27.8            28.5           57.8           8              3 37.           12.5
Debt Service
Amorltization                                         5.3            4.1            4.3             5.4            5.4           15.            1 1              5.5
Tnterest                                              2.5            2.8            2.9            4.3             5.0           12.8           13.C            13.3
7.8   6 . 79                  7.2            9.7           10.4            2c.5                            29.2
Contributions to Other Foterprises fi/                   -              -              -               -              -
Ret Variatiori irn Working Capita[                      (2.2)           (1.1)          ( .2)           3.2            1.             2,.             -.l            1.2
Other Than Cash
TOIAI, APPLICATIONS              6.3           i4.6            34.8           4J.4           So?           l.7 ,'           eQ.1 a4w2.0
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                  15.8           (1.2)          (21.3)           2,0            3.5            (1.             1.o           (7.1 
C)F-,
Times APnrnoial O)ebt Service Covered by                                                                                                                                            St
Internal Cash Generation                                  1.3            1.5             1.9            2.0            3               * 1            1.5            1.2 
ief TInternal Cash Generation as    of                                                                                                                                              ,
Co,nstruction Profram 7                                 100.+           4o.             23.            34.            3-<.            :              5              5.            fD
For e planatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
April 1972



k



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE SAVSEE ELSKTRARNE LJUBLJANA
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR FNDING DECEMBER 31                      ACTUAL                                                     FORECAST
1970          1971           1972           1973            1974           1975           1976           1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                              280.9          283.0          275.C          287.3          401.9          476.3           512.1          510,2
Depreciation                                         98.2          105.8          113.8          121.9          133.6          149,6          165.4          182.5
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          i8i.8          177.2          161.2          165.4          268.3          326.7          346.2           327.7
Work in Progress                                         2.8            8.6 LI4.4                    60.6            3.8            9.4            10.8           25.2
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                             44.7           43.5           22.2           24.2           7.7           25.9           27.7           20.6
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                        83.4           83.1           84.2           85.3           86.4           87.5           88.6           89.7
Total                           128.1          126.6          106.4          109.5          114.1          113.4          116.3          110.3
Other Assets                                             2.3            1.8            1.5            1.5            1.5            1.5             1.5            1.5
TOTAL ASSETS                    315.0          314.2          313-5          337.0          387.7          451.0          474.8          464.7
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                       173.9          173.9          176.5          183.4          198.0          228.1          241.1           246.7
Reserve Fund                                          3.1            3.1            3.1            3.1            3.1            3.1            3.1            3.1
Total                           177.0          177.0          179.6          186.5          201.1          231.2          244.2          249.8
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits            73.7           72.6           68.3           75.3           96.9          118.6          123.1           107.5
TBRD                                                                                              11.7           26.7           39. 3          47.6            47.6
Total                            73.7           72.6           68.3           87.0          123.6          157.9          170.7          155.1
Current Liabilities                                     64.1           64.1           65.2           02.3           62.3            59.6           59.6           59.6
Other Liabilities                                          .2             -5             .4           1.2              .7            2.3             .3             .2
TOTAL LIABTLITIES               315.0          314.213.5                     337.0          387.7          451.0          474.8          464.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                                           29.            29.            28.            32.            38.            41.            41.            38.
Current Assets/Currelat Liabilities                          2,0            2,0            1,6            1.8            1.8            1.9            2.0            1.9
For explanatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
April 1972



I
I



ANNEX 15
Page  OI z22 pages
III. Power Enterprise Maribor
Recent Performance and Financial Position
1.        Because of the creation of a new electricity enterprise, sales of
energy, during 1971, decreased by  8% over the previous year, however, the
level of revenme, due to a tarift adjustmnt in April, increased by approxi-
mately 5%. The debt/equity ratio remained conatant at 58% and the ratio of
current assets to current liabilities at approximately 2.5 times is high.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
mumarized in the following tables
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent     J
Eqity Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                          525.9         30.9        41.4
Reserve Ibmd                              6.1         .14          .5
Subtotal Equity       532.0        31.3        41.9
Loang Tern Debt
Local Currency                         738.1         43.4        58.1
Total Capitalization         0           74.7       100.0
3.        The level of debt at pre ent (58%) is acceptable and is attributable
to the method of financing which requires all fwid, for capital expansion
to be borrowed. The capital expansicn has been smal over the past years
and borrowings have been on beneficial terms over long periods. The future
expansion program is expected to be small with the result that level of
debt will decrease even though borrowings are on current commercial terms.



Page 10 of 22 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expansion
program 1972-1976 is as followo:
US$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent      ,
Sources of Funds
Internal Re ourceo
Internal Cash Generation              499.4        29.4
DNbt Service & Transfer to            354.5        20.9
Other Enterprises
Net Internal Funds         1144.9         8.5        40.1
External Resource.
Damestic Banks                        160.3         9.4        44,3
Proposed IBRD Loan                     56.1         3.3         15.6
Sabtotal              216.4         12.7        59.9
Total Funds Available                 361.3        21.2       100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Tranwmi sion Project             193.8        11.4        53.8
Other Capital Investments &
Working Capital Adjustments           167.5         9.8         46.2
Total Funds Applied        361.3         21.2       100.0
-              -:m
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on funds provided
by present tariffs plus adjustments to internal prices expected after
July 1972, internal cash generation net of debt aervice and contributions
to other enterprises will provide over the period 1972-1976 - 40% of the
investment requirements. The balance of funds required for the investment
program would be made available by local banks (44%) and the IERD loan (16%).



ANNEX 1
f 22 pages
6.        The ratio of current assets to current liabilities varies frcm
2.9 to 2.6 and is adequate. The debt equity ratio after reaching a peak
of 58/42 decreases to a level of 51/49 in 1977, and reflects the reduced
capital expansion program requiring lower borrowing.  On an annual basis,
debt service coverage varying between 1.3 in 1972 and 1.4 in 1977 is
attributable to the enterprises controlling internal prices to provide
only sufficient revenues to cover costs and a contribution to capital
expansion.
7.        The construction program of Maribor during the period 1972-1976
is Buall. Its estimated cost of 361.0 million dinara represents an increase
of only 23% over gross plant expected in service at the end of 1971.



I                                 I
I



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE DRAVSKE ELEKTRARNE MARIBOR
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                    ACTUAL                                                    FORECAST
1970          1971           1972           1973          1974           1975           1-             1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                    1,926          2,081         1,879          1,879          1,879          1,879          1.             1,879
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras  Generation               6.59           7.01           7.41          8.31           8.30           8.30           -.             8.31
Revenue                          Transmission            1.00           1.00           1.11          1.30           1.18           1.1'.          1.21           1.34
Bulk Energy Sales to E.G.S.                          125.0          131.0         143.0          150.8          156.6          160.3         10.3           169.6
Miscellaneous Revenue                                  4.4            5.1            7.1           8.5            9.3            9.3            Y.3            9.3
Total Revenue                 129.4          136.1         150.1          159.3          165.9          169.,         175.6          178.9
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Wages                                    19.2           19.2          19.2           21.2           22.2           23.3           24.5           25.7
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                 27.4           29.0          29.5           29.5           29.9           31.9           35.0           37.5
Statutory and Contractual Obligations                  1.3            1.4            3.2           3.1            3.4            3.4            3.4            3.4
Tax on the Business Fund                               7.6            7.6            7.6           7.6            7.7            7.7            7.8            7.8
Depreciation                                          37.4           39.9          46.4           47.9           49.7           50.1           51.0           51.5
Total                          92.9           97.1         105.9          109.3          112.9          1i6.4         121.7          125.9
Operating Income                                         36.5           39.0           44.2          50.0           53.0           53.2           53.9           53.0
Interest on Loans                                        27.0           21.7           28.8          27.6           25.8           23.8           25.5           25.0
Net Income                                                9.5           17.3           15.4          22.4           27.2           29.4           28.4           28.0         (D
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME                                                                                                                                                   ,
Business Fund                                          8.9           16.3           14.5          21.0           25.6           27.6           26. l7         26.3
Reserve Fund                                            .1             .3             .3            .5             .5             .6             .6             .6         t
Transfer to Other Enterprises                           .5             .7             .6            .9            1.1            1.2            1.1            1.1         g
For explanatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
Effective 1972 electricity transmitted and generated is sold through EGS.
Average revenue, therefore, represents two components.
April 1972



I                      I
4                      I



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE DRAVSKE ELEKTRARNE MARIBOR
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of FTmnds, 1970 Throuigh 1977
(In Millions of Linars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                   ACTUAL                                                    FORECAST
1970          1971           1972          1973           1974           1975          1976           1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                   36.5          39.0           44.2          50.0           53.0           53.2           53.9          53.0
Depreciation                                       37.4          39.9           46.4          47.9           49.7           50.1          51.0           51.5
73.9          78.9           90.           97.9          102.7          103.3                        104.5
Borrowings
Foreign Exchange - IBRD                                                                       13.8           17.7           14.8            9.8
Local Currency                                     22.2          59.2           51.3          20.9           47.9           31.5            8.7          19.4
TOTAL SOURCES                 96.1         138.1          141.9         132.6          168.3          149.6          123.4         123.9
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                  40.0          48.7           70.9          62,9          936.8           80.8           49.9          48.8
Debt Service
Amortization                                       27.6          39.9           40.4          4L9            43.7           44,1           48.o           49.0
Interest                                          27.0           21.7           28.8          27,6           25.8           23.8           25.5          25.0
54.6          6T.6           69.2          69.'5          6975           67.9           73.5          74.0
Contributions to Other Enterprises                      .5             .7            .6             .9           1.1            1.2            1.1            1.1
Net Variations in Working Capital                      1.0          20.0           ( ,3)          (2.7)          ( .1)         (1.3)          (1.1)           -
Other Thani Cash
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            96.1         131.0          1140.4         130.6         167.3          148.6          123.4          123.9
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                 _             7.1            1.5            2.0           1.0            1.0            -Q
LO H
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                     1.4            1.3           1.3            1.4            1.5           1.5            1.4            1.14        0
Internal Cash Generation                                                                                                                                                  ,
Net Internal Cash Generation as %  of                   47.            34,           29.            44.            33.           42.            61.            60.
Construction Program
For explanatory notcs see Annex 15, pages 21-20
April 1972



YUCGSLAVIA
RENUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE DRAVS9E ELEKTRARNE MARTBOR
Actual and Foreeast Balance Sheets, 197Q. Through i077
(In Mlllions of' Diriars Unless otaerwise Stpted)
E'ISCAL YEAR ENDiNG DECEMER 31                       ACTUAL                                                        PORFCAST
1970           19(1            19072          1973            19 4            19/5            197o            1077
ASSETS
F'ixed Assets in Operation                             1,534.8         1,554.0         1,602.3        1,711.3         1,803. 3        1,8'S.3         1,)49.l        1,985.0
Depreciation                                          446.2           486.1           532.5          58C.4           630.1          6,8o.2           (31.2          782.7
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          1,088.6         1,067.9         1,069.8        1,130.2         1,173. (        1.215.1         1, 208.         1,203.2
Work in Progress                                            5.3            34.8           57.4            11.3           15.6              4,.0          10.0            13.0
Current Assets
Cash orn Iland and in Bank                              6.3            14.0            15.5           17.5            18.5            19.5            19.5            19.5
Investments, Accounts Receivables
and Irnventories                                    196.6           236.6          240.0           243.o           246.0           250.0          254.0           254,0
Total                            203.5           250.6          255.5           260.5           P64. 5          260(). 5       273.5           273.5
Other Assets                                                2.0             2.0            2.0             2.0             2.fh            2.0            2.0             2.0
TOTAL ASSETS                   1,299.4         1,355.3        1,384.7         I, 404.7        1,455.8        1,4n1.5         1_,94.4         1,491.7
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                         509.6           525.9           540.4          S61.4           587.0           614.6          (041.3          667.6
Reserve Fund                                             5.8            6.1             6.4            6.9             7.4             8.0             8.6             9.2
Total                            515.4           532.0          546.8           568.3           5'4.4           622.6          64'.9           676.8
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits             718.8           738.1          4,4. u          72f.0           732.2           (10.6           680.3          650.7
IBED                                                    _                                             13.8            31.5            46.3            56.1            56.1
Total                            718.8           738.1          7Ji0.0          741.8           76,3. 7         765,9           736;.4         706.8
Current Liabilities                                        63.0           83.0            87.6            23.2           u-.4          1l1.o            ilOo 106.7
Other Liabilities                                           1.3             1.3            1.3             1.4             1.3             1.4            1.4             l.4          g-
TOTAL LIABILITIES              1,299,4         1,355.3        1,384.7         1,404.7         1, 455I8 i,41i S               1,4 24           ,41.           j>
0
Debt/Equity Ratio                                             58.             58.             58.            57.             C               55.             53.            51.           r
Current Assets/Current Liasilities                             3.1             3,0             2.9            2.8             2.7             2.7             2.6            2.6
E'or explanatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
April 1972



Page5of 22 pages
III. Power &iterprise Nova Gorica
Recent Performance and Fincial Position
1.        Because of the creaticu of a new electricity enterprise, sales
of energr, during 1971, decreased by 9% over the prervious year, however, the
level of revenue, due to a tariff adjustment in April, increaased by 15%.
The debt/equity ratio increased alightly from 22% to 23% and current aasets
to current liabilities, while they decreasd froma 5. to 5.2, still reained
very favorable.
Capitalization
2.        The total capitalization estimated at December 31, 1971 is
sumarized in the following table:
USs
Dinars      Millions
Hiliimo X   Equivalent      %
Equity Capital and Reaerves
Business Fund                          177.0        10.4         71.2
Reserve Fund                            15.6           .9         6.2
&ibtotal Equity       192.6        11.3        77.4
Long Term Debt
Local Currency                          56.1          3.3        22.6
Total Capitalization         8          14.6        100.0
3.        The level of debt (22.6%) is low and is on relatively soft terms
(2% over 35 years to 50 yeare).  To the preeont, this enterprise has not
experienced any great capital expansion with the result that large borrowings
have been unnecessary. As capital expan;lon programs of any size are
unlikely in the foreseeable future for this area, the level of debt should
remain at a low level.



rage iT of 22 pages
The Financing Plan
4.        The proposed financing plan for the total capital expanBion
program 1972-1976 is as follows:
us$
Dinars      Millions
Millions    Equivalent
Sources of Funds
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation              91.7         5.4
Debt Service & Transfer to
Other Enterpriea                    45.9         2.7
Net Internal Pbnds          45.8         2.7        35.5
External Re source
Domestic Banks                        59.5         3.5        46.o
Proposed IERD Loan                    23.8         1.4        18.5
Subtotal               83.3         4.9        64.5
Total Funds Available                129.1         7.6       100.0
Applications of Funds
380 kV Transmission Project             85.0         5.0        65.8
Other Capital Investments &
Wbrking Capital Adjustments           44.1         2.6        34.2
Total Funds Applied        129.1         7.6       100.0
5.        The financing plan provides for adequate working capital and for
the maintenance of a satisfactory cash position. Based on funds provided
by present tariffs plus adjustments in internal prices expected after tariff
adjustments of the association effective in July, 1972, internal cash
generation net of debt service and contributions to other enterprises will
provide 36% of the investment requirements. The balance of funds required
for the investment program would be made available by local banks (46%)
and the IBRD loan (18%).



Page   of 22 pages
6.        The ratio of current assets to current liabilities is very high
and varies from 5.2 to over 7.0 and is -more than adequate. The debt/equity
ratio from 26/74 increases to a level of 34/66 in 1977, and reflects the
low borrowing requirements. Debt service coverage varying from 2.0 to
1.7 is adequate and is attributable to the requirement that tariffs provide
sufficient revenues to cover cost, plus contribute to capital investments.
7.        The construction program of Nova Gorica during the period 1972-
1976 is small. Its estimated coat of 102.0 million dinars represaents an
increase of only 29% over gross plant expected in service at the end of
1971.



I



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUB-LIC OF SIOVENIA
ENTERPRISE SCOSKE ELEKTRARNE NOVA GORICA
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDINC DECEMBER 31                         ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
1970          19=71          1972          1973           1974           1975           1976          1977
Sales of Energy, GWh                                           473            430           281            293           293            293            293           293
Average Revenue per kWh, Paras   Generation                   12.6           15.9          11.0           11.8          12.C           11.8           12.0          12.0
Transmission                                              1.6            1.6           1.5            1.3            1.2           1.2
Revenue j
Bulk Energy Sales to E.G.S.                                44.o          58.8           39.9           42.4          45.2           45.8           51.S           53.6
Bulk Energy Sales to Dther Enterprises                     10.0
Miscellaneous Revenue                                       5.5           9.7            1.1            5.1           1.1            5.1            2.0            3.0
Total Revenue                       59.5           68.5          41.0           47.5          46. 3          50.9           53.5           56.6
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity                                    24.4          27.8
Salaries and Wages                                          9.7          10.6           11.4           12.2          13.0           14.0           15.0          16.0
Other Operating and Maintenance Costs                       7.2           9.3            9.8           10.1          10.4           10.6           14.1          14.1
Statutory and Contractual Otligations                       2.0           2.4            2.8            2.9           2.4            2.0            2.9           2.9
Tax on the Business F-nd                                    2.7           2.7            2.5            2.5           2.5            2.5            2.5           2.5
Depreciation                                                5.s           10.0          10.4           11.2          11.4           11.5           13.8          16.1
Total                               51.5           62.8          36.9           38.9           40.2          41.5           48.3           51.6
Operating Income                                               8.0            5.7           4.1            8.f6           6.1           9.4            5.2            5.0
Interest on Loans                                              2.6            3.2           3.3            3.7            3.8           3.9            4.2           4.3
Net Incoane 4/                                                 5.4            2.5            .8            4.q            2.            5.5            1.0             .7
APPROPR[ATION OF NET INCOME  5/
Business Fund                                               3.0            1.1            .8            4.9            2.3           5.5            -0              .7        F F
Reserve Fund                                                1.4             .5             hn-                                                -                     -         o
Trarsfer to Other Enterprises                                .8             .9                                          -                                           -
Repayment of Loans Over Amortization                         .2            -              -              -             -              -              -              -
For explanatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
Effective 1972 electricity transmitted and generated is sold through E!S.
Average revenue, therefore, represents two components.
April 1972



I



YliGOSLAVIA
FiFFUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTFERPRISE SOSrM  ELEKTRARNE NOVA GORICA
Actual and Forecast Sourcee and Applications of Funds, 1970 fhrouwn 1977
(In MNllions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                       ACTUAL                                                      FORDFAST
1970           1971           1972           197'            1974           1,)7)           1'S            1077
SOURCES OF FUNoS
Tnternal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                      8.0            5.7             4.1            8.             04.1            9.,            5.2             5.0
Depreciation                                          5.5           10.0            10.4           11.2           11.4            11.5           13.8            16.1
13.5           15.7           14198                          1.5             0.1            19.0           21.1
Borrowings
Foreign Exchange - IBRL                                                                             5.9             7.5             .3            4.1.
Local Currency  /                                     5.3            4.0            10.4           12.4          1I.0              5.9           14.2              .3
TOTAL SOLUCES                   18.8            19.7           3C).9          38.1            35.0           33.1            37.3           21.4
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                                     7.9           11.1            18.0            c. 6           13.5.          21.;           21.'9            5.1
Debt Service
.4mortizationi                                        1.5            3.0             3.9            5.'            5.8             5.'            h.2             6.8
lnterest                                              2.6            3.2             3.3            3.7            3.8             3.0            4.2             4.3
4.1                           7.2 0.n                                                 9                   11.1
tooriLut.ions to Other Enterprises -                      .8             .3             -              -               -              -              -
Net VariatioTn in Working Capital                        8.7             2.7            5.0             5.0              '            4. 2S                          5.5
Other Thar, Cash
TOTAL APPLTCATIOII'             1.5              0.Q           31.1           34.5            34.1           35.5            37. 3          21.4
Cashl Surpluis (Leficit)                                   .7)          (I.-)           (-2)           3.6             1.0           (2.4)            _              _
Times Annual Debt Service Coveren  by                        3.2            2.5            22.                            1.8             2.l            1.8             1. 
Internal Cash (,eneration                                                                                                                                                          r
Nei interual Cash Genera:1on Os % of                       100.+           77.            3.3 33.                        4                              3").          100.+
Oonstraui on Prograil                                                                                                                                                            a
For explanataor,; notes see Annex 15  pages '1-22
April 1972



YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE SOSKE ELEKTRARNE NOVA GORICA
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970 Through 1977
(In Millions of Dinars Unless Otherwise Stated)
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31                      ACTUAL                                                     FORECAST
1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975           1976           1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                              306.8          351.2          360.9          385.5          384.o          386.8          465.1          470.2
Depreciation                                        178.3          188.3          198.7          209.9          221.3          232.8          246.6          262.7
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          128.5          162.9          162.2          175.6          162.7          154.0          218.5          207.5
Work in Progress                                        45.1           11.8           21.0           17.0           38.0            56.4            -              -
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Bank                              4.1            2.9            2.7            6.3            7.3            4,9            4.9            4. 9
Investments, Accounts
Receivables and Inventories                        67.0           70.0           74.o           78.o           83.0           87.0           91.0           95.0
Total                            71.1           72.9           76.7          84.3            90.3           91,9           95.9           99.9
Other Assets                                            14.6           15.1           16.1           17.1           17.6           18.1            19.1          20.3
TOTAL ASSETS                    259.3          262.7          276.0          294.0          308.6          320.4          333.5          327,7
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Business Fund                                       175.9          177.0          177.8          182.7          185.0          190.5          191.5          192.2
Reserve Fund                                         15.1           15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6
Total                           191.0          192.6          193.4          198.3          200.6          206.1          207.1          207.8
Long Term Debt
Local Banks, Development Fund and Credits            55.1           56.1           68.6           75.8           80.6           80.6           88.6           82.1
IBRO                                                                                               5.9           13.4           19.7           23.8           23.8
Total                            55.1           56.1           68.6           81.7           94.o          100,3          112.4          105.9
Current Liabilities                                     13.2           14.0           14.0           14.0           14.0           14.0           14.0           14.0
Other Liabilities                                        -              -              _              _              _              _
0 H
TOTAL LIABILITTES               259.3          262.7          276.o          294.0          308.6          320.4          333.5          327.7
ro
Debt/Equity Ratio                                           22.           23.             26.            29.            32.            33.            35.            34.       d
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                          5.4             5.2            5.5            6.0            6.5            6.6            6.8            7.2
For explanatory notes see Annex 15, pages 21-22
April 1972



ANNEX 15
Page 21 of 22 pages
Notes to the Incame Staterents
1/        Revenues have been calculated based on internal prices established
Eetween the enterpriaes and the Association of Electricity Enterprises of
Slovenia (EGS).
2/        The sales of energy for enterprise Maribor decreaaed during 1971
over the previous year, due to the creation of a new enterprise Trbovlje.
The creation of this enterprise also has its effect on Nova Gorica.
3/        Effective in 1972 the association EGS will handle all sales of
energy on behalf of the electricity enterprises and the item, Purchase of
Electricity, will disappear from the operating statements of the enterpriaes.
4/       WAile in theory electricity enterprises are required to operate
at cost plus percentage contribution to capital expansion with any excess
funds being deposited under the control of the Republican Government, there
are some exception to this rule. (Annex 15, Basic Information). Excess
funds generated from the operation of heating plantr remain under the control
of the individual enterprise.  The above three enterprises have interests in
heating plants and the net income shown on the inc m  statements is partially
attributable to this operation.  This net income is apportioned 94% An a
contribution to other enterprises (i.e., housing, apartments, or resorte
established for the social benefit of the workers of the electricity
enterprise), 2% as a reserve for possible future losses axith the balance
apportioned to the Business Fund. Because the ne-' income of enterprises
Ljubljana and Nova Gorica ia snall, the total has been apportioned to the
Business Fund.
5/        Appropriation of Net Income, use item 4 above.
Notes to the Sources and Applications of Funds
7/        Local funds are provided by the following maans under the control
if the Republican Secretariat og' Finance:
(a) By Act No. 402-164J71 whereby 2% of the v&luxe added capital
expansion of Slovenia is depocited in the Central Bank of
Slovenia.
(b) By Act No. 402-165/71 whereby all low voltage customers
will be assaeed 20% to 25% of their calculated billing.
(c) By Act No. 402-166/71 whereby all funds previously required
to be deposited with the Central Bank by the electricity
enterprises will be refunded to the electricity enterprises
over the next fifteen yeare.



A, 15
Fap Z2of 22 pags
It ii anticipated that the abow Acts wi  provide about 1.0 billion dinars
fram 1972 to 1976 for capital *.wion of electricity entrpriee. Of
this amount about 200 minim dinar iull be made available to the electricity
enterprises involved in the 380 kV Treasisioan Project.
y         see item 4 reprding contribution and transfero to other enter-
prise s
/       Il calculating not interal cash gueratiam and the rate of self
inancing, debt service and statatory eontribWtioA are deducted from
internal cash generatiam.
April 1972



V4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~4
s    E N I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N4
ALARADE Vill 
N,                   ~~~~~~KO0SO0V  0 ;
N  A~~~~~~  'MA1 
INIIA   PA5  O  TE.44lO4 38S RASISONSSE



