Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C K /33.2 P2/-<
Report No. 5185-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN
STAGE I PROJECT
November 5, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1    =      Rs 13.5
Rs 1           US$ 0.074
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 2/
Metric Units                                  English/US Units
1 millimeter (mm)                      =   0.039 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                      =   0.033 foot (ft)
1 meter (m)                            =   3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       =   3.281 units relative distance (RD)
(1 RD = 1000 ft)
=   0.621 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                         =   2.471 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (sq km)             =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 miliion cubic meters (Mm3)               0.00081 million acre feet (maf)
1 cubic meter per second (cumec)       =   35.311 cubic feet per second (cusec)
1 liter per second (lIs)                   0.035 cusec
1 1/s per hectare (1/s/ha)             =   14.29 cusec per 1000 ac
=   9.149 cusec per sq mi
1 kilogram (kg)                            2.203 pounds (lb)
I kilogram per hectare (kg/ha)         =   0.892 pounds per acre (lb/ac)
Metric Units                                   EnRlish Units
I metric ton (mt)                      =   26.810 maunds (md)
1 metric ton per hectare (mt/ha)       =   10.870 maunds per acre (md/ac)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ The US dollar/rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
2/ The metric system is used in this repGrt. English/US units are still
widely used in Pakistan.



FOR OFMICL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          - Asian Development Bank
ADBP         -  Agricultural Development Bank, Pakistan
ADP          -  Annual Development Program
ansl         -  above mean sea level
CCA          -  cultivable command area
CIDA         -  Canadian International Development Agency
DPOD         -  Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain
FGW          -  fresh groundwater
GCA          -  gross command area
GOP          -  Government of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of
GOSind       -  Government of Sind
ICB          -  international competitive bidding
IDA          -  International Development Association
IMD0         -  Integrated Management Organization
KPOD         - Khadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
M&E          - monitoring and evaluation
ODA          -  Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OFWM         -  on-farm water management
OPEC Fund    -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund for Development
O&M          -  operation and maintenance
PSC          -  Project Steering Committee
SCARP        -  salinity control and reclamation project
SDC          -  Swiss Development Cooperation
SF           -  Saudi Fund for Development
S5GW         -  saline groundwater
TW           -  tubewell
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme
WAPDA        -  Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan
WUA          -  Water Users' Association
GLOSSARY
bund         -  embankment for retaining water
command      -  area receiving irrigation water
watercourse  -  irrigation distribution system at the farm level offtaking
from a canal
hari         -  share-cropping tenant
kharif       -  slmer crop season (mid-April to mid-October)
rabi         -  winter crop season (mid-October to mid-April)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT (LBOD-STAGE I)
Table of Contents
Pake No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY .......   .............................    i-ii
I. BACKGROUND ................................................   1
Introduction   ..............................................1 
Agriculture and Irrigation in Pakistan ................       2
Emerging Drainage Problems ................................  3
Drainage and Salinity Control in the Indus Basin ..........  3
Irrigation in Sind Province ...............................  3
Agriculture Sector Strategy and Bank's Role ...............   4
Rationale for IDA Financing ...............................  4
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ..........................................  5
General  ................................................     5
Climate   ..............................................     5
Topography and Soils  ......................................  5
Irrigation Water Supplies ......  ...........................  6
Electrification      ...........................................  7
Population and Land Tenure ...... .....................      7
Land Use   ............................................      8
Crops and Yields ......    ....................................  8
Agricultural Inputs and Services ..... ...................    9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan
in January/February 1984, comprising D.M. Leeuwrik, R. Anson, and A. Youssef
(IDA), and J. Christopher, J. Waterhouse, and V. Resler (Consultants). Part-
time mission members were T.H. Yoon, S. Baier, G. Le Moigne, and G. Greenwood
(IDA). The appraisal was conducted jointly with missions from the Asian
Development Bank, the Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
and the Canadian International Development Agency. H. Akhavan, A. Brooke
and M. Ahmad assisted with analytical and computational work. Ms. S. Blinco
provided editorial assistance.



Pate No.
III.  THE PROJECT                     ..       . % .....................      10
Objectives and Scope    ..10
Project Description    ..11
Detailed Project Components    ..12
Monitoring and Evaluation    ..19
Status of Designs.                                                     19
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING. AND PROCUREMENT .19
Cost Estimates    ..19
Financing.                                                             21
Procurenent   ..23
Disbursements    ..25
Accounts and Audits    ..25
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION. MANAGEMENT. AND INPLEMENTATION                    26
Institutional Arrangements .26
Project Implementation .28
Operation and Maintenance .29
Monitoring and Evaluation .31
VI.  PRODUCTION,  MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOMES, AND
COST RECOVERY .32
Agricultural Impact    ..32
Marketing and Pricing    ..34
Farm Models and Incomes    ..35
Cost Recovery   ..37
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS .39
Overview    ....39
Employment and Income Effects            ..39
Direct Foreign Exchange Effects    ..41
Economic Analysis    ..41
Other Primary Benefits.                                                 44
Secondary Economic Impact    ..44
Environmental Impact    ..45
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests    .              .46
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .47



Text Tables
2.1    Estimated Percentage of CCA in Each Subarea by Soil Salinity Level
2.2    Percentage of Land Holdings and Operational Farm Units by Size
4.1    LBOD-Stage I Cost Summary
4.2    LBOD-Stage I Financing Plan
4.3    Procurement Arrangements According to Project Component
6.1    Estimated Cropped Area, Yields, and Crop Production
6.2    Net Farm Incomes According to Illustrative Farm Models
6.3    Indicative Schedule of Project-Induced Revenues
7.1    LBOD-Stage I Summary Economic Results
ANNEX 1 LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Charts
1      Water Balance (Present) Indus Plains and Peshawar Vale
2      Spinal Drain Network and Outfall System
3      Outfall System and Bifurcation
4      Nara Canal/Chotiari Reservoir Operation-
5      Energy Consumption
Table
1      Theoretical Water Requirements under "Future With" Project Conditions
ANNEX 2 LAND CLASSIFICATION
ANNEX 3 PROJECT COST, FINANCING. AND DISBURSEMENT
Tables
la     Base Costs of Project Components by Year
lb     Total Costs, Including Contingencies, of Project Components by Year
2      Project Component Cost Summary by Subarea and Activity
3a     Summary of Base Costs by Year
3b     Summary of Total Costs, including Contingencies, by Year
4      Breakdown of Summary Accounts
5      Estimated Annual Recurrent O&M Costs for Subareas and Overall Project
6a&b   Financing Plan by Project Components and Disbursement Category
7      Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
8      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 4 SPECIAL ACCOUNT
ANNEX 5  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Charts
1      Integrated Management Organization (IND)
2      Operation and Maintenance (O&M) (Drainage System Only)
3      Implementation Schedule
4      Proposed Schedule for Consulting Services



-1v-
ANNEX 6 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A      Terms of Reference for Main Consulting Services
B      Terms of Reference for OFWM Assistance
ANNEX 7 TABLES USED FOR AGRICULTURAL. FINANCIAL. AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Tables
1      Agricultural Impact for Overall Project
2      Agricultura7 Impact According to Subarea
3      Estimated Source of Yield Reduction
4a     Percentage of Subarea Land with Watertable at Various Depths
4b     Estimated Direct Yield Reduction (Z) Resulting from Watertable at
Various Depths
5      Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis and Conversion Factors
Used in Economic Analysis
6      Farm-Gate Prices of Wheat
7      Farm-Gate Prices of Seed Cotton
8      Average Crop Input Requirements
9      Summary Results of Illustrative Crop Budgets According to Watertable
Condition
10     Illustrative Farm Models for Selected Scenarios (Watertable, Cropping
Intensity, Farm Size and Tenure)
11     Illustrative Farm Model and Estimate of Project Rent: Low Watertable
and Cropping Intensity, Tenant Farmer (5-Ha CCA)
12     Illustrative Farm Model and Estimate of Project Rent: Average
Watertable and Cropping Intensity, Tenant Farmer (5-Ha CCA)
13     Illustrative Farm Model and Estimate of Project Rent: Average
Watertable and Cropping Intensity, Owner-Cultivator (8-Ha CCA)
14     Illustrative Farm Model and Estimate of Project Rent: Average
Watertable and Cropping Intensity, Tenant Farmer (3-Ha CCA)
15     Illustrative Farm Model and Estimate of Project Rent: High Watertable
and Cropping Intensity, Tenant-Farmer (5-Ha CCA)
16     Irrigation O&M Expenditures and Recoveries in Sind
17     Nawabshah Subarea: Economic Real Flow
18     Sanghar Subarea: Economic Real Flow
19     Mirpurkhas Subarea: Economic Real Flow
20     Stage I Overall: Economic Real Flow
21a    Relative Importance of Project Benefit/Cost Streams with Switching Values
21b    Sensitivity Tests of Selected Scenarios for Overall Stage I Project
ANNEX 8 TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MONITORING AND EVALUATION
ANNEX 9 PROJECT FILE DOCUMENTS
MAP    IBRD 18245



PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower            : Islamic Republic of Pakistan (GOP)
Beneficiary         : Government of Sind (GOSind)
Amount              : IDA Credit:  SDR 147.6 million (M) (US$150 M equivalent)
Terms               : Standard
Re-Lendins Terms   : External funds received by GOP would be made available
to GOSind and the Water and Power Development Authority
of Pakistan (WAPDA) through budgetary allocations in
accordance with normal GOP procedures. GOP would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Description:  The project, the first stage of a major drainage program
in Sind, would be implemented over eight years. It would
provide for the integrated development of irrigation
and drainage in a portion of the perennial command
of Sukkur Barrage on the left bank of the Indus River.
Principal project components would include an outfall
for saline drainage effluent to the Arabian Sea, phased
construction of three drainage subareas, remodelling
of the Nara/Jamrao Canal system and construction of
Chotiari Reservoir, and watercourse improvement.
Technical assistance would be provided in the
preparation of detailed designs and tender documents
and the planning and supervision of construction.
The project would cover 516,000 hectares (ha) of
cultivable command area (CCA) in three subareas-
Nawabshah, Sanghar, and Mirpurkhas. It would be the
first major investment in subsurface drainage of
saline groundwater in Sind since the Khairpur II
project was undertaken in 1976. It also would be
the first such project to dispose of saline drainage
effluent completely outside the area serviced. Both
rural and urban areas would benefit from surface drains
extending to the subareas. Drainage tubewells (TWs)
and subsurface tile drains would be provided for
drainage relief. In addition, horizontal interceptor
drains and scavenger TW8 would be installed to recover



-ii-
and utilize part of the seepage from larger canals and
the fresh groundwater (FGW) occuring at shallow depth
in the northern half of Sanghar. The project also
would expand irrigation in Sanghar and Mirpurkhas by
increasing the capacity of the Nara and Jamrao Canals
and by developing Chotiari Reservoir to regulate addi-
tional water available from the river. The project,
estimated to cost about US$636 million (H), is expected
to be co-financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration
(ODA), the Saudi Fund for Development (SF), the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) and the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund for Development
(OPEC Fund). Cost recovery provisions include the
eventual recovery of full operation and maintenance costs
from the beneficiaries.
r-



PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT (LBOD-STAGE I)
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01    The LBOD concept embraces major drainage and agricultural development
and represents the collective efforts of GOP, GOSind, WAPDA, 1UNDP, interna-
tional consultants, and potential cofinanciers, led by the World Bank.
The Stage I Project has evolved from numerous investigations and studies
initiated in the mid-1960s and refined thereafter. The project was subjected
to extensive professional scrutiny and is a milestone in the Bank's
long-standing involvement with Indus Basin development.
1.02    GOP has requested World Bank assistance in financing LBOD-Stage I as
the first phase of the comprehensive LBOD program to provide drainage relief
and improve agricultural production within 11 subareas covering a major
portion of Sind Province. The LBOD catchment area covers the entire left
bank of the Indus River commanded by the Sukkur Barrage and the eastern part
of the irrigation command of the Kotri Barrage. LBOD-Stage I would include
three subareas selected on a drainage-priority basis: Nawabshah, Sanghar and
Nirpurkhas (Nap IBRD 18245). The proposed LBOD-Stage I is designed to ensure
economic viability, even if subsequent stages of the comprehensive LBOD
development program are delayed or not carried out. Provision for LBOD-
Stage I has been made in GOP's Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (FY84-88).
GOP has also indicated that adequate provisions would be made during the
Seventh Plan period (FY89-FY93) to complete the Stage I project by 1993.
1.03    The LBOD concept has been subject to intensive project preparation
during the past 20 years. The Lower Indus Project report, prepared in 1966
by Sir N. MacDonald and Partners Ltd. and Hunting Technical Services Ltd.,
both of the United Kingdom, contains a comprehensive plan for optimum
development of agriculture in the LBOD area. Because of financial and other
constraints, a scaled-down project was prepared by WAPDA in 1972, and
engineering design and construction started in 1974. Since then, construc-
tion (principally of the spinal drain and some branch and smaller drains) has
been ongoing at a relatively slow pace under GOP financing. WAPDA and its
consultant (Sir M. MacDonald Ltd.) updated the LBOD report in 1980 and
produced a Stage I proposal in 1981 as a means of accelerating project
implementation through external financial assistance. However, the updated
proposal did not meet the appraisal standards of external financing agencies.
1.04    The Bank became more directly involved with project preparation in
early 1982. Sir M. MacDonald Ltd. was engaged in late 1982 under UNDP
financing, with the Bank as the Executing Agency, to assist WAPDA to complete



-2-
preparation of LBOD-Stage I. The draft Final Preparation Report was produced
in November 1983 and was jointly reviewed by the Bank and cofinanciers. The
report served as the principal basis for project appraisal.
1.05    During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank additionally
engaged the services of leading consultants in the fields of drainage,
groundwater, irrigation, soil analysis and land classification, operation and
maintenance (O&M), and TW design and construction. OPS staff, particularly
G. Le Moigne, S. Niaz, W. Peters and R. Goodland, and staff of Pakistan
Programs Division, as well as the Resident Mission in Pakistan, contributed
at various stages of project preparation. Staff of ADB, particularly
T. Patterson, closely collaborated with Bank staff. Current members of the
South Asia Projects Department - Irrigation I Division and former divisional
staff J. Kampen and T. Husain also participated. During the past two years
of intensive project preparation, D. Leeuwrik served as project officer and
covered agricultural aspects; R. Anson -was responsible for financial and
economic aspects; S. Baker covered irrigation, engineering, and technical
aspects; and T. H. Yoon provided overall guidance.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Pakistan
1.06    Pakistan's population of 92 million (1984) is growing at an annual
rate of about 3%. Per capita annual income is estimated at US$325 (mid-1984
prices). About 30% of the population have incomes below US$110, the
estimated absolute rural poverty level in Pakistan.
1.07    Agriculture dominates Pakistan's economy.  It contributes about 30%
of Pakistan's gross domestic product (GDP), provides about two-thirds of
total exports, and employs approximately 55X of the country's labor force.
The agriculture sectors growth rates decreased from an annual average of 6%
in the 1960s to 2% in the 1970s, followed by a significant upturn during the
past five years. Major factors in recent improvement have been favorable
weather and the affirmative response of farmers to GOP's policies and
programs for agriculture sector development. Such positive measures include
rationalization of agricultural pricing policies, introduction of programs
for generating quick-yielding benefits, and timely availability of inputs,
such as high-yielding varieties (HYV) of seeds, water, and fertilizers. More
recently, GOP has given emphasis to reducing subsidies, developing an effi-
cient agricultural extension service, upgrading the seed industry, improving
on-farm water management, increasing farm mechanization, rehabilitating
existing canals and drains, and further extending rural electrification, and
it has encouraged private sector participation in the distribution of fer-
tilizers and pesticides.
1.08    Pakistan has a total land area of 79.6 million hectares (N ha).
About one-fourth, 22.1 M ha, is cultivable, of which about 73% (16.2 M ha) is
irrigated. The Indus Irrigation System, commanding 63% (14.0 M ha) of the
total cultivable area, generates about 90% of the nation's total value of
agricultural output. Earliest constructed portions of the Indus Irrigation
System were designed for extensive irrigation, utilizing unregulated river
flows. The first controlled year-round irrigation began in 1859. Irrigation
investments over the past 30 years have aimed at increasing water supplies by
providing reservoir storage and making greater use of groundwater, to
increase both the area irrigated and the cropping intensity. Today, the
Indus Irrigation System comprises three major storage reservoirs (Tarbela,



-3-
Mangla and Chasma), 19 barrages or headvorks, 12 link canals, 43 canal com-
mands and some 89,000 watercourses. Barrages and additional storage, amount-
ing to about 18,000 million cubic meters (H m3), or 15 million acre feet
(maf), of live storage have made possible the provision of significant
amounts of additional irrigation water during critical periods.
Emerzint Drainafe Problems
1.09    The greatly increased continuous use of Indus water for irrigation
(from storage or direct river diversions) has significantly altered the
hydrological balance of the Indus Basin. Seepage losses from irrigation
canals, distributaries, minors, and watercourses and deep percolation from
the irrigated lands have resulted in a gradual rising of the groundwater
table, bringing with it critical problems of waterlogging and salinity over a
vast area. Waterlogging is widespread throughout Punjab and Sind provinces,
where most of the country's food and fiber crops are produced. In the early
1900s, the watertable was generally more than 15 meters (m) below the surface
throughout the Indus Plain. However, by 1978 (when the Indus Basin Salinity
Survey was completed), the watertable in 22% of the Indus Basin was within
1.8 m of the surface, and an additional 30% was within 3 m. The situation
has deteriorated since then. A comprehensive survey conducted in 1961
estimated that about 40,000 ha of land were being lost annually to agricul-
tural production due to waterlogging and/or salinity. Although these
estimates have not been updated, available information suggests that land
abandonment in severely waterlogged areas is continuing.
DrainasRe and Salinity Control in the Indus Basin
1.10    In the early 1960s, to relieve Pakistan's waterlogging and salinity
problems, GOP initiated a series of salinity control and reclamation projects
(SCARP) with public TW installation for drainage and supplemental irrigation
in usable fresh groundwater (FGW) areas. To date, about 12,000 such TWs have
been installed, covering about 35% of Pakistan-s cultivable command area
(CCA). Approximately 90% of these wells are located in Punjab, and most of
the remainder are in Sind. The TW8 have partly alleviated waterlogging and
salinity in these areas, but a large portion of CCA, especially in Sind,
still needs immediate drainage relief. The SCARP experience has demonstrated
that the TWs provide significant drainage relief. Hoeever, operation and
maintenance (&MM) of the TW8 has been deficient due to technical, financial,
and managerial problems. Currently, the principal need is to address the
drainage problem in saline groundwater (SGW) areas and to improve the
efficiency of TWs.
IrriRation in Sind Province
1.11    In Sind, irrigation canals were extended and improved during the late
1800s; by 1910, the irrigated area had reached a peak of 1.4 M ha. Sukkur
Barrage, completed in 1932, increased the annual cultivated area to 2.37 M
ha. The completion of Ghulam Mohammed (now Kotri) Barrage (1955), and Gudu
Barrage (1962) brought the rest of Sind's irrigation system under barrage
control. The total CCA under the three Sind barrages now totals 5.5 M ha.
The additional irrigation water supplied by these barrages has resulted in a
rapid rise of groundwater levels.



-4-
1.12    Sind Province, located in the lover part of the Indus Plain, is the
repository for the plain's drainage waters. Approximately 3.2 M ha, more
than 50X of Sind's total irrigated area, are severely affected by water-
logging and/or salinity problems. Sind's drainage problems are aggravated by
the nearly level terrain and the virtual lack of effective natural surface
drainage due to the construction of roads and irrigation bunds and canals.
Effective drainage and improved water management are urgently needed in
severely affected areas to arrest further land deterioration in the province,
which comprises about 25Z of Pakistan's total irrigated area.
Agriculture Sector Straterv and Bank's Role
1.13    The Bank's role in helping to accelerate Pakistan's agricultural
development includes assisting GOP in (1) fornulating a balanced investment
strategy that would ensure adequate resources for high priority projects to
increase agricultural productivity; (2) improving the effectiveness of
agricultural pricing policies and projects; and (3) mobilizing additional
external resources to help finance priority investment programs. GOP's
investment strategy nas been moving in favor of low-cost investments with
quick-yielding benefits, balanced with larger, strategically selected
infrastructural projects. Bank financing of a number of projects in water
management, irrigation system rehabilitation, salinity control and reclama-
tion, and research and extension and its role as Executing Agency for the
UNDP-financed preparation of major investment projects (such as LBOD) support
this strategy.
1.14    The Revised Action Program Report, prepared by WAPDA with UNDP assis-
tance and the Bank as Executing Agency, confirms the national importance of
the overall LBOD program in developing Pakistan-s water, land, and power
resources. GOP has given priority to LBOD-Stage I in its Sixth Five-Year
Plan (FY84-68). Bank-Group financed projects during its Fifth Five-Year Plan
(FY78-83) included: Reservoir Maintenance (Ln. 2247-PAK); Fourth Drainage
(Cr. 1375-PAR); Irrigation System Reh&ibilitation (Cr. 1239-PAR); Structural
Adjustment Lending (Ln. 2166-PAR and Cr. 1255-PAR); On-Farm Water Management
(Cr. 1163-PAR); Agricultural Research (Cr. 1158-PAR); Baluchistan Minor
Irrigation and Agricultural Development (Cr. 1243-PAR); Grain Storage (Cr.
1157-PAK); Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research (Cr. 922-PAR);
Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development (Cr. 813-PAK); and Command
Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK). The Bank Group's lending program in the
water sector during the Sixth Five-Year Plan supports GOP's agriculture
sector strategy with projects including Command Water Management, LBOD-Stage
I, SCARP Transition, Private Tubevells and Rural Electrification, and
follow-up projects to OFWM and Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation.
Rationale for IDA Financin2
1.15    The rationale for Bank involvement in LBOD-Stage I is based on the
Bank's long association with GOP in helping to develop Indus water resources,
the pressing need to address the project areass drainage problems in a timely
and effective manner, and the need to bridge the external financing gap.
Equally important, during the course of numerous preparation missions the
Bank has been able to assist and influence GOP in designing and implementing
a technically and economically viable project, as proposed, as well as to
strengthen its sectoral policy dialogue with GOP and fulfill its coordinating
role with potential cofinanciers.



-5-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01    The LBOD-Stage I project area would include Nawabshah, Sanghar, and
Mirpurkhas (Tharparkar), serving a CCA of about 516,000 ha within a gross
command area (GC&) of 578,000 ha (Map IBRD 18245).
Climate
2.02    Irrigation is essential for sustained agriculture in the project
area. The climate is hot and arid, with average maximum temperatures
approaching 43 degrees C in May-June. The coolest months are November-
FebrQary, when temperatures average 18-27 degrees C. Frosts are rare south
of Navabshah. Rainfall is low and erratic and occurs principally during
July-August. Average annual rainfall decreases from about 175 millimeters
(mm) in Mirpurkhas to 125 mm in Nawabshah. Significant rainfall is often
concentrated in one or two annual storms which may cause extensive flooding.
Evaporation rates, totalling 2,250-2,375 mm per year, vary from 11 ummday in
the hottest months to only 3 mm/day in winter.
Topography and Soils
2.03    The terrain in the project area is generally flat.  Some relief is
provided by channel remnants and bar deposits from old river courses and
their tributaries. Average slope is only 0.014U southeastwards, away from
the present course of the Indus River. Natural drainage is ill-defined and,
to a large extent, blocked by roads and irrigation bunds and channels. The
Dhoro Puran provides some drainage relief for Mirpurkhas, and the Nara Valley
system provides surface drainage for about 300 square kilometers (sq km)
north of Sanghar.
2.04    Soils are of recent alluvial origin and, when adequately drained and
managed, are generally suitable for irrigated agriculture. Textures are
closely related to depositional conditions, and although stratification is
complex, the majority of soils range from fine sandy loam to silty clay, with
silty loams and silty clay loams being most common. True clays and sands are
rare, at least in the upper alluvium. All soils contain calcium carbonate
and most contain traces of gypsum. Salinity is widespread. The severity and
distribution of soil salinity, as determined from average electrical conduc-
tivity measurements made by WAPDA, are listed in Table 2.1:



-6-
Table 2.1: ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF CCA IN EACH SUBAREA BY
SOIL SALINITY LEVEL
Electrical
Conductivity                Subareas (Z)
Salinity Class              (m mhos/cm)     Nawabshah    SanRhar   NirDurkhas
Non-Saline                  < 4.0               55          58          50
Slightly Saline               4.0 - 7.9        29           19          24
Moderately Saline             8.0 - 15.9        11          19          17
Highly Saline                16.0 - 31.9         3           4            9
Extremely Saline            >32.0                2           0           0
Non-cultivated land is generally highly saline and requires leaching prior to
cropping.  Salinity has been increasing since the first lover Indus Plan data
were collected in 1963-64, showing the concentrating effects of irrigation
without drainage.
2.05    Chemical characterization shows a high sodium (alkali) concentration
in highly saline soils, but the total area affected is relatively small
(12Z). Non-saline sodic soils occupy less than 2% of the area. With ade-
quate water and drainage to allow leaching of excess salts, lands with ade-
quate infiltration and internal permeabilities should respond well to
reclamation.
2.06    According to a land classification using United States Bureau of
Reclamation criteria adapted to LBOD catchment conditions (Annex 2), 80%
(492,880 ha) of the total area is suitable for irrigation, if necessary
drainage is provided (Class 1, 2 or 3 land). Hydraulic conductivities are
adequate for t.ubewell drainage throughout Nawabshah and Sanghar and most of
Nirpurkhas. About 51,230 ha, chiefly in Mirpurkhas, have both soil and
drainage deficiencies usually associated with fine-textured substrata. Lands
requiring tile drainage comprise only about 9% of the total project area.
About 20% of the land, being mostly out of command or prone to flooding, is
not suitable for drainage (Annex 2).
Irrigation Water Supplies
2.07    Canal System.  The three subareas are located in the perennial com-
mand of Sukkur barrage. Nawabshah is served by the Rohri Canal, and Sanghar
and Mirpurkhas by the Eastern Nara Canal. The first stage of the Rohri Canal
remodelling is currently underway with ADB financing. The maximum discharge
in the Nara Canal is still within the 1932 design limits, but bed erosion
below the head regulator is a major problem. The eroded material deposited
downstream has raised the bed level of the Jamrao Canal by about 3 meters
(m), necessitating the raising of banks and modifying regulators and bridges.
There is an urgent need to control upstream erosion and prevent sediment from
entering the Jamrao System. Since completion of Tarbela Reservoir in 1976,
the Rohri and Nara Canal systems have run at full capacity during kharif
(summer _rop season) and at near-capacity during rabi (winter crop season).
Unless their capacities are increased, scope for increasing water supplies to
the project area is nil during kharif and is limited to about lOZ during
rabi.



-7-
2.08    Groundwater.  The project area generally is underlain by an extensive
alluvial aquifer with a predominantly sandy upper layer, 60-90 m thick, which
is hydraulically connected with the watertable. This layer is thinner and
less distinct in the eastern part of Mirpurkhas. There are no hydraulic
constraints to the use of TWs for irrigation or drainage in most of the
project area, but aquifer conditions are less favorable in Mirpurkhas.
2.09    There has been a dramatic rise in the watertable in the project area
during the past 20 years. Currently, about 30% of the area has a watertable
at a depth of less than 1.2 m, which has induced salinization of uncropped
land. Since most of the groundwater is saline, possibilities for using it
for irrigation are limited. In some areas within Nawabshah and Sanghar, SGW
is overlain by a layer of FGW, generally less than 76 m in overall thickness.
This FGW cannot be recovered efficiently by conventional TWs, but may be
recoverable using scavenger wells 1/ which simultaneously pump from the SGW
and the FGW aquifer. The main constraint to watertable control by the
removal of groundwater is the lack of a disposal system for the saline dis-
charge.
Electrification
2.10    Power is supplied to the project area by a dual circuit 132 kV trans-
mission line from WAPDA's national grid system. About 57% of the power
supplied is from hydroelectric sources in northern Pakistan, and the balance
from thermal plants at Gudu, Sukkur, and Hyderabad. The project area is
served by seven grid stations with an installed capacity of about 175
megawatts (MW). All towns and a substantial number of villages have
electrical power.
Population and Land Tenure
2.11    The population in the project area is about 1.2 million, of which
73% are classified as rural (1981 Census). Approximately 49Z of the rural
population is in Nawabshah, 24% in Sanghar, and 27Z in Mirpurkhas. The
project area includes 7.6% of the rural population of Sind. There are an
estimated 113,000 farm holdings. The rural population growth rate in the
project area has averaged 3.5Z annually since 1961, compared with a national
population growth rate of 3% during this period.
2.12    The majority of farm land is ireld by owners with more than 20 ha
(1972 Agricultural Census). There appears to have been little change since
1972, despite land reforms in 1972 and 1977, which reduced the maximum per-
missible holding to approximately 40 ha of irrigated land. The average
operational farm unit is less than half the size of the average land holding.
About 70% of the total number of operational farm units are less than 5 ha,
and about 90% are less than 10 ha. Approximately 60% of the units are farmed
by share-cropping tenants (haris) and 30% by landowners; the balance is
j1 Scavenger TWs are specially designed wells employing two pumps at
different levels, to allow safe extraction of FGW from a layer overlying
SGW.



-8-
leased or farmed on a contract basis. No significant change in land owner-
ship or tenure pattern is expected in the near future. Table 2.2 shows the
breakdown of land ownership and operational units by farm size:
Table 2.2: PERCENTAGE OF LAND HOLDINGS AND OPERATIONAL
FARM UNITS BY SIZE
Land Holdings             Operational
Size                (Owned)                 Farm Units
(ha)         Z of No.  Z of Area      Z of No.   Z of Area
0 - 2             17         2             18          4
2 - 5            30          9             53         36
5 - 10           21         12             20         26
10 - 20           16         16              6         16
20 - 60           11         27              3         11
Over  60            4         34              -          6
Total          100        100            100        100
Land Use
2.13    Approximately 25% of the CCA is abandoned or has never been cul-
tivated. Cropping intensity is low, generally less than 50% in any season,
mainly due to a shortage of irrigation water. Due to rising watertables and
salinization of land, agricultural production gradually is being concentrated
on a smaller area, resulting in an increase of abandoned land, a decrease in
fallow area, and a greater amount of double cropping.
2.14    Annual cropping intensities vary considerably within and among canal
commands: Nawabshah 70-140%; Sanghar 30-135% (mostly in the range of
60-115%); and Mirpurkhas 60-90%, although somewhat higher intensities are
obtained in northern fruit growing areas.
Crops and Yields
2.15    The principal crops, cotton and wheat, account for at least
two-thirds of the cropped area during kharif and rabi, respectively. Sugar-
cane is an important crop in Nawabshah and Mirpurkhas, and oilseeds (mainly
grown in rabi) are widely grown in Nawabshah and Sanghar. Fodder also is
grown, particularly in Sanghar and Mirpurkhas, in both seasons. Mangoes are
an important perennial crop, particularly in Mirpurkhas. The area devoted to
rice and pulses is very small. During the past 20 years, the areas cul-
tivated with cotton and wheat have risen relative to other crops. This trend
reflects the relative profitability of both crops and their suitability for
double cropping.
2.16    The present overall cropping intensity of about 81Z in the project
area is achieved by spreading water during kharif and relying partly on soil
moisture storage and capillary rise from the watertable to meet peak water
requirements. Leaching of salts is deferred to the end of the season or to
the pre-irrigation of the next crop. This practice maximizes the returns to
kharif water supplies, but results in lower efficiency of water use in rabi,
which has important implications for drainage requirements. Fertilizer use
is universal for cotton, wheat, and sugarcane. Between 150 kg and 230 kg of



-9-
nutrient are applied per ha. Fertilizer application on cotton is near the
maximum economic use for present varieties and prices, but poor pest control
is still a major constraint to higher yields. While most farmers use insec-
ticides, they do not apply them well enough to obtain substantial yield
benefits.
2.17    Lack of good seed is a problem affecting all crops, especially
cotton. High-yielding varieties have been introduced recently for wheat and
sugarcane, but generally the seed has not been renewed. Since 1971/72,
average wheat yields have risen 50%, while cotton and sugarcane yields have
increased only 16%. Oilseed yields have not changed. All crop yields are
still relatively low, partly because of the effects of rising watertables.
Cotton and wheat yields decline when watertable depth is less than 1.8 m and
1.5 m, respectively. Also, salinization of uncropped areas has led to
increased double cropping. With double cropping, the time available for land
levelling and preparation is generally inadequate, causing a further reduc-
tion in crop yields.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.18    Fertilizer, Pesticides, and Seed.  In Sind, fertilizer is distributed
by three local manufacturers, or by the Sind Agricultural Supplies Organiza-
tion if imported through the federal Department of Fertilizer Import. Fer-
tilizer subsidies are being phased out. Supplies are generally adequate, but
imports sometimes arrive late. In 1980, pesticide distribution was trans-
ferred from the extension service to the private sector, and the subsidy on
pesticides was abolished. Farmers rely mainly on their own stocks for wheat
seed, and on local ginneries and markets for cotton seed. The Sind Seed
Corporation is responsible for seed production, processing, and certification
while the Sind Agricultural Supplies Organization is responsible for dis-
tribution. Relative to requirements, production of improved certified seed
is low. There are serious technical problems at the main Sind Seed Corpora-
tion processing plant in Sakrand, and the Corporation and Organization have
not fully coordinated their activities. Some improvements were made under
the Bank-supported Seed Industry Development Project (Cr. 620-PAK), now
closed. Continued GOSind efforts to strengthen the production, processing,
and distribution of seed to meet increased demand are required; based on
on-going and proposed plans, such improvements are expected to materialize
during the project's implementation period.
2.19    Azricultural Credit.  Institutional credit for agriculture is
provided by the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), the
cooperative banks, and commercial banks. Commercial banks and the ADBP have
branches within the project area, but cooperative credit has almost ceased
because of farmers' outstanding debts. The commercial banks concentrate on
seasonal loans. Landowners normally supply the inputs required by their
tenants on an interest-free basis and, therefore, a direct link between
tenant farmers and credit institutions is not a critical concern to the
project. Both ADBP and commercial banks have been expanding credit distribu-
tion in the project area, and further expansion of ADBP credit facilities is
expected to continue under the Fifth ADBP project supported by the World
Bank, Asian Development Bank, and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development. Agricultural credit availability is unlikely to be a major
constraint on future agricultural development in the project area.



-10-
2.20    Agricultural Research and Extension.  Six researcb institutes and
the agricultural university at Tando Jam conduct agricultural research in
Sind. The overall output of these institutions with respect to solving the
practical needs of Sind's farming community has been relatively low.
Field-oriented adaptive research, being expanded under the IDA-supported
Adaptive Research and Extension Project, should ensure the minimum level of
local research required to support agricultural development. Agricultural
extension is currently being strengthened in five districts in Sind.
Mirpurkhas, the only subarea not currently covered, is expected to be
included in an expanded agricultural extension project, for which allocation
has been made in the Sixth Five-Year plan. Therefore, extension activities
in the LBOD-Stage I area are expected to be adequate.
2.21    On-Farm Water Manaxement.  The Directorate of OFWM of GOSind's
Department of Agriculture has 15 field teams operating in the Rohri command
area under the IDA-supported OFWM project. Services provided to farmers
include design, survey and supervision of watercourse improvements, sub-
sidized hire of equipment, and contribution towards the cost of materials.
The OFWM project is operative in Navabshah, where it would be strengthened,
and it would be extended to Sanghar and Mirpurkhas.
2.22    Farm Power.  Bullocks are the main source of farm pover, with hired
tractors being used increasingly. The Directorate of Agricultural Engineer-
ing maintains a fleet of bulldozers, available for hire to farmers for coarse
land-levelling (± 5 cm). It is also preparing to provide a general tractor-
hire service on a pilot scale. Most farm labor is supplied by haris and
their families and, to a lesser extent, by small owner-cultivators and
seasonal hired labor. Adequate labor is available for cultivation, and
tractor and bullock power are considered sufficient for future agricultural
development in the project area.
III. THE PROJECT
Obiectives and Scone
3.01    The project, to be implemented over an eight-year period (FY86-FY93),
would consist of a major outfall drain and a comprehensive drainage system
to: (a) provide surface drainage for about 516,000 ha of CCA; (b) provide
subsurface drainage relief for about 392,000 ha of CCA; and (c) transport
excess water and salt out of the area, thus reversing deterioration of the
land resource base due to waterlogging and salinity. The project would
include improvements in irrigation and OFWM and institutional improvements to
ensure adequate operation and maintenance (O&M). Existing water-use
efficiencies would be improved and unused surface flows would be stored for
later use in the project area to increase cropping intensities from the
present 81X to about 117Z, including reclamntion of some abandoned land.



-ll-
Project Description
3.02    The LBOD-Stage I project would include the following vorks:
(i)  Spinal Drain System
(a) Completion of main outfall drain;
(b) Construction of a bifurcation weir at the junction of the
Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and the Dhoro Puran
Outfall Drain (DPOD) to limit the flow in DPOD to 57 cumecs
(2,000 cusecs) and exclude all ultra-saline effluent;
(c) Remodelling of DPOD to a capacity of 57 cumecs (2,000 cusecs);
(d) Remodelling of KPOD to a capacity of 85 cumecs (3,000 cusecs)
to carry drainage flows from the spinal drain and the
existing Kotri drain;
(e) Construction of an 85 cumec-capacity (3,000 cusecs) tidal
link from Pateji Dhand to Shah Samando tidal creek; and
(f) Provision of maintenance equipment for both the upper and
lower reaches of LBOD-Stage I, and the construction of
vorkshops and depots at Khoski and Nirpurkhas.
(ii)  Drainage Component
(a) Construction of a surface drainage network covering about
578,000 ha of GCA;
(b)  Installation of about 1,400 drainage TVs of a capacity of
14-57 liters per second (I/s) (.5-2.0 cusecs) for subsurface
drainage of about 286,000 ha of CCA;
Xc) Subject to site-specific experimentation, installation of
about 850 scavenger TWs of about 42 1/s-capacity (1.5 cusec)
to provide subsurface drainage of about 84,000 ha of CCA.
About 70% of the discharge would be FGW, which would be
introduced into the irrigation system to supplement existing
supplies;
(d) Installation of interceptor drains, designed to recover about
30% of present seepage losses from 480 km of major canals,
and provision of about 160 pumping stations to lift the
recovered fresh water to smaller canals and watercourses
offtaking from the main canals;
(e) Installation of a tile drainage system and associated pumping
stations for subsurface drainage of about 22,000 ha of CCA
in the Mirpurkhas area;



-12-
(f)  Construction of about 4,400 km of 11 kV distribution line and
enlargement of four grid stations (132/11 kV and 66/11 kV)
to provide power for drainage TVs, scavenger TVs, and tile
and interceptor drain pumping stations; and
(g)  Provision of maintenance equipment for surface drains, TWs,
pumps, tile and interceptor drains, and construction of work-
shops and depots at Nawabshah, Sanghar, and Mirpurkhas.
(iii) Irrigation Works
(a)  Remodelling of Nara Canal to increase the effective capacity
from 365 cumecs (13,000 cusecs) to about 560 cumecL (20,000
cusecs);
(b)  Rehabilitation of the Jamrao Canal headworks, construction of
silt extractors, and remodelling of the Jaurao Canal network;
(c)  Construction of Chotiari Reservoir to provide essential storage
of about 864 M m3 (700,000 acre feet), thus allowing regulation
and use of part of the excess flow available in the Indus River;
and
(d)  Improvement of about 920 watercourses to standards established
under ongoing OFWl programs, including precision land level-
ling of about 26,000 ha of CCA.
(iv) Consulting Services and Trainin&
Ca)  Provision of approximately 878 man-months of internationally
selected consulting services for overall project assistance; and
up to 264 man-months of local consultants for assistance in
OFWM, as required; and
Cb) Provision of appropriate in-service and mid-career training
programs for professional staff of agencies concerned with
project implementation and subsequent O&M.
(v) Monitorinz and Evaluation (M&E)
(a) A program to monitor the project's physical progress and the
main physical (non-crop) parameters; and
(b) Evaluation study to assess the project's impact.
Detailed Proiect Components
3.03    Spinal Drain (base cost US$8.6 M). Drain excavation and related
structures to complete remaining sections of about 250 km of spinal drain
would be completed within two years of project implenentation (using GOP
funds), thereby providing an unimpeded outfall channel of adequate dimension
to carry storm runoff and drainage effluent from Nawabshah, Saughar, and
Mirpurkhas to DPOD and KPOD. The spinal drain would have an approximate
capacity of 57 cumecs (2,000 cusecs) in Nawabshah, increasing to 71 cumecs
(2,500 cusecs) and 85 cumecs (3,000 cusecs) in Sanghar and Mirpurkhas,



-13-
respectively, and to 113 cumecs (4,000 cusecs) at the bifurcation structure
leading to KPOD and DPOD. Design capacities have been based on estimated TW
discharge from the three subareas and the maximum canal escape in the system.
Stormwater would be included in the channel freeboard allowance (1.0 m) and
all inflow to the system would be controlled. Channel design for reaches
carrying discharges exceeding 28 cumecs would incorporate a deeper central
section to reduce meandering. Maximum channel depth would be limited to 4.3
m for ease of construction and maintenance. Design of the longitudinal
section would minimize earthwork costs and take into account desired gradient
to convey design storms. Design and construction of structures for the
spinal drain and the KPOD, DPOD, and tidal link drains would take into
account wrOibilities of and requirements for future expansion of the
long-term comprehensive LBOD project. The timely completion of the spinal
drain would be of significant importance to the project as a whole, since the
phasing of all other components is dependent on this. An assurance was
obtained from GOP that adequate provisions would be made to complete the
spinal drain and associated structures up to Nawabshah to required capacity
by July 31, 1986.
3.04    KPOD and DPOD (base cost US$18.7 M).  The spinal drain would outfall
through the remodelled KPOD and tidal link to Shah Samando Creek and into the
Arabian Sea (Map IBRD 18245). KPOD would be designed to carry a flow of up
to 62 cumecs from the spinal drain and approximately 28 cumecs from the Kotri
drain. Construction work would include widening the existing KPOD channel,
constructing the bifurcation headworks on the Dhoro link for automatic
separation of the saline baseflow and high stormwater flows, and replacing
6 crossings with 5 new structures, mainly due to realignment. Six existing
structures would be utilized without enlargement, including the Khadhan-Ali
Bundar road bridge and the aqueduct for the Fuleli escape. The channP1 bed
would be maintained at constant slope from the junction with the spinal drain
to the head of the tidal link. Inspection road bridges across 8 existing
branch drains would be replaced and 56 new surface inlets constructed. The
bifurcation structure would prevent saline baseflow in the spinal drain from
entering the DPOD system. Flow into DPOD would begin only when discharge in
the spinal drain exceeds 42 cumecs (1,500 cusecs); it would peak in DPOD at
57 cumecs (2,000 cusecs) when the flow in the spinal drain reaches its maxi-
mum of 113 cumecs (4,000 cusecs). DPOD principally would provide an escape
for stormwater flows to the Shakoor Dhand, as at present. The Dhoro Link and
DPOD would be enlarged to a capacity of about 57 cumecs, partly by excavation
downstream and by constructing bunds upstream, to convey high stormwater
flows without submerging the Dhoro Link headworks. Maintenance roads would
be provided on both sides of KPOD and DPOD.
3.05    Tidal Link (base cost US$21.3 M).  A 38-km link channel would be
constructed from the Pateji Dhand (at the downstream end of KPOD) to the Shah
Samando tidal creek. The channel would operate independently of the Pateji
Dhand and the Rann of Kutch, and the channel berm would isolate the channel
from high water levels in the Rann of Kutch. The channel would have a bed
width of 40 m and, at its outfall to the creek, the width would be gradually
increased to 114 m to avoid critical velocities during periods of low tide.
Channel design would provide the most efficient hydraulic gradient for the
outfall. Under design conditions, intrusion of sea water would occur up to
19 km inland; however, such intrusion would be of short duration and the
drain would operate mostly at outfall levels below water levels in the Rann
of Kutch. Technical details of the spinal drain, KPOD and DPOD, and tidal



-14-
link are available in the project file and cost estimates are presented in
Annex 3, Table 3a and b.
3.06    Drainage Work in Subareas.  Groundwater levels in Nawabshah, Sanghar,
and Mirpurkhas subareas would be controlled to safe cropping levels by
installing drainage TWs, scavenger TWs, interceptor and subsurface drains,
and surface drains, as discussed in paras 3.07-3.11. The works provided in
the three subareas would be designed to remove the additional groundwater
inflow anticipated from the increased irrigation water resulting from the
Rohri and Nara/Jamrao Canal remodelling. Allowance would also be made for
water losses from the disposal channels and the surface drainage system. The
drainage TWs would be designed to operate about 60% of the time, on average,
and to maintain the watertable at a depth of about 1.5-2.0 m. The tile
drainage design would maintain an average watertable depth of about 1.5 m in
the tile drainage area. The capacity of the subsurface and surface drainage
network (size of drains, and the number, size, and spacing of TWs and tile
drains) would be determined by the quantity of drainable effluent in the
LBOD-Stage I catchment area expected from subsurface drainage, stormwater
drainage, and canal escapes.
3.07    Drainag:e Tubewells (base cost US$35.6 M). Because of the excellent
aquifer conditions prevailing throughout much of Sind, most of the 1,400
drainage TWs installed in the three subareas would be relatively
high-capacity, conventional drainage TWs. However, some lower-capacity TWs
of special design would be required for the unusually fine aquifer sands
found mainly in Mirpurkhas. In Nawabshah, about 245 TWs of 57 l/s-capacity
would be constructed and spaced, on average, about 2,300 m apart. Some 140
TWs of either 42 l/s- or 57 1/s-capacity would be provided along major canals
to remove seepage losses not picked up by the interceptor drains. Seepage
losses in individual reaches of the main and branch canals, rather than
average drainable surplus values, would be used for detailed design of the
interceptor drains and TWs. In Sanghar, most of the 230 regular drainage TWS
of 57 1/s-capacity would be provided at approximate spacing of 1,700-2,680
m. The remaining TWs (about 70) would be located along major canals to
control seepage flows to the watertable. In Mirpurkhas, about 129 TWs of 42
1/s-capacity would be provided. The high-capacity TWs in the subareas would
be completed with 200 mm-diameter screens. Consideration would be given to
using fiberglass for the screens and pump housing to reduce weight and corro-
sion potential. Each TW would discharge into an open disposal channel or
pipe (about 5%) linking the well with the nearest drain. The special design
TWs in Mirpurkhas (586 of 715 TWa required) would have a relatively low
discharge (14 1/s or 21 l/s) and would use stainless steel screens with a
very small slot width designed on the basis of sediment sizes. Three
different methods of screening fine sediments would be evaluated on a
pilot-basis (10 wells each) before finalizing the design of the bulk of these
TWs: (a) continuous-slot wire wrapped screens; (b) two-stage gravel packs
with standard fiberglass screen; and (c) synthetic molded-on or wrap-around
filter. About half of these wells would pump directly into pipe disposal
lines (in lieu of open surface drains) to limit loss of saline effluent in
agricultural areas and avoid disruption to the irrigation system. The length
of disposal channel/pipe from low discharge wells would average 1200 m. All
TWs would have appropriately designed gravel filter-graded envelopes (gravel
packs) and would be provided with permanent access roads. The TWa would be
equipped with integrated pump-motor sets consisting of vertically mounted
electric motors and in-line shaft, deep-well turbine pumps, which have proven



-15-
satisfactory in other completed SCARP projects. To combat the corrosive
effect of the highly saline groundwater to be pumped, corrosion-resis.ant and
chemically inert materials would be used in TW components. Remote con-
trol/monitoring of TW pump operation was considered at appraisal and may be
adopted eventually under the project. Costs of converting to a fully
automated system would be relatively small and would be about equal to the
additional cost of manual operation of such TWs during project implementa-
tion, which is based on one operator for two TWs.
3.08    Scavenger Tubewelle (base cost US$21.1).  About 5,000 ha of CCA in
Navabshah and 79,400 ha in Sanghar would be drained by scavenger TWs designed
to recover FGW from the layer of good quality water overlying the SGW. A
total of about 850 scavenger TWs would be installed (about 92 in Nawabshah
and 758 in Sanghar) following a design similar to the 42 1/s-capacity
drainage TWs, except that a larger-diameter (250 mm) screen would be provided
to enable the use of a lower pump to withdraw the underlying SGW and maintain
hydraulic FGW and SGW equilibrium. About two-thirds (28 1/) of the total
output of each well would be PGW discharged by the upper pump into a canal or
watercourse for irrigation use. The flow from the lower pump (SGW) would be
discharged into the drainage disposal channel/pipe. While most of the
scavenger TWs would be 42 1/s-capacity, in places where the FGW/SGW interface
is deeper a limited number of TWs would have a capacity of as much as 85 1/s.
As scavenger TW design evolves, pilot well installations would be tested
early in the project to finalize the design concept. Depending on the per-
formance of the pilot scavenger TWs, conventional drainage TWS could replace
them to accomplish the necessary drainage without jeopardizing project
viability.
3.09    Tile Drainage (base cost US$21.6M).  About 1,875 km of tile drains
would be installed in the 22,000 ha of CCA in Mirpurkhas where aquifer condi-
tions are unsuitable for TW drainage. PVC corrugated pipe laterals would be
installed with gravel envelope at average depths of 1.8-2.4 m. They would be
connected to PVC corrugated pipe collectors laid with gravel envelope at
2.5-3.5 m depth. Manholes would be provided as needed. A total of 52 pump-
ing stations, located near main drains to avoid construction of special
disposal channels and equipped with 2-3 electric centrifugal pumps of 14 l/s-
or 28 l/s-capacity, would lift drainage flows from the collector sumps to the
surface drains.
3.10    Interceptor Drains (base cost US$21.4).  Approximately 580 km of
horizontal interceptor drains (subsurface tile drains) would be installed
along main and branch canals to intercept a significant part of the seepage
from these canals, to reduce drainage requirements, and to provide supplemen-
tal water for irrigation. Generally, the drains would be installed about
30-50 m from the canal centerline on either one or both sides of main and
branch canals experiencing major seepage losses, and they would recover an
estimated 30% of such seepage. Each drain would comprise a single line of
PVC corrugated perforated pipe with gravel envelope installed at 2.7-3.7 m
depth. Pipe diameter would vary from 200 mm to 300 mm, depending on soil
conditions, seepage rate, and drain length. The maximum length of each
collector drain would be about 2000 m, and two such drains would discharge to
a single pump equipped with two 28 l/s- or 56 1/s-centrifugal pumps. Dis-
charge from the interceptor drains would be pumped directly into a water-
course or returned to the canal. Installation of the interceptors would be
coordinated with canal remodelling and improvement of watercourses.



-16-
3.11    Surface Drainage (base cost US$28.4 N). A network of main, branch,
and sub-drains would be constructed to dispose of saline drainage effluent
from TVs and tile drains and the runoff from storms and excess irrigation.
The surface drainage system would be unlined earthen channels with structures
to control the flow of water in the drains. It would include 9 main and
branch drains in the three subareas. To the extent possible, drain alignment
would be fixed by command boundaries and would be adjusted to utilize areas
of abandoned land or existing natural drainage ways. Drainage system
capacity would be based primarily on discharge requirements of drainage wells
and tile drains, with additional discharge capacity for canal escapes. About
0.3 m of freeboard would be allowed for sub-drains and 0.6 a of freeboard for
branch and main drains to accommodate stormwater drainage, when the drainage
TWs would be turned off. A 1.0 m freeboard would be provided in the spinal
drain. Drain inlets (one per watercourse for Sanghar and Mirpurkhas and two
per watercourse for Nawabshah) would be constructed for the direct disposal
of this water to the spinal drain. About 1,600 drain inlets (Nawabshah-440,
Sanghar-570, and Mirpurkhas-590) would be constructed. Maximum surface water
discharge into the drains would be about 22 cumecs in Nawabshah, 28 cumecs in
Sanghar, and 33 cumecs in Mirpurkhas. The surface drainage system would
substantially reduce the time required, in days, to evacuate runoff from a
100 mm-storm (occurring once in about 5 years) from 13 to 3-1/2 in Nawabshah,
from 17 to less than 3-1/2 in Sanghar, and from 14-1/2 to 3 in Mirpurkhas.
Existing surface drains providing drainage for about 31,200 ha in Saughar,
which discharge to a pump station on the Mithrao Canal, would be enlarged and
connected to the spinal drain. Natural drainage provided by the Dhoro Puran
for about 30,000 ha in Hirpurkhas would be replaced by a more efficient
drainage system for both surface and subsurface drainage flows.
3.12    On-Farm Water Management (base cost US$18.6 M). Under the project
about half of the watercourses in the project area would be improved (270 in
Nawabshah, 310 in Sanghar, and 340 in Mirpurkhas). Watercourse improvement
would follow the same development criteria followed in the OFWM project
(Cr. 1163-PAK), and would incorporate any changes introduced in the second
OFWM project (currently under preparation). Civil works, including
earthwork, farm drains, permanent structures, lining (30% in saline
groundwater areas), and precision land levelling (about 10% of the area under
improved watercourses) would be carried out in accordance with GOP's OFWM
National Standards for Practices and Materials, Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Cooperatives, June 1980, or subsequent issues thereof acceptable to IDA.
The present district-level OFWM unit in Nawabshah would be strengthened, and
new units would be set up in Sanghar and Mirpurkhas. Under the project, 14
new OFWM field teams would be formed to provide technical assistance to
farmers, who would provide the unskilled labor required. OFWM teams would
include drainage specialists to advise farmers on farm drainage. Vehicles,
equipment, and technical assistance also would be provided. Watercourse
renovation work would be closely coordinated with other project activities,
such as drainage and canal remodelling work.
3.13    Electrification (base cost US$51.4 M).  Since the existing rural
11 kV distribution system is heavily loaded and no allowance for project
works was made in the extension already planned, a separate electrification
system to provide power for the TWs and drainage pumps would be constructed.
It would consist of 1,100 km of 11 kV overhead transmission lines in
Nawabshah, 1,950 km in Sanghar, and 1,350 km in Mirpurkhas. A pole-mounted



-17-
transformer protected by dropout fuses would be provided at each well or pump
station. Power to the 11 kV lines would be supplied from existing grid
stations, with new transformer bays provided at four of these stations
(Nawabshah, Sanghar, Mirpurkhas, and Kandiari). Existing and planned power
generation capacity is judged adequate to absorb the project's requirements
(Annex 1, Chart 5) but, inasmuch as the power requirements for the project
would be a substantial part of the overall power available in the Province
and the drainage system is dependent on the timely and efficient operation of
the drainage wells and pumping stations, it is important that WAPDA provides
the full energy and capacity requirements of the project on a timely basis.
3.14    Irrigation Works.  Adequate subsurface drainage would permit effec-
tive utilization of additional irrigation water for increased crop produc-
tion. Under LBOD-Stage I, supplemental water would be provided within the
CCA to about 101,250 ha in Sanghar and 77,000 ha in Mirpurkhas. Additional
water also is being provided for the Nawabshah area under the ongoing Rohri
Canal remodelling work being financed by ADB. An assurance was obtained from
GOP and GOSind that GOSind would ensure that the Rohri Canal Remodelling
progresses at a rate such that the Rohri Canal command area falling within
the project area receives adequate irrigation not later than January 1, 1990,
and that adequate funds would be provided for completing such works.
Theoretical water requirements in the project area and expected overall water
supplies or deficits under with project conditions are shown in Annex 1,
Table 1.
3.15    Nara Canal Remodelling (base cost US$23.5 M).  The current capacity
of the Nara Canal is about 364 cumecs. Under the project, the upper reach
(175 km) of the canal to the Jamrao head would be enlarged to a maximum
capacity of 560 cumecs, thus providing about 196 cumecs of capacity for
diversion to Chotiari Reservoir of water currently escaping to the Arabian
Sea during July and August. Bed erosion in the upper reach of the steeply
sloping Nara Canal that currently threatens the head regulator would be
controlled, and siltation of the reach above the Jamrao head would be reduced
by constructing fall (drop) structures to reduce the hydraulic gradient.
Also, some canal bank remodelling would be carried out in the lower reaches
to increase capacity. About half of the water developed would be utilized by
LBOD-Stage I through the remodelled Jamrao Canal system. The remainder would
be utilized in areas outside the Stage I area, including those to be covered
by the proposed Makhi-Faresh project.
3.16    Jamrao Canal Remodellin2 (base cost US$28.6 M).  A canal parallel to
the existing one, with its own head regulator, would be constructed at a
lower level to convey about 55% of the total Jamrao Canal discharge. The
existing canal would continue to serve high-level offtakes in the Sanghar
area, while the new canal would act mainly as a feeder for the system down-
stream. An additional 60 km of parallel canal below the existing West
Branch, not to be remodelled, also would be provided. A total of 345 km of
branch, distributary, and minor canals would be enlarged or duplicated, and
all existing structures would be either remodelled or replaced. To reduce
the sediment load entering the Jamrao system, 6 vortex-tube silt extractors
would be installed to trap 80% of the bed material load, which would be
discharged into a settling basin kept clear by dredger.
3.17    Chotiari Reservoir (base cost US$21.0 M).  The Chotiari Reservoir
would be formed by enclosing the existing Chotiari Lakes with 43 km of



-18-
embanknent, 3ocated mainly along the Nara Canal, increasing live storage to
about 864 XmA (700,000 acre feet).  The upper water level would be 26.5 n
relative level (RL). The present water level is about 21 m RL. Hydraulic
constraints on the outlet to the proposed Makhi-Faresh link, limit the dead
storage level to about 21 m RL. This outlet would discharge up to 64 cumecs
to the new link to supplement direct canal supplies. Diversions to the
reservoir would be made at the Jam-ao headworks through the Ranto Escape by a
new 19 km-long feeder channel capable of discharging about 200 cumecs (7,000
cusecs). The reservoir surface area would vary seasonally from about
6,900-22,700 ha and evaporation losses would be high. The cost of the addi-
tional storage is partly justified by the Makhi-Faresh project. Assurances
were obtained from GOP and GOSind that the water supplies made available by
the Nara and Jamrao Canal remodelling work and the construction of Chotiari
Reservoir would be fully utilized in LBOD-Stage I and adjoining areas,
including the proposed Makhi-Faresh Project.
3.18    Maintenance Equipment. Depots, and Workshops (base Cost US$25.2 M).
Maintenance depots would be constructed at Nawabshah, Sanghar, and
Mirpurkhas. Equipment for maintenance would include long-reach excavators,
graders and support vehicles for drain and access-road maintenance, and a
truck-mounted crane for handling transformers, pumps, and motors. The depots
would have workshopu for routine maintenance of the equipment and vehicles,
and mobile workshop trucks would carry out minor repairs and servicing of
machinery in the field. Adequate staff, transport, and equipment would be
provided for the repair of structures. A workshop would be constructed at
Khoski for maintenance of the lower outfall drain. Equipment, including
dredgers, long-reach draglines, hydraulic excavators, graders, and various
support vehicles, would be provided for maintenance of the outfall system.
Two small depots would be constructed to service dredgers for maintenance of
DPOD and main outfall.
3.19    Technical Assistance and Training (base cost US$9.3 M).  The project
would provide a total of 878 man-months of internationally selected consult-
ing services to assist project management in overall planning and monitoring
of project implementation; special studies; preparation of design criteria,
final designs, specifications, tender documents and contracts, evaluation of
bids; supervision of construction; and preparation of operation and main-
tenance procedures. The consulting firm would be associated with a suitable
local firm and would include drainage design engineers, groundwater
engineer/hydrogeologists, irrigation design engineers, construction
engineers, drainage construc;ion specialists, an irrigation construction
specialist, an electrical engineer, a hydraulics engineer, and an ecologist.
In addition, provision has been made for local supervisory consultants (264
man-months) to assist in the implementation of the OFWM program (Annex 6).
3.20    The project would provide in-service, local and overseas training of
professional staff. About 30 engineers and other professional staff from
WAPDA and GOSind would receive mid-career and in-service training in O&M
management to facilitate efficient implementation and proper OEM of the
completed drainage system. The training would include the use of
micro-computers/processors for improved control and monitoring of the project
works. Visiting experts, coordinated by the overall project consultants,
would conduct nUmerous short training courses. Training of additional staff
for the project's OFWM program would be conducted mainly in the field by
existing staff. Additionally, to improve the environmental monitoring



-19-
capability required under LBOD-Stage I (para 7.09), officers of the Sind
Department of Forestry and Wildlife associated with the Rann of Kutch
Wildlife Sanctuary would receive training as required.
Monitoring and Evaluation (base cost US$3.0 M)
3.21    Three separate but coordinated M&E activities would be carried out
during the project's development period: (a) day-to-day monitoring of
LBOD-Stage I physical and financial progress, including TW performance as TWs
are installed; (b) monitoring of physical parameters, including meteorologi-
cal data, depth to watertable, drain discharge, water quality, soil salinity,
and environmental effects; and (c) impact evaluation on beneficiaries in
terms of agricultural production, income and employment levels, economic
well-being of small farmers, and secondary effects in the regional economy.
The impact evaluation would be carried out over an 11-year period in order to
monitor the accretion of project benefits. In sequence, the evaluation study
would entail: detailed design, base-line survey, intermediate surveys and
selected studies, and, four years after completion of project works, a final
survey and evaluation report. M&E responsibilities are described in paras
5.14 and 5.15. Summary terms of reference for each of the activities are
presented in Annex 8.
Status of Designs
3.22    Final designs and draft tender documents have been completed for the
KPOD remodelling work, and designs are being finalized for DPOD's enlargement
and the KPOD/DPOD bifurcation structure, all of which comprise the first
year's work program under IDA financing. Most of the land has already been
acquired and active steps are underway to acquire any remaining small pieces
of land required for the first year's civil works to be financed by IDA.
Final designs also have been completed for the remainder of the work on the
spinal drain and structures currently being implemented by WAPDA with GOP
financing (core program). Feasibility studies have recently been completed
for the tidal link, Chotiari Reservoir, and Nara Canal remodelling. The
designs and estimates of the Jamrao Canal remodelling work are preliminary
and will be brought to final design level during the first two years of
project implementation. Final TW-field design and tile and interceptor drain
design for subsurface drainage will be initiated and carried out with the
assistance of project consultants following their appointment in early 1985.
IV. COST ESTIMATES. FINANCING. AND PROCUREMENT
Cost Estimates
4.01    Capital Costs.  Total project cost is estimated at about Rs 9,202.9 M
(US$635.7 M equivalent), including US$57.4 M for physical contingencies,
US$173.9 M for price escalation, and US$97.1 M for taxes and duties. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated to be about US$318.6 M, or about 50% of total
project costs. Base costs are expressed in September 1984 prices. Where
possible, cost estimates are based on unit prices taken from recent contracts
issued by WAPDA and on quotations from suppliers. Unit prices and quotations
have been adjusted to accommodate project conditions and to reflect current
cost levels.



-20-
4.02    O&M costs of completed works during project implementation (estimated
at about US$10.6 M) are also included in capital costs of the project.
Project costs include physical contingencies (10-20% of base costs) and price
contingencies based on projected local and international inflation rates.
Table 4.1 summarizes cost estimates and assumed inflation rates. More
detailed summary cost tables are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1-4. Additional
cost details for each project component are available in the project file.
Table 4.1: LBOD-STAGE I COST SUMMARY
%      Total
Rs M    ----US$ Million-   Foreign   Base
Component Obiective               Total   Local  Foreign  Total  ExchanRe  Costs
A. Drainage Disposal System    1,014.9    33.2    38.0    71.2        53       18
B. Navabshah Area                 863.1    32.9    27.7    60.6       46       15
C. Sanghar Area                 1,130.7    39.4    40.0    79.4       50       20
D. Mirpurkhas Area              1,411.7    48.5    50.6    99.1       51       25
E. Water Resource
Development                1,165.2    50.6    31.2    81.8       38      20
F. Institutional Development       133.1     0.9     8.4      9.3     90        2
G. Project Information System      42.6      1.5     1.5      3.0     51        1
Total Baseline Costs /          5,761.3   207.0   197.4   404.4       49      100
Physical Contingencies          818.4    29.3    28.1    57.4       49       14
Price Contingencies /b        2.623.2    80.8    93.1   173.9       54      43
TOTAL COSTS /c                  9,202.9   317.1   318.6   635.7       50      157
/a September 1984 prices.
lb Assumed inflation rates (% p.a.):
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91-93
Local Costs      8.0    7.0    6.5    6.5    6.0    6.0         6.0
Foreign Costs    5.6    8.5    9.0    9.0    8.25   6.75        6.0
/c  Includes taxes and duties of about US$97 H equivalent.
4.03    Recurrent Costs After Proiect Completion.   By about year 2000, the
project's 0&M costs (including capital replacement) would average about
Rs 343.7 M (US$25 M) annually--about 6% of the project's initial capital cost
and equivalent to approximately Rs 670/ha of CCA (or Rs 600 per cropped ha)
over LBOD-Stage I at mid-1984 prices. However, O&M costs would vary con-
siderably among subareas because of physical differences, drainage and pump-
ing requirements, and related energy costs.
4.04    Over the project life of 40 years, estimated replacement costs
(including physical contingencies) would be about Rs 2,145 M (about 37% of
initial capital cost). From year 10 onward (or after about 1996), replace-
ment costs would average about Rs 70 M per year. At full development of
Stage I, about 2,000 additional personnel would be required, at an annual
cost of about Rs 29 M. Electricity, fuel, spare parts, and maintenance of
project works would total about Rs 244 M per year; power would comprise
nearly one-third of total project O&M costs. Total project O&M costs exclude



-21-
the costs of maintaining improved watercourses and perLodic relevelling of
fields, which would be carried out by farmers (para 5.06). Summary details
of the project's O&M costs for the main expenditure categories are presented
in Annex 3. Table 5.
FinancinR
4.05    Tentative project financing totalling about US$417.1 M, or about 77%
of project cost net of taxes and duties, has been agreed upon by 7 external
cofinanciers. This amount would finance about 93Z of foreign exchange costs
and 55% of local costs (net of taxes and duties). These cofinanciers are:
the International Development Association (IDA); Asian Development Bank
(ADB); Saudi Fund for Development (SF); Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA); Overseas Development Administration (ODA-UK); Swiss Develop-
ment Corporation (SDC); and the OPEC Fund for Development. Table 4.2 sum-
marizes the tentative project financing plan, according to cofinancier and
respective contributions toward local and foreign costs. Annex 3, Tables 6-7
provide financing details according to project component. IDA's credit of
US$150 M equivalent comprises about 282 of total project cost (net of taxes
and duties). The financing arrangements of the various external agencies
also have been agreed in principle, subject to the review and approval of
their respective managements and boards; at this time, some of the cofinan-
ciers already have approved formally their contribution. The agreed financ-
ing plan provides for parallel (or single source) financing of most com-
ponents; joint financing is proposed for the OFWM, electrification (partial),
technical assistance and training, and M&E components. Remaining project
costs (US$218.6 M, inclusive of about US$97 M in taxes and duties) would be
financed by GOP. GOP has approached the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) to
finance US$15-20 M of the electrification investments. In the event such
funds are secured, GOP's contribution would decrease by such an amount.
Farmer-donated labor (or cash payments by farmers for substituted labor) for
watercourse renovation (totalling approximately US$1.0 M) has been excluded
from LBOD-Stage I cost estimates.
Table 4.2: LBOD-STAGE I FINANCING PLAN
(US$ M Equivalent)
Local         Foreign                        Z of
Cofinancier          Costs     Exchange Costs      Total       Total Cost
IDA                   50.1          99.9           150.0          23.6
ADB                   35.1           86.9          122.0          19.2
SF                    13.5          38.5            52.0           8.2
CIDA                   9.5          28.0            37.5           5.9
ODA                    4.2          31.4            35.6           5.6
SDC                    8.0           2.0            10.0           1.6
OPEC Fund              0.0          10.0            10.0           1.6
GOP                  196.7           21.9          218.6          34.3
Total      317.1          318.6           635.7        100.0
4.06    External funds obtained by GOP would be made available to GOSind and
WAPDA for project implementation through budgetary allocations. Existing GOP
procedures would be followed to fund project expenditures. WAPDA would
receive funds from the federal Annual Development Program (ADP) for all



-22-
expenditures on drainage works, electrification, Chotiari Reservoir, techni-
cal assistance, and M&E (amounting to about 75% of total cost). GOSind would
use funds from its provincial ADP for OFWM and the Nara and Jamrao canal
remodelling works (about 25% of total costs). The project's estimated expen-
diture schedule would be consistent with the allocations shown in the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (FY84-88); the project's remaining expenditures (or 70% of
total) would be made during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period (FY89-93).
Approval of the Umbrella 11 PC-1 for all LBOD-Stage I would be required ftom
the following: (a) on an anticipatory basis, by the Minister of Finance as
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC)
as a condition of Board presentation; and (b) by ECNEC as a condition of
credit effectiveness. A further condition of credit effectiveness would be
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the other external
financing agencies be met. Assurances were obtained from GOP and GOSind that
necessary resources and funds to execute the project in accordance with the
implementation and expenditure schedules would be provided promptly as
required.
4.07    Special Account.  A special or imprest account would be set up for
funding of the following items financed by IDA: drainage, OFWM, electrifica-
tion, and canal remodelling works. IDA financing would be channeled through
the State Bank of Pakistan to three separate subaccounts established, respec-
tively, for WAPDA (drainage works and electrification), GOSind's Department
of Irrigation (canal remodelling works), and GOSind's Department of
Agriculture (OFWM works and staff costs). The WAPDA subaccount would be
administered by the Chief Engineer, IM, and GOSind's two subaccounts would
be administered by the respective departmental secretaries, under the overall
supervision of GOSind's Finance Secretary. The special account and sub-
accounts would operate as follows: (a) IDA, as requested by GOP/WAPDA/GOSind
immediately following credit effectiveness, under the overall coordination of
the IMI, and in accordance with the estimated expenditure schedule, would
deposit initially a level of rupees in the special subaccounts to cover about
four months projected expenditures; (b) subsequently, the subaccount would be
replenished monthly based on the monthly reimbursement applications received
from IM0 for the various items financed under the Credit; (c) as overall
coordinator for project execution, the IM0 would instruct the State Bank of
Pakistan to transfer the appropriate funds to the subaccount of the respec-
tive agency; IMO would also periodically consolidate all subaccounts (see
Annex 4 for procedures for operating the special account and subaccounts).
Although most withdrawals from the proceeds of the proposed credit account
and funds administered by IDA would be handled through the special account,
IDA would continue to accept, in appropriate cases, withdrawal applications
for direct payment and agreements to reimburse. An assurance was obtained
from GOP that a special account would be set up and operated in accordance
with guidelines agreed by IDA. Assurances also were obtained from WAPDA and
GOSind that special subaccounts would be set up and operated according to IDA
guidelines. The establishment of the special account would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
1/ The Umbrella PC-1 would be comprised of the components for each of the
three subareas, including the spinal drain, tidal outfall, irrigation
works and OFWM.



-23-
Procurement
4.08    Most of the project works, representing about US$284.2 M equivalent
(or 53Z of project costs net of taxes and duties), would be procured accord-
ing to various international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Procure-
ment arrangements for civil works and goods and services would follow methods
agreed between GOP and each of the cofinanciers. Components (except OFWM)
financed by more than one cofinancier (US$92 M equivalent) would be separated
geographically to enable parallel financing and to meet the procurement
requirements of each financier. Para 4.09 highlights arrangements for
procurement of civil works and goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the IDA credit. Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.3.
Detailed procurement implementation schedules have been prepared according to
project works and component items.
4.09    Civil works associated with the drainage system (KPOD and DPOD) and
canal remodelling would follow ICB procedures, with all labor, materials, and
equipment to be supplied by the contractors as part of the contract. The
electrification works undertaken by IDA would follow IDA's ICB procedures.
The OFWM works, which are not suitable for ICB because they are small and
scattered, would be carried out under small contracts awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) satisfactory to IDA or force
account, as well as with farmer contributed labor organized by the WUAs. The
appointment of local supervisory consultants for the OFWM component would be
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Other consultants and training would be
funded on a joint basis by IDA and ADB. These consultants would be interna-
tionally selected and engaged by WAPDA on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA and ADB. The selected international consulting firm would be encouraged
to associate with a local firm.
4.10    The relatively small amount of office and survey equipment required
for the OFWK component would be procured following GOP/GOSind procedures
satisfactory to IDA comparing prices from at least three independent sources.
The aggregate amount of such locally procured equipment would not exceed
US$0.3 M equivalent. Work contracts over US$1,000,000 would be subject to
IDA review prior to award. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award review. A preference margin of 7.5% on ICB civil works contracts
would be extended to qualified local contractors in bid evaluation under ICB.



-24-
Table 4.3: Procurement ArranRements According to Proiect Component
(US$ M Equivalent)*
Total
Component                      ICB        LCB    Other       N. A. a/      Cost
A. Civil Works
1. Outfall Drain System
Core Program                                       8.4 a/        1.9     10.3
KPOD & DPOD               19.9 (19.9)                            5.0     24.9 (19.9)
Tidal Link                                        29.6 bJ        6.0     35.6
2. Sub Area DrainaRe Components
Surface Drainage          34.8                                  6.7      41.5
Drainage Tubevells        48.3                                  10.2     58.5
Scavenger Wells           17.0                    12.0 c/        5.0     34.0
Interceptor Drains        13.6                    16.4 d/       4.7      34.7
Tile Drains               15.0                    19.1 d/        5.2     39.3
3. Irrixation /OFWM Works
Nara Canal Remodel.       31.8 (30.5)                            6.3     38.1 (30.5)
Jamrao Canal Remodel.    43.3 (42.3)                             9.7     53.0 (42.3)
Chotiari Reservoir                                30.4  I/       5.8     36.2
OFWM                                              17.0 (8.0)e/  2.2      19.2 ( 8.0)
4. Electrification           47.3 (39.5)             11.2 a/        7.5     66.0 (39.5)
5. Maintenance Depot                         1.0                    0.1      1.1
(Includes Workshop)
B. Equipment & Vehicles
OFWM                                                  0.3 (0.1)    0.1       0.4
Maintenance Equipment                                20.8 c/       12.6     33.4
Maintenance Depot/Workshop                            0.5 c/        0.3      0.8
Electrification Equipt.                              10.6 a/        1.8     12.4
C. Technical Assist. & Trg      13.2 ( 4.8)f/                                  13.2  (4.8)
D. Administration
Engineering                                                       41.4      41.4
OFWM (Salaries & Other)                               9.5 (4.9)    0.2       9.7  (4.9)
O&M and Camps during
Construction                                                    10.6      10.6
E. Monitorinz & Evaluation                               4.3 a/        0.1      4.4
F. Land Acquisition                              _                    17.0     17.0
Total Project Costs         284.2(137.0)    1.0   190.1 (13.0) 160.4    635.7(150.0)
*   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Financed by GOP (including taxes and duties of about US$97 M).
bI To be financed by SF under ICB procedures.
c/ To be financed by ODA.
d/  To be financed by CIDA.
e/  To be jointly financed by IDA and SDC.
f/ To be jointly financed by IDA and ADB.
Al To be financed jointly by CIDA, ODA, and SDC under untied
grant aid and to be administered by IDA.



-25-
Disbursements
4.11    Disbursements from the IDA Credit would cover the indicated percent-
age of total expenditures for each item, including taxes and duties:
(a) Civil Works:
(i) KPOD and DPOD -- 80%
(ii) OFNM -- 42Z
(iii) Electrification -- 74%
(iv) Nara Canal and Jamrao Remodelling -- 80X
(b)  Office and Survey Equipment:  60% of local expenditures
(c)  Administration:
Incremental salaries and operating costs for OFWM, including
supervisory consultants -- 50%.
(d) Technical Assistance and Training: 37Z
4.12    Disbursements for (a) [except for item (ii)l, (c), and (d) for
contracts US$1.0 M equivalent or higher would be fully documented. Disburse-
ments for items (a)(ii) and (b) and civil work contracts below US$1.0 M
equivalent would be made against statement of expenditures. Supporting
documents would be retained by the implementing agencies for review by IDA.
Reimbursement applications for expenditures to be funded through the special
account would be accompanied by a statement of transaction on the special
account since the previous application, with the balance certified by the
State Bank of Pakistan. It is anticipated that the final disbursement would
be completed by December 31, 1993, about six months after project completion.
The disbursement schedule is based on the disbursement profile of
IDA-supported irrigation and drainage projects in Pakistan and on the use of
the special account (para. 4.07) which is expected to expedite the disburse-
ments under the Credit. Although most of these projects are in the early
stages of implementation and are not fully comparable, the proposed phasing
of project expenditures and scheduling of disbursements appear reasonable.
The disbursement schedule for IDA financing is shown in Annex 3, Table 8.
Accounts and Audits
4.13    The implementing units of WAPDA (South) and GOSind would maintain
separate project accounts. Directors of the subareas and of major project
components would submit accounts monthly to a specially formed Integrated
Management Organization (IMO) for review and consolidation, after which they
would be audited by independent auditors and submitted to IDA. The Audit
Report would include, inter alia, a statement verifying that funds advanced
by IDA to the special account and disbursed against statements of expenditure
and full documentation had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. Assurances were obtained from GOP and GOSind that: (a) WAPDA
(South) and GOSind would prepare and maintain separate project accounts;
(b) IMO would prepare and maintain consolidated project accounts, including
records of the three special subaccounts; (c) the project accounts would be
audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA; (d) copies of
the unaudited annual project account would be sent to IDA for review no later



-26-
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, and a copy of the final
auditor's report no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year;
and (e) the auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement that the
funds advanced by IDA for the special account and against statements of
expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. MANAGEMENT. AND IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
5.01    In accordance with established procedures in Pakistan, WAPDA would be
responsible for implementing all aspects of the project except for Nara and
Jamrao Canal remodelling work and OFWM, which would be the responsibility of
GOSind's Department of Irrigation and the OFWM Directorate in the Department
of Agriculture, respectively. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be
established to provide overall guidance and coordination for the project
during implementation and the IMO would direct project implementation
activities and coordinate and integrate the work of the concerned implement-
ing agencies. The establishment of the PSC and IM0 by GOP and GOSind with
powers and functions satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of credit effec-
tiveness.
5.02    Proiect Steering Committee.  Through IMO, the PSC would ensure
adequate flexibility of project implementation, in light of additional data
obtained from pilot studies and early implementation works. Broader PSC
functions would include review and formulation of a cost-effective and ade-
quate O&M system and cost recovery actions. The PSC would be composed of
the ranking officials of WAPDA at the federal level and GOSind's Departments
of Irrigation, Agriculture, Planning and Development, and Finance. The
Additional Chief Secretary of the Planning and Development Department would
be Chairman of the PSC, and the General Manager (Water), WAPDA (South), would
be a member and Executive Secretary. Each member would ensure prompt provi-
sion of agency inputs necessary for the project or its related activities.
The PSC would meet quarterly or more often, as required, to: (a) ensure
coordinated scheduling of complementary activities by the implementing agen-
cies; (b) review and approve budgetary allocations proposed by the IMO for
each project component; and (c) review quarterly and annual progress reports.
5.03    InteRrated Management Organization.  Management and coordination of
project implementation would be undertaken by the IMO, headed by a Chief
Engineer and supported by qualified and full-time technical and administra-
tive staff. Consultants engaged under the project would assist the INO as
required. IMO would be subdivided into seven units, each headed by a Project
Director and suitably staffed with full-time, qualified supporting staff
according to normal procedures in WAPDA and the Sind Departments of Irriga-
tion and Agriculture (Annex 5, Chart I). An assurance was obtained from
GOSind and WAPDA that the staff and local consultants required for project
execution (if and when necessary) would be provided on a timely basis and,
specifically, key IMO staff required for PYI implementation would be
appointed by April 1, 1985. The Chief Engineer would be responsible to the
General Manager (Water), WAPDA (South). Project Directors and staff in all
Units, except the OFWM and Nara and Jamrao Units, would be principally WAPDA
staff, although at the professional level some of these staff would be
seconded from the Irrigation Department to facilitate a smooth transition of



-27-
the completed works to the Department for O&M (para 5.10). The Chief
Engineer, IMD, would coordinate technical and project implementation matters
for OFWM and Nara and Jamrao remodelling work, but the Directors for these
components would be administratively responsible to GOSind's Departments of
Agriculture and Irrigation, respectively. Project offices would be estab-
lished at Nawabshah, Sanghar, and Mirpurkhas, each headed by a full-time
Project Director from WAPDA who would have the rank of Superintending
Engineer. Each project office would be established in accordance with the
phasing of implementation of proiect components. In coordination with
GOSind, IMO would develop suitable procedures for transferring drainage works
and associated O&M to the Irrigation Department about one year after comple-
tion of construction in a given subarea; this transfer would include staff
and maintenance equipment provided under the project.
5.04    The IMO would be responsible for:  (a) overall planning and monitor-
ing of project implementation and the preparation of integrated annual work
programs. The annual work programs should be completed by February 1 of each
year for all project components, for review and approval by the PSC;
(b) preparation of design criteria, specifications, tender documents and
contracts, and procurement of all civil works and equipment;
(c) investigations and detailed designs for drainage TWs, scavenger and
special design TWs, tile drains, field drains, and interceptor drains;
Cd) collection of topographic, soils, land use and other data for detailed
designs; (e) coordinating the monitoring of surface and drainage flows in
the project area, changes in vatertable levels, well discharge, and
piezometric water levels in pumped aquifers; (f) coordinating the monitoring
of the effects of changes in water supply on land use and agricultural
production; (g) development of irrigation/drainage models for improving O&M
standards for completed systems; (h) coordinating the training of WAPDA and
GOSind staff; (i) construction of offices/quarters in the Wildlife Sanctuary
and outfall area for monitoring staff of the Department of Forestry and
Wildlife; (j) consolidating the project accounts, including the special
subaccounts, of the various implementing agencies and units and preparing
monthly reimbursement applications; (k) preparing quarterly and annual
progress reports from information furnished by the Project Directors, includ-
ing environmental reporting; and (1) preparing a project completion report
within six months of the close of the project.
5.05    A Project Director, Central Design and Monitoring, would prepare
plans, layouts, detailed engineering designs, and tender documents for con-
struction and would be responsible for carrying out and coordinating project
monitoring activities. Project Directors of the various implementing units
would: (a) prepare detailed implementation schedules for civil works,
contracts and procurement; (b) supervise construction of civil works;
(c) certify quantity and quality of work completed; (d) operate and maintain
completed works for the first year until O&M responsibility is transferred to
the Irrigation Department (for drainage civil works only); (e) maintain
project accounts; and (f) furnish monthly progress reports to the Chief
Engineer. The Project Director, OFNW, would liaise between the Chief
Engineer, IMO, and the OFWM Directorate of the GOSind's Department of
Agriculture and would be responsible for: (a) planning and design of the
OFWM program, including watercourse renovation, precision land levelling and
improved OFWM; (b) layout and construction of OFWM civil works; (c) estab-
liabment of demonstration plots; (d) supervision of waterco-urse O&M; and
(e) organization, registration, and guidance of WUAs. An assurance was



-28-
obtained from GOSind that training of at least two additional OFWM field
teams would be completed no later than April 1, 1985 to ensure the start of
expanded OFWM activities as soon as project funds become available.
5.06    Water Users' Associations.  Prior to undertaking any work on water-
courses to be renovated, formal WUAs would be organized under the authority
of the Sind Water Users' Associations Ordinance, 1982. Each WUA would be
registered in the office of the Director of GOSind's OFWM Directorate. WUAs
are authorized to install, operate and maintain watercourse improvements and
drainage facilities, establish water delivery schedules, execute contracts,
and, if necessary, acquire land. The main purpose of WUAs is to organize
farmers' contributions of labor and cash for OFNM on a watercourse basis. An
assurance was obtained from GOSind that the organization of formal WUAs would
be a pre-condition to farmers receiving OFWM assistance. An assurance also
was obtained that GOSind would undertake a phased program to extend the WUA
functions to drainage O&M and would make necessary amendments to the Water
Users' Association Ordinance of 1982 no later than July 1, 1986 to cover all
aspects of drainage, including the construction and maintenance of farm
drains.
Proiect Implementation
5.07    The project would be implemented over eight years (FY86-FY93), as
shown in Annex 5, Chart 3. During project year one (PY1), the ongoing con-
struction of the spinal drain is expected to be completed up to RD 820 in
Nawabshah, and the enlargement of KPOD and DPOD (to be carried out over a
three-year period) would commence. Final designs and draft tender documents
for these works have been completed, and WAPDA is expected to call tenders
for KPOD/DPOD construction work immediately following credit effectiveness in
order tc facilitate early implementation. The construction of surface drains
in Nawabshah and Sanghar and of interceptor drains and 11 kV distribution
lines in Nawabshah (expected to be completed in 3-3 1/2 years) would also be
initiated during PY1, as would OFWM activities in Nawabshah. Drainage TW
construction, installation of 11 kV distribution lines, and OFWM activities
in Sanghar would start in PY2. Interceptor drains in Sanghar, surface drains
in Mirpurkhas, and tidal link construction would follow in PY3, and OFWM
would be introduced in Nirpurkhas in PY4. The construction of Chotiari
Reservoir and the remodelling of Nara Canal, starting in mid-PY3 and to be
carried out over 3 years, would precede the construction of the Jamrao Canal
remodelling work (spanning 4 years), starting in PY4. Tile drains and inter-
ceptor drains in Mirpurkhas would be among the last components to be imple-
mented, starting in PY5. Maintenance facilities would be provided according
to the timing requirements of the project, starting in PY3.
5.08    In order to coordinate the timely implementation of the various
project activities, in PYI _.onsultants would assist IMO staff in setting up
the organization for overall planning and monitoring of project implementa-
tion and in initiating investigations, completing feasibility studies, and
preparing detailed design criteria and final designs and layouts for drainage
and scavenger TWs (including special-design TWs), tile drains, interceptor
and surface drains, and the tidal link. During the first two years of
project implementation, the irrigation suitability land classification inves-
tigations, carried out earlier, would be refined as part of completing the
final drainage designs. Criteria of economic evaluation would be applied to
both drainage investigations and land classification surveys. The major



-29-
emphasis would be on the identification and delineation of irrigable and
non-irrigable land, so that the lands to be reclaimed would viably maintain
agricultural enterprise and justify investment. Concurrently, small-scale
pilot schemes would be implemented during PY1 to test and finalize the most
efficient designs for scavenger TWs and drainage TWB in fine-grained
aquifers, before the start of full-scale installation of these wells in PY3
and PY4. Feasibility studies and implementation plans for Chotiari Reservoir
and Nara/Jamrao Canal remodelling would also be completed during the first
two years of the project. Since technical assistance for design and
implementation would be required from the beginning of the project, WAPDA has
started bid invitation procedures for the required consulting services.
Assurance was obtained from WAPDA that the appointment and fielding of the
consultants would be completed no later than July 1, 1985. An assurance was
obtained from GOSind that supervisory consultants for OFWM would be appointed
no later than January 1, 1987. Assurances also were obtained from GOSind and
WAPDA that arrangements for staff training would be satisfactory to IDA.
Operation and Maintenance
5.09    IMO would be responsible for the O&M of all completed drainage works
during project implementation and continuing about one year after the works
become fully operational, after which O&M responsibilities would be trans-
ferred to GOSind's Irrigation Department. An effective communication system
would be established to control irrigation releases from Chotiari Reservoir
and the operation of the drainage TWs. Meteorological data and information
would be used to anticipate rainstorms and other events which influence
irrigation releases and pumping schedules. The existing hydrometeorological
network would be augmented to obtain the information required. Distribution
of drainage flow between the KPOD and DPOD outfall channels would be
automatic, being incorporated in the hydraulic design of the bifurcation
structure. WAPDA Power (South) would operate and maintain the electrifica-
tion works constructed under the project as part of the existing national
generation, transmission, and distribution facilities.
5.10    Drainage system maintenance would fall into two general categories:
(a) drain channel and subsurface drain maintenance, including the outfall;
and (b) TW field maintenance. Past standards and funds for O&M of irrigation
channels, SCARP TWs, and surface drains in Sind have generally been inade-
quate, resulting in deterioration of the system and gradual reduction in
efficiency. A considerably strengthened O&M organization would therefore be
set up in the IMO, with adequate facilities, staff, and equipment to carry
out O&M during project implementation and one year beyond construction com-
pletion (Annex 5, Chart 2). The staff, equipment, and facilities would be
transferred to a Drainage and Maintenance Circle in GOSind's Irrigation
Department one year after subarea or project completion. Assurances were
obtained from GOSind that Provincial O&M personnel would be seconded to the
project on O&M assignment for at least one year prior to completion of works
in a given subarea to ensure a smooth transition in the handover of O&M
responsibilities. Assurances were also obtained from GOSind and WAPDA that
at the completion of construction and again prior to overall project handover
to GOSind, a joint inspection of the drainage and irrigation water storage
facilities would be made by key O&M personnel from IMO, GOSind, and WAPDA to
identify deficiencies and agree on corrective actions, including delineating
responsibility and developing a schedule for executing necessary repairs.
The inspection results would be documented in a detailed handover report.



-30-
The use of microcomputers would be introduced on a pilot basis for O&M
scheduling, compilation and analysis of data, financial accounting, inventory
control, and O&M cost analysis. The O&M program would include establishment
and maintenance of necessary roads and right-of-ways, which are critical to
effective O&M. Considerable emphasis would be placed on on-the-job and other
training for O&M staff at all levels throughout project implementation. The
training of OM personnel would include operation, maintenance and management
seminars, direct discussion, and on-site visits. Since weed growth is a
major problem, staff would be trained in adequate control methods. Additional
details on the operational plan for O&M of the drainage system are given in
Annex 14 of the Project Preparation Report, which is available in the project
file.
5.11    To guard against long-term deterioration of the system, GOSind,
assisted by WAPDA, would designate an independent team to monitor and review
at three-year intervals O&M requirements of LBOD-Stage I in light of opera-
tional experience, to ascertain actual O&M needs of the drainage system and
modify procedures as necessary. The team would consist of 2-3 professional
specialists experienced in O&M and review procedures, in addition to having
expertise unique to specific areas and requirements. Such reviews would
follow the recommendations given in the "Study and Reasonable Requirement of
Funds for Operation and Maintenance of Canal Irrigation System, SCARPS and
Protective Bunds in Sind, 1979," for OM. A report, to be reviewed by IDA,
would be prepared describing the condition of the system, adequacy of the O&M
program, and deficiencies to be corrected. Annual reviews also would be made
by project operations personnel to evaluate facilities, set priorities, and
prepare O&M budgets for the following year. Assurances were obtained from
GOSind and WAPDA that during project implementation and thereafter an inde-
pendent team acceptable to IDA would monitor and review at three-year inter-
vals drainage O&M requirements in the LBOD Stage I project area, starting no
later than January 1, 1988.
5.12    A detailed operations manual would be prepared by project operation
staff with the assistance of the consultants. It would inclusively outline
the overall and day-to-day O0M requirements and procedures for establishing
and implementing a preventive maintenance program. An assurance was obtained
from WAPDA that operational procedures would be developed in greater detail
by the IMO and that the draft OM manual would be prepared and submitted to
IDA for review and comment no later than January 1, 1988 and sequentially
updated as project components are completed, with a final report no later
than January 1, 1991.
5.13    Funding for OM of the drainage system (including the spinal
drain), when taken over by GOSind, would be provided from the provincial
non-development budget. It would be prudent to establish a capital replace-
ment fund to ensure available funds for replacement of major items at the end
of their useful life. An assurance was obtained from GOSind that adequate
and timely funds would be made available annually for full O&M requirements
(including capital replacement costs) to maintain acceptable O&M standards,
as determined by periodic reviews described in para 5.11, to ensure opera-
tional efficiency of the drainage system over the long term. IMO would
retain responsibility for O&M of the spinal drain until all component
sub-drainage systems provided under LBOD-Stage I are completed and fully
operational.



-31-
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14    IHO and GOSind would have overall responsibility for the M&E informa-
tion system required by LBOD-Stage 1. IMO would arrange to gather informa-
tion on day-to-day project activities, in order to provide early warning of
bottlenecks that may emerge during project execution. The monitoring of
physical parameters (para. 3.21) would be integrated with the ongoing
data-gathering program of WAPDA's M&E Organization; this program would be
expanded to meet the project's monitoring requirements. On the basis of
agreed terms of reference, an evaluation study would be contracted to
suitable and independent local institution. The local institution selected
would contract with an acceptable international institution for the services
of an agricultural economist/farm management specialist, an agronomist, a
statistician, and other experts as required to fulfill the agreed terms of
reference, particularly those related to the detailed design of the study and
benchmark, intermediate, and final surveys and the analysis and report writ-
ing. These experts would also be expected to emphasize on-the-job training
of local personnel and thereby contribute to the project's institution-
building objectives. The selection of the consultants would be in accordance
with IDA procedures acceptable to the other participating donors. The final
evaluation report would be due in mid-1997, about four years after completion
of project works. The long project implementation period and the longer
period required for effective evaluation place a high premium on the quality
of the evaluation design, continuity and consistency in its execution, and
minimal changes in the associated personnel. GOSind's Planning and Develop-
ment Department, in close coordination with the IMO, would be the executing
agency for the evaluation study.
5.15    Assurances were obtained from WAPDA that:  (a) IMO would prepare and
send to IDA for comment by September 30, 1985 a detailed monitoring and
reporting program, including schedule of activities organization, staff
responsibilities and costs; and (b) a memorandum of understanding would be
concluded by February 1, 1986 between IMO and WAPDA's M&E Organization to
monitor the project's related physical parameters based on an agreed York
program. Assurances were obtained from GOSind that: (a) GOSind's Department
of Planning and Development, in collaboration with the IMO, would prepare and
furnish to IDA for comment terms of reference and invitations for proposals
from independent local institutions for project impact evaluation by
September 30, 1985; and (b) a contract would be concluded by Februar) 1, 1986
with a suitable local institution acceptable to IDA to carry out the
project's evaluation study under terms of reference and conditions sa:isfac-
tory to IDA. The local institution selected would also complete a sub-
contract with a suitable international institution by February 1, 1986 to
assist in carrying out the evaluation study in accordance with the agreed
terms of reference, including assistance in preparation of a project comple-
tion report within 6 months of the close of the project. Terms of reference
and implementation schedule and arrangements for the M&E component are sum-
marized in Annex 8.



-32-
VI.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FARM INCOMES. AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Impact
6.01    The project would increase agricultural production over about 516,000
ha of CCA by lowering watertables and salinity levels, saving or recovering
water lost from the irrigation system, and providing supplementary irrigation
waters.
6.02    Notwithstanding the difficulties in predicting precisely the agricul-
tural impact, estimates under scenarios of "with" and "without" the project
have been made. Based on findings from field surveys and complemented by
data from comparable areas elsewhere, they have been subjected to quantita-
tive analysis. 1/ The project's main agricultural assumptions and impact in
the Stage I area are outlined below.
6.03    Land Use and Cropping Intensities.  On the basis of observed
relationships between water supply and cropped area and between watertable
depth and the proportion of fallow/abandoned land in the uncropped area, land
uses "with" and '"ithout" the project have been projected. The main conclu-
sions for full LBOD-Stage I development are as follows:
Without Project: Assuming additional water from Kalabagh and Rohri canal
remodelling, average annual cropping intensity would increase from about
81% at present to about 96%. Farming intensity (Annex 7, Table 1) would
rise, contributing to higher watertables and a subsequent reduction in
y.elds.
With Project: Including proposed increases in water supplies (Annex 7,
Table 1), particularly in Sanghar and Mirpurkhas, the overall annual
cropping intensity would increase to about 117X -- about 22% higher than
without project. Given the continuing shortage of irrigation water, it
is expected that farmers would use most of the additional water supplies
to increase cropping intensities and would continue their current
(profitable) practice of water spreading. Although farming intensity
would exceed cropping intensity levels at present or without the project,
fallow land would increase and abandoned land would be reduced. Annex 7,
Tables 1-2 include data on cropping intensities for the three subareas
and Stage I overall.
6.04    Croppin2 Pattern.  With the project, cultivated areas of the dominant
crops - cotton and wheat -- would rise, because of the crops' relative
profitability, as more water supplies and drainage are provided (Table 6.1,
and Annex 7, Tables 1-2). The project area is one of Pakistan's best
/ The Indus Basin Model, developed in the late 1970s by the Bank's Develop-
ment Research Department in collaboration with WAPDA, was adopted and
used for facilitating the evaluation of project design optioas and
impact. Based on farm -level data collected in the project area and
observed relationships of key parameters, the modelling work included
the interaction between crop and livestock activities and an adjustment
for risk. Additional details on the model as adapted for LBOD-Stage I,
are available in the project file.



-33-
cotton-growing areas, and project improvements are expected to further con-
solidate its comparative advantage. If the shift toward more diversified
high-value crops (such as fruit orchards and vegetables) is greater than
projected, an even higher value of production would be generated.
6.05    Yields.  Project-induced incremental yields among crops are expected
to vary, ranging from about 6Z-55% (Table 6.1, and Annex 7, Tables 1-2).
With a lowering of the high watertables that occur during kharif, higher
yields are expected for kharif crops than for rabi crops. With the project,
yield levels are expected to follow generally upward trends observed since
about 1950. Even under current conditions, average crop yields would con-
tinue to rise, despite high watertables, as a result of increased and effi-
cient usage of agricultural inputs, better cultivation practices, and
improved support services. Yield increases would be suppressed, however, by
the combined effects of waterlogging, soil salinity, intensive cropping, and
stormwater damage (Annex 7, Table 3). The underlying assumptions of
crop-yield response to watertable depth and of the percentage of area with
high watertables in the absence of drainage are shown in Annex 7, Tables
4a-4b. Without drainage, any significant increase in irrigation water would
result in even higher watertables, increased salinization of uncropped land,
and, consequently, in less fallow land and lower yields because of water-
logging and salinity. In Sanghar and Nirpurkhas, particularly, the situation
is approaching the point where any benefits of increased irrigation supplies
on the cropped area would be outweighed by loss of yields. Adequate
drainage, however, would enable crop yields to reach their full potential and
would justify further investments in utilizing available irrigation supplies.
Table 6.1: ESTIMATED CROPPED AREA. YIELDS, AND CROP PRODUCTION /a
C*rop           Cropped Area (000 ha)           Yields (mt/ha)          Production (000 mt)
_ z                                               z
P     -N    FW  Increase   P       FW    FW  Increase  FW      FW   Increase
Cotton       157.3  194.5  282.0   45      1.2    1.7   2.3   36   338.1   652.9    93
Wheat        161.9  198.1  222.5   12      2.3    3.7   4.2   15   735.5   950.0    29
Fodder (kh)   14.2   10.8   10.7    0    30.8   47.2  50.2    6   494.6   543.7    10
Fodder (rabi) 15.6   15.9   12.0  -24    27.9   30.6  47.4   55   494.6   573.7    16
Sugarcane     14.6   15.5   15.0   -3    41.2   60.9  77.2   27   960.5 1,190.5    24
Oilseeds      14.9   10.6   10.6    0      0.65   0.7   1.0   41       7.9    10.8    37
Orchards      12.1   17.7   17.7    0      8.2   13.4  15.9   19   237.2   281.4    19
/a  Figures are rounded and may not be same as used in detailed calculations.
P = Present; FU - future "without" project; FW = Future "with" project.
6.06    Production.  Project-induced increases in cropping intensities and
yields are expected to generate substantial incremental production, par-
ticularly of cotton and wheat. At full development of LBOD-Stage I, an
additional 314,800 metric tons (mt) of seed cotton and 214,500 mt of wheat
would be produced. As shown in Table 6.1, moderate production increases in
fodder, oilseeds, sugarcane, and mangoes are also expected. A modest
increase in meat production would occur, reflecting an increased livestock
population resulting from the project's higher cropping intensities. Further
details on the agricultural impact for each subarea and SLage I overall are
provided in Annex 7, Tables 1-2.



-34-
Marketinz and Pricin-
6.07    Current marketing, processing, and pricing arrangements for the
project-s agricultural inputs and outputs are satisfactory and are not likely
to impose constraints on achieving projected production and farmer-income
levels. These activities are carried out increasingly by the private sector,
with varying degrees of government intervention in marketing and pricing of
selected crops.
6.08    Currently, about 60% of Pakistan-s wheat production is used for
on-farm consumption. The remaining 40Z is sold to government procurement
centers and private wholesalers and millers. Government-procured wheat is
sold at the official price to authorized mills. Restrictions on the
transport of wheat between provinces have recently been removed. The wheat
production targets of the current Five-Year Plan assume gradual increases in
both domestic consumption and wheat exports. Therefore, increased wheat
production resulting from the project is expected to be readily marketed.
Seed cotton is sold either directly or through an intermediary to ginneries
and mills. The project area has about 50 ginneries, some with underutilized
capacity.  Part of the ginned cotton is consumed domestically; the remaining
cotton lint is exported by the Pakistan Export Corporation. A growing local
and export market for Pakistan's high-quality cotton is expected to provide
an adequate marketing outlet for the project's output, which, although sub-
stantial, would still represent only a small proportion of Pakistan's overall
cotton production. Three authorized sugar mills are located in the Nawabshah
and Mirpurkhas subareas. Farmers located near the mills usually market cane
directly and are paid the prevailing procurement price, based on the cane's
sucrose content. Some mills operating at full capacity plan to expand their
plant, depending on potential supplies and markets. Export prospects are not
bright because of current low international prices and the high cost of
production in Pakistan. However, the modest incremental production expected
under the project would easily be absorbed by increased domestic demand, and
planned increases in processing capacity in the project area would be ade-
quate to meet the increased requirements.
6.09    Other project outputs -  oilseeds, fodder, mangoes, and livestock
products - would increase only slightly and would be absorbed by farm-level
consumption and surrounding local markets, as well as the major urban centers
of Hyderabad and Karachi, Pakistan's largest and fastest-growing.
6.10    Agricultural prices in Pakistan are influenced to varying degrees by
GOP policy intervention through importlexport controls, taxes, consumer/
producer subsidies, and fixed procurement prices for major crops, although
such interventions are being substantially and deliberately reduced. In
early 1980, GOP announced a reorientation of its agricultural pricing
policies, including: the phasing out of subsidies to inputs, particularly
irrigation O&M costs, fertilizers, and pesticides; providing adequ&te price
incentives to producers; and transferring agricultural marketing and dis-
tribution responsibilities to the private sector. Recoveries from water
charges in Pakistan have increased nearly 100% in nominal terms over the past
six years. Fertilizer prices have also increased steadily, beginning with a
50% increase in 1980; GOP's intent is to phase out fertilizer subsidies by
the mid-1980s. In Sind, pesticide subsidies were eliminated in 1982. GOP,
based on the recommendations of the recently established Agricultural Price



-35-
Commission, is adjusting procurement prices of major crops to ensure adequate
price incentives to farmers and to offset higher production costs stedmng
from the reduction and eventual removal of input subsidies. Since 1980,
output prices of most procurement crops have increased and are nov
approximating import/export prices of most tradable commodities. Recent
stagnation in international commodity price levels explains, for the most
part, negligible price increases in the past year or two. As market prices
recover, GOP would be able to increase agricultural output prices, and is
likely to rely increasingly oa. market determinants.
6.11    The input and output prices used for the project's financial analysis
are summarized in Annex 7, Table 5. All prices are expressed in mid-1984
values. Present prices are based on the latest GOP procurement and support
prices, field-survey results during project preparation, and mission find-
ings. Future prices reflect GOP's declared policy of phasing out subsidies
and of adjusting both input and output prices of tradable commodities in line
with world market prices as projected by the World Bank, adjusted for market-
ing and handling, and processing costs to the farm-gate level (Annex 7,
Tables 6-7 show these adjustments for the main outputs of seed cotton and
wheat). Future prices for nontradables and other items are maintained at
present price levels (mid-1984 currency values).
Farm Models and Incomes
6.12    The direct impact on increased agricultural production and farmer
incomes would depend on: future watertable depth and its effect on crop
yields; irrigation water supplies and resulting cropping intensities; and
land tenure arrangements affecting the distribution of benefits between
landowners and tenant farmers. Five illustrative farm models have been
prepared to assess project impact on farmers' production, income levels, and
incentive to participate in the project, and also to assess farmers' capacity
to repay a portion of the project-s costs (para 6.15). Each model is
designed to reflect a reasonable variation of the above determinants,
including relatively low, average, and high watertable conditions, and to
illustrate the range of incremental benefits that would be generated
throughout the project area. The models assume average farm and family size,
cropping pattern, and input usage, and prevalent cultivation practices. Four
of the five models illustrate the project's impact on tenant farmers, repre-
senting nearly 75Z of total farm units in the project area. Existing legal
protection granted to tenants and increased labor required by the project
jointly would ensure widespread continuation of tenant farming. The farm
models are based on agricultural assumptions outlined in paras 6.02-6.06;
summary results for crop budgets on a per-hectare basis are presented in
Annex 7, Table 10. Table 6.2 shows the summary results of the farm model
analysis. Annex 7, Tables 11-15 present additional details, including net
farm incomes, recoveries, and calculation of rent accruing to project
beneficiaries during the project's life (1985 to 2025) .1/
jL/ Rent represents net benefits adjusted for compensation to farm family
labor and management. Recoveries--water/drainage and other incremental
charges-are not included in the rent estimate and are shown separately.



-36-
Table 6.2: NET FARM INCOME ACCORDING TO ILLUSTRATIVE FARM MODELS La
(Rs 000, mid-1984 constant prices)
P         FW           NW      Z Increase
Farm Model                                 1995  2010   1995  2010  1995  2010
1. Low Watertable &
Cropping Intensity (5 ha)       8.1   12.1  14.5   13.8  17.7   14    22
2. Average Watertable &
Cropping Intensity
a) Tenant (5 ha):               7.4   11.5  14.3   15.1  21.7   31    52
b) Owner-Cultivator (8 ha):   21.2   35.3  45.3   45.5  66.4   29    47
3. Average Watertable &
Cropping Intensity (3 ha)       4.8    7.7   9.7    9.9  13.7   28    41
4. High Watertable &
Cropping Intensity (5 ha)       7.0    9.9  11.7   16.6  25.5   68   118
La  P = Present, FW = Future 'without" project, FW = Future "with" project.
Further clarification on the assumptions underlying this table are _
presented in Annex 7, Table 10.  Percentage increase refers to FW/FW.
6.13    "Without" the project, incomes are expected to rise gradually and
substantially over present low levels, which average about Rs 1,230 (US$91)
per capita a year for most farm families. This level is still below the
current estimate of absolute rural poverty in Pakistan (US$110 per capita
in mid-1984 prices). Moreover, in 25 years, per capita income levels for
at least 80% of the farmers in the project area would still be quite low --
about US$160, which is substantially below the current level of average per
capita income in Pakistan (about US$325 in mid-1984 constant prices).
"With" the project, farmers ultimately would derive substantial but variable
increases in their net farn income; they would range from 22% under condi-
tions of "low watertable and cropping intensity" to 118% under conditions of
"high watertable and cropping intcnsity" (Table 6.2, and Annex 7, Tables
11-15). The conditions represented by the "low" and "average" scenarios
prevail over a large area of Nawabshah and at the tail ends of the irrigation
system. The "high" watertable model typifies much of Sanghar and Mirpurkhas.
6.14    Upon completion of project works in a given subarea, incremental
benefits to farmers would begin to accrue; significant benefits for most
farmers would materialize by 1995. These benefits reflect the visible and
relatively immediate and combined effects of lowering high watertables and
raising cropping intensities. Thereafter, the build-up of benefits would
occur zere gradually until full development of LBOD-Stage I is reached
(Annex 7, Tables 11-15). Estimates of tenant net farm incomes reflect
prevailing arrangements whereby about 50% of the total net farm income is
shared with the landowner. The tenant's share represents an average return
of about Rs 104 per day worked or approximately four times the projected wage
rate for hired farm labor and twice the equivalent return to labor "without"
the project. All groups of farmers under the project, including the large
percentage of tenant farmers, are expected to reap substantial benefits from
the project, which would provide adequate incentives for farmer participation
in: (a) providing donated labor for watercourse improvements and 0&M; (b)
contributing to the project's cost recovery (paras 6.15-6.18); and (c) adopt-
ing improved farming practices to take advantage of the more favorable



-37-
production environment made possible by drainage and additional water
supplies.
Cost Recovery
6.15    GOSind's current objective is to increase both water and drainage
charges so that the full costs of both irrigation and drainage system O&M are
recovered in a phased manner from direct beneficiaries. Under agreements for
other Bank Group operations, jj full recovery of irrigation system expendi-
tures in Sind Province is expected to be reached by July 1, 1988. Total
irrigation system OM expenditures currently are estimated to be Rs 100 per
cropped ha. In FY84, GOSind also introduced a "drainage charge" in areas
currently provided with drainage, averaging about Rs 40 per cropped ha (or
about 20Z of current sub-optimal drainage O&M expenditures) in areas with
public TW facilities, and a nominal charge for areas with surface drainage
only. In addition, GOSind recovers cash costs of-and farmers supply donated
labor for-OFWM works.
6.16    Irrigation charges are collected on the basis of area cropped and
vary for different crops according to their water requirements. The deter-
mination of water charge assessments and collections for a specific area at
any time is therefore difficult. However, available aggregate data (Annex 7,
Table 16) show that water charges collected in Sind during 1984 averaged
about Rs 45 per ha of CCA, or about Rs 55 per cropped ha. Estimates for the
project area are somewhat higher (about Rs 60 per cropped ha), because of the
higher proportion of cotton grown. During the past four years through FY84,
GOSind has increased irrigation water charges by about 150% (or an average of
25% per year in nominal terms). Despite these substantial increases, in FY84
irrigation charges collected amounted to only about 44% of total irrigation
OM expenditures (Annex 7, Table 16). 2/  Collection arrangements for irriga-
tion charges function adequately, as the generally high collection rates
(about 95%), in comparison with other countries, attest.
6.17    No drainage charges currently are being collected in the LBOD-Stage
I project area. The drainage works for the first project subarea is expected
to be completed in 1989, with initial drainage charges to be collected in
about 1990. It is proposed that the initial recovery of combined charges for
irrigation and drainage OM for this subarea in 1990 be about Rs 245 per
cropped ha in 1984 prices (Rs 120 for irrigation and Rs 125 for drainage).
This amount would be about 300% higher than current recoveries of about Rs 60
per ha for irrigation only. Although full irrigation OM cost recovery of
Rs 120 per ha is expected to be 1988, drainage charges would continue to
increase periodically until the equivalent of full drainage O&M cost
recovery, currently estimated at over Rs 600 per cropped ha in 1984 prices
(Annex 3, Table 5), is achieved in about year 2005.
1/  Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 1239-PAK, Command Water
Management Project, Cr. 1487-PAK and Structural Adjustment Lending, Ln.
2166-PAR and Cr. 1255-PAK.
VJ  It should be noted that during the period FY80-84, irrigation 06&  expen-
diture in SIND increased substantially (by 100% in nominal terms).



-38-
6.18    Table 6.3 illustrates the various project-induced recoveries
"without" and "with" project from a farm unit under average conditions of
watertable depth and cropping intensity (Annex 7, Table 12). The first
drainage charge is expected to be 25% of the project's O&M cost on a per
cropped ha basis, which is estimated to be about Rs 125 per cropped ha, one
year after drainage in the subarea has become fully operational. As shown in
the table below, under the project total project-induced recoveries on a per
cropped ha. basis from farmers would be almost double the without-project
recoveries by 1995 and would be more than double the without-project
recoveries by the year 2005. Both the initial and eventual levels of charges
are relatively high, compared to the current level. Detailed farm budget
analyses (presented in Annex 7, Tables 11-15), however, indicate that at
projected levels of expected benefits, direct beneficiaries would have the
capacity to repay total estimated project induced charges, including 100% of
full O&M costs. For example, based on the average farm unit, total incremen-
tal recoveries as a percentage of incremental farm income (before recoveries)
remains about 26% in 1990, 1995, and 2005 (Annex 7, Table 12).
Table 6.3: INDICATIVE SCHEDULE OF PROJECT-INDUCED RECOVERIES
ON AVERAGE FARM UNIT
(Rs/cropped ha in mid-1984 prices) /a
1986     1990      1995 lb      2005 5c
Charges Without Project
Water /d                        65       120       130          130
Drainage 
Others Le                      220      270        335         440
Total                285       390       465          570
Charges With Project
Water Ld                        65       120       130          130
Drainage                         -      125        305          600
Capital (OFWM)                   -       -          40            -
Others /e                      220      285        380         560
Total                 285      530       855         1290
Incremental            -       140       390          720
Percent Increase       -        35X       85%         125%
over without proiect
la  Based on assumed cropped area figures summarized in Annex 7,
Table 10. Farm model illustrated here is shown in Annex 7,
Table 12.
lb  Drainage charges - about 50% of O&M costs.
Lc  Drainage charges - 100% of O&M costs (including capital
replacements, which begin in about year 2000).
/d  Assuming GOSind continues water charges at FY88 level, the
post-FY86 level reflects the increased cropping intensities
and changed cropping patterns resulting from project
improvement.
Le  All other recoveries, including ushr (Islamic levy collected by
local authorities on the basis of agricultural production).
6.19    Assurances were obtained from GOSind that it would:  (a) no later
than February 1, 1986, review with IDA the status and required actions to
achieve irrigation cost recovery by July 1, 1988 in accordance with covenants



-39-
previously obtained; (b)(i) about one year after commencement of full onera-
tion of the facilities in each sub-area, to collect drainage charges from the
beneficiaries to cover 25% of the O&M costs of the facilities; and (b)(ii)
thereafter, at least every two years, increase the drainage charges so as to
recover at least 50% of the O&M costs by July 1, 1995 and 100% of the O&M
costs by July 1, 2005, provided that the drainage charges keep pace and are
commensurate with the benefits actually accruing to the beneficiaries; and
(c) at least three months before the initial charge and subsequent increases,
to review with IDA the estimated actual farm benefits against the projected
benefits and proposed charges: and (d) require farmers benefitting from
watercourse improvements to contribute all unskilled labor and to repay a
portion (25x) of the cost of materials and skilled labor over five years in
accordance with existing arrangements (OFWM, Cr. 1163-PAK).
6.20    At full developme2t, total drainage O&M costs of LBOD-Stage I as
currently estimated would approximate Rs 340 N per year (1984 prices). This
equals about 70% of GOSind's total FY84 irrigation O&M expenditures (Annex 3,
Table 5), which highlights the magnitude of this project's drainage O&M
requirements. Actual O&M requirements would be periodically reviewed (paras
5.11-5.13). At full development (2010), the total charges (including ushr)
expected to be levied on farmers would equal about 20-40% of beneficiaries'
project rent, and 18-34Z of their incremental net farm income (Annex 7,
Tables 11-15), depending on varying farm conditions--primarily: farm size,
tenure arrangements, watertable conditions, and cropping intensities. Under
the current formal system, the owner or landlord is responsible for all water
and drainage charges and other levies. The above recovery percentages assume
a continuation of current practices whereby various informal arrangements
between tenants and landlords tend to result in a sharing of crop production
and charges. Total project direct recoveries in present value terms are
estimated to be about Rs 1,386 N, or about 23% of total project capital and
recurrent costs.
6.21    Despite the uncertainties in determining the actual levels of current
recoveries and of future levels based on realistic drainage O&M requirements
(to be determined by periodic reviews - para 5.11), the proposed phasing of
increased recovery rates is considered reasonable. These levels of proposed
recoveries reflect the relatively high cost of providing adequate drainage
0&M compared with 0&N costs of a surface irrigation system. This is
primarily due to high energy and replacement costs of operating project TWs
and drainage pumps. The repayment burden on farmers would be considerable,
and some resistance could be expected to the introduction of the initial
drainage charge when tangible benefits are only just beginning to accrue.
The farmers' repayment capacity would be continuously evaluated in the
project impact study provided under the M&E component. At the same time, the
collection of such a relatively high initial drainage charge shortly after
completing drainage works and increasing it periodically is considered essen-
tial to ensure adequate provincial resource mobilization to meet the
project's O&M requirements.



-40-
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION. AND RISKS
Overview
7.01    The rationale underlying the project's large size and phasing ia
based on three main considerations. First, economies of scale associated
with the core drain require a relatively large area to be covered in order to
ensure a technically and economically viable project, whether or not future
LBOD stages are carried out. Second, of the 11 potential sub-areas in the
IBOD command area, the three sub-areas selected for the Stage I project are
most seriously in need of drainage and are contiguous to the main drain.
Third, the project option selected has the highest net present value within
financing constraints. The project would restore and enhance the agricul-
tural productivity of land and water resources over about 516,000 ha of CCA
in the LBOD-Stage I area, with the folloving annual incremental benefits:
o   Production:  314,800 mt of seed cotton, 214,500 mt wheat, and
moderate increases in other crop and livestock products (para 6.06);
o   Direct Beneficiaries:  about 910,000 persons, or 140,000 farm
families, plus approximately 120,000 beneficiaries of the project's
secondary benefits (paras 7.07-7.08);
o   Income Levels:  increases ranging from 22% to 118%, mostly for small
farmer families with annual incomes currently below US$100 per
capita; with project increases in income from the present to the year
2010 are equivalent to annual growth rates ranging from 3-5.5% in
real terms (Ta-ble 6.2 and para 6.13);
o   Employment:  about 47%, or an additional 42,000 man-years equivalent,
in addition to about 90,000 man-years equivalent of unskilled labor
during the eight-year project construction period (para 7.02);
o   Foreign Exchange:  about US$180 M equivalent per annum (para 7.04);
o   Non-Agricultural Primary Benefits:  reduced damage from stormwater
and high watertables to regional infrastructure in the amount of
about Rs 44 M per annum (para 7.06);
o   Secondary Benefits:  project-induced economic activity due to multi-
plier effects; an increase in direct value added in the agriculture
sector of Rs 1 N would result in a further Rs 1.4 N being generated
in the value added in the provincial economy (para 7.07); and
o Environmental Impact: significant improvements to, or at minimum
no material damage to, the environment in the project and surrounding
area (paras 7.09-7.12).
Employment and Income Effects
7.02    The current population of the project area is expected to double
during the project development period (1985-2010). 'Without" the project,
underemployment during slack periods, and the resulting depressed incomes,
would likely become a major socioeconomic problem. By contrast, the project
would generate additional farm labor requirements of about 42,000 man-years



-41-
equivalent, or a 47% higher demand than without the project. The project's
construction activities would also generate substantial employment oppor-
tunities during the implementation period, or a total of about 90,000
man-years equivalent (or an average of 9,000-12,000 man-years per annum) of
primarily unskilled labor. In addition, about 2,000 jobs would be generated
by the project's annual O&M activities. This increase in labor requirements
would absorb a major portion of the current underemployment among the rural
population fox most of the year and would provide the large tenant population
with a source of remunerative and reliable employment, even with the current
trend of mechanization. Availability of labor for both project construction
and increased on-farm activities, even during peak labor periods, is not
expected to constrain the project, especially because labor from surrounding
areas, also suffering from severe underemployment, can be drawn upon, if
necessary.
7.03    Following completion of project works in about 1993, approximately
140,000 farm families would benefit directly from the project through sub-
stantial increases in net farm incomes (paras 6.13-6.14). Approximately 70%
of the operational holdings are 5 ha or less in size and generate income
below the currently estimated level of absolute rural poverty. At full
development, the annual income of an average tenant farm of about 5 ha is
expected to increase substantially to about US$270 per capita as compared to
US$175 per capita without the project. About 30Z of the project area is
farmed by owner-cultivators and 70% is farmed by sharecropping tenants, who,
based on existing sharing arrangements of farm production and charges, would
receive about 50% of the net farm income. Based on this information, an
estimated 50% of the project-s total farm income benefits are estimated to
accrue to owner-cultivators and tenants having small holdings (e.g., 5 ha
or less). Moreover, tenants comprise nearly 75% of the project area s
population; low-income farmers, comprised primarily of tenants would there-
fore be among the project's main beneficiaries. Assuming current sharing
arrangements continue, the income distribution effect of the project is
likely to be neutral. There are two important safeguards to assuring that
tenants would reap these estimated benefits, or that they would not be
evicted after project improvements. First, tenants have informal and acquired
rights, some of which are regulated by legislation. It is expected that
after project improvements tenants would continue to be protected by their
existing rights. Without the project, land resources would continue to
deteriorate, which could lead landlords to evict some of the tenants in
accordance with landlord acquired rights. Second, the substantial project
generated farm employment requirements, even allowing for mechanization,
should also reduce the possibility of eviction and help ensure an equitable
return to the tenant.
Direct Foreign Exchange Effects
7.04    On the basis of projected international prices expressed in mid-1984
constant currency units, the annual gross foreign exchange value of incremen-
tal production of tradables generated by the project at full development is
estimated at about US$195 M, most of which would be derived from cotton and
wheat production. Adjusted for the foreign exchange costs (about US$15 M) of
traded inputs (mainly fertilizers), the project's identifiable direct annual
foreign exchange effect would total about US$180 M.



-42-
Economic Analysis
7.05    With incremental capital and recurrent project costs and benefits
valued in border rupees and constant currency values, the economy of Pakistan
is expected to realize total net benefits from project investments of about
Rs 2.2 billion (US$163 M) in present value terms. Pakistan's economy would
realize nearly a 14% economic rate of return from LBOD-Stage I investments;
rates of return estimated separately for each of the three main subareas
range from 12-22% and primarily reflect varying investment costs and, to a
lesser extent, variable agricultural benefits. Examination of various
project design options confirms that project viability and maximizing net
present value require careful phasing of irrigation and drainage-related
investments. Even after inclusion of the past expenditures on the spinal
drain, which are considered as justified sunk costs, the project is still
economically viable (Annex 7, Table 21). Table 7.1 summarizes the economic
results for each subarea and the Stage-I project overall.
Table 7.1: LBOD-STAGE I SUMMARY ECONOMIC RESULTS
Switching Values lb Z
ERR     NPV /a        Benefits     Costs
(Z)     (Rs B)
Nawabshah               21.9      1.2            -40          +67
Sanghar                 16.4      1.2            -26          +36
Mirpurkhas              12.2      0.3            -11          +12
Overall Project /c      13.6      2.2            -18          +22
La  Discounted at an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 10%.
/b  The percentage change in the specified benefit or cost stream
that reduces the NPV of the project to zero at the specified
discount rate.
.c Includes the costs of spinal drain and outfall system common
to the three subareas.
The economic cash flow for the three subareas and overall project are
provided in Annex 7, Tables 17-20. The section below outlines principal
assumptions underlying the economic analysis.
(a) Project Life. LBOD-Stage I would have an expected life of 40 years;
all the equipment is assumed to be replaced during the project
according to the following estimates of useful life (in years), which
reflect recent Pakistani experience: TWs, 15; turbine pumps, 8;
centrifugal pumps, 5; vehicles and other equipment, 10.
(b) Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC). For purposes of discounting
project cost and benefits, an OCC of 10% is used in the analysis.
(c) Prices. For internationally traded commodities, prices are derived
from Bank-projected world market prices (1984-95) expressed in
mid-1984 currency values. Appropriate adjustments are made for
freight, handling, and processing costs. Because Pakistan is
expected to export cotton and wheat, and to be self-sufficient in
sugar, export parity prices are used for these items. Import parity
prices are used for oilseeds and fertilizer, because these items



-43-
would probably be imported for the foreseeable future. Prices of
nontraded goods and services are expressed in border rupees through
the application of estimated conversion factors for their principal
categories that account for opportunity costs and local taxes and
duties. Unskilled labor is assumed to have an opportunity cost
estimated at 80% of the market wage rate during periods of low
agricultural labor demand (about six months). The economic price
of electricity assumes that TW power dpmand would be supplied by
base-load generation, which is a combination of steady hydroelectric
and low-cost thermal plants. Thus, the economic cost for the
project's power demand is assumed to lie between the estimated
off-peak base-load cost and peak thermal costs, resulting in a power
cost that is about 452 above the current financial tariff. Input and
output prices, including the conversion factors, used in the economic
analysis are summarized in Annex 7, Table 5.
(d) Proiect Costs. All project investment costs (inclusive of physical
contingencies), except portions of the item indicated below, are
included in the economic analysis and are adjusted according to the
price assumptions outlined under item (c). The excluded item refers
to project's expenditures on the spinal drain incurred before comple-
tion of the appraisal, comprising about 15% of Stage I costs in
mid-1984 prices, which are treated as justified sunk costs. Although
the collective drainage system is expected eventually to serve a
larger area, given the uncertain timing and required incremental
capacity of future stages, the full economic costs of this
infrastructure are borne by LBOD-Stage I. These common costs are
included in the project's overall ERR estimate, but are not included
in the separate estimates of economic rate of return for subareas,
because of the difficulty in apportioning collective costs to each
subarea. Due to the limited life of project equipment, economic
costs include the required reinvestment costs as indicated under item
(a); incremental OEM costs, based on the estimated economic price of
energy, are also included. The above economic costs and their main
components (capital and OEM) for each subarea and for the overall
Stage-I project are shown in Annex 7, Tables 18-20.
(e) Benefits and Phasing. Primary project benefits are estimated almost
entirely (99%) on the basis of increased irrigated cropped area and
yields, which are the result of the provision of drainage and addi-
tional water supplies. The phasing of these benefits accounts for
the project's 8-year implementation period and the phasing of expen-
ditures for project components. Generally, "with" the project,
yields and cropping intensities are expected to materialize shortly
after completion of works in the improved area, with a relatively
rapid but reasonable build-up during the first 5 years to reflect
effects of lowered watertables and the provision of additional water
supplies. Thereafter (or about 1995), for most of the project area
a relatively gradual continuation in the build-up of benefits is
anticipated, until maximum development production levels are reached
(about year 2010). Since a portion of the water supplies made avail-
able by the project-financed irrigation works (para 3.17) would also
benefit other areas adjacent to the Stage I area, these relatively
small and deferred benefits (and associated costs) have been included
in the economic analysis of overall Stage I (Annex 7, Table 20).



-44-
Such estimates are only illustrative and do not alter substantially
the project's ERR. The remaining 1Z of primary economic benefits
would be due to savings in noncrop stormwater damage and in O&M costs
for buildings and roads. The basis for these latter benefits is
discussed in para 7.06. Finally, the project's secondary benefits
from project-induced economic activity in the region are discussed in
paras 7.07-7.08 and the environmental effects are covered in paras
7.09-7.12; these benefits, however, are excluded from the economic
analysis.
Other Primary Benefits
7.06    Tangible benefits would be derived from a reduction in stormwater and
watertable (noncrop) damage. About half of the noncrop stormwater damage
that would occur without the project because of the duration of flooding
would be prevented as a result of adequate watertable control and by direct
surface disposal. At full project development, these noncrop benefits are
estimated to total about Rs 24 M per annum. Controlling the watertable would
also reduce the long-term effects of inadequate subsoil drainage on buildings
and roads. At full development, annual savings (nearly Rs 20 M) in main-
tenance costs of roads, buildings, and utility lines would be realized. This
figure assumes that only 5% of current (low) maintenance public expenditures
on the above items would be saved. Unquantifiable benefits from both surface
and subsurface drainage would also improve health and sanitation conditions.
The surface drainage system could be used for foul-water disposal on a larger
scale, although some pretreatment would be desirable. A limited extension of
rural electrification (about 20% of project incremental load) would also
benefit the project area. These indirect project benefits would contribute
to improving the living standards of the predominantly rural population.
Secondary Economic Impact
7.07    Due to its size and scope, LBOD-Stage I would inevitably generate
additional economic effects, not fully captured in the analysis of primary
benefits, in the project area and in other parts of Sind Province. The
project is expected to increase general economic activity by the multiplier
effects of both its capital and recurrent expenditure and by the resultant
expansion in agricultural and, to a lesser extent, from nonagricultural
production and incomes. The analysis of secondary impact shows that, for
each Rs 1.0 M increase in direct value added in the agriculture sector (that
is, the gross value of project production less the cost of goods and services
from other economic sectors), an additional Rs 1.4 M would be generated in
the value added in the provincial economy. About half of this induced expen-
diture would be generated by increased on-farm activity and incomes, and
about half by increased activity and incomes in agro-processing and distribu-
tive trades and other services (including higher capacity utilization rates
of project-related activities through direct and multiplier effects). About
55% of this secondary impact (in terms of total value added) would occur in
the three subareas, benefitting the predominantly low-income rural population
of Sind Province.
7.08    Other secondary benefits include the generation of additional and
remunerative employment opportunities in related nonagricultural activities
(about 120,000 man-years) and of additional provincial revenues (estimated at
about Rs 55 M per annum at full development), plus higher levels of federal



-45-
tax revenues, which constitute the bulk of total revenues collected in the
province. No significant secondary costs have been identified. Since the
secondary benefits do not entirely reflect incremental benefits to the
national economy, they were not included in the economic analysis. Never-
theless, such benefits were estimated in order to illustrate the project's
significant role and regional impact in supporting GOSind's current policy of
promoting regional development in its rural areas. The secondary impact
report providing the detailed assumptions and results is available in the
project file.
Environmental ImDact
7.09    The project would significantly improve the environment of the
perenn.xal canal comands in the project area by reversing or preventing the
deterioration of productive agricultural land through waterlogging and
salinity. Drainage would improve the productive capacity of farmland and
allow rainfall to leach salts to greater depth on uncultivated land, thereby
reducing salinization. The quality of vegetation on this land (although much
is presently barren) is expected to improve appreciably. Surface drainage
and lower watertables not only would minimize flood and high watertable
damage to crops in agricultural areas (and to buildings, roads, structures,
and utility lines throughout the whole of the project area, including urban
areas), but also would reduce standing water, thereby eliminating breeding
grounds for malarial and other mosquitoes and pollution from domestic and
industrial effluents. Water, which supports a varied aquatic life and
provides wintering grounds for migratory birds, would remain in deeper
depressions, such as those left by old river courses in the western part of
Nawabshah. Wildlife protection capability in the area would be strengthened
by the provision of staff training (para 3.20). Offices and quarters for
field staff monitoring envirormental impact in the Wildlife Sanctuary would
be provided under the project (para 5.04). The improvement of both physical
and productive aspects of the environment would contribute significantly to
increased incomes and a better quality of life for the 1.2 million
inhabitants of the project area.
7.10    Areas adjacent to open drains carrying saline effluent generally
would not be affected by such effluent. Although most of the water extracted
by the drainage wells would be highly saline, losses in disposal channels
would be relatively small and would mostly percolate to the watertable.
Where considerable seepage is expected from TW disposal lines, pipe would be
provided to reduce seepage losses. The effect of seepage from the main,
branch, and sub-drains would also be minimized by routing these away from
cultivated land, along command boundaries. Also, the saline baseflow is
likely to be diluted by irrigation losses and in the largest drains, would
be at a depth only slightly above the general level of the watertable.
Baseflow levels in the lower part of the spinal drain would be at or below
watertable depth and, therefore, would have little or no effect on adjacent
areas.
7.11    With adequate safeguards provided in the design of the L2BOD-Stage I
project (para 3.04), the drainage water in DPOD flowing into Shakoor Dhand
would be principally stormwater. Drainage flows from KPOD into the tidal
link connecting to the Arabian Sea should have no effect on the natural
environment, nor should they affect the livelihood of the fishermen in the
area. The stormwater (mainly freshwater) flows to the Shakoor Dhand and to



-46-
GOSind's associated wildlife sanctuary in the area are critical to the
stability of the wetlands areas, which support wildlife and fisheries. Staff
of the Wildlife Sanctuary, trained under the project, would closely monitor
and report any observed ecological changes. The design of the weir con-
structed across the Dhoro Link would regulate the quantity and quality of
drainage flow so that no material change in discharge would occur. The
transboundary flows to and from India are expected to remain as before. The
weir would divert all saline base flows (up to 62.3 cms) into the KPOD, where
it would be partially diluted by intermittent freshwater discharge (up to
28.3 cms) from the Kotri drain before being discharged through the tidal link
to the sea. Bunds would prevent any spillage into the Rann of Kutch or
transboundary flow into India. The bunds would also protect the drain and
adjacent areas of Kotri command from the effects of abnormally high water
levels in the Rann. The baseflow into the tidal creek connecting to the sea
would be small compared with the existing ebb and flow of the tide in this
channel, and therefore would have little effect on estuarine salinities and
fish. The quantity and quality of drainage effluent in the DPOD and KPOD
would be monitored closely by trained staff of the Department of Forestry and
Wildlife during construction and throughout operation to provide early warn-
ing of unforeseen environmental changes. Emphasis would be given to monitor-
ing of fish populations in Chotiari Reservoir and permanent lakes in the
project area, as well as in the outfall area.
7.12    The increased capacity of Chotiari Reservoir would expand the breed-
ing habitat for fish species in the existing Chotiari Lakes, which currently
depend on flood waters for successful breeding, benefitting neighboring
fishing communities comprising an estimated 1,800 active fishermen. Chotiari
Reservoir impoundment would create negligible damage and resettlement costs,
since only a few temporary accommodations for fishermen are located in the
reservoir inundation area.
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
7.13    The main project risks involve possible delays in completing the
integrated project works, particularly the irrigation-related investments,
and inadequate O&M of the project's drainage facilities. As stated in para
7.05, the project's economic viability is ensured through a design Lhat
integrates and phases the drainage and irrigation investments. If these
irrigation works are substantially delayed (for example, because of a
shortage in available financing or a decision not to develop the available
irrigation supplies for use in the project area), a major opportunity for
expansion of agricultural production would be lost, and the economic
viability of LBOD-Stage I would be jeopardized. The economic viability of
the Sanghar and Mirpurkhas subareas would be particularly affected, since an
important portion of their benefits is derived from these additional water
supplies (Annex 7, Table 21). To minimize these risks, measures have been
taken to ensure timely completion of such works, including phasing project
expenditures to be consistent with GOSind's planned expenditures in the
current Sixth Five-Year Plan and the upcoming Seventh Plan (FY89-93), and the
provision of necessary external financing for the irrigation component, and
the establishment of a special account to provide timely funds. A reduction
in the scope of irrigation works in LBOD-Stage I would lessen the project's
drainage requirements and thereby would imply overdesign in costs (capital
and O0K) and overestimation of benefits. These works have been given high
priority by GOP, as evidenced by its relatively firm investment decisions,



-47-
allocations, and detailed studies for all three irrigation components,
thereby indicating that these works should proceed as agreed. The scope of
the program of watercourse improvements has been limited to 50% of project
area watercourses, with improvements phased over 8 years, since it would
involve the active participation of farmers (many of whom are tenants) i.
construction activities. Also, project benefits have assumed moderate
improvements in the provision of agricultural support services currently
underway in other programs; in this context, support services are not
expected to constitute a project risk. Risks associated with inadequate O&M
of the project's drainage system, which could contribute to a shortfall in
expected incremental agricultural production, would be minimized by
implementing specific technical, organizational, and financial measures to
overcome such O&M problems as experienced in other drainage projects (para.
5.10). Finally, IMD, supported by extensive technical assistance and a
strengthened monitoring system, would provide a strong management team to
execute necessary project designs and the timely implementation of project
works, in order to minimize risks associated with delay in project comple-
tion.
7.14    Sensitivity tests of the project's economic analysis and its main
underlying determinants were made to assess the impact of the main risks,
should they materialize. These tests (e.g. a lowering of expected yield
increases and cropping intensities, a drop in projected prices of wheat and
cotton, and/or a delay in the build-up of project beaefits) and project
switching values show that IBOD-Stage I can absorb a reasonable amount of
shock and still remain economically viable (Annex 7, Table 21); if overall
benefits decrease by nearly 20%, or costs increase by as much as 22Z, or if
all benefits are delayed by about two years, the project would still meet the
economic viability criteria.  Table 7.1 simuariz.es the switching values for
each subarea and for Stage I overall. The important determinants of project
costs and benefits cited above are unlikely to exceed the above percentages
and are not expected to put the project at risk. Especially in Mirpurkhas,
which shows the lowest economic rate of return (12.2%) and the highest rela-
tive risk, because of serious constraints to agricultural development due to
a high watertable and low cropping intensity, inclusion of all project com-
ponents are essential. As indicated above, main potential risks are being
addressed by specific project actions.
VIII.  AGREENMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    Assurances have been obtained from GOP that:
(a) adequate provisions would be made to complete the spinal drain and
associated structures up to Nawabshah to required capacity by
July 31, 1986, or such other date as GOP and IDA may agree (para
3.03); and
(b) a special account would be set up and operated in accordance with
guidelines agreed by IDA (para 4.07).



-48-
8.02    Assurances would be obtained from GOP and GOSind that:
(a) the water supplies made available by the Nara and Jamrao Canal
remodelling work and the construction of the Chotiari Reservoir would
be fully utilized in LBOD-Stage I and adjoining areas, including the
proposed Makhi-Faresh Project (para 3.17);
(b) necessary resources and funds to execute the project in accordance
with agreed implementation and expenditure schedules would be
provided promptly as required (para 4.06);
(c) (i) WAPDA (South) and GOSind would prepare and maintain separate
project accounts; (ii) IMD would prepare and maintain consolidated
project accounts, including records of the three special subaccounts;
(iii) the project accounts would be audited annually by an independ-
ent auditor satisfactory to IDA; (iv) copies of the unaudited annual
project accounts would be sent to IDA for review no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year and a certified copy of the
final auditor's report no later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year; (v) the auditor's report would include, inter alia,
statements that the use of IDA funds advanced for the special account
and against statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose
for which they were provided (para 4.13); and
{d) GOSind would ensure that the Rohri Canal Remodelling progresses at a
rate such that the benefits of such remodelling are available in the
Rohri Canal command area falling within the project area not later
than January 1, 1990, or such other date as IDA may agree, and that
adequate funds would be made available for such works (para 3.14).
8.03    Assurances have been obtained from GOSind that:
Ca) special subaccounts for expenditures by the Departments of Irrigation
and Agriculture, respectively, on canal remodelling and OFWM works,
to be financed by IDA, would be set up and operated according to IDA
guidelines (para 4.07);
(b) training of at least two additional OFWM field teams would be com-
pleted no later than April 1, 1985 (para 5.05);
(c)  (i) the organization of formal WUAs would be a pre-condition to
farmers receiving OFWM assistance, and (ii) GOSind would undertake a
phased program to extend the WUA functions to drainage O&M and make
amendments as necessary no later than July 1, 1986 to the Water
Users' Association Ordinance of 1982, to extend the WUAs' powers and
responsibilities to cover all aspects of drainage, including respon-
sibility for construction and maintenance of farm drains (para 5.06);
(d) provincial O&M staff would be seconded to the project on OEM assign-
ment for at least one year prior to completion of work in a given
subarea (para 5.10);
(e)  adequate and timely funds would be made available annually for actual
full O&M requirements (including capital replacement costs) as deter-
mined by periodic reviews to maintain acceptable O&M standards and



-49-
operational efficiency of the drainage system over the long term
(para 5.13);
(f) GOSind's Department of Planning and Development and IND would prepare
and send to IDA for comment by September 30, 1985 terms of reference
and invitations for proposals from independent local institutions
for project impact evaluation; and a contract would be concluded with
a suitable local institution acceptable to IDA to carry out the
project's evaluation study under terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to IDA by February 1, 1986. The local institution would
also complete a subcontract with a suitable international institution
by February 1, 1986 to assist in carrying out the evaluation study
and in preparing a project completion report within 6 months of the
close of the project (para 5.15); and
(g)  (i) the status and required actions to achieve irrigation O&M cost
recovery by July 1, 1988, in accordance with covenants previously
obtained, would be reviewed with IDA no later than February 1, 1986;
(ii)(a) about one year after commencement of full operation of the
facilities in each sub-area, to collect drainage charges from the
beneficiaries to cover 25% of the O&M costs of the facilities; (b)
thereafter, at least every two years, increase the drainage charges
so as to recover at least 50% of the O&M costs by July 1, 1995 and
10OZ of the O&M costs by July 1, 2005, provided that the drainage
charges keep pace and are commensurate with the benefits actually
accruing to the beneficiaries; (iii) at least three months before
the initial charge and subsequent increases, to review with TDA the
estimated actual farm benefits against the projected benefits and
proposed charges; and (iv) farmers benefitting from OFWM activities
would be required to contribute all unskilled labor and repay a
portion (25%) of the cash cost of materials and skilled labor over
five years, in accordance with existing agreements (para 6.19).
8.04    Assurances have been obtained from GOSind and WAPDA that:
(a)  they would provide the staff and local consultants required for
project execution on a timely basis and, specifically, WAPDA would
appoint by April 1, 1985 the key IMD staff required for PY1 implemen-
tation (para 5.03);
(b)  WAPDA would complete the appointment and fielding of consultants no
later than June 1, 1985; supervisory consultants, if required, for
OFWH would be appointed by GOSind no later than January 1, 1987, and
arrangements for staff training would be satisfactory to IDA (para
5.08);
(c)  at the completion of construction, and again prior to overall project
handover to GOSind, a joint inspection of the drainage and irrigation
water storage facilities would be made by IMD, GOSind and WAPDA to
identify deficiencies and agree on corrective actions (para 5.10);
and



-50-
(d) during project implementation and thereafter, an independent team
acceptable to IDA would monitor and review at three year intervals
drainage OEM requirements in the LBOD Stage I project area, starting
no later than January 1, 1988 (para 5.11).
8.05    Assurances have been obtained from WAPDA that:
(a) a special subaccount for expenditures on drainage and electrification
works financed by IDA would be set up and operated according to IDA
guidelines (para 4.07);
(b) operational procedures would be developed in greater detail by the
IM0 and a draft O&M manual would be prepared and submitted to IDA for
review and comment no later than January 1, 1988 and sequentially
updated as project components are completed, with a final report no
later than January 1, 1991 (para 5.12); and
(c) IDM would prepare and send to IDA for comment by September 30, 1985
a detailed monitoring and reporting program, and by February 1, 1986
a Memorandum of Understanding would be concluded with WAPDA's M&E
Organization to monitor physical aspects of the project (para 5.15).
8.06    Conditions of Board presentation would be that:
(a) GOP acquire the land required for the first year's civil works to
be financed by IDA (para 3.22); and
(b) the Minister of Finance, as Chairman of Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC), approve, on an anticipatory basis,
the final Umbrella PC-1, including the OFWM component (para 4.06).
8.07    Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
Ca) ECNEC approval of the final Umbrella PC-1 (para 4.06);
'b) meeting all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of other exter-
nal financing agencies (para 4.06);
(c) the establishment of a special account (para 4.07); and
(d) the establishment of the Project Steering Committee (PSC) and the
Integrated Management Organization (IND) with powers and functions
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.01).
8.08    With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 147.6 M (US$150 M) on standard terms. The borrower would be
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



ANNEX 1
Chart 1
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Water Balance (Present)
Indus Plains and PeshawarVale
(MUIIon Acre Feet)
ISI
12 ~ 1
*  x,i~~~1                                               667'
43
Sw.  1s~cl.AtIoDv~
.8 Power 39 Eveic wnentAuo_u?3
Souct~~~~~~~~~                  PRECPh POXoop*
Wbbr.PaDAuwany                                            Woei
I~~~~~~~.



-52-                           AN1 I
Chart 2
PAIKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Spinal Drain Network and Ouffag System
(cusecs)
, ~~~~~~~~~~mS
2 EmfNcvsnhMan Dron ^ll-7f*1
3 &j0-ao B,ndor Dcn
_A Sar0hMoin Dron
5 Run Bonchl O, r
7                                         7M&t rvDn
OuU rn                     KPO
*  b                 '                                        la*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~On-26



-53--
ANNEX 1
Chart 3
PAKISTAN
LEFI RANK OUrFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Outfall System and Burcaidon
L                 p
DRA 4GE                           IZEB  R
D Y               N A
A M
LN
IVALUW ~        lw                     RD 159        l 
T A
A N
'-CXt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
IGPOD    <)  9     DPOC~~~~~D 
LA>z 0eL
T C   SK4H                                  E~~~~~~~~~  A
I R   SANVJODRWICMRO                               a 
CREEK                                          D~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  E             _   _3_            _    _  _ '
~~~4~~~~~~~~orco~~~~0                     



-54-
ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN                                Cbart 4
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAJN STAGE I PROJECT
Nara Canal/Choilad Reseivoi Operaion
&No An MO
0 I'IXRCWC
Dk6dOWOm                                      (MON)M R-
&                                              (Wklth)
JmrroCaril
ca6
85
so ~        : - 
021
175
-  lUt87.1                                G7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
70
I       I   I    I   I   I    I I     I    I   I    I
S   0   N   D   J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S
Malxn ~      ~       dor-



ARME 1
Chart 5
PAKIStAN
LEFT BANK OUWFALL DRAJN STAGE I PROJECT
BEgyConsumptlon
Tobl
C-
1.500s7            98        9        09        1.46I
lzw~~~~~~~~~~~.0                            IAW
16
S                          = == _ _--=-~~~~~~~MX =    _=
.1~~~~~~~~~5~1
~~I
I(                         C
UWa
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1967  Wu    1989      1990     im~
Nowcb*iCh  r--~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*1m2~~~1 
1j~~~~~~~~~~POJCB00PFACprro
861 ~ ~ ~~wwor-6



PAKISTAN
LBOD - STAGE I PROJECT
Theoretical Water Requirements Under "Future Wiith" Project Conditions
J        F        N        A .                .1       .1       A        S        n         N         D
1.  Potenttal Nvepotncipirattmn (wmA-              64       82       140      183       243      262      214      198      177      136       8l         61
2. Cnp Uster Roquirement (ma)-.
Uhst                                         67        90       98                                                                        75        34
Other rob1 crqp                              64       86       119                                                                        75        4)
Cotton                                                                   75        49      144      225      218       177      109
S!prcae                                      61        74      126      174       243      262      203      168       ISO      129      81         61
Orchards                                     64        82      140      183       243      262      214       198      177      136       81        61
3.  31hL C                                                                                                                                                /WAM   R/nm1619r01 66  a8  107 84  65  152  219  209  163  103  76    1
4. Effective Ralnfall (Mf)- -                                          -        -         -        4                 3         8        -        -         -
5. GCmxLoter cpillary s4ly (m)-                     -        -         3        5         6        6       28       22        25        1        -         -
6.    rA1.TRRICATICN RdrURN*fT  (rMY-'              66      B8       101       79        59      142       147      151      13      102       76        38
7.  iMA. DPTRShI' U(   IWtEN    (cumec)a          200      226       240      229       159      395      395      46        362      274      186        90
8. WatenrgLplv (cumec)
Canal head mpply                             75      216       205      203       285      285      282      283       290      281      212       207
Interceptor drAin reery                       -        8        8         8         8        8        a        a        A        8         8         8
Scavaer uell recovery                        24       24        24       24        24       24       24       24        24     . 24       24        24
9.  lltAJ.IATR sUnn   (cumec)                      99       248      237      235       317      317      3J4      315       322     :313      244       239
10. SurPlus C,) Defict (-) (cume                 -101      +22       -3        +6      4158      -78      -81     -91       -40       439      R58       +149
P ased on El, appropriate crop Factors aid 75 m all             for lId prepatian In April wd Nbater.
.c/ Weighted average for all crops .
*    ed/ Uigted average for Nabshah, Sarngr ard Nrlxida  enthly rainfall bel2a 12.5 Om is consWred to be all raK-effctive.
e/ Contribtlonas fmn gm8Artcr to crop root zae uhich cam  be usad by crop.
/ Total crop uater nrqlmrwent with  Xducttoiw  for effective rainfal am  ceptlary sipply.
/ Fron total irrittion ruquitem  t with allUonne for comveynnce wttercourse amd applicattim  efficiencles; , w symvAe effitiency raen ftv  612 In                  ac'
Jarn ry to 812 in the Khy to October period; wetercnurae efficiency im 752 mid aqM p1 catim efficiency li 76.52.                                                ( x
h/ Difference hetwen tctiul diversotn reuiretent and total water supply;  m  Ia the cnae uider current feantnR prctlce  uwirer lriupition *ilud be
practical during rot of the Idcarif sen ;  ads:uate wter for leachli   Is available durlrg the raht reson anid drIrt the early stage  of the
khwrif nna.



-57-
ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Land Classification 1/
Subareas
Land       Nawabshah          Sanghar           Mirpurkhas         Total Project
Class      Sq km      Z       Sq km    X        Sq km      Z       Sq km      Z
1           131    5.2        221   10.8         125    7.9         447    7.7
2s        1,510   58.7        879   43.0       1,125   70.7       3,514   56.6
3s          173    6.7        238   11.7           58    3.7        469    7.6
3sd         194    7.5         79    3.9         248   15.6         521    8.4
6ts         480   18.6        492   24.1            9    0.6        981   15.8
6f           83    3.2        129    6.3          20    1.3         232    3.7
Urban           3    0.1          4    0.2           3    0.2          10    0.2
Total      2,574  100.0      2,042  100.0        1,588  100.0       6,204  100.0
I/ A series of land classification maps at a scale of 1:50,000 were produced
covering the LBOD-Stage I project area in 16 sheets. The following
classification criteria were used:
Class 1:    land that has no limitations and, therefore, no subclasses.
Class 2s:   land with minor soil limitations in the form of fine medium
subsoil texture, (0-150 cm dominated by group H or H/V).
Class 3s:   land with moderate limitations of unfavourable textures
CL or V groups dominant between 0-150) or high salinity
combined with H or V textural groups.
Class 3sd:  land with one or all of the above limitations and, in addition,
substratum textures in the V group which would require
closer drain spacing.
Class 6ts:  land outside the irrigation system command and with limitations
of uneven topography due to sand deposition. Former river
channels (topographic depressions) may also occur as a minor
part of this unit. Sandy soil textures also introduce a
soil limitation.
Class 6f:   land already flooded or subject to flooding.



PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Base Costs of Project Components by Year
(PK RS ' 000)                                                Total
last Costs
B5/B6     B6/87      87/N8       B/89       B9/90      Y0/91      91/92    9/93       PK RS   Nillion)
wgWNN  1lMZv=     119IM11FalIf lrv=Hr=           2 2    322==   2sV-Z   uuzZMX=   Mr :
A. DRAIMAE DISFOSMA  SISTER    259,262.3  2 98418.2  1529811B0   92,978.4  100,45043  103,107.5  7,978,3          - 11014,883.0    71.2
. NAAIS                        1462M5.B  249o730.8  307,569.5  12,902.5   I11102.6    861U4.9  9r566.7  9,323.3   863,106,2    60.6
C, ASRAR                        20344.7  156,132,7  307,5m.2  355,52696  1876416,7   7618.10 13,693.3  13,675.2  1,30,740.4    79.4
D.MIRWM                           594.1    7,690,6   28m21.0  119,780.7  394u311.5  512,152.4 309931.6  33,490.2  1411,72.1    99.I
E. IATER RESCE DEMWIENT               -   12,158,6   95,136.6  362,906.9  320,170,0  2531I71.6 75,297.7 46,494,1  1,165.237,5    B1.8
F. INSTITMTIOWL DK OENT         11.352.9   22,136,6   21,716.4   21,913.6   189312.3   134304.7  12,U464  120442    133.145,0        9.3
8. PROJECT IWOMATIUl SYSTEN      4,150,7    5i413,9    31590.9    30104,9    3,659,4    3P276.4  5,789,9  13,609.1    42.575.1       3.0
Total BISElE COSTS               442000.4  751,681.2  917,175.9 1,079,795.5 1,035,622.9  969,825.5 433U621.8 132,636,2 50761.359.3   04.3
Pnwical Contingmcies           59P587,1   93725,6  127,919,6  161,"7.4  1560516,2  142,943i1  59,629,8 16,120#6   919,409,4    57.4
Price Continncies              74.038.5  194,45538  318.349,7  473,147.9  546135.9  600.257,3 310,268.7 106.542.0 2,623195.9  173.9
Total PROJECT COSTS              575.626,0 1039,962,6 1.363515,1 1.713,940.9 1,738,275,0 10712P926,0 903520e3 255,9.7  9,202.964,6   635.7
____2_ _=-uu 5 _=  2=r1=z=   ZZ ZZ2 3C3Ilks  m                                        .m.m
Taxn                           96,244L4  194,262.9  187,487.7  265,629.1  2511477,1  269tl4391 110,976.0 32,560,2  1.407.677,4    97.1
Fotin Exche                   28569,3  547,386,1  687,324.1  823,704.9  960,335.3  819,061.5 409,406.1 105,539.1  4,613,475.2   319.6
JuIlv 24, 1984 21101
PAKXSTAN
LBOD-STAGE 1 PROJECT
Total Costs, Including Contingencies, of Project Components by Year
(PK 1.8 '000)
Total
Totals Ircluding Cstirdbencl
~~~~~~ -   --  - - - -   -   -   -            - ~~~~~~(USH
B"86      96/97      87/ll       9UB9       B9/9       90/91      91/92    92/93      Pl RIS   Nillion)
A. DRAINAGE DISPOS. SYSTEM     338070307  4134556,5  227,9BB85  148,94495   169,479,1  132,700.0 13,756.0         - 1,495135,2   100I6
B. mI IH                       191.M.8  347,254.6  455,83.9  1988914.5   17,3S3.5   14,244.3  1540147  15,465.4  1W245,453,7    83.2
C, SA                           26722.3  217,976.8  45B6493.2  559725.8  309962.6  131,20860 23t998.1  25,407.5  1,753494.3   120.2
3, NIIIIN                          M7.9   10050,4   41,409,7  137477.2  656,92.7   897P137,1 574911.0  74,601.9   442,574,9   173.1
E. VATE K   CE KUWL'aINT              -   16700,2  146,106.4  593,01.9  552713.6  461U356.2 145,653.4 95,147.0  2,011995.3   141.0
F. INSTITU'IDTI     DVWELWIINT  13,324,1   27,705,8   29M032,4   30851.5   27i279.2   20791.4 20,6470 21148.1   190 .5    13.2
6. FOJECT lIrlTION SYSTEM        4oM.2    6616.3    *.U49.9    4,220.4    5,29.M3    4M9l  9,4U0.2  23,52n,3    63,541.2             4.4            b |
Total PRBJECT COSTS             575S626.0 1.039.B6.6 1363,515.1 1713940.8 1738,275.0 1712926.0 303#520,3 255,299.7  9s202e99.6   635.7
_      m       O t          _=           r_-- _ 



-59-                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
Table 2
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STACE I PROJECT
Project Coupouent Ccot Su ary by Subarea and Activity
(PlC RS  000)                                                                    9tical
FUCT                   CnUrdercin
DIIINAIE                                         MATE 1 E1UlE INSTITIIJIILM  IWWATZU
*igIL St       SE1111_   S   MII M     NIIMR  DE68 T    3E9 OAIST                 3           Toal       I    Auont
1. INfESTn COSTS
A. CIVIL NOW
1. OUTF.LL 0AIN SYSTEM
CORE POAN                                    122W2,2-.6                                                              -           -   122,029.6  15.0   11,304.4
91O  I 311                                  2669432.3           -           -            -             -             -           -   266,432.3  15.0   39964.3
11*3 Lim                                    303,453.7           -           -           -              -             -           -   303,453.7 15.0   454518.0
S,-TolQ MIFIJ N I M 1MS5193I                    9115.5             -           -           -              -             -           -      10915.35 15.0  103737.3
2. SU EADIME IUWNEIT
SIACE A2NA                                          -   173ol4.6    "9931.1   132W250.5                -             -           -   404376.2 15.0  A60.8.4
3A13K TIENELLS                                      -      1092.7     4,364.4   294,672.0              -             -            -   507640.1  15.0   76,147.4
SMEWR TUENELL9 S                                    -    32,953.3   26,406.3             -             -             -            -   3012360.1  15.0   45,204.0
INIEUIWT   3*L                                      -   103,644.2    646876.2   135,023.0              -             -            -   304343.5 15.0   45.81.5
TILE NUNSi                                          -           -           -   300,276.1              -             -            -   306.276.3  15.0   46,241.5
Su-Tatal SlAttA  NEtAE C21IIOff                        -   427WsB4.8   52790.5   3720M22.4                -             -           - 1,026005.7 15.0  273,160.9
3. IRAT4 II  IOIIS
1CIII t    KIUlNlXU                                 -                       -            -      334,1"4.7            -            -   334,194.7 20.0   66.6N.9
.UU CtI6  NISLINI                                   -           -           -            -      407,561.6            -            -   4074561.6 20.0   81,512.3
t101  miEEVI Ha                                               -           -            -      299,245.0            -            -   299245.0 20.0   59980.0
IIFI3I                                              -    506142.1   53,463.6    64,524.9               -             -            -   1736605.7  10.0   17w360.6
Su6-Total IEIlATnAW LIS                                -    50,612.1    UP466.6    64,524.9    1.041401.4               -           - 1,214,607.1  19.6  225,560.B
4. ELECTIWFICATIE                                      -   133PM.6   271,173.0   188,247.3                -             -           -   613,213.0  15.0   92,961.9
5. NAMlDIE3T 1EOMINC.LUES  21W)                  2,093.0     2t79.9      2790.9       3.4B4.5             -             -           -    11 .4  15.0    1673.9
Sib-Totl CIVIL MM                                 694,00.5   635,060.5   359,532.2 I1L17,279.2   1041001.4               -           - 4w356i0.6  16.0  696,904.9
3. EOUINENT I 112310.15
W61m3                                                  -     1702.9      I.72.?       1019.!              -- -                             44535.2 10.0      456.5
.-INI1IEI  UUPIIIT                             232.046.0    39.749.5    29399.3    39PIV9.9               -                              340,393.7 10.0   343.4
MINTU1  JE1t1(DES IC1IP)                         1,207.3     2,031.5     2,031.5      2,046.5             -             -           -      7.316.0 10.0       731.7
'l FrFIUATIN  EUIJIPlET                               -    26,444.6    55.136.?    3B0392.4              -             -           -   1199,74.1  10.0   1197.4
-Tota EIUIIENTI I IINIIS                          233253.4    70,006.6      i35O.6    90657.3                -             -           -   472,269.9 10.0   47,227.0
C. TEMII. ASStISIM   l& DUllN                             -           -           -           -              -      133,145.0          -   133,145.0  0.0         0.0
L. mIwxMTIr
6IIEM                                           67p46W.9    501043.0    77,323.4    95,939.5        92Q,63.4            -           -   3919689.2 10.0   39,166.9
5FHt39**IE5I0ER0)                                      -    26h32.3    30.6M3.6    32,674.0               -             -           -      9,5".9 10.0    3,960.0
0 11 NA SlB                                     1 6590.7    23,612.4    319747.2    3,163.0               -             -           -   111I313.3  0.0         0.0
Sib-Tta MINISTMTIU                                 04053.6   106,67.7   139.1i6.2   167,26.6          92363.4              -           -   592602.4  0.1   46,129.9
E. IIUITII I EVUAMT1O                                    -            -           -           -              -             -    42.575.1    42.575.l  0.0         0.0
F. L   AUISITIt                                     34562.5    49,329.4    43U92.6    35,909.1        31.372.3             -           -   16366.3  16.0   26,14B.6
TOl IIRESIEIIT COSTS                               1,0243683.0   863.106.2 1F130,740.4 1,411,672.1    1.165,237.5     133,145.0    42575.1 5.761,359.3  14.2  IIIB409.4
Total MSEUt1  COSTS                                 1,014,963.0   663,106.2 1I13R0740.4  1,411,672.1    1,9145237.5    133,145.0    42,575.1 5,7U61359.3  14.2   13B,409.4
fuimital CotlhiU,Cif                               134u07.8   115,419.3   152.137.1   19291,13        223761.2              -           -   61P409.4  0.0          0.0
Prict Cti,nmci,s                                   345t44.4   266,721.2   470.1U.3   ?633716.7        622937.1       57,634.5    20b96.1 2.323v195.9  12.6  329,231.7
ToWt FloEwT 315T5                                   1,495,135.2 19245.453.7 175494.3  2,442574.9    2.011.935.3       190,779.5    U.541.2 9,202.64.6  12.5 2,147,41.1
in            i       i      .     nm                                    S          a                    S;_
Tams                                               322,309.3   13.I21.2   2450717.5   352,575.5       325935.4              -     3418.5  1,407,677.4  12.3  10,034.1
Fonia  EMr                                         322,957.1   566,775.1   910.160.1 1,299,370.2      796,070.3      172,551.7    33,690.2 44613,475.2 12.5  577,473.0



-60-                                                      ANNEX 3
Table 3a
PAICISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Sumanry of Base Costs by Year
(PK  S '000ooo)                                                 Fum  Ezcan.
3536     suW        87/33B mm3           399        90/91    91/92    9293    Tatal       Z     _urt
-   =  -   -=  2                                                                                 _=
I. DRE5EIT COSTS
A. QVnL IRcS
1.  IIFMLL MM SST
mmE P1013                            1722029.6        -122903.6 42.5   51P306.7
gm  & DM                              76M552.3  10392.2   95,951.           -         -          -        -        -  266432.3 51.6  137M439.9
TILU         -                             -         -   uPe43i50.5  836701.0   8601.0   3670e1.0        -        -  303453.7 66.2  20e.79C;5
Sub-Totall UFWL DM  T5151K             19831.3  103923.2  129302.3   36701.0   36,701.0   36701.0           -        -  691n915.5 56.4  39009.1
2. SI*  DIGCE CO110T
SWAMCE EA                             44t456.2   31,734.3  104,350.7   93994.6   52,3.4   26,441.0        -        -  404,376.2 39.3  159,9039.
3*1W EIU1ELLS                         20i75.8  67P901.3   86r44.0   51,031.9   53113.3   98.445.4 34,57.0          -  507649.1 65.5  332Y748.5
SCMEINER TIUEEILS                      7.75e.3         -   83,755.6   91o505.9   75.029.2   439319.1      -        -  301,30.1 70.3  211,736.9
IuTETR l 31s                          20,723.3  4U457.7   57,670.6   32,390.5   39s250.7   45,934.1 45,934.1 20976.9  3046343.3 s59  179,332.7
TILE   M                                    -          -         -          -   76,609.1  154,513.4 77,154.4       -  303i276.8 67.0  206,s295
Stib-Toal SW       DRA E CFIOfENT       93p.9.1  191O093.8  332,770.9  263.972.?  341901.7  368s653.0 207,945.-  20,976.9 1.326ieos.7 59.7 1090306.4
3. IDIUATIUWN ISM
NM EL EIUENBIE                         -          -   629067.6  193B997.9   73129.2          -       -        -  334,194.7 41.3  13B130-3
.     CaL RElING                           -    69722.6         -   35,725.2  117,621.7  134,944.0 69577.5 42,970.6  407,561.6 44.2  179,93s.5
01113 NESEM                                 -         -   25,748.0   849601.6  102426.8   3646.6          -        -  299,245.0 39.0  1329-
EU                                     3,579.0   15,014.5   23,319.4   264333.5   26,33B.5   26933B.5 26,33.-5 26,33B-5  173,605.7 16.2   2B.040.4
- SaLbal  nmnW0FLUS                        357s.0   219737.1  111,135.1  345,663.3  3194516.2  247,751.2 95,916.1 69,309.1 12144607.1 33-1  462,959.0
4. EQEoTR IC                           39,720.9  117359.3  144,674.4  112,355.4  104,994.2   56,73.1 35,407.2  1428.5  613.213.0 53-0  33,936-1
5.  NNMICE UEMOTMIIES   (hIPR                  -    20t45.9    4,136.4    39137.7    1.7ff.3        -       -        -   1U1S-4 23.9    2,664.6
Sub-ToaMlCVLl S                           335,572.9  436S664.3  722m,69.o  817,330.3  354,902.5  759,273.3 339,268.3  919314.5 49356,M.6 52.3 2,O3197.4
i. tm- wrf a quaan
lK                                       17M2.9   2,036.3       766.0         -          -          - -  -                 45M.2 54.9   2,519.5
ISNIIW    EgUIfIET                      44,680.5  170,906.3   154636.1   54,09B.6   7,348.4   47,723.3      -        -  3409393.7 60.3  205,143.3
H9    IE hI(1CUTDQUEs MENrM)                  -    1s207.3    14523.6    2539.4         -    2.046.5       -        -    7,316.  65.0    4,7s5.9
BEUIIMFICM   EUJIT                       9,743.1   2,030.9   21,945.3   27.564.9   13,924.6   11,727.4  6,032.9      -  1199,74.1 76.3   91S,0.4
Si -Tot  EfIIW  I    CES                   56211.5  203,130.9   39,371.0   34.202.B   219273.1   61.497.7  6,032.9      -  472,269.9 64.   303,974.6
C. lEDCNMU. ASSISTIIIX S TRAINDIG          11.352.8   22,136.6   21z716.4   21.B13.6   18B312.3  13304.7 12.464.4 12,044.2  133,145.0 39.9  19,662.1
3. nMNwITm
EIUIEEN                                 10,711.2   36,473.5   61,566   77,170.3  UMP075.0   76,72.0 42M797.1  3.523.6  3,639.2  9.5   37,026.7
Ifm*JEs S uIER)                          49268.6    1,30.9   12,211.8   129646.1   12564.9   12P240.6 12,192.3 11U644.8  399S99.9 13.6   12,197.5
U llBSn1                                 4v326.2  12,70l.1   22,265.4   13,890.4   21,97.5   209124.8 Uv,97.9        -  111wy3.3 14.2   15,37.9
Sib-Total IIYN     U                       19306.0   61u005.5   96043.7  103,706.7  114737.4  10B,737.4 66U97.3 15168A4  592,602.4 11.0   65.062.1
E. MU IIE  I EW 7TII9N                      4,150.7    5,413.8    3,59o.9   3,034.9   3v659.4   39276.4  5s789.9 13,609.1   42,575.1 51.3   21P854.8
F. l AIWSITIE                             15,406.4   23,2B0.2   33,3B4.7   43,657.2   20,733.2   239731.2  3,168.5     -  163,866.3  0.0        0.0
Total IIESIEN  COSTS                         442,000.4  751,631.2  917,175.3 107Bm95.3 1,035,622.9  969,25.5 433,621.8 132,636.2  761359.3 48.3 2,32,510.9
Tal DIE COSTS                                 442.00o.4  71,681n.2  917175.3 1O78,755.5 1t03522.9  969s,25.5 433,621.8 132,636.2 5,76u135.3 4U.8 2,12,510.9
Phrsicad C&Airftncis                        59i37.1   93725.6  127,9B9.6  161,97.4  156,516.2  142,343.1 59,629.8 16.120.6  813,409.4 49.0  400,957.4
pri  Etawucias.                             74,031.5  194-458   3149.7  473147.9  S613LY  6002573 3102637 106542.0 223P195.9 53.414000.-- -
Tot MEET   COSTS                              575626.0 1,039,962.6 1,363.515.1 1,713,940.8 1.733s275.0 1p712926.0 303,520.3 255,293.7 9,202,964.6 50.1 4,613P475.2
TAIs                                        96.241M   194,262.8  13s7437.7  265,629.1  251,477.1  269,143.1 110,376.0 32,560.2 1I407.677.4  0.0   0.0
Fowift Exdun                               235969.3  5479386.1  637,324.1  323704.9  860.335.3  9B39,01.5 409,406.1 105,539.1 4,613,475.2  0.0    0.0



PM2ITMI
LNOD-STM(E I 910CT
5imavv kccaoato bv Year
Total, Including Contlns.ncies                                                Totals Includird Continweile
(PK  31'000)                                                                  lUst Kitllion)
OM/3       6/37        37/33       Be/39       Wt/9        90/11I     92/92     92/93     Total     35/36 34/7 87/88 3/39 39/90  90/1 91/92 92/93 Total
stisusi1s na82sa.1111 &*vg**ssns    fsiawmax*si olaasessafls   *iiiiSi*uss a.  .ssssaz ags..s.asasa 288lss.ass  as... gases  M111 pumas scars 11 Bansesi
I. NASE31NT COSTS
A. CIYIL MOI
2. OUTFALL DRAIN SYSTER
CORE PROORM                               160,252.5           -                                       - -                              60,252.5   20.3                                           10.3
KPOD I woo                                10W123.2   146979.5   129,841,4             -           --                    .         .  373,104ol   6.5  9,7   3.7        -                         24.9
TIDAL LINK                                                    -   66,49.5   139.969,5   147,525.2   155.013,7                     -  503,41.3       -         4.4   9.7  10.4  22.1l          - 35.6
Sub-latla  JTTALL BRAIN ShuNE                26,535.7   246,79.5l  295,990.9   1394,9695   247,525.2   155,013.7           -         - It047#004.3   16,9  9.7  13.2   9.7  10.4  22.2 1             70,3
2. SMREA 2161IM6E CPW~
UNAC  MRAIMAO                              53,274.4   224,229.5   156024.3  143,434.3    65,236.0O   46,475.4           -             612,34.4    3.3   7.5  10.5  10.2  6.2   3.3      -        41.5
MRAIMAE TUKE1U.S                           27,747.     %96,906   131.615s1   32,372.3   166,12.0   175,905.  160,734.1            -  342,316.    1.g   6,4  Oil  5.7  11.7  12,6  11.51    - 53.5
3CAN6E  TUIEELS                            10,395,3           -   227,955.0  2471390.5  2271737,0    77,527.2           -         -  4915453.2   0.7       -  3,6  10.2  9,0  5.5       -     - 34.0
INtTE3APT21 DRAINS                         27,561%9   53,304,   37,220.    51,722.9   66,16.    32,573.2  66,467.5  42,49.9   501,333,    2.3  3.9  5.9  3.6   4s7  5,3   6,2  3.0  34.7
TILE MRAINS                                       -                                        301026.7   275,703.3 145,923.6         -  55,654.2        -          -         9.2  29.7  20,4     - 39,3
3WhTota1 WREA DRAIW,GE COAPOENT              123,i999.7  269,945.3  503245,0  430,422.0  579,003.2  657,274.9 393,125,2  4,349.9 2,9938059.3   3,0  27.3  33.3  29.7  40S  46,9  23.2   3. 203,0
3,  EIRIGATIWO/WI MS                                                                                                                                                                                       a
3016 CANAL E3MC1LIN                               -           -   96PI222,   329,230.9  127i263.2             -552,456.3                             -        6.5  22.7  9.0      -     -    -  M3,1
1d CMW. RIJOKMI.IM                                    9,641.4           -   59.173,7  205.319.4  249,132,6 135,665.6  60,625.4  747,552.3          -0,6            4.1  14.5  17.3  9.7  6,3  53.0
CaOTIAMI REURVIM t                                            -   39,32.5   239,633.7  277,35o2  253,672.9              -             52,044,        -        2.7   96  l225  21.3      -    -  36,2
WFIll                                       4330.7    19,6133    32,462.6   38,914,9    41P192.7    43,513,9  46,193.  40i,959.5   275,235,    0.3   2.3  2.2  2.7  2.9  3.2  3.3  3.5  19.2
Sub-Total 12118AT103W1V VMAS                   4O,33,    29,254.7  263427,3  566,903.2  552,560.7   451,363,3 131,353,3 117,514,9 2.091,333.    0,3   1.9  11.3  39.1  33,3  32,2  23.0  9.3 246.5
4. EU.CThIFICAI3IC                            52,396.2  266,609.3   223,329,9   230,579.7  277239.3    99,74.0  66,625.6   3,052.2   94545.1    3.4  22.0  14.7  1225  12.5  7.2   4.3  0.2  66.0
5. MATM'TMN  KOCTIIN.tJMS  MUlOP)                    -     2,321,9     6,20,7      4,376o0    2,942,1l                                    16,760.7      -  0.2  0.4   0,3  0.2       -           -   lot
Sub.-Total CIVIL MMS                            442,322,   625,600.  2,092,23o9 2.322.744.4 10545265.4 2.63270,9 632,604.62122486.0 70100.403l  23.5  40.5  73,3  91,2 102.7  97.4  45,3  13.0 492.5
B. EUJIPIEII t WIIICLES
Wml                                           2.291.0    2,790.1       1,119.6                                                       -    6,200.6   0.2   0.2   0il2-       -     - - -         - 0.4
IWM'TVWUM COUIPIIN                            57,926.7  236,354,7   23,091.    34,492.2   122.00.0   32p322,3              -             496,274.6   3.7  25.5   2.6  5.3   0.9  5.9       -    -  33,4
NAINTWIIE KMPTl1M.12S 3MA0W)                         -     2,674.4     2,257.3     3977.3                  3.537.6                        11,447,1      -  0.2   0.2  0.3      -   0.3     -     -  0.s
ELECTR2VICAI2C EU112P2N                       122,06,40    39,946,0    32,369.    42.747.7   .'?.363.    20,205.6  11,0230           -   131,653.    0.3   2,6   2.2  2.9   2,6  2.4  0,3        -  22,4
Sub.-Total EWUIPII   I YENWC.ES                  72,72.6  230,765.2   53,345.3   23I21,22.       34,943.3   206,065.5   2,023.0         -  695,582.0   4.7  26,5  3.9   9.0  2.5  7.6   0.3         -  47,
Co TECH3EICN. ASS1TISINC  I T1A13N111            23,324.2    27,705.3   29,032P4   30,352,5l   27,279.2    20,792,4  20,647.0  22,243,2   290779.5l   0.9   2.3   2o9  2.2   lot  2.5   2.5   2.5  23.2
Os ADIINISTRATIOH
E2191213211                                   139031.6   47,362,2    35,274.3   113,359.5  129,252,3l  125,302.7  74726.3  6,521.6   593,03,9    0.3  3.2   5,7  7.3   9.1  9,0   5.3  0.:5  42.:4
wUhlSI6Me I O0M)1                              5,223.0    25,p406.6    26,960.0    23,640,    19,620.5   20,227.3  22,346.2  22,624.    239,0803    0.3   2,0  2,2   1.3  2,4   foo4  2.5  2,   97 
026  AND CON.IE3                               4,04.5    25054,0    23,220.9    25,325.5   29.945,7    30,224.9  13,957.21               152,412.7   0,3   10   1it  1,7  2.1  2.2   1%4         -  10.6
k.6-Total ABI4IIMITRATIOW                        21,049.2    77,322.    2340,55,    257,12.39   273,303.6   276,245.0 215,030.2  283o25,   3366723    1.5  5.1  3.7  10.9  12.6  22.  63,2  2,0  61,6i
E. MNITMT3NG I DY6UAIIO(                          4,777,      6,26,       4,649.9     4,220.4     5o,2.3      4,939.    9,470,2  23AN3.    63,541,2   0.3  0D4   0.3   093  0.4  0.4   0.7   2.7   4.4
F. LMAND UI2SITIUN                               19,437.7   31,352.9    43,607.9   67.5826    33,633.7    42,64,2   5,504               -  24hM9325    2.3  2,1   3.1  4.7   2,4   3.0   0,4        -17.0
Total I&IITEIIT CUTS                              575,626,02,0O3?9,62,6 2,436 1355.  2,723,40A31,733275. 012.722926. 303,520.3 255,2907 VP202,964.6  37.2  68.4  92,5 223.2 1222,4 1222,4  57.4  23.2 635.7
assissis  s2-mmss   insins.Bss  sssusswssgtssssawe         mesasssssi ssssszn  sssssssss ssssss.ss  nazi snags a:sss amiss sans is,,, 33355 asti55 3555
Toal. pRONcT C0SIS                                  575,626,02.039,662.6 2U363525.2 2723,940.3 2.733.75.0 10122,26,0 303,520.3 255,29.7 9,202,64#6  37,2  63.4 92.5 223U  222.  222.4  57.4  23.2 635.7
aositisamnr Esusssssss  "amssass***  saasisassx ssssssxssss sssssamsevsaxs sissiu  =sxasvs sassisonsu ost m uss sass  a his ass. sas,s sisas estate s-Ums ens.



PMKI3IM
LO-STAE I P3oIcl
AWM OF VIYAR CC1NIT
Iust Illlim)
3bu Costs               mtInil Coninwmeln            PrIet Continflci             Total Irol. Cnl.        Phnical   Costs f
.~ ~~~~~- .tenl.. Plus    Prlnf
Locl                        Locil                       Loesl                        Local                  elice Cant. Cont. an
Fm   (Exel. Dutin  I        Fr.  (Exel. Its2 I           Fr, IxelM Duties I          for.   MExl. MIes I         on  el.l Ow
Erhe. Trxnl)  Tx     Total Exch. Ta)  Tlxn   Total [xcs TIxts) Tlxs   Totl Exoh, Txnl) Tlxe   Total    Cont.                   Costs
gu   _i           _  nsm    u.ggg "sggug  Mss. suu  mug sgsu  ns.   un nwwsunsi  s ss _   *ugu   usussus  _ _u
A. CIVIL M
l. UTFALL MRAIN SYSTEN
Can  RWI                                   3.6   3.4       1.6   3.6   0.5    0.5      0.2  2.2   0A4   0.0         0.1   0.5   4.5   3.9       1.9  10.3          1,3      9.0
I=  I Wm                                   9.6   5.3       3.1 12.7   2.4   0.s        0.6  2,1   2.1   0.6         0.7  3,4  13.2   6.7        5.0  24.9          3.3      21.7
T1DL LIN                                  14.1   3.6       3.6  21.3   2.1    0,5      0.5  3,2   7.6   1.6         2.o l1is   23.5    507      6.0  35,6         4.6       30,9
-Total LUWL MtAIN lSSTEM                     27.4  12.2       9.0  4.6   4.1   2.3        1.3  7.3  10.1   2.2         2.7  15.0  41.6  16.3    13.0  70,1            9.2      64
2.  -         IPAINE c e3fn
SrOtNlAIMO                                11.2  12.5       4.7  23.4   1.7   2.9       o.7  4.3   4.    3.3         1.5  3.9  17.0  17.6        6.  41.5           5.4      36.1
MAII UE WIE.LS                            23.4   6.1       6.2  35,    3.5    0.9       0.9  5.3   11.9   2.5       3.1  17.5  3S.l   9.5      10.2 53.5           7.6      50.9
KCEW    TWrU3                             14.9   3.2       3.   212.   2.2   0.5       0.5  3.2   7.1   1,2         1.4  9.7   24.2    4.9      5.0  34.0          4.4      29.6
INT T   PAINS                            12.6  S.       2.9  21.4    2.    0.t       0.   3.2   64.3   2.4        .4  10.2  200    9.2        407  34,7          4,5     34.2
TILE Run                                  14.5   4,3       2.9  21.6   2.2   0.6       0.4  3.2  20.0   2.5         19  14.4  26.7   7.4        5.2  39.3          5.1      34.2
Swillis-Tl W E   WAINM WC       NT           76.5  31.i    19.7 12.1   II.5   4,3         3.0  19.2  39.5  21.l        94.  0.6  127.4   4.i      32.0205.0          27.1    130.9
3. IMINATIO/WW UAS
NM  CN. FE.EILIINI                         9.7    9.9      3.9  23,5   1.9   2,0       0.3   497   4.7   3.6        1.7  10.0  16.3  15.5       6.3  38.1          6.4     31.3
JO I C[N    EmiU                         12.6  10.3       5.2  23.6   2,5   2,2       1.0  5.7    3.9    .14       3.4  le.7  24.0  It.s       9.7  53.0          1.3      44.2
OIImI IElIlOR                              3.2   9.4       3.4  21.0  12,    1.9       0.7  4.2   4.3  41.          h.3  21.0  14.6  25.7       5.0  364.2         6.0      30.1
Wm                                         2.0   3.3       1.5  12.2   0.2    0.9      0.1   1.2   1.1   4.0        0.7  5.3   3.3  1237        2.3  19.2          1.7      17.5
ITotAl IIG3ATIOUN"1 VMK                      32,5  38.3    23.9 14.2   64.3    6.t        2.6  15,l  294   23.4        7.4  45.4   52   64.2    24.1 246.5           23.0    123.5
4. ECTIUIFICATION                            250   23.2       4.3  43.0   3.7   2.0       0.7  6.5   10.5    4.0       2.0  16.5  3t.3  29,3       1.5  66.0          16      57.14
5.  MINTVMW    IK1TIINICLIS 111)              0.2    0.5     0.2   0.1    0.0   0,1       0O0  0.2   0.1   0.2         0.0   02    0.3   0.7       0.1  2.2           0.2      120
ul-Tota1 CIVIL  1I                             162.5  96.3      47.4 305.7  25.7  15.6       7.7  48.9   n.   36.7    21.6 I3.3  266.3  149.0    76.7 492.5             63.1    424.4
1. EUIflWIT I UHltLES
am                                            0.2   0.0       0.2  0.3    0.0   0.0       0.0  0.0   0.0    0.0        0.0  0.1   0.2   0.1        0.2  0.4           0.0      0.4
PIETIIDWCE  ISlJi9m1                         24.4   0.6       3.7  23.7   1.4   0.1       0.9  2.4   4.3   0.1         2.7  7,1  20.2   0.3       1225 33.4           3.0     30.4
MINTDWU K?0IEO tl KS  I iXCU )                0.3      -      0.2  0.5   0,0       -      0.0  0.2    0.2       -      0.2  0.2   0.5              0.3  0.3           0.2       0.7
fl.ECiriICAIllUUI OI                          6A,4   0.7      .l3  3.4    0,6   0.1       O.l  O.3    2,5   0.2        0.5  3.1   9.6    1.0       lot 12.4           l.1     1t.3
u-Total  UIPW  I 1ICLtl                         21,3   2.4    10.4  33.2    2,1   0.2        1,0  3.3   7.0   0.3         3.3  IOS  30.4    2o3    14,7  47,0          4.3      42,7
C, olle0C   ASilTEI I TRAININ                    1.4   0.9        -   9.3              -      -           3.5   0,3             3.3   11,    1,3        -  13.2            -      132
3. MHINI3IMTIU
ol3mDi                                        2.6  22.1       2.7  27,5   0.3    2,2      0.3   2,7   1,3   3.7       1.1  121,   4.1   33.2      41.  4124           3.3     37.6
IUI(AL1113  IO )                              0.1   5. Ott  3  02   6.    0.2    0.5      0.0 0 0.    0.4   2.2    01   2.0    114   3.0          0.2  917           0.9      1.3       '
0 11N A   MMOIEl                              l,1   5.9       0.0  7.3      -      -        -    -   0,5   2,0         0.3   2,7   I.6   7.9       I,1  10.6            -      10.6 -
lulr-Total MHINI3ITIIN                           4,6  33.3       3.7 4211    0.3   2,7       0,3   3.4   2.2  23.0        1.5  26.6   7.1  49.1       5.4  62,6          4.6     57.0       81w
E,  2rT1ul I IuATIM                              2.5   2.3       0.2  3.0      -      -        -    -   0.3    0.5       0.1  124    2.4    l.3       0.2  4.4             -      4.4
F. L AIJI mUITI *N  11.5                                          -  11.5      -    1.        -   h.e      -    3.7       -  3.7       -   17.0        -  17.0          2,3     146
Total  ITNENT COTS                               197.4  145 2    *      1.74064    23.1  201.3  9.0  57.   93.2  54.U5     26,4 173.  3126   220.0    97.1  357            79,4    55,3
Total                                              197.14  145.2    62.7 04.3   2.1   20.3      9,O  57.   93.   54.5    26.4 173.  3112.  220.0    97.2   .7              794      556.3



PAK18TAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Estimated Annual Recurrent (0OM) Costs 1/
Subareas and Overall Sta*e I Project
(Hid-1984 Constant Prices)
Spinal Drain and        Nawabuhah                             Mirpurkhas
Outfall S atem   /    Subarea          Sanghar Subarea        Subarea             StaRe I Proiect
Coot Item                   No.    Ro(000)    N_o       Rs(000)    No.    Rs(000)       o.    Rs(0OO)   No.    Rs(OOO)   USJk00)'
A. Personnel
1. Supervisory                 23       735.6      21       684.8      21      684.8      31       994.3      96    3,099.5       229.6
2. Workshop                    23       330.7      28       400.7      28       400.7     34       506.7    113    1,638.8        121.4
3. Haintenance Operatives   192    2,790.0         68       977.3      57       810.9     60       867.1    377    5,445.3        403.3
4. Pump Operators 2/
a. Tubewelle                  -        -        480    6,477.7    527    7,111.5    294    3,954.9  1,301   17,544.1   1,299.6
b. Interceptor Drains         -        -         26       350.9      29       391.1     39       526.8      94    1,268.8        94.0
c. Tile Drains                -        -          -         -         -         -       26       350.9      26       350.9       26,0
Sub-total              238    3,856.3    623    8,891.4    662    9,399.0    484    7,200.7  2,007   29.347.4   2,173.9
B. Power 3/                                 -              25,698.6            55,958.6           30,381.0           112,038.2   8,299.1
C. Other Maintenance
1. Buildings                             44.5                60.4                60.4               76.3               241,6       17.9          1
2. Maintenance Workshops                 68.9               115.5               115.5              116.6               416.5       30.8          r
3. Fuel & Lubrication                 8,998.3             2,113.6             1,660.0            1,992.8            14,764.7   1,093.7
4. Structures                         5,753.7             1,072.7               875.6            1,050.5             8,752.5      648.3
5. Spares                            18,241.6            13,865.6           22,656.4            23,172.7            77,756.3   5,759.7
6. Switchgear                            -                  113.4               256.5               173.8              543.7       40.3
7. Miscellaneous                         85.9                80.6                80.6               116.6              363.7       26.9
8. Nara Irrigation System            28,745.1                 -                   -                   -             28,745.1   2,129.3
Sub-total                    61,938.0            17,241.8            25,705.0           26,699.3           131,589.1   9,746.9
D. Capital Replacement
(Average, years 11-40)             15,137.0           12,243.0            27,240.0            16,127.0            70,747.0   5,240,5
TOTAL O0M COST (Re 000)                80,931.3            64,075.0           118,302.0           80,408.0           343,716.3  25,460.4
*0*UN                   ".fl l                                                *...... U....E.U*..."..  
CCA (Cropped Area)
OUO ha                        516(571)             224(246)           147(202)             145(123)           516(571)        -
Re/ha of CCA                   156                 286                805                  555                666            49.3
Rs/cropped ha                 142                  260                585                  655                602            45.9
1/  As of about 1995 onwards.
|   In event tubewells are automated, personnel coats would be reduced.
3/ Based on power tariff of Re 0.75 per kWh.
4/  06M cost for Nara system (Nara/Jamrao Canals, Chotiari Reservoir).



PAKISTAN
LIODSTAIC I PIOECT
Flnmclir  Plm  by PioJect Compwnets
(IUS Million)
ASIMN                  INTUMTIOIW    DEIIELOMEN
SEWLOIET                    DEYLOPIENT   ADNINIITRATION                               00WRUEII  OF
IDA         IM        SAUDI FlI        A9E1Y             (15K)      SVITZELMN    OPEC FtIED      PAKISTMN         Total             Local
Foro  (Excl. Duties I
AmomtI    Amimt I    Mmt Z               Atmt            AmtZI aMt aI!    Abomt I                   Aaownt         Aa4mtZI    Exeh. Taxes)   Taxes
A, DRAIMIE 6ISF1IM. SYSTEM          19,9 19,3                  26.0 2s.i                      13,7  13.6        -    -                   41.0  40,3   100.6  11,3   55,5    23.5       21.6
3. WASIW                            12.3 14.9    29.3 35,2        -            4.7   5,6       4.1   4.9      2,5  3.0                   303  36.4   833,   13.1   39.1    33.6        10,6
Co MSHAR                            21.4 Use9   345 2907          -    -       3.4   2.0      23,0  t0,e      3,1  2,5       -     -     44.9  37.3   120.2  13.9   62.3    4l.0       1d.9
as HIAPM'IIO                        19.9 10.3    49.9 29.9        -    -      27.4  15.        3.5   2.       3,4  2.0    10.0  5.9      60,1  3497   17n.   27,2   91.5    56,6       25.0
It VATItR EMIRCE  YEWLUPtf          72.9 53.6        -         26.0 19,4      ---42.2  '300   141,0  22.2  56,0    62.2                                                                22,3
F. INITITUTIIW  DEWLINT              4.  36.7     9.3 63.2                                                                          0.0   0.1    13.2   2,1   11,9    5,3-
9. PROECT INFORMATION IYITTE           -    -                                  1.9  42,2       1.3  28,9      1l 24.3        -            02   4.5      4.4   0.7    2.4      5.9       0,2
Total Dishursunt                     150.0 23.6   122.0 19.2    52.0  89.2      37.4   5.9      35,6   5,6    10,0  1,6    10.0  1,6    213.6 34,4   63507100.0  319,6   220,0           97,1
ma  323588 3535  gmasma  in83 58355  525833533533  338581 585   *53533o 3533  353538                                         Ems 883335   3
kttobet 31, 1IM   13131
Finminc1   Plm  Iv Dlsbwursst Catalorv
(ma million)
CAWIIIM         C)ERSEAS
AIIM                    INTEMTIWUd   DYELWLOIT
DEwLOPEN                    DEWLOPE       AMINISTRATIWI                               ONWRIEN   OF
IDA         mg        $atU FlIE        AMDY              (U5)       SWITZERLAND   OPEC FUNED     PAKIBTAM         Total             Local
- -  - -            -----   ..~~~~~~~~~~~..  -     ----- - - -~~~~~~~For,   IExel. Duties I
AmatI AM!                    mtI         Alun              m MaiMAMat! ziM!  ait M I     aI M!        M    I!       MAim    ! I  Cxch. Taxes)   Taxes
A. CIVIL WM$5                          140.2 29.!  113o7 23.1    52.0 10,5        35.5   7.2       13.0   26      9.0  1.3    10.0  2.0    119,1  24.2   492.5  77,5  266.9   149,0         76.7
3s EGUIPENT I Y4IOLES                    0.1  0.2        -                  : -         -         22,2  45.2        -                        25.7  54,6    47.0   7.4   30.4       1.3      14.7
Co TEO3ECML ASISIITM   I TRAININI        4. 36,7       9.3 63.2---0.0   0.1    13.2   2,1   11.9                                                                                   1,3-
3. AIINISIUATIW                          4.9  3,0----56.7  92.0    61,6   9.7    741   49.1                                                                                                  5.4
Es HONITDRIN9 I EYMLUATION                 -             -            -     -      2. 0 42,2       1I3  20.9      Is,024,3        -           02   4.5       4,4   0,7    2,4      1.3       0.2
F. LAND ANIUIITION                                                                                                                     7o0 100.0    l7s0  2.7        -      7,0 
Total 31a6wuusnt                         150.0 23.6   122.0 19,2    52.0 9,2        37. 5  5.9      35.6   5,6    10.0  1.6    10.0  1,6    213,6  344   635,7 100.0  313,6   220.0           97,1
35535  am=   ~m  ama  =W3 m                      us anm  352833  5a53  magss sma     3x23  33MU3S  3Emus"          33523     32  3852  m35   ex52
October 31, 1904  13129



uu-ITa I ""OCT
iwacird Plan be &uwv Accowts
CAWIMO2        0W37A
MSIM                   lNMT TIW.  KYEWIEEIT
BEWI*PUET                 K5MN1M  AJAINIUTRATI2N                                  WMRUA I W
EM          MR        wf FLO         MEIC             (UKD       UITZKLI6S   OPEC fl         P002510         Total             Local
AuMt  S   AbowI, I   AMMat I    Abma't  I              Asm       I    Amzt  I   hSmt I    hsmt  I   bmaet  I                 ach, laxes)   Taxes
A. CIYIL WK
PIf "A                                                                                                                         -          10.1100.0   20.3  l.d   4.5    3.9           2.of
Km0 I Nu                                    19.? Bobo                                                                                        5,0  20.0   24.?  3.?  11.2    6.7           5.0
1131. IN                                           -       -         26.0 71o                                                                9,6  27.0    31.6  5.6   23.3    5.7         .00
M-Total WTVN.LL WAIN SYSTEM                   If.? 26.2       -    -    26.0 36.7                                                        -     24.9  35.2   70.1  list  41.4   l6.l         13,0
2. SUOM  NAIMSC 1OVW1
SWME ~~~~~~                     -    -   34,3~~~~~~~ 33.                                                                        .712        415  6,5   17.0   17.6          6.?
I1WM     11UE.LS                              -    -    433260217 41U.5   .2   1.                                                                                                        1.
WAMD  1Ui.L3                                             1 7.0 50.2      - -                       12.0  35.3       -    -       -    -      5.0  14.6   34.0  5,3  24.2    4.?           Sic
INTOT   30  MAIN13.6 3?.2                                               -          164,4  47.1        -    -                                 4.1  13.6   34.7  1,1   20.3    9.2          4,7
111I~U                                        - AI               -  -               19.1  40.6        -     -                  1  0,0 21.4    10.2 26.0   39.   4.2  26,7       7.4       5,2
SibTotl UNA  OUA    UOMNET                       -         113.7 54.7      -     -    35.5  27.1      12.0  53i        -          0.0  4.0    36.1 27.7  240.0  32.712.    406              3
MIA E.M  Wfl.IM                          30.5 30.0-          -7.6  20.0   30.2  6.0  26,3   25.5                                                                                       6.3
.MNd  CANAL MUINILI                        4217.           10.7  20.2   53.0  1.3  24.0   l?,J                                                                                         ?,7
0111A01 EWVIU                               423 -1                    26,0 72.0-20.2  23,2    30,   5.7  14.6   15.7                                                                      5.3
WE                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0 42,4-9,0 44.6                                                       -    -      2.3  12.0   19.2  3,0   3.3   213.7          2,3
WaTtal ZINMOTIM/UU  MM                        30.7 31.1       -    -     26.0 21.7             -                     9.0  .1        -           062108      146.5  30 1,    64,2            24.1,
4. ELXCTRIF1CA!1LC                             3,14 593 --                           --                        --26.1  40.2   66.0  10.4  39.3    193                                        7.5
5. MIkTVMN~~~~~~~ IROIII.AIES  W2 - - -   -        -        -        -     2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 9,                      0.1  20.0    1.1  0.2   0.1    0.7           0.1
Sib-Total CIVIL UM5                              140.2 23.5  Ill.7 23.1   52.0 IM.       35,5  7,2       13,0  2.6      9.0  2,3    20,0  2.0   129,1  24.2  492.1  77.1  266,0  149.0         U76.
WE                                 ~~~~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~0.1 22.3                                                         0.   73.2    0.4  0,1    0,2    O.2          0il
MZNrVWa        im EU2lN-2.  624                                                                                                                12.1  37.6   33.4  5.3   20.1    0.3         122,
MlNTVAIM KMlIOO. I W13iWi0.4  50.0                                                                                        -                   0.4  50.0    0.6  0,1    0.5         -       0.1
11Fl127CAfl0N WIPELNY-12.4 100.0    12,4   2.0   9.6    1.0                                                                                                                                  1,9
3k-Total NUIPENT A MIMES.1                        0,1  0,2       --                                      21,2  41.2       -                       25.6 54.6    47.0  7.4  30.4        1.3      14.7
C. TEDWICAL AMSISTU  A 140INI3                     4.8316.7    3.3 63.2           --                    ---0.0   0.1   23,2   2.1  12,9                                               IJ1 
3.AMIO2ItTMT2
02100D42.4 200.00   41.4  6.55   4:1   33.21                                                                                                                                               4.21
U16(SALARIES I OM)0                             4.9 52.0-4.7  49.                                                                                             9.7   2.    1,4    3.          0.
0 2  AmS LICIES2 -0.6 200.0   10.6   2.7   1.6    7.9                                                                                                                                      III
UP-Total AININIIKTRTION                           4.?  3.0 -          -----                                                                        6792,0    61.6  9.7   7,1  409,2             5.
E  I,lTU2UI  I IEKAIMIN                                                                   II? - - -  ,  42.2  2.1  23,9  II1 24.3      -    -      0.2  4.5      4.4  0.7    2.4    1.3         0.2
F, LaS  1J21111U-27.0 100.0   17,0  2.7                                                                                                                                         -    17.0         -
Total 12C11T1111 DISBURSDEMTS                      150,0 23.6   122.0 19.2   52.0  1s2    17.4   S.?        35.6   5.6   20.0  1,6    20.0  1,6   213.6  34.4  63.7 200.0  126.6  220.0           97,1
mm    m m           maN1"bo  mmI  ma  mum111o -"a,  .8somp            mmtam JIma i111n                  ma,s"t'l   mmII  ama=  111ma mm      m a
OtIoNr 31o IM    11130                                                                                                                                      -4 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



-66-                               ANNEX  3
Table 8
PAKISTAN
LBOD STAGE I PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ N Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                                            Cumulative
and Semester                     Disbursements            Disbursements
1985/86
1st                                 4.7 aJ                   4.7
2nd                                 4.9                       9.6
1986/87
1st                                 6.5                     16.1
2nd                                 6.9                     23.0
1987/88
1st                                10.7                     33.7
2nd                                 9.3                     43.0
1988/89
1st                                 7.6                     50.6
2nd                                11.9                     62.5
1989/90
1st                                16.8                     79.3
2nd                                11.1                     90.4
1990/91
Ist                                14.5                    104.9
2nd                                 9.5                    114.4
1991/92
1st                                11.7                    126.1
2nd                                 6.7                    132.8
1992/93
1st                                 7.3                    140.1
2nd                                 5.0                    145.1
1993/94
1st                                 4.9                    150.0
A/ Reflects initial deposit under project's special account.



-67-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Procedures for Operation of Special Account
1.       A "Special Accountt (or Imprest Account) would be opened in the
State Bank of Pakistan by GOP.
2.       GOP's Finance Division would authorize GOSind and WAPDA to open
separate subaccounts (Personal Ledger Accounts) in the Treasury for purposes
of receiving funds from the Special Account and making payments for items
eligible for financing from the proceeds of the IDA Credit. GOSind would set
up two separate subaccounts for expenditures on OFWM4 (watercourse improve-
ments and staff costs) and irrigation (Nara and Jamrao Canal remodelling)
works to be financed by IDA and carried out by GOSind's Departments of
Agriculture and Irrigation, respectively. These subaccounts would be
individually administered by the respective Secretaries of these Departments,
under the overall supervision of GOSind's Finance Secretary. The WAPDA
subaccount would be established for expenditures for drainage (KPOD and DPOD)
and electrification works to be financed by IDA and would be administered by
the Chief Engineer, IMO. In order to facilitate the operation of the subac-
counts, the 110 would provide overall coordination, such as consolidating the
status of the three subaccounts in close collaboration with the three
entities and GOSind's Finance Secretary.
3.       Promptly after the Effective Date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, and at the request of the Borrower, IDA wc'zld withdraw rupees (Rs) 75
million (M) equivalent from the Credit Account for deposit in the Special
Account. Based on the project requirements and request from the participat-
ing entities immediately following Credit effectiveness, IMO would instruct
the State Bank of Pakistan to transfer the following initial amounts to two
subaccounts Rs 1.5 M for OEUM and Rs 40 M for drainage and electrification
works; it is expected that IMO would instruct the State Bank to transfer an
initial Rs 3.1 M for the irrigation works in the beginning of FY86/87 in
accordance with the project's expenditure schedule. Subsequent to the ini-
tial deposits, upon receipt of withdrawal applications from GOSind's Depart-
ments of Agriculture and of Irrigation and WAPDA, and under the overall
coordination of IMO, IDA would further withdraw from the Credit Account to
deposit and maintain in the Special Account a level of rupees for payment of
eligible expenditures required by the three agencies for a consecutive
four-month period. IMO would play an important coordinating role to ensure



-68-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
that a low utilization rate of one subaccount does not jeopardize the funds
made available to and required by another subaccount.
4.      Payments from the subaccounts would be exclusively for approved
eligible expenditures stated under para. 2. All withdrawals from GOSind's
subaccounts by the Secretaries of Agriculture and Irrigation would be in
accordance with the procedures prescribed by GOSind for operation of Personal
Ledger Accounts. Withdrawals from the WAPDA subaccount by the Chief
Engineer, IMO, would be in accordance with procedures prescribed by GOP.
Copies of these procedures would be forwarded to IDA. Checks to withdraw
funds from a subaccount would be signed by the respective Secretary/Chief
Engineer and co-signed by an appropriate officer designated by GOSind/WAPDA.
All documents substantiating any payment made from the subaccount would be
retained by the Departments of Agriculture and of Irrigation and WAPDA.
5.       On the basis of monthly statements of expenditures, certified by
the supervisory consulting team leader, the Department of Agriculture would
prepare reimbursement applications for signature by the authorized official
and submit them to IDA (through the Resident Mission, Islamabad); based on
full documentation of other project expenditures being financed under the
Credit and implemented by WAPDA and the Department of Irrigation, IMD would
coordinate the submission of reimburserment applications to IDA (also through
the Resident Mission). The payment instructions in the applications should
clearly state the name and number of the subaccount to ensure proper transfer
of funds. IDA would withdraw from the Credit Account the reimbursable
amounts and remit them to the Special Account.
6.       If for any reason IDA should disallow or reduce a claim submitted by
GOSind's Departments of Agriculture and of Irrigation and WAPDA, GOSind o-
WAPDA, as applicable, would be required to make up the amount in the sub-
account.
7.       The subaccounts would be audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement.
8.       No further deposit in the Special Account/subaccounts would be made
when the total amount withdrawn has reached the equivalent of SDR 119.2 M
(US$121.2 M).
9.       GOP, GOSind, or WAPDA, as required, would obtain from the State Bank
of Pakistan and furnish to IDA any information relating to the Special
Account and subaccounts as IDA may reasonably request.



PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Integrated Management Organizatlon
(IMO)
Plojec Sleeding
Commitlon
Sind imgation                                                 General MaShnd AQriculture
& PovWW                                                     WAPDA (South)                                                     Deparnment
Dopartnmnt                                                                                                                       (OFAM)
Chie Eng row
Protect Direct     DD
(Centiol Design|
& Mnito0dn)|
Pr )c iroct(r|                        Project Di oclta 1                                                rXetDrclr|            ;    ; ;
I                         P(O)OCI Director              to(                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%0
Nata & Jamroo                              Spinal Drain                                                    Electrification         OIWM
Romodellinr                                & Oulfall                                                                              O
Prote;   Dirctor |                        Proect Director       Proect Irector
Nawobshah                              Songhar & Chotiori |      Mirpurkh    |
Dopuity Directors                                                                                          Deputy Directors     De" DWoF1
Dopu Ryoelling                                                                                               Electrition            (OPfNM)
jmroo Reonxoiling                                                                                         (NowVbShOh Sonhar JNawbshoh.Sanahor.g
Mirpurkhas)          Mirpurkhas
World Bonk-26334
II



PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Organization
(Drainage System Only)
|Superlntendi,l |
Englie
Executive Engineer        Executive Engineer          Executl Erol                        Engineer
Nawobshoh                   Sanghor                  _M_.         .      .         & Outlall
(some detail                                       (sare dslotl as tra
as for Songhox)                                    Sohor plu SDO f0                   D
LBD D41i 81 i plus         KsiWrdo
SDO for Tie Drains)          outfall system
LOOD RD '159-411 1
-4
Officers (SD0)           Mcers~5(900)            Cftiers (800)            OffiCel' (900) 
Nin~terance             SurbooDrIn                tueels&kterceptor Drains
World Bank-26333
nld



-71-                                     ANNEX 5
Chart 3
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Impb   munt!   Schedule
SPINAL DRAIN
IWOPOOID_ _
NAWSA 9aBAnEA
Ssowhtsmit                 -          -
ORtIM                  Wi 
MaR W_ Dbufo
S4NGHAR4                                              __                    .
Submc Dmit.K U
9xwnag  X s                -          --      -   -X  
lint6tSgt DrainsrAWa
11 kVWDb                     '  
Mainuohlx Fadotir__
UWURIHSSBR9
5XrboeO D_ _ _'
DriaeWeds                                1KEPAK    - -                      m
71s Dm'neogs                                  v .            -     _
idKntsa0rDrois  uW
1 W DWtdbulon 
ORHM2_
PRIGATONWOtS.
No  aRmodlhg                         =
jompooRf~mod"kn                         W     m      -                           
oR ~w - -  -   
IVAWAN Pmbu,Ctniction & Equt,rrieit Pura*chs 
C4noaucftnn& hT~ImN%~ttIon                         Vb   x*-26331



PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Proposed Schedule for Consulting Seyvices
No. Of                Duraton od SeMces                     ManIMoVInni;
DiscipIlne                Specl.ls_          85 86 87 88 89 90 9  92               PaWkItan Home Olfie Total
Team leoder                          1                                                       96        0       96
Drolnage Design Engineers            4                                                      150        0      150
Groundwater Engineer/
Hydrogeoogist                       2                                                       72        0       72
Ilgoltion Design Engineers           3                                                       96        0       96
Hydraulics Engineer                  1                                                       42        0       42
Constnctlon Engineers                                                                       ' 175      0      175
Draincge Construction
Speciallsts                         2                                                       85        0       85
Irrigation Construction
Specialist                          1                                                       48        0       48                                             .
Electical Engineer                   1                                                                        30
Unaliocated                          _                                                       78       36       84
1  1                  Totol Months         842       36      878
0In cases where more than one specialist Is lnvoed, only one rmay be In residence at anV one time.
World Bank-26332
II2



-73-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Terms of Reference for Main Consulting Services
Introduction
1.      IMO and GOSind's Irrigation Department would require technical assis-
tance principally in planning, designing, and implementing the lower outfall
system (including the KPOD/DPOD bifurcation structure and tidal link), sub-
surface drainage (TW fields, tile drains, and interceptor drains), and
irrigation components of the project. The consultants also would assist IMO
and the Department in setting up and implementing satisfactory procedures
for O&M. The consultants would be an internationally selected firm or con-
sortium in association with a suitable local firm and would be employed in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, August
1981. It is expected that the consultants would be posted no later than July
1, 1985.
ScoDe of Work
2.      The scope of work is as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (para
3.02).
Consulting Services
3.      Services to be provided by the consultants would include but not be
limited to assistance in:
(a) Collection and analyses of data;
(b) Preparation of work plans and PERT chart for the implementation
of all project components;
(c) Investigation, design, layout, preparation of specifications and
engineer's cost estimates, and supervision of construction of
the surface and subsurface drainage systems and of Nara/Jamrao
canal remodelling work and Chotiari Reservoir;
(d) Establisbment of criteria and procedures for technical work and
construction specifications;
(e) Certification of technical acceptability of completed designs
and specification drawings;
(f) Preparation of tender documents for civil works and evaluation
of bids in accordance with cofinanciers' requirements;



ANNEX 6
-74-                     Page 2
(g) Monitoring of completed works for potential problems and pos-
sible improvement in design;
(h) Technical advice on specific subsurface drainage design require-
ments resulting from different aquifer and soil conditions;
(i) Imparting to contractors understanding of the construction
specifications, inspection requirements, and progress reporting
requirements;
(j) On-the-job training and guidance in materials inspection and
installation techniques used for the construction of the subsur-
face tile drainage system and TW design and installation;
(k) Setting up monitoring systems for selected physical parameters
and monitoring the project's physical and financial progress;
and advising as appropriate GOSIND's Planning and Development
Department in: finalizing TOR and invitations for proposals from
suitable independent local institutions for the project impact
evaluation study; and in executing such study, particularly
during critical phases of the work plan.
'.) Reviewing inspection reports and preparing monthly summaries
of drain inspection problems/remedies;
(m) Advising IMO and GOSind's Irrigation Department on O&M proce-
dures and in preparing the O&M manual;
(n) Certifying the completeness and acceptability of completed
works; and
Co) assisting with the preparation of quarterly and comprehensive
annual reports.
Duty Station and DisciDlines Required
4.      The consultants would be stationed principally at the IND's main
office in Hyderabad; however, individual team members may occasionally be
posted to satellite offices of project directors for short periods of time.
The following expertise would be required:



ANNEX 6
-75-                      Page 3
Main Consultinz Services
Man-Months Required
Home
Discipline                    No.        Pakistan    Office    Total
Team Leader                    1            96         0          96
Drainage Design Engineers     4            150         0         150
Groundwater Engineer/
Hydrogeologist                2            72         0          72
Irrigation Design Engineers   3             96         0          96
Hydraulics Engineer            1            42         0          42
Construction Engineers        5            175         0         175
Drainage Construction
Specialists                  2             85         0          85
Irrigation Construction
Specialist                   1             48         0         48
Electrical Engineer            1            30         0          30
Unallocated                    -            78        36          84
Months   842        36         878
B. Terms of Reference for OFWM Assistance
Introduction
1.      GOSind will implement the OEWM component under the project with its
own staff of the Department of Agriculture during the first project year.
Provision has been made, however, for the appointment of local supervisory
consultants from January 1, 1987 to assist the Department of Agriculture
staff if necessary to meet the project's targets in watercourse improvement
and adequate supervision of project works.
Description of Work
2.      The team of local supervisory consultants would provide assistance to
GOSind's OFWM Directorate in the overall coordination and management of OFIM
wor'k.l/ The te-a would report to the director of the Directorate and be
under his general supervision.
Scope of Work
3.      The consulting team would provide the following services:
(a) review plans and designs for OFWM civil works to assure
compliance with agreed criteria and standards;
(b)  review technicai adequacy of revised standards proposed by the
Directorate;
.J Terms and conditions of agreement and experience and qualifications of
consulting personnel shall be satisfactory to IDA.



ANNEX 6
-76-                     Page 4
(c) verify statements of expenditures for procured materials;
(d) check structures during installation and all completed civil
works to assure that such works meet the agreed criteria and
standards of eligibility for IDA financing;
(e) notify OFWM Director of compliance or non-compliance of comp-
leted civil works with agreed criteria and standards;
(f) prepare reimbursement applications to IDA for the Directorate,
and verification of quantities and quality;
(g) assist the Directorate in preparing annual vork plans and
progress and completion reports, as well as in updating the
project work plan; and
(h) monitor, review, and assist in procurement activities.
4.      Following completion of civil works by the GOSind's OFWM Directorate,
the consultants would check all renovated watercourses to verify quantity
and quality of structures and sections. In addition, they would check
adequacy of precision land levelling of the demonstration plot. Deficiencies
noted would be reported to the Directorate at least 45 days prior to
certification of completion by the Directorate.
5.      The consultants would assist in preparing progress and completion
reports, annual and updated project work plans, and budget control in
accordance with directives from the Director; they would give particular
attention to and assistance in keeping OFWM work on schedule and in
resolving constraints that otherwise would delay the work.
Duty Station and Disciplines Required
6.      The consultants would be stationed in Hyderabad in close proximity
to GOSind's OFWM Directorate. It is expected that the consultants would be
appointed no later than January 1, 1987. The following expertise would
be provided:
Profession                               No.      Nan/Months
Team Leader, Engineer (full-time)         3          174
Accountant                                3           45
Sub-engineer (part-time)                  3           45
Total months                                264
7.      The local consulting firm's fee would include all personnel costs
(salaries, related expenses, and allowances); overhead; transport, office
and survey equipment; transportation costs; rent of office facilities
and utilities; and clerical support and drivers. In addition, the firm
would supply limited back-up staff support, services, and technical
assistance from its headquarters staff as required.



-77.                              ANNEX 7
Table 1
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Agricultural Impact of Overall Stage I Project
(Cropped Area, Cropping Intensity, Yield & Production)
P                E`W   Z Increase
A.Cropped Area (000 ha)
Kharif     - Seed Cotton                 157.3    194.5    282.0       44
Fodder                      14.2      10.8     10.7       -
Rabi       - Wheat                       161.9    198.1    222.5       12
Fodder                      15.6      15.9     12.0       -
Oilseeds                    14.9      10.6     10.6       -
Perennials - Sugarcane                    14.6      15.5     15.5       -
Orchards (Mango)                    12.1     17.7      17.7      -
Total Cropped Area                       390.6    463.2    571.0       20
Total Cultivable Area (CCA)              516.3    516.3    516.3        -
Cropping Intensity 1/                     81        96      117        22
B.Livestock Population 2/
Bullock                                110,159  163,710  219,294       34
Buffalo                                 76,548  125,638  106,120        -
Milk-cow                               148,330   70,330   87,717       25
C.Yields (mt per ha)
Seed Cotton                                1.2       1.7      2.3      36
Wheat                                      2.3       3.7      4.2      15
Kharif Fodder                             30.8      47.2     50.2       6
Rabi Fodder                               27.9      30.6     47.4      55
Oilseeds                                   0.7       0.7      1.0      41
Sugarcane                                 41.2     60.9      72.2      27
Orchards (Mango)                           8.2      13.4     15.9      19
D.Production (000 mt)
Seed Cotton                              189.6    338.1    652.9       93
Wheat                                    377.6    735.5    950.0       29
Kharif Fodder                            435.9    494.6    543.7        9
Rabi Fodder                              435.9    494.6    573.7       16
Oilseeds                                   9.7       7.9     10.8      37
Sugarcane                                600.0    960.5  1.190.5       24
Orchards (Mango)                          98.9    235.5    280.8       19
Milk (M liters)                          112.7    124.0    118.8        -
Meat                                       4.9       5.8       6.3      9
1/  Perennials are counted twice.
21 Animals owned by the majority of project beneficiaries (one pair of
bullocks for each 5 ha and one cow/buffalo); given variable ownership
patterns, actual livestock population is likely to be larger than
indicated.



PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Agricultural Impact Accordint to Subarea
(Cropped Area, Cropping Intensity, Y           Peld 6 Production)
Nawabshah Subarea                          Sanghar Subarea                         Mlrpurkhas Subarea
P       FW        FW    % Increase    P             FW        FW    x Increase       P        FW       FW     1 Increase
A.Cropped Area (000 ha)
Kharif      - Seed Cotton          69.2    101.7    117.5           15     57.6        61.3    104.2           70       30.5      31.6    60.3           91
Fodder                6.5       5.0       4.9         -       3.9        2.8       3.0           4        3.8       3.0      2.8           6
Rabi        - Wheat                67.4      85.9      97.9         14     59.4       68.2      82.3           21       35.1      44.1    42.2            4
Fodder                7.2       7.0       5.2        25       4.3        4.4       3.8           14       4.2       4.6      3.2          30
Ollseeds              9.6       6.7       6.7         -       4.7        3.3       3.3           -        0.5       0.6      0.6           -
Perennials - Sugarcane              8.9        9.2       9.2         -       1.5        1.5       1.5           -        4.3       4.8      4.8           -
Orchards (Mango)              2.5       4.9       4.9         -       1.9        3.5       3.5           -        7.7       9.3      9.3           -
Total Cropped Area                 171.3    220.4    246.3          12    133.3       145.0    201.1           39       66.1      98.0   123.2           26
Total Cultivable Area (CCA)       224.4    224.4    224.4            -    146.7       146.7    146.7            -      145.2    145.2   145.2             -
Cropping Intensity 1/              81       104       116           11     93         102      140             38       54        77       94            22
Farming Intensity 2/              121.0    136.3    136.2            -    117.9      123.7    148.6            20      104.5    110.1   126.9            15
B.Livestock Population 3/
Burlock                          48,370   80,767   92,377           14   39,705    51,718   80,115             55    22,085   31,225  46,803             50
Buffalo                          32,270   58,217   59,210            2   21,750    24,365   10,875             45    21,528   43,056  36,037             16
Milk-cow                         12,985   32,308   36,950           14   30,153    20,687   32,046             55    45,192   17,336  18,721              8
C.Yields (mt per ha)
Seed Cotton                         1.2        1.9      2.4        27        1.2        1.6       2.3          44        1.2       1.6      2.3          41
Wheat                                2.3      4.0        4.4         8       2.3        3.5       4.3          24.       2.3       3.5      4.1          19
Kharif Fodder                      30.8      47.0      51.7         10     30.8        44.8      50.2          12       30.8      44.8    49.2           10
Rabi Fodder                        27.9      33.7      48.8        45      27.9        29.1     47.4           63       27.9      29.1    46.5           60
Oilseeds                            0.7       0.8        1.0        32      0.7         0.7       1.0          49        0.7       0.2      1.0          46
Sugarcane                          41.2      67.0      79.0         18     41.2        58.0      77.0          33       41.0      58.0    76.0           31
Orchards (Mango)                    8.2       14.7      16.4        11      8.2        12.7      15.9          25        8.2      12.7    15.6           23
D.Production (000 at)
Seed Cotton                        83.4    188.9    277.6           47     69.4       98.4    240.0           143       36.8      50.8   135.3          166
Wheat                             157.1    345.4    427.0           23    138.7      237.0    348.3            47       81.8    153.1   174.7            14
Kharif Fodder                     200.4    234.4    254.9            9    118.7       127.0    148.8           17      116.8    133.2   139.9             5
Rabi Fodder                       200.4    234.4    254.9            9    118.8      127.0    178.8            41      116.8    133.2   139.1             4
Ollseeds                            6.3       5.3       6.9         32       3.1        2.2       3.3          49        0.3       0.4      0.6          46
Sugarcane                         364.0    614.7    730.2           19     60.3       84.7    113.1            33      175.7    276.6   361.8            31
Orchard. (Mango)                   20.2      72.7      80.7         11      15,6       44.7      55.9          25       63.0    118.1   144.2            22
Milk (H liters)                    52.8       57.3      60,3         5      26.6       27.5      28.3          63       33.3      39.1    34.9           10
Meat                                 2.3       2.8       3.0         8       1.3        1.5       1.6           5        1.3       1.6      1.7           4
1/  Cropping intensity is area cropped as proportion of CCAS perennials are counted twice.
2/ Farming intensity is area cropped as a proportion of area farmed, whtich Includes cropped and fallow land (or CCA less abandoned land). 1
1/  Animals owned by the majority of project beneficiaries (one pair of bullocks for each 5 ha and one cow/buffalo); given variable ownership
patterns, actual livestock population is likely to be larger than indicated.



-79-                   ANNEX 7
Table 3
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I Proiect
Estimated Source of Yield Reduction 1/
Z Reduction Due to Main Constraints
"With    "'Without 2/
Drainage" Drainage"   Water    Uneven    Soil    Storm          Double
Crop              Yield       Yield     Loiing   Fields  Salinity  Damaze        CrovRing
mt/a   mt/ha  ---------                                           -
'Wheat
Present        2.64         2.34       7.0       1.0       2.8       -          0.4
2010           4.24         3.68       7.9       1.0       3.8       -          0.5
Cotton
Present        1.44         1.21      11.7       1.0       0.35     2.5         0.4
2010           2.30         1.69      22.2       1.0       0.48     2.5         0.5
Su2arcane
Present       49.0         41.2       11.5       1.0       2.4       1.0         -
2010          77.2         60.9       15.8       1.0       3.3      1.0          -
Kharif Fodder
Present       32.5         30.8        0.9       1.0       1.4      2            -
2010          50.2         47.2        1.1       1.0       1.9      2            -
Rabi Fodder
Present       30.3         27.9        7.8        -         -       -
2010          47.4         30.6       55.0       -          -       -            -
Oilseeds
Present          .78         .65      12.9       1.0       2.4      -            -
2010           1.0           .71      23.9       1.0       3.3      -            -
ManAto
Present        8.7          8.21       1.7        -        3.4      -            -
2010          15.9         13.4       11.2        -        4.8      -            -
jj  Based on project preparation report, available findings in comparable
areas, and mission judgement.
2/  Suppressed yield at present due to high vatertables and absence of drainage.
S1



-80-                    ANNEX 7
Table 4a and 4b
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I_PROJECT
A. Percentage of Subarea Land with Watertable at Various Deptphs
Depth to              Navabshah              San rir  rkhas
Watertable         Present  Future       Present  Future       Present  Future
(1983)  (2010)        (1983)  (2010)        (1983)  (2019)
0-0.9              8.6    10.8          26.1    28.7          24.8    27.6
0.9-1.5             25.2    37.7          26.9    32.4          27.6    36.8
1.5-2.1             28.8    39.5          20.4    30.1          21.7    26.3
Over 2.1            37.4    12.0           26.6   _ 8.8          25.9   __°.3
Total               100.0   100.0         100.0   100.0         100.0   100.0
B. Estimated Direct Yield Reduction ()_sResultinZLfroM
Watertables at Various Depths 1/
Depth to                                                       Rabi    Kharif
Watertable2/   Mango   Cotton   Oilseed  Suparcane  Wheat  Fodder  Fodder
0-0.30           100      94.0     84.9       84.9      76.5    74.3   70.9
0.30-0.45        100      71.0     65.6       65.6      48.8    44.6   27.3
0.45-0.60        100      55.0     53.5       53.5      34.8    30.1    0
0.60-0.75        100      46.0     42.2       42.2      23.6    19.0    0
0.75-0.90        91.2    37.0      31.9       31.9      15.0    10.9    0
0.90-1.00        75.9    29.0      21.7       21.7       8.7      5.3    0
1.00-1.20        60.7    22.0      13.3       13.3       4.2      1.8    0
1.20-1.50        37.8    15.0       5.4        5.4       0.7      0      0
1.50-1.80         7.3      6.0      0.6        0.6       0        0      0
1.80-2.10         0        3.0      0          0         0        0      0
over 2.10          0       0        0          0         0        0      0
1/  Based on field survey findings in project area for two observation
points (mid-1960s and 1983).  Data illustrate anticipated
effects, although variation due to stormwater flooding, and increased
double cropping, and salinity levels is possible.
Mid-season, kharif for mangoes, and rabi for sugarcane.



-81-.                           ANNEX 7
Table 5
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis 1/
and Conversion Factors Used in Economic Analysis
1984                       1995
Financial    Economic    Financial    Economic
A. PRICES
1. Outputs (Rs per mt) 2/
Wheat                      1,520         1,890        1,662        1,700
Cotton                     5.250         7,410       7,045         7,190
Sugarcane 31                 200            46          270          290
Rabi oilseeds              3,000         5,122       3,500         3,956
Mangoes 4/                 3,000         2,850        3,000        2,850
Milk (Rs/liter) 4/           2.5           2.7         2.85          2.7
Meat 3/                   10,000        12,000       12,600       12,000
2. Inpur
Fertilizer 5J(Rs/kg Nutr.)
Nitrogen (N:46X)           5.90          7.3         10.40        10.30
Phosphorous (P:201)       10.90         17.2         19.9         19.3
Potassium (R:50X)           2.20          5.2          5.90         5.8
Tractor (Rs/hr)            67.00        117.00        98.00        98.00
Electricity (Rs/kWh) 6/    0.55           0.80         0.75         0.80
Labor (Rs/day)  7/         25.00         23.20       25.00         23.20
Labor (Rs/day)  /           8.90          8.00        10.00         9.0
Improved seeds (Rs/kg)
Wheat                       1.70          2.00         1.85         1.9
Cotton                      6.00          8.50        8.0           8.3
Sugarcane                   0.20          0.05        0.27          0.29
Rabi oilseeds               3.6           5.9         4.7           4.5
Berseem                    21.00         21.00       21.00         21.00
Kharif fodder               2.80          2.80         2.80         2.80
B. CONVERSION FACTORS
Earthwork: 0.79; Unskilled Labor (Adult): .90; Unskilled Labor for
Cotton Picking (women/children): 0.38; Structures: 0.79; Transport:
0.80; Diesel: 0.80; Electricity: 1.45; Consumption Conversion Factor:
0.95; Standard Conversion Factor: 0.90
jj Constant mid-1984 rupees at farmgate, adjusted for transport, handling,
and processing costs; the incidental charges account for the project
area's proximity to Karachi, and therefore, are somewhat lower than those
reported for Pakistan. Economic prices for internationally traded
commodities are based on World Bank forecasts (memo Bank's Commodity
Studies and Projections Division, July 13, 1984).
2j Except for oilseeds, output prices are estimated on export-parity basis.
Fodder output is not valued explicitly in analysis, because it is used as
intermediate input to meet livestock feed requirements.
31 Due to unusually low world market price in 1984, figure used in that year
was based on average world market prices during period 1983-1985.
i/ Consumption conversion factor is applied to the financial price.
5J Fertilizers are considered on import parity basis; surplus of urea in 1984
is expected to be temporary.
6J/ Economic price is based mainly on non-peak base-load requirements.
2/ Refers to unskilled labor and assumes a weighted average of peak and
non-peak wage rates.
3/ Refers to labor (mostly women and children) required for cotton picking.



-82-
ANNEX 7
Table 6
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Farm -Gate Prices of Wheat
(mid-1984 constant prices)
1984                 1995
Unit   Financial Economic   Financial Economic
Canadian Wheat (CWRS) 1/        US$/mt      -         170          -          155
Value of Pakistan Wheat
for Export FOB Karachi 2/   US$/mt       -         166         152         152
Rs/mt       -      2,242        2,052      2,052
Less: Procurement & Other
Costs from Procurement       Rs/mt       -         305         338         305
Point to Karachi 3/
Value at Procurement Point      Rs/mt       1,572   1,937       1,714       1,747
Less: Marketing & Transport
Cost from Farmgate to
Procurement Point 4/         Rs/mt         52        47         52          49
Farmgate Price                  Rs/mt      1,520   1,890        1,662       1,700
Rs/maund         61       76          66.5        68
j/ World Bank Commodity Forecasts, July 1984. Prices are adjusted to
mid-1984 price level.
2/ Assumes that Pakistan wheat will be worth 90% of Canadian wheat and
have a US$16 freight advantage over Canadian exports to the Middle East,
Pakistan's most likely export market.
=>J Based on costs reported by Agricultural Prices Commission, adjusted to
account for the lower value of wheat per ton, shorter storage period,
lower bag cost, and project area's proximity to Karachi, and therefore,
somewhat lower than figures reported for Pakistan.
Al Average costs incurred between farmgate and procurement point.



-83-                           ANNEX 7
Table 7
PAKISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Farr-Gate Prices of Seed Cotton
(mid-1984 constant prices)
1984                 1995
Unit  Financial   Economic   Financial   Economic
Lint
Cotton Lint (Mexican 1-3/32)
CIF Northern Europe 1/         $/mt    -          1,880          _        1,810
Value of Pakistan Lint
CIF Northern Europe 2/         $/mt    -          1,692          -        1,629
Less: Freight & Insurance
From Karachi to Northern
Europe                         $/mt    -            126          -          126
FOB Karachi                    $/mt    -          1,566         1,503     1,503
Rs/mt   -        21,141        20,290    20,290
Less: Cost between Ginnery
and Karachi 41                 Rs/mt   -            877           975       877
Value of Ex-ginnery            Rs/mt   -         20,264        19,315    19,413
Seed Cotton
Output 3/  0.33 mt of Lint    Rs       -          6,687         6,374     6,406
0.66 mt of Cotton
Seed 5/          Rs       -         1.722         1.680      1.691
Value            Rs/mt   -           8,409        8,054      8,097
Less: Ginning Cost             Rs/mt   -            924           924       832
Value at Ginnery               Rs/mt   -          7,485         7,130     7,265
Less: Cost Incurred between
Farm-Gate and Ginnery 'j  Rs/mt   -              75            85        75
Farm-Gate Price                Rs/mt  5,250       7,410 6/      7,045     7,190 §/
Rs/maund 7/   210         296           282       288
1I  World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, July 1984.  Prices are adjusted to
mid-1984 price levels.
2/ 90% of Mexican price is applied due to quality and market differences;
adjustment factor is based on historical price data (since 1977) between
world market selling price of PakLstani "B index" cotton and the Mexican
equivalent.
2/ Prevailing conversion rate is applied.
4I Based on costs reported by Agricultural Prices Commission, which are
adjusted to account for the project area's proximity to Karachi, and
therefore, are somewhat lower than average figures reported for Pakistan.
5/  Prices of cotton seed at local ginnery are estimated from world market prices of
soyabean oil.
6/ Excludes duties and taxes.
2/ 1 Iraund - 40 kgs.



PAKISTAN
LBD-Stage I Project
Average Crop Input Requirements 1/
(per ha)
Bullock  Tractor                Water    brainage
Crop              Seed    Fertilizer (k&B Nutricnt)    Pesticide            Power    Power    Labor    Charg          large
kg          N        P        K           Rs/ha 2/   pairhbra   (hra)  (man-days)  Rs/ha 2/  Rs/ha 2/
1. Cotton
P           27         85        16        -           247             81       5          61         51        -
FW          30          95       20        -            95U            90        5         75        143        -
PW          3u         100       25        -         1,297             90       5         96         143       600
2. Wheat
P          109          97       14        -             -             44       6          37         47        -
FW          35         140       35        -             -             63        9         45         82        -
FW         111         140       35        -            -              63       9          47         82       600
3. Kharif Fodder
p           49         -          -        -            -              35       2          SO         35        -
FW          74          40        8        -             -              39       2         58         85        -
PW          74         50        10        -            -              39       2          61         85       600
4. Habi Fodder
p                      -          -        -             -             39       2          70         47        -
FW          17          10       11        -             -             44        2         75         92        -
FW          17          20       20        -                           44       2         103         92       600
5. Sugarcane
P        1,645         125       20       12            -             116       5         164        158        -
7W       1,645         140       55       40           531            138       5         190        247        -
FW       1,645         146       60       47           704            138       5        213         247       600
6. Ollseeds
p            8           4        -        -             -             47        2         27         47        -
FW          10          30        -        -           247             52        2         28         92        -
FW          10         45         -        -           247             52        2         34         92       600
7. Han°o
P            2         125       25        50          247             54        2        103        158        -
FW           2        250        50       135          370             57        2        113        482        -
FW           2        250        50       135          495             57       2         119        482       600       I-l
* r
T/ Weighted average, aecounting for levels of usage by different farmers.
2/ Ra in mid-1984 constant prices.



PAXISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Summary Results of Illustrative Crop Budgets According to Watertable Conditions 1/
"High"                             "Average"                                  "Low"
Crops                                       Watertable Conditions                  Watertable Conditions                   Watertable Conditions
P      FW       FW    Z Increase      P        PW        FW   x Increase       P       FW      F      Z Increase
Cotton
Yields (mt/ha)                     1.1     1.4      2.3         64         1.2     1.7      2.3         35        1.5     2.05    2.3          12
Net Return (Re/ha):
(Before Labor Costs)           4,277   6,772   12,095        79        4,802   8,914  12,095         36       6,377       -      -           -
(After Labor Costs)            3,047   5,215   10,169        95        3,572   7,357  10,169         38       5,147       -      -           -
Wheat
Yields (mt/ha)                      2.0    3.2      4.2          31        2.3     3.6      4.2         17       2.6      3.85    4.2           9
Net RLturn (Re/ha):
(Before Labor Costs)           1,613   3,253    4,723         45        2,063  4,081   4,223          3       2,513       -      -           _
(After Labor Costs)              863   2,359    3,777         16        1,313  3,187   3,777         19       1,763       -      -           -
Oilseeds
Yields (ut/ha)                       .58    .64    1.0           56         .65     .71    1.0          41         .58     .92    1.0           9
Net Return (Ru/ha):
(Before Labor Costs)           1,414   1,866      2,691       44        1,624  2,173   2,691         24       1,414    1,866  2,691         44
(After Labor Costs)              873   1,298      2,110       62        1,083  1,605   2,010         25         873    1,298  2,010         55
Mango
Yields (mt/ha)                      7.4   12.0    15.9           32        8.2     13.4   15.9          19        9.0    15.0    15.9           6
Net Return (Rs/ha):
(Before Labor Costa)          20,435  30,329    41,304        36       22,835  34,529 41,304         20      25,235   39,329 41,304          5
(As'ter Labor Costs)          18,365  28,066    38,931        39       20,765  32,266 38,931         21      23,165   37,066 38,931          5
Sugarcane
Yields (mt/ha)                    37.0   55.0    77.2            40      41.2      60.9   77.2          27      45.0    72.5    77.2           6
Net Return (Rs/ha):
(Before Labor Costs)           5,600  12,450    18,350         17       6,440  14,279 18,350         29       7,200   17,875 18,350          2
(After Labor Costs)            2,322   8,644    14,082        63        3,162  10,473 14,082         34       3,922   14,069 14,082          _
1/  Although most of the project area is adversely affected by waterlogging, there is considerable variation. Watertable conditions refer to
present and future "without" project conditions.  "High" is generally associated with depth-to-watertable of less than 1.0 meter;
"average" is 1.0-1.5 meters; and "low" is about 1.5 to 2 meters. "With project" watertable would be lowered to a depth of about 2 meters.
Fodder is not valued explicitly because it is an intermediate input to livestock activity.



PA ISTAN
LBOD-STAGE I PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Models for Selected Scenarios Ij
Watertable, Cronnina Intensity, Frm Size and Tenure
Assumptions Used for Farm Model Analysis
Cropped Area and Yields (ha and ut per ha)                                      Livestock
Kharif         Rabi                                                   Total    (No.)           /
Farm Model         Cropping VJ         Cotton        Wheat        Fodder        Fodder       Sugarcane    Oilseeds         Maneos      Cropped Bull-  Covs/
Scenario           Intensit,(X)   Area Yields  Area Yields  Area Yields  Area Yields  Area Yields  Area Yields   Area Yields   Area   ocks  buffalos
I."Lov" Watertable b Croppina
Intensity
(Tenant-Farmer)       P        70       1.32   1.5    1.35  2.6    .13  33          .13  29       .13   45       .13  .70        .10  9.0         3.3   2       1
(5 ha CCA) gJ         FW       75       1.51   2.2    1.55  4.0    .07  48.5        .14  45       .11   73       .07  .92        .14 15.0         3.6   2       1
FW      90       2.11   2.3    1.68  4.2    .09  50          .09  47.4    .13   77.2   .09 1.0            .13 15.9         4.3   2       1
2."1Averase" Watertable &
Averate Cronoina Intensity
(a) Tenant-           P        80       1 .52   1.21   1.56  2.3    .15  30.8       .15  27.9    .15  41.2    .15    .65    .11   8.2          3.8      2       1
Farmer            FW       95       1.89   1.7    1.93  3.6    .09  47.2        .18  30.6    .13  60.9    .09    .71    .18  13.4          4.5      2      1
(5 ha CCA) 41    FW       115      2.69   2.3    2.14  4.2    .11  50.2          11  47.4      16  77 2      11   1.0       17 _15.9       5.5      2      1      1
(b) Owner Cultivator P         80       2.4    1.2    2.46  2.3    .24  30.8        .24  27.9    .24   41.2   .24    .65    .18   8.2          6.0      i       2
(8 ha CCA) #J   PW      100       3.19   1.7    4.10  3.6    .19  47.2         .30  30.6    .23   60.9   .15    .71    .30  13.4          7.6      4      2
VW     115       4.26   2.3    4.33  4.2    .19  50.2         .22  47.4    .32   77.2   .2    1.0        .33  15.9       11.0    4       2
3V"Averaxe" Watertable &
Intensity
(Tenant-Farmer)       P        80        .92   1.2      .94  2.3    .09  30.8       .09  27.9    .09   41.2   .09 .65           .07  8.2          2..   2       1
(3 ba CCA #J          YW       95       1.13   1.7    1.16  3.6    .05  47.2        .11  30.6    .08   60.9   .05 .71            .11 13.4         2.7   2       1
FW     115       1.62   2.3    1.29  4.2    .07  50.2         .07  47.4    .10   77.2   .07 1.0           .10 15.9         3.4   2       1
4."Licb" Watertable & Cronning
Intensity
(Tenant-Farmer)       P        90       1.72   1.1    1.76  2.0    .17  27.7        .17  25       .17   37       .17   .58       .13  7.4         4.3   2       1
(5 ha CCA) gJ        FW      100       1.97   1.4    2.02  3.2    .09  42          .19  27       .24   55      .09   .64        .19 12          4.7   2        1
7W     140       3.2            2.61  4.2    .13  50.2        .13  47.4    .20   77.2   .13  1.0          .20 15.9         6.7   2       1
J  Theae models are expected to cover most conditions in the project area.  Watertable conditions refer to present and "future without" project conditions;
"vith project" undor all scenarios, vatertables vould be lovered to optimum conditions. Although owner-cultivators operate under all conditions, to
simplify prescacation, this group of farmers has been limiLed to the "average" conditions.
2/  Cropping intensity is cropped area as proportion of CCA, vhereby perennial crops are counted tvice; usually farming intensity (or land cropped as
proportion of cropped and fallov land--or total area farmed) is more than cropping intensity. 
Si
21  Blsed on average ownership patterns of the majority of farmers vho use livestock mainly to meet livestock and on,farm consumption requireentes.
J   CCA includes cropped, fallow, and abandoned land; in practice, operational farm size includes land cropped or left fallow and is less area than farm   °
size (expressed in terms of CCA).



-87-                                              ANNE.X 7
Table ll.
LIND-ST* I FU.ECT
ILLuSMTIW FfIIEL NM        ESTIrATE OF Prir NT : LO IMTEIrrILE MI LO CU B II ITT
MENT FN    (5 lb CrA fs 000 IN1 N1D1984 PRICE1
1,9   1m9      I1   1M      I3   194  1ms         m I  19    1        199I   2010   2003 2010-2025
WITHOT PFU.ErT
WM  VAILE  F WRIClLTLE  M1IICT181    21.4   27.7   29.9   31.1   32.3   34.3   35.0   35.7   36.4  37.2   37.9   33.6  40.1    42.3
TUTUL WIWLS                           21.4   27.7   29.9  31.1   32.3   34.3   35.0   35.7   36.4   37.2   37.9   33.   40.1    42.3
CASH NEUTIN COSTS                      4.2    6.4    7.3   7.7    B.2    9.8   9.0    9.2    9.4    9.6    Y.9   10.0  10.4    11.1
111T CHIES                         0.2    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5        0.5
amE                                0.9    1.1    1.2    1.2   1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4   1.5    1.5   1.5    1.5   1.6           1.7
S9-UTlL                                1.1    1.5    1.6   1.7    1.7    1.8    1.8    1.9    1.9   1.9   2.0    2.0    2.1         2.2
rTUUL ITFLO                            5.3   7.9    8.9    9.4   9.9   10.6   10.3  11.1   11.3  11.5   11.9   12.0  12.5    13.2
NET FAI INCOE (WI)                    16.1   19.8   21.0  21.7  22.4   23.7   24.2   24.7  25.1   25.6   26-1   26.6   27.6    29.1
MET 1EIWIT FMl INlIE (MI)             8.1    *.9   10.5   10.9   11.2   11.9  12.1   12.3   12.6   12.8   13.1   13.3   13.8    14.5
NOT
WI  E     K    IBES)                  17.2   21.3   22.7  23.4   24.1   25.6   26.1   26.6  27.1   27.6   23.1   29.6   29.6    31.2
FAULT LEU                              4.8   5.1    5.2    5.2    5.3    5.4    5.2    5.5   5.6    5.6    5.7    5.7    5.8        6.0
IIMEWNT                                2.4    3.0    3.2    3.3    3.4    3.6    3.6    3.7   3.8   3.B    3.9    4.0   4.1         4.4
IwUCIT nW                             10.0   13.2   14.4   14.9   15.5   16.6   17.2  174   17.7   18.1   18.5   18.9   19.7    20.9
(EUITr EITl                            5.0    6.6    7.2    7.5    7.7    0.3    9.6   8.7    0.9   9.1    9.3    9.4    9.S    10.4
11FLONS1
OMSS IIE OF ABIRIICU .L PIIICTIO     21.4   30.3   33.7   35.5   37.4   41.2   42.6   43.9   45.3  46.7  40.1   49.5   52.4    57.0
UfTUL flUQKS                          21.4   30.3   33.7  35.5   37.4   41.2   42.6   43.9   45.3  46.7   40.1   49.5   52.4    57.0
cm nE Tp MIMTS                         4.2    6.3    9.2   8.B    9.6   10.9   11.3   11.0  12.4   12.9   13.4   14.1   14.4    16.0
vAI6h EUERIES
W1UVICS                            0.2    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5          0.6
-AIAUE                               -    0.5    0.5    0.6   0.8    1.0    1.3   1.3   1.6   1.6    1.9    1.9    2.6          2.6
tWnhL tUi)                           -      -      -      -    0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2    0.2       -      -      -       -       -
amID                               0.9    1.2    1.3   1.4    1.5   1.6    1.7   1.9   1.i    1.9   1.9    2.0    2.1            2.3
SM9-lBTAL                              1.1    2.2    2.3    2.5   2.9    3.3    3.7    3.7   4.0    3.9   4.3    4.4    5.2         5.4
TUTU. TFW                              5.3    9.0   10.6   11.3   12.5   14.2  15.0   15.5   16.4   16.8   17.7  IB.5   19.7    21.5
NEr FM  fICE (FI)                     16.1   21.2   23.1   24.2   24.9   27.0   27.6  29.4   29.8   29.3   30.4   31.0   32.8    35.5
NEr ITEI    FAl IEEE tifl)             8.1  I.6   11.6  12.1   12.4   13.5   13.8   14.2   14.4   14.9   15.2   1.5-   16.4    17.7
NWI
WI (IE  RE CERIBI                     17.2   23.4   25.5   26.7   27.B   30.4   31.2  32.1   32.9   33.8   34.7   35.4   39.0    40.9
FNIWY LAOW                             4.8    5.5    5.7   5.7    5.3    5.9   6.0    6.0   6.1    6.1    6.2    6.2    6.3         4.5
IWTUI                                  2.4    3.2    3.5   3.6    3.7   4.1    4.1    4.3    4.3    4.5    4.6    4.7    4.9        5.3
IWLICIT IIT                           10.0   14.3   16.3   17.4   18.3   20.4   21.1   21.8   22.5  23.2  23.9   24.5   26.7    29.1
TEIW  IEII                             5.0    7.4    8.2    8.7    9.2   10.2   10.6   10.9   11.2   11.6  12.0   12.3  134        14.5
3-
NET FMt 114W                             -    1.5    2.1    2.5    2.5    3.3    3.3    3.?    3.7   4.2   4.3    4.4    5.2        6.4
WI EMUR  IE  1E                          -    2.2    2.3    3.3    3.7    4.9    5.2    5.6   5.8    6.2    6.6    6.8    8.4       9.7
1aNE  IIYIE                            1.0    1.1    1.1   1.1    1.1    1.1   1.1    1.2   1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2         1.2
FU.ECT PIuf                              -    1.5    2.0    2.4    2.8    3.8   3.9    4.5    4.7   5.1    5.4    5.6    7.1        3.2
IEUIB:5 REClRWB                          -    0.7    0.7    0.9    1.2    1.5    1.8    1.9    2.1   2.0    2.3    2.4    3.2       3.3
NJaU                                     -    0.3    1.3    1.6   1.6    2.3    2.1    2.6    2.6   3.1    3.1    3.2    3.9        4.9
FONT*1E 1IIEITWU. WKu RECOVERD           -   44.4   36.5   35.3   43.1   40.5   46.9   41.5   45.2  39.6  43.2   42.4   44.9    40.0
PTIIAE  1E1      L  MIME IECDM           -   31.1   25.9   25.9  32-.   31.7   35.2   33.3   36.8  32.2  35.5   34.9   37.t    33.1
iDUIT KIR                                -    0.9    1.0    1.2    1.4    1.9    1.9   2.2    2.4    2.5    2.7    2.8    3.5       4.1



-88-                                                    ANNEX 7
Table 12
P<rw
LBS5TIE I PRL
nuaMTIUE  FM   MiL MM ESTDE CF PMEr REN r: N          M       . aiTERTrPE NO  a = DnEsm
1911  FDE  (5 i CrAl Rs C00 DS NID-1984 FRIBE)
1916   1990   1IM   1M      19    14   1995   19Y6   1997   8IM    1999   2000   20O5 2010-2025
rTHf FRaEcr
DSLW
GMS UME OF IUMLTIM  PMICrII           20.9   27.7   30.2   31.5   32.9   35.5   36.3  37.2   38.1   39.0  3Y.9   40.9   42.5    45.7
D1rfML DF  S                          20.9   27.7   30.2   31.5  32.9   35.5   36.3  37.2   38.1  3Y.0  39.9   40.9   42.5    45.7
CA9 FR.crzIm COSTS                     5.0    7.7    8.?    9.5   10.1   11.0   11.3  11.6   11.Y   12.3   12.6   12.9   13.6    14.6
VAR-   mEIUEtIES
SmTE OUIE                           0.3    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6       0.6
MER                                 O.B    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.5   1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.7       1.8
S3-1TgAL                               1.1    1.6    1.7    1.8    1.B    2.0    2.0   2.0    2.1    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.3       2.4
lU.r L ceTFLE                          6.0    9.3   10.6   11.3   11.9   13.0   13.3  13.7   14.0   14.4   14.7   15.1   15.B    17.0
aEr FM  IM3E  WI)1                    14.B   18.4   19.6   20.3   21.0   22.5   23.0  23.6   24.1   24.7   25.2   25.8   26.6    28.7
NET TBlT FlM IKIE (OiI)                7.4    9.2   9.8   10.1   10.5   11.3   11.5   11.8   12.1   12.3   12.6   12.9   13.3    14.3
gaff
WI (EBW  I1ERIES1                     15.9   20.0   21.4   22.1   22.8   24.5   25.0   25.6   26.2   26.8   27.4   28.0   28.9    31.1
FNLT LAU                               5.3    5.5    5.6    5.7    5.7    5.9    5.9   6.0    6.0    6.0    6.1    6.1    6.2       6.4
rhmG911                                2.2    2.8   2.9    3.0    3.1    3.4    3.5   3.5    3.6    3.7    3.8    3.9    4.0        4.3
DrLT NW                                8.4   11.7   12.0   13.4   13.9   15.2   15.7  16.1   16.6   17.0   17.5   18.0   18.7    20.4
r12111 REJI                            4.2   5.8    6.4    6.7    7.0    7.6   7.8    8.1    8.3    8.5    8.7    9.0    9.3    10.2
SUNJE OF MUCaLTML PROCTM              20.9   32.1   36.7   39.1   41.7   47.5   49.5  51.6   53.7   55.9   5B.0   60.3  64.9    72.1
UfBML lWLI                           20.9   32.1   36.7   39.1   41.7   47.5   49.5   51.6   53.7  559 Y      .0   60.3   64.9    72.1
QUFhUS
CASI PlI01CTK 0251                     5.0   8.8   10.7   11.5   12.5   14.3   15.0   15.7   16.5   17.2   17.9   18.9   19.5    21.Y
MAER OW1S                           0.3    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6   0.6    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.7       0.7
WADIZGE                              -    0.7    0.7    0.0    1.0    1.3   1.6   1.6    2.0    2.0    2.4    2.4    3.3        3.3
CITML (WIll)                         -      -      -      -    0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2         -      -      -      -        -
OiER                                0.8   1.3    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.?    2.0   2.1    2.1    2.2    2.3    2.4    2.6        2.9
SI-lTTL                                1.1    2.5    2.7    3.0    3.4    4.0    4.4   4.5    4.9    4.9    5.3    5.4    6.6       6.9
TU1L 00TFLOD                           6.0   11.3  13.4   14.5   15.9   18.3  19.4   20.2   21.4   22.0   23.3   24.3  26.1    28.7
MET F   DDME (lWI                     14.8   20.9   23.3   24.7   25.8   29.2   30.1  31.4   32.3   33.8   34.8   35.9   38.8    43.4
MTS TBW  FFR IMINE C NIII              7.4   10.4   11.6   12.3   12.9   14.6   15.1   15.7   16.1   16.9   17.4   18.0   19.4    21.7
WI (BEU     LERIES)                   15.9   23.3   26.0   27.6   29.2   33.2   14.5  35.9   37.2   3B.7  40.1   41.4   45.4    50.3
FaLY LAMM                              5.3    5.6    5.7    5.7    5.8    5.9    6.0   6.0    6.1    6.1    6.2    6.2    6.3        6.5
H29IT                                  2.2    3.1    3.5    3.7   3.9    4.4    4.5   4.7    4.8   5.1    5.2    5.4    5.a          6.5
DEIT MISt                              8.4   14.7  16.8   19.2   19.6   22.9  24.0   25.2   26.3   27.   23.7   29.8   33.2    37.3
ITSE  RMSrt                            4.2    7.3    8.4    9.!   9.8   11.4   12.0   12.6   13.1   13.7   14.4   14.9   16.6    18.1
NT FA INAE                               -    2.5    3.7   4.4    4.9    6.7   7.1   7.9    8.2    9.2    9.6   10.2   12.2    14.7
WI IEW  REIIES                           -    3.4    4.6    5.6    6.4    8.7   9.5   10.3   11.0   11.9   12.8   13.4   16.5    19.2
PElmAlEf Il£EXE                         .0    1.1   2.2    1.2    1.2    1.3   1.3   1.3    1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.5          1.S
PUl.   MIWT                              -    3.0    4.1    4.9    5.6    7.6   8.4   9.1    9.7   10.4   11.2   11.8   14.6    16.9
LDBVWEIS REINE4IS                        -    0.9    1.0    1.2    1.6    2.0    2.4   2.5    2.9    2.7    3.2    3.3    4.3        4.5
BUINCE                                   -    2.1    3.1    3.7    4.0    5.6   5.Y    6.6    6.9    7.7    3.1    8.5   10.3    12.4
PGtm1AGE  2ElTl  L MREiT ME02I           -   30.3   24.6   24.1   28.4   26.7   29.9   27.3   29.4   26.3   28.4   27.6   29.6    26.6
PETAGINCE EMuEIITAL IINME IECUEIEt       -   26.7   21.4   21.1   24.9   23.4   25.5  23.9   25.9   23.0   25.0   24.2   26.1    23.4
IBWST RENIT                              -    1.5    2.0    2.4    2.8    3.8    4.2   4.5    4.9    5.2    5.6    5.9    7.3        8.4



ANN&X 7
Table 13
PAIrSTrA
LoD-srAsE r PRamr
IL.USTRAnTE FIM MaEL AM ESTDIE  F PROECT Bf : AM     IAMTETANLE AN  CROFPDNG nMsm
own - aTivaT   8 M CW; k a00 IN ED-I84 MRICES)
1996  1IM0   1M    1SS2   IM    ;5S4   19SY    19%6   19    19S8  1Y9   2000  2005 2010-2025
urfN PRaW:r
DFLDS
GMROSS VAME OF AGRICULIURAL PRIODCIION    33.8  45-4  49.8   52.1  54-5   59.1  60.7  62.3  63.9  65.6  67.3  69.0  72.4    77.8
TOTIL DFLOUS                         33.8  45.4  49.8   52.1  54.5   59.1  60.7  62.3  63.9  65.6  67.3  69.0  72.4    77.9
C1A    1 PODlUCTIO CaS                10.9   15.6  17.6  18.7  19.8   21.5  22.1  22.7  23.3  23.9  24.5  25.1  26.4    29.4
- RECO ERIES
MATMER CE                          0.4   0.8   0.B   0.B   0.8    0.9   0.9   0.9    0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   1.0               1.0
OISER                              1.4   1.8   2.0    2.1   2.2   2.4   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.7    2.8   2.9               3.1
SWl-TOrAL                             1.8   2.6   2.8   2.9   3.0    3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.8                4.1
TOITL WIFLM                          12.6  18.2  20.4   21.6  22.9   24.7  25.4  26.1  26.7  27.4  28.1   28.8  30.2    32.4
rIr FAR Il(   (WI)                   21.2  27.2   29.4   30.5  31.6   34.4  35.3  36.2  37.2  3B.2  39.2  40.1   42.2    45.3
WI (DEFOE REaJEES)                    22.9   29.8  32.2  33.4  34.7   37.6  38.6  39.6  40.7  41.7  42.9   43.8  46.0    4S.4
FtllLY LADR                           5.8   6.2   6.4   6.4   6.5    6.7   6.8   6.9   6.9   7.0   7.1   7.1    7.3               7.5
IWEIENT                               3.2   4.1    4.4   4.6   4.7    5.2   5.3   5.4   5.6   5.7   5.9    6.0   6.3              6.8
IDPlUaT RENT                         14.0  19.5  21.4   22.4  23.4   25.7  26.5  27.3  28.1  29.0  29.8  30.7  32.4    35.1
*'TH PROJECT
IMMS
GROSM VALUE OF AUaICLTwEML PI01NCT10N  33.8  51.6  58.8  62.7  66.7  75.9  79.1  52.4  85.7  09.1  92.5  96.1  103.3   114.7
TOTAL DIfLS                          '3.8   51.6  58.8  62.7  66.7   75.9  79.1  92.4  85.7  89.1  92.5  96.1  103.3   114.7
EORUS
CASH PROIiCI1ON MM515                 10.9   16.9  19.   21.1  22.7  25.6  26.6  27.7  29.0  30.1  31.2  32.7  33.7    37.4
VARIOUS: RECOVEBE
VATER OMAGES                       0.4   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1                1.1
DRANAGE                              -    1.1   1.1    1.3   1.6   2.1   2.6   2.6   3.1   3.1   3.8   3.8   5.2               5.2
CAPITAL IFU)                        -      -      -      -    0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3   0.3         -      -      -      -       -
DOE7                               1.4   2.1    2.4   2.5   2.7    3.0   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.6   3.7    3.8   4.1              4.6
SUB-TOTAL                             1.8   4.0   4.3   4.7   5.5    6.3   7.0   7.2   7.8   7.7   8.5    9.6   10.4    10.9
TOTAL W1FLOD                         12.6  20.9  24.2  25.8  28.2   31.9  33-6  34.8  36.8  37.8  39.7  41.4   44.1    48.3
NET FARM IAIE (WII                   21.2  30.8   34.6  36.9  38.6   44.0  45.5  47.5  48.9  51.3  52.9   54.7  59.3    66.4
IFI (DEFOE RECOERIES)                22.9  34.7  I9.0  41.6  44.0   50.3  52.5  54.7  56.7  59.0  61.4  63.3  69.7    77.4
FNLY LAMR                             5.8   6.4   6.5   6.6   6.7    7.0   7.1   7.2   7.3   7.4   7.5    7.5   7.7               8.0
N1AMENT                               3.2   4.6   5.2   5.5   5.B    6.6   6.8   7.1    7.3   7.7   7.9   8.2   9.9    10.0
IIULICIT RENT                        14.0  23.8  27.2  29.4  31.5   36.7  38.6  40.4  42.1  44.0  46.0  47.6  53.1    59.4
MET FARM I7WE                           -    3.6   5.3   6.4   6.9    9.6   10.2  11.3  11.7  13.2  13.7  14.5  17.1    21.1
WI DEFOE RECE5RIE                       -    5.0    6.8   8.2   9.4   12.7  13.9  15.1  16.1   17.3  18.6  19.5  23.6    27.9
PERIITAE INCEAM                       1.0   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.2    1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.4    1.4   1.4               1.5
PRDJCT DENI                             -    4.3   5.8   7.0   8.1   11.0  12.1  13.1   14.0  15.0  16.2  16.9  20.6    24.3
LESSMVAIOUS REVMBERES                   -    1.4   1.5    1.8   2.4    3.1   3.7   3.8   4.4   4.2   4.9   4.9   6.6              6.8
IINCE                                   -    2.9   4.3    5.2   5.7    7.9   8.4   9.3   9.6  10.8  11.3  12.0  14.1    17.4
CEITAGE LIBIEIINTM RT IIRECOEED         -   32.1   25.8   25.4  30.0   29.2  3D.7  28.9  31.2  27.9  30.1   29.3  31.8    29.1
PERCENTAGE DJ   T. INUE RECOIERED       -   27.9   22.2   21.8  26.0   24.4   26.6  25.0  27.1  24.0  26.2  25.4  27.8    24.4



-90..                                     ANNME 7
Table 14
LUll-STARE P ROJEC
nUIismam    FM  MU AM ESTMlE OF PlEr  EIIT: iIEE  ATEABMLLE a    O          DISm DIm
rELWIm F*R C 3 aM oa Rs Q D 101-1954 MCES)
I9S   1990   1M    1M    1993  1994   IM     1996   1997   IM     1999  2000  200 2010-223
I    FLECT
nRa'
WMS WLE I F ULN.1LT4L 1OP10TIM      13.3  17.9  19.6  20.5  21.5  23.3  24.0  24.6  25.3  25.9  26.6  27.3  2B.7    30.9
lTffL D5L.IS                         13.3  17.9  I.6  20.5   21.5  23.3  24.0  2'.6   25.3  25.9  26.6  27.3  2B.7    30.J
ee _IUUIINI COSTS                     3.0   4.0   5.5   6.0   6.4   7.0   7.3   7.5   7.7   B.0   B.2   B.5   9.0               9.9
WISM REIWUBESE
1W3ER CIH                         0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4               0.4
aImER                             0.5   0.7   0.8   0.B   0.S   0.9   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.1               1.2
9J-lT0tL                             0.7   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.5   1.5               1.6
TOAT  LOUS                            3.7   5.0   6.6   7.1   7.6   0.3   8.6   8.B   9.1   S.4   9.6   S.9  10.5    11.5
MET FOlK INDE (WI)                    9.7   12.1  13.0  13.4  13.9  15.0  15.4  15.B  16.2  16.6  17.0  17.4  10.2    19.4
NET TOEIMh FM  INaEE CUTI)            4.8   6.1   6.5   6.7   6.9   7.5   7.7   7.9   0.1   0.3   8.5   8.7   9.1               S.7
RENT
IFI (BEFORE IECWIES)                 10.4  13.1  14.1  14.6  15.1  16.3  16.7  17.1  17.5  1.0  18.4  18.9  19.8    21.0
FMuLt LIE                             3.7   4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.6   4.7   4.8   4.0   4.9               5.0
IWAIEMENT                             1.5   1.8   1.S   2.0   2.1   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.7               2.9
INLICIT REIT                         5.2   7.3   9.0   0.4   9.7   9.6   9.9  10.2  10.5  1.B  11.1  11.4  12.1    13.1
TOMWI RIDT                            2.6   3.7   4.0   4.2   4.4   4.3   4.9   5.1   5.2   5.4   5.6   5.7   6.0               6.6
VrITl FRILECIJ
GM  WILE CF AM ELTUPL PRUIIJ         13.3  20.1  22.9  24.4  25.9  29.4  30.6  31.9  33.1  34.4  35.0  37.1  39.9    44.2
TOTAL 1jUFLM                         13.3  20.1  22.9  24.4  25.9  29.4  30.6  31.9  33.1  34.4  35.8  37.1  39.9    44.2
OUiFLU
CII FROUTIUI caSm                     3.0   4.9   5.9   6.3   6.0   7.7   0.2   8.6   9.1   9.6  10.0  10.7  11.1    12.6
VARIOM1 REBERE
11T1 OImES                        0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4               0.4
DaIDE                               -    0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.0   1.2   1.2   1.4   1.4   2.0              2.0
WTNHL (al)                          -      -      -     -    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1         -      -      -      -       -
OIlER                             0.5   0.0   0.9   1.0   1.0   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.5   1.6               1.8
3-TOTU.                              0.7   1.5   1.7   1.0   2.1   2.4   2.7   2.7   3.0   3.0   3.3   3.3   4.0                4.2
TOr.L WUIRFL                         3.7   6.4   7.6   8.1   8.9  10.2  10.8  11.3  12.1  12.5  13.3  14.0  15.1    16.0
NET FPMI 1  E (WI)                   9.7   13.7  15.3  16.3  17.0  19.3  19.8  20.5  21.0  21.9  22.5  23.1  24.8    27.4
NET 7EIWIT FOA LD4E (IT!)            4.8   6.9   7.7   8.1   8.5   9.6   9.9  10.3  10.5  11.0  11.2  11.6  12.4    13.7
REIIT
WI (IEFE EOlE1ES)                    10.4  15.3  17.0  18.1  19.1  21.7  22.5  23.3  24.0  24.9  25.7  26.4  2B.8    31.6
FIILT LIBO                            3.7   4.3   4.5   4.6   4.7   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0               5.0
MUEIT                                 1.5   2.1   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.7               4.1
IMPLICIT RDNT                        5.2   8.9  10.2  11.0  11.8  13.8  14.5  15.2  15.9  16.6  17.4  10.0  20.1    22.5
TEIST RIT                            2.6   4.5   5.1   5.5   5.9   6.9   7.3   7.6   7.9   3.3   8.7   9.0  10.0    11.2
DOnm
NET FAlN INCGE                         -    1.6   2.3   2.8   3.1   4.2   4.4   4.9   4.9   5.3   5.5   5.7   6.6               8.0
WI BUMR RElturIES                      -    2.1   2.9   3.5   4.0   5.4   5.8   6.2   6.5   6.9   7.3   7.6   9.0    10.6
PETBE INCREASE                       1.0   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.4                1.4
PRJECT  MIT                            -    1.6   2.2   2.7   3.1   4.2   4.6   5.0   5.4   5.9   6.2   6.5   8.0               9.4
LESSWARI US KEERIES                    -    0.5   0.6   0.7   0.9   1.2   1.4   1.4   1.6   1.6   1.8   1.9   2.5               2.6
8hANl                                  -    1.1   1.7   2.0   2.2   3.0   3.2   3.6   3.7   4.2   4.4   4.7   5.5               6.8
PfRfTlE INhlT.L RENT REIDN             -   32.0  25.4  24.9  29.4  27.7  30.1  28.2  30.5  27.1  29.4  2B.4  31.0    27.4
PEREITIE IMENTML lIEGE RKSEI           -   24.6  19.4  19.1  22.8  21.6  24.0  22.9  25.3  22.7  25.0  24.5  27.4    24.2
EIWIT REIT                             -    0.8   1.1   1.3   1.6   2.1   2.3   2.5   2.7   2.9   3.1   3.3   4.0               4.7



ANNEX 7
-91-                                 Table 1S
?SA[WA
UII-STOE I fU.EET
JElSUTIW FUN MMl AM 1ESTilE OF MRECT KlT : HIIN MITERUE    4 10 D 16 JIIESnY
TOMT FARNE t 5 MA CW* fs 000 1I NID-184 PMCES
1986   110   IM     !%2   1993   194    9S3  1996  197   19     1191  2005   2005 010-2025
grim-I PROJECT
DLU
gm  VALKE F AItOLJEOL UUII1N    21.3  27.3  27.5  30.6  31.7  33.6  34.3  35.0  35.6  36.3  17.0  37.7  31.1    41.2
UTUIL DILOS                          21.3  27.3  29.5  3;.6  31.7  33.6  34.3  35.0  35.6  36.3  37.0  37.7  39.1    41.2
cmI PRIMIE   COSTS                    6.1   9.0  10.2  10.8  11.5  12.3  12.6  12.S  13.1  13.4  t3.7  14.0  14.6    15.5
mm 05t385B                        0.3   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    0A               0.6
oIIE                              0.9   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.6               1.6
513i401L                              1.1   1.6   1.7   1.8   1.3   I.?   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.1   2.1   2.2               2.3
lITL OtRFLOW                          7.3  10.6  11.9  12.6  13.3  14.2  14.5  14.8  15.1   15.   15.8  16.1  16.8    17.
MET FI MUE (Ji)                      14.0  16.6   1.5  18.0  18.4   19.4  19.   20.1  20.5  20.8  21.2  21.6  22.3    23.4
NET TOMT FNII INMIE (NTn)             7.0   8.3   8.8   9.0   9.2   9.7   9.1  10.1  10.2  10.4  10.6  10.8  11.1    11.7
REII
WI (BEUM EOIEWRIE)                   15.2  18.3  11.2  19.7  20.2  21.4   2;.7  22.1  22.5  22.1  23.3  23.7  24.5    25.7
FNULT LANE                            5.3   5.5   5.6   5.7   5.7   5.1   5.9   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.1   6.1   6.2               6.4
IWIUIT                                2.1   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.8   2.9   3.0   3.0   3.1   3.1   3.2   3.2   3.3               3.5
T   REIIT                             7.8   10.2  11.0  11.4  11.8  12.6  12.1  13.1  13.4  13.7  14.0  i4.3  14.9    15.8
TEJINIT WIT                           3.9   5.1   5.5   5.7   5.1   6.3   6.4   6.6   6.7   6.9   7.0   7.1   7.4               7.1
MITH PRJC
DLS
OWS IUE OF *StIaLTW.L PROICEl        21.3  35.0  40.6  43.7  46.1  54.5  57.1   51.   62.6  65.5  68.4  71.4  77.5    87.2
TOTAL IFLOhS                         21.3  35.0  40.6  43.7  46.1  54.5  57.1  51.9  6246  65.5  68.4  71.4  77.5    87.2
CtM FRI I cOsTS                       6.1  10.S  13.2  14.2  15.5  17.9  18.7  11.6  20r   21.6  22.5  23.8  24.7    27.3
VATEt 0t11                        0.3    04    0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.3   0.8              0.9
ADh                                 -    0.8   0.8   1.0   1.2   1.6   2.0   2.0   2.4   2.4   2.9   2.9   4.0              4.0
CR1M.L (Ft)                         -      -      -     -    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -      -      -      -       -
n0ER                              0.s   1.4   1.6   1.7   1.9   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.9   3.1               3.5
SU3-TOT.L                             1.1   2.8   3.1   3.4   4.0   4.7   5.2   5.3   5.8   5.8   6.4   6.5   7.                8.4
TOTSL eIFLON                          7.3  13.7  16.3  17.6  11.4  22.5  23.9  24.9  26.5  27.4  20.   30.3  32.6    36.1
MET FfMI D0E (1W7)                   14.0  21.3  24.3  26.0  27.4  31.1  33.2  35.0  36.2  36.1  3S.5  41.1  44.1    51.1
MET 7EIWIT FMU IICI  (WII)            7.0  10.6  12.2  13.0  13.7  16.0  16.6   1.5  19.1  19.1  11.7  20.5  22.5    25.5
EIIT
WI (tEFDE M ES)                      15.2  24.1  27.4  29.4  31.4  36.6  36.4  40.3  42.0  43.9  45.9  476   52.9    5.5
Fl   Ullf                             5.3   5.6   5.7   5.7   5.8   5.9   6.0   6.0   6.1   6.1   6.2   6.2   6.3               6.5
IWEIIT                                2.1   3.2   3.6   3.1   4.1   4.0   5.0   5.2   5.4   5.7   5.9   6.2   6.7               7.7
Drum  IEIT                            7.8  15.4  18.1  11.3  21.5  23.9  27.5  29.0  30.5  32.1  33.8  35.2  31.8    45.3
TEIOM  FIlT                           3.9   7.7   1.0   1.9  10.8  12.9  13.7  14.5  15.2  16.0  16.9  17.6  11.9    22.6
IET FUN Il                             -   4.6   6.8   8.1   9.0  12.5  13.5  14.3  15.7  17.3  18.3  19.5  22.7    27.7
WI EU    RECWEIES                      -    5.9   8.2   9.7  11.2   15.3  16.7  13.2  19.5  21.1  22.6  23.9  23.4    33.8
WTAKIE  IJEME                         1.0   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.7   1.7   I.3    1.8   1.9   1.9   2.0              2.2
PRlECT  IT                             -   5.1   7.1   0.4   9.8   13.3  14.6  15.9  17.1  11.4  19.8  20.9  24.9    21.5
LEsS:MReIN REMRES                      -    1.2   1.4   1.6   2.1   2.7   3.2   3.3   3.8   3.8   4.3   4.4   5.8               6.1
MIME                                   -    3.1   5.7   6.8   7.6   10.6  11.4  12.5  13.2  14.6  15.5  16.5  11.1    23.4
PEREWIrE NC9ENRSL REHINT EWOED         -   23.7  19.4  19.2  21.8  20.6  22.2  21.0  22.4  20.4  21.9  21.2  23.2    20.7
PIRWITAK INIEJITW L INCE IE E          -   20.7  16.9  16.7  19.0   18.0  19.4  18.3  19.6  17.3  19.2  19.5  20.3    13.1
TfIUT gfIT                             -    2.6   3.5   4.2   S.9   6.7   7.3   7.1   8.5   9.2   9.9  10.5  12.5    14.8



-92-
Annex 7
Table 16
PAKISTAN
LBOD STAGE I PROJECT
Irrixation O&M Expenditures and Recoveries in Sind a/
(Rs H, 1984 Current Prices)
O&M Expenditures in Irrigation System
------Rs M--                       Reco-      Recoveries
Estab-     Tube-    Canals/               veries     as Z of Ex-
Year           lishment    wells       Bunds     Total    (Rs H) b/  penditures
1977-78              51.3      19.0       53.7     124.0       78.7       63.5
1978-79              76.0       9.4      128.4     213.8       90.0       42.1
1979-80              69.0      66.3      112.9     248.2       95.6       38.5
1980-81              75.9      66.4      160.7     303.0      130.2       42.9
1981-82              95.0      67.7      242.8     405.5      174.2       43.0
1982-83             161.9      82.7      168.8     419.9      210.4       52.0
1983-84            206.6       85.1      223.9     515.6      227.3 hJ    44.0
A/  Data Source: GOSind.
bl  Excludes originally estimated recoveries (Rs 24 M) from GOSind's recently
introduced drainage charge; major loss in cotton crop resulted in deferral
of these recoveries.



PNUISTAN
LEFT DAM WOFALL DRAIN PROJECT
SUBAREA I HANWBSHAH
...................
ECONONIC REAL FLOW
(As 11)
1986    1987    198    1989    1ff0    1991    1992    1913    1M94    1995    1176    1177   1998    191    2000    2005    2010    2015    2020    2025
OMFIT!
ACRICILTURAL. (DIRECT)                       -       -       -    41,7   156o4  279.3   320.4   326.2   549.9  606.9   658.2  705.1   719.3  775.3   798.0  838,1   866.4  966.4   966,4  866.4
STWAUTER NOI-FOP DOMA  REDIUTION             -       -       -       -      0.5     1.5     1.8     2.2     2.5      2.9     3.2     3s5     38    4U2       4.5    6.1       7,8     7.8     7.8    7.9
IITERTALE NONW-P DNMAGE REDITION             -       -       -       -      0.5     1.5     1.9     2.0     2.3      2.6     2.9     3.1     3.3     3.6     3.9      5,2     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5 
                                                   -                  -         ----------------------------------------------------
TOTAL KNFITS                                 -       -       -    41s7   157.4  2M2J3  324.0   33J04  553.7   612,2   664,2   711,7   725.    783,1   796.4   849i4   80?7   8.7   8807   880*7
COSTS
PRODICTlOI                                   -       -       -    14,9   49.6    91.3   104i4  105.5   186.0  206.9   225,7   239.8   241.3  258.9   260,4  263.4   259.8  259.1   259.9   259.8
CAITAL                                   134.5   234,3   26745  108.6    10.6    3.3        9.2    9BO        -        -       -       -       -       - -              -       -       -       -       -
RECiNENT (01 H) COSTS
CAPITAL. REFUACCTS                       -       -       -                -             0.2     0,4     0,4    19.0    32,2    23.1      9B.    20.1       -    22.9        -       -    20.1       -
PERSOtIEL                                -     2#2     5#7     8a9    8.9       9.9    809      8,9     8,9      8,9     8.9     9.9      9      89.      8.9     8,9     8*9    b9.    89.9      9.
PONW  a OTD 0 A N                        -     1.4    14.2    27.4    55.6    48.8    49.9    49.9    49.9    49.3    49.8    49.8    49.9    49.8    49.8    49.9    49.1 I 49,9    49,9    49,9
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... _._.......  .......  __.__ ._ ...................  .___ ._ .. ........ _________________g 
TOTAL OF RECLT COST                          -     3,6    19.9    36,3    64.5    57.7    58.9    59.1    59.1    77.7    90,9   81.9    67.5    79.8       5.7    81.6    58.7    5987    7898  5s4,          r
TOTAL COTS                               134.5   237.9   307.4   15798   124.7   157.3   171.5   172.6   245.1   294.6   316.6   321.6   308.8   337.7   319,1  345.0   318.5   31895   338.6   318.5          -J
MET KEFIT                               -134.5  -237.9  -307.4  -11891    32.7   125.0   152.5   157,9   306.6   327%6   347,6   390,1   4167   445o4  477.3   504.4   562,2   562.2   542,1   562.2
an*3   =am1 nrZX  manna a             n nassaU   sasama1 - zsaszahs  mama mXZXma   san  macan  maca   lallas nun. -s-- swn  m sass  _sm                      _ala



PAKISTAM
LEFT MMt OUTFALL DRAIN PROJCT
SUIAREA I SANOHAR
ECONOtIC REAL FLOW
(Rs N)
1996   1997    18    199    19         1      1       1       1       1       1       1997   1998   1        2000   2005   2010   2015   2020   2023
IWITS
A6RICILTIRE (DIRECT)                       -       -      -   43.6  126.2   244.9   345.3  427.9   559.3  623.4   681.J  725.7  795.9  332.0   878.9  1078.7  1234.7  1234.7  1234.7  1234.7
STEWATER NON-CROP DW5ME RffCTION           -      -       -       -       -    7.4    1.5    1.8    2.1    2.3    2.6    2.9    3.2    3.4    3.7    5.1    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5
VATETAEL NOND-CROP   EM RCTION             -      -       -       -       -    7.3    1.5    1.9    2.1    2.3    2.6    2.9    3.2    3.4    3.7    S.l    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5
TOTAL  FITS                               -      -       -   43.6  126.2  259.5  348.3  4314   563,4  629,1  686.5  731.5   M.2  838.9  886.3  10699  1247.7  1247.7  1247.7  1247.7
COSTS
PRODUCTION                                 -       -      -   11.9   47.0   72,0   98.3  128.1  185.3  207.3  227.6  239.6  257.4  269*8  292,5  332.0  364.9  364.9  364.9  364,9
CAPITAL
SAMIOWf SUAMEA                     17.5  143.5  28996   332.7  184.3   74.9   1229    22.9          -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -
NA  SYStER                             -    4.6   56.5  203.9  185.8  231.2   44.2   27.4            -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -
TOTAL CAPITAL COST                      175   14811   346.1  536.5  370.1  213.0   57.1   40.3           -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -
RECIDMIT (03  N) COSTS
CAPITAL RtACS                            -       -      -       -       -       -       -    03    0.5    0.3   33.2   59,6   59.9    4.7   14.5    1.3   14S   42.4   35.3                  -
PUSOIEI                                  -       -    1.9    5.O    9.2    9.4    94                   4     9.4    9,4    9.4    9.4    94    9            94      9.4    9,4    9,4    9.4
PMUE I OTHER O t h
OTItR DRAI4iE                        -       -     1.4   22.9   39.6   97.2   89.3   90.6   90.6   90.6   90.6   90.6   90,6   90.6   90.6   90,6   90,6   90.6   90.6   90.6                        0
OTIM  IMIATION                       -       -       -       -      -    0.7    0.7   12.98   137    13.7   13,7   13           13.7   13.7   17    137    13.7   13.7  1J7    13.7
SUP - TOTAL                            -       -     1.4   22.9   39.6   97.9   90.0  103.4  104.3   104.3   104. 3 104 13   1043   104.   1043             3   104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3
TOTAL RDERJNT COSTS                        -      -    3.2   27,9   47.9  107.3   99.4  113.1  114.2  114.0  146,9  17313 273.5  162.4  128.2  1950   12892   156.1  149.0  113.7
TOTAL COSTS OF SASg  PROECT             175   14.1   349.3  576,3  464.9  392.3  254.98  291*5  29.5   321.3  374.5  412.1  430.?   432.2  410.7  527.0  493.1   521.0  513.S  47896
NET 3WIT                               -17.5  -148.1  -349.3  -532.7  -338.7  -132.9   93.5  149.9  263.   306.9  312.0  318.6  362.3  406,7  475,6  561.9  754.6  726.7  733.9  7691.
anna  nass nass1a111mass  mum ,1   usas a1ass ausasas nasa saunas asasaBuen       as  u-annm manse=i ssan ar ass   e                   mssia



PAKISTAN
LEFT BMAI OUTFALL DRAIN MP CT
SUIAREA I HIRPI AS
ECUONOIC REAL nOW
(Ri B)
186    1997    I88    199    1990    11    IS2    1993    1994    1995    1996    I997    IM                  19"     2000    2005    2010    2015    2020    2025
WNEFITS
AGRICULTURE (DIRECTI                           -        -       -        -    56.5    S0,3   191.0   227.7   323.2   344.7   399.0   429.7   447.3   479,9   496.5   637.5   726.1   726,1   726.1   726.1
STORATER NOR-CRP DAOE REDUCTION                -       -        -        -       -      1.0     2.1      2.5     3.0      3.4      3.9     4.3      4.7     5.1      5.6     7.7      9.9     9.9      9.9      e9.
VATERTAILE  O-        DM        RECTIO         -        -       -        -       -        -     06                1.3     1.7      1,9     21       2.5     2,       3.1     4,9      6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5
TOTAL  EFlTS                                   -       -        -        -    56.5    91.3   183,7   231,9   327.5   349.8   404.6   436.1   454.5   496.9   505.2   650.1   742.5   7425   742.5   742.5
cost9
PRMDKIION                                      -       -        -        -    21.7    37.1    56.4    75.4   111.2   120,0   140.2   149.9   154.5   164.3   169.0   211.1   234.1   234.1   234.1   234.1
CAPITAL
HIRPiAS SUBA                             0.6      7.5    25.4   108.6   369-.1   474.0   293.4    35.9          -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       '
WIA S9STE9                                 -     2.3    29.2   105.1    S5.9    71,3    22.9    14.1           -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       '
RID - TOTAL                               0.6      9.9    54.6   213.7   464.9   545.3   316,3    49,9           -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
RECIREIT (0 I MI COOTS
PAWIE                                        -       -        -       -      2.2      4.9     7*2      7.2     7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2      7,2     7        72 7,2  7        7.2     7.2      7.2      7.2
PonR 1 OIDc 0 1 N
DRAIMoOE                                  -       -        -     1.0    19.1    31,6    64.9    62.7    643    64,3    64.3    64,3    64,3    64.3    64.3    64.3    64.3    643    64.3    64.3
HA  IRRIGATION                           -        -        -       -        -     0M4      3W7      6.6      7.0     7,0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7,0      7,0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0 ~'
SUP -   TAL                                         -           -  1.0    19S      32.0    68,6    69.3    71,3    71.3    71.3    71,3    71.3    71.3    71,3    71.3    71.3    71.             71,3    71.3   '
CP17AL REPUACEENT                            -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -     0,3      1.4     0.9    29.1    29.2    29,4        9.4    58,3      9.4    30.6    14.7         -
TOTAL  RE   T   £09                            -       -        -      1.0    21.3    3649    75.       76.5    7898    79,9    79.4   107.6   107.7   107,9    97.9   136,8    87,9   109,1    93,2    7895
TOTAL COST                                   0.6     9.9    54.6   214.7   507,9   619,3   448.5   201.9   190.0   1999   219.6   257,4   262,2   272.2   256.9   347.9   322.0   343.2   327.3   312,6
NET EWIT                                    -0.6    -9.8   -54,6  -214,7  -451.4  -526.0  -2U4,8    30,1   137.5   149.9   185.0   178.7   192.3   214,6   24893   302,2   420.5   399,3   415.2   429.9
maSn uasaSAa   sauas  Seagram isaga.t: sassaUa u an  s2san*. wasumuas sXans:  asmssx- a..asasara *              5si8s5 nzzuns: amas  mSsm s  ua-Maaa *    mas:as Nram asia
-    - -        -- - - - - - -------. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .    .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .                . . . .     - . . . .. .



ANNE 7
Table 20
ISI.,
LEFT UK W LL1=PET
rNl   I    AtEAL
ECNNO1E WRL FLU
1i    Im      IM    13    1M me           IM. Im        im 4   IMs   Ino  1in        IM    1991   2oo   20s5  mote   i1s   2ze   2C25
Emu
-      -      -   41.7  137.4  25.3  314.0  331.4  ss.7   62.2   a.2  711J  7n5.5  7mL.   796.4  sew.4  m.7  3.7  830.7   M.7
S                                      -       -     -   43.6  126.2  29.5  3433  43.4   54   62.1  A3             733.3  m.2  3.9   3         1.9  27.7    7.7 1247.7 227.7
IMI                                    -      -       -      -   56.    91.3  15.7  231.9  327.3  349.3  404.   431  454.3  41.m  302  60.2  742.3  742.3  742.3  742.3
01  Sm                                 -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -   Me   13    133.0  233.0  203.0  226.   2260  226.0  26.   226.0
TOL P      s                           -       -      -   85.3  340.1  633.3   56.0  9.7 1444.6 10.0 1311.3 1992.2 2130.2 2311.3 2s.9  114.4  3096.9 3P6.  36.  39.9
SUNW. P1U1CU COS
_aM                                   -      -      -   14.9   49.6   91.3  104.4  105.5  3A.0  206.9  22L7  23.3  243.3  23D.   260.4  2A3.4  29.1  2F4  29.3  29.3
S_                                    -      -      -   12.9   47.0   72.0   93.3  12.1   35.3  207.3  227.6  231.6  237.4  26.   212.5  312.0  34.9  364.  364.9  364.9
mama                                  -      -      -      -   21.7   37.1   56.4   75.4  311.2  120.0  140.2  149.3  134.3  164.3  1m9.0  211.1  234.1  234.3  234.1  234.1
miTN E ae                             -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -   17.0   33.0   47.0   60.0  20.    67.0   67.6   67.0   67.0   67.0
D - s   a                             - TA-   2 6.8  ls3   2e0.4  239.1  309.0  45.3  334.2  610.5  62.2  750.2  73.0  919n.    73.3 s 2J   92.3 n                     .31  92n.3
CuPIrL COS
BSUFA        NE _R   2A6TU
391                             L34.5  234.3  217.3  2I.6   10.6    3.3    3.2    3.0         -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -
£0                               17.3  148.1  346.1  36.3  370.1  213.0   37.1   6.3          -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -
NImS                              0.6    9.8   54.6  213.7  464.9  54.3  316.3   49.9         -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -
0n005                               -      -      -      -      -       -   3.0   50.0   30.0   40.0   30.0        -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -
33 - wrL                        12.6  392.2  d632  3.0  35.6  716.6  411.6  164.2   s0.0   40.0   3e.0
Ct 331L smEI3                     42.7  239.1  143.7   33.2   93.7   93.3    7.3        -      -       -      -
1515L CAPITAL ,21                635.3  631.3  MIS   947.0  93.3  eu.  419.4  148.   D3.0   4.0o   30.0
r         aa i   C OSTS
CAPITA REPLCDX
mI-e                               -      -      -      -       -      -    0.2    0.4    0.4  19.0   3.22  3.1          .    2.1       -   22.9      -       -   2.1       -
SlI                                -       -      -      -      -       -      -    3.3    0.5    0.3   33.2  53.6  3s.    4L7   14.3   31.3   14.5   4.4   3.3              -
N                                  -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -    0.3    1.4    0.9  29.1       2    229.4    9.4   313      .4   30.6   14.7       -
mIMI 515115                        -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -   32.8  314.3   164        -      -    3.4   25.      1.6      -
so - _ Ts.                          -       -                    _ -          0.2    0.7    1.2   20.7   U63  144.0  22.6  114.6   2L2  16.3   29.3   93.    71.7             -
PERSII
_WlS3A                              -    2.2    3.7    3.9    L.    3.9    L.    L.    3.9    3.9    3.    3.    3.9   L.              LI    3.9    3.9       9    1.9   N.
s R                                 -      -    1.3    5.0    8.2    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    .4    9.4    94    9.4    9.4    9.4
113113                              -      -      -      -    2.2    4.9    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2
ewAL  STS3                          -    1.2    2.6    3.7    3.7    3.3    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
SW - lOTs.                           -    3.4   10.1   17.6   23.0   n.0    .5   29.3   29.5   29.5   29.3   29.5   29.3   29.3  27.3   29.s   29.3   2h.5   29.3   29.5
-I_                                 -    1.4   14.2   27.4   335    41.1   49.3   49.3   49.3   49.3   49.a   49.3   4.3   49.3   49.3   49.3   4..          49.3   49.3   49.
sl                                  -      -    1.4   22.9   A.  97.9   90.0  103.4  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  104.3  304.3  304.3  104.3  304.3  104.3  104.3
Sf033                               -      -      -    1.^   19.1   31.0   60.6   69.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3   71.3
OVFEl. 31338                      1.0    3.0    0.0   12.7   21.0   21.7   22.3    22.5      3     2.3    22.3    22.3    22.3   22- 3     225 3    225.  22.3   22.3   22.3   22.5
M - WaL                             1.0    3.2   23.6   64.0  133.3  200.4  230.9  245.0  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9  247.9
135L Sf17 CDR                        1.0    .6   33.7   31.6  15.3  2m.4  260.6  273.2  27L.6  2.3  303.7  422.0  490.0  m.0  301.3  439.9  36.7  353.4  30.1 277.4
imCiL  6sreWE                       11.1   21.3   21.3   21.6   11    13.2   12.3   11.9                -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -
W1L5   0                           647.4  66.7   .    1077.0 1234.0 232.9  931.4  744.3   11.1, e72.3  904.2 1504.2 1390.2  143.0  22I.2 1313.4  IM3.  131.2  174.9 3.2
Kr 33EFIT                         -647.4 -661.7 -M.  -1.7  93.9  -6             -9s.4  2n.4  623.3  717.7  37.3  901..0  90.0 1166.3 3374.7 1301.0    4.4  173.7 1012.  13.L7



ANNEX 7
Table 21
PAKISTAN
LBOD STAGE I PROJECT
A. Relative Importance of Project Benefit/Cost
Streams with Switching Values
Switching
Value g/
% Total PV 11  (Z Change)    Lai   3
Overall Staxe I
1. Incremental Benefits               100             - 18    2 years
2. Incremental Costs                   100            + 22         -
Production                        ( 40)           (+ 57)        -
Capital                           ( 36)           (+ 59)        -
O&M                               ( 23)           (+103)        -
Technical Assistance              t  1)         (+2,480)        -
j/  Streams discounted at 1OZ per annum opportunity cost of capital (occ).
-3] Switching value is the percentage change in the specific benefit/cost
stream that reduces NPV of the project to zero at the specified discount
rate.
S/  Delay in benefits before an ERR of 19% (OCC) is reached.
B. Sensitivity Tests of Selected Scenarios for Overall Stage I Project
(Unless Indicated)
ERR         NPV
Z         (Rs-B)
BASE CASE                                13.6         2.2
1.  15% Decrease in Output Prices            10.6           .4
2.  20% Decrease in Incremental              12.8         1.6
Yields of Cotton and Wheat
3.  20% Increase in Capital Cost             12.1         1.5
4.  Excluding NARA Irrigation System I/       9.5        - .2
Navabashah                             (21.9)        1.2
Sanghar                                ( 8.8)       - .16
Mirpurkhas                             ( 5.9)       - .4
5.  Inclusion of Sunk Costs of               12.1         1.5
Spinal Drain
O/ NARA System includes Nara and Jamrao remodelling and completion first
phase of Chotiari Reservoir.



-98-
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for
Monitoring and Evaluation Component
Introduction
1.      The project's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities (paras.
3.21, 5.14, 5.15) would establish and implement an effective and timely
information system with the following main objectives:
(a) to report the physical and financial progress in implementation of
project activities that would provide an early warning of bottlenecks
and guide appropriate and coordinated corrective actions by the
implementing agencies and cofinanciers;
(b) to monitor the main physical parameters that may affect the project's
physical impact, therefore enabling appropriate and timely corrective
actions should any problems and/or sub-optimal conditions materialize
during or after project implementation;
Cc) to assess the project's socio-economic impact on beneficiaries'
agricultural production and income levels, and to a lesser extent, on
the regional economy; it is expected that this independent evaluation
study would provide information that could be used to monitor benefit
build-up, to maximize project benefits, to guide implementation of
drainage charge agreements, and to learn more systematically the
lessons for planning subsequent stages of LBOD and other similar
drainage projects.
The M&E component would comprise three inter-related and coordinated
activities-project progress reporting; monitoring physical parameters; and
socio-economic impact evaluation. The terms of reference (TOR) for each
activity are outlined below. Further elaboration on the TOR and detailed
plans for implementing these activities and their linkages, including coor-
dination in collection and use of information, would be prepared during the
early stages of project execution in accordance with the following framework
and the Bank's Guidelines (A Handbook on Monitoring and Evaluation of
Agriculture and Rural Development Proiects. World Bank. 1981).



-99-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
A.  MonitorinR of Proiect Implementation
2.      Under the overall coordination of the IMO, reporting on project
implementation would include progress in: (a) the number of TVs and elec-
trification works installed and dates of installation, TW performance (until
these are transferred to GOSind), length of main drains completed and canals
remodelled, and the number of watercourses improved; (b) implementation and
effectiveness of scavenger wells, TWs, interceptor and surface drains; (c)
the posting and training of project staff; (d) the procurement of equipment,
civil works, and consultants; (e) administrative and institutional arrange-
ments and coordination; and (f) financial expenditure by project component
and by budget bead, including operation of the project's special
sub-accounts.
3.      The reporting format would emphasize timely intervention by project
management for early resolution of potential bottlenecks. To simplify
reporting requirements of project management to the Government and cofinan-
ciers and to increase the effectiveness of regular project reviews, IMO,
assisted by project consultants, would prepare a reporting program and desig-
nate staff responsibilities for review by IDA by February 1, 1986. There-
after, IMO would prepare annual progress reports for submission to Government
and the cofinanciers by February 1 of each following year.
B. Monitoring ProRram of Physical Parameters
4.      WAPDA's M&E Organization, supported by concerned implementing divi-
sions, would monitor project works and their main hydrological effects. The
main parameters monitored would include: (a) watertable depths throughout the
project area; (b) water balance (including canal supplies, rainfall,
evapotranspiration, TW and tile drain pumpage, reuse, and drain outflows);
Cc) salt balance and incoming sediment in the canals; (d) performance of TWs
and horizontal drain pump stations (including well/drain hydraulics, O&M, and
water quality); (e) performance of the disposal system, including subdrains
and branch drains as well as the outfalls to Shakoor Dhand and the Arabian
Sea.
5.      The following data collection programs would be carried out:  (a) for
vatertable depth monitoring, the existing network of observation wells would
be augmented by a suitable number of piezometers installed by IM and all
wells would be monitored twice yearly; (b) a number of meteorological sta-
tions and recording raingauges would be installed by 1MO to complement exist-
ing facilities; (c) canal flows into and out of the subareas would be
monitored at various sites by a regular canal discharge measurement program;
(d) drain discharges would be monitored at a number of sites, with recording
and non-recording gauges (installed by IMO); te) crest stage recorders would
be installed to record depth of flooding above sample inlets and flood levels
at critical points within the disposal system; (f) TW and horizontal draiu
performance would be monitored recording actual pumping, power consumption
and breakdowns; (g) the special TV studies would be undertaken as part of
project implementation; (h) performance of the tidal outfall would be
monitored by a permanent tidegauge to be installed in Shah Samando Creek,
together with EC recorders in the tidal linkJKPOD system.



-100-
ANNEX 8
Page 3
6.      The M&E team would prepare quarterly reports on vell performance and
annual reports to summarize and analyze data collected. The reports would
recomend required action(s) to correct identified problems and/or optimize
the project's physical (hydrological) operation. Such reports would be
submitted to IMO and GOSind's Department of Irrigation no later than March 1
of each year, beginning in 1987. To provide a complete record of project
operation and performance, the monitoring reports would be closely coor-
dinated with the annual project progress reports work prepared by IMO.
7.      A detailed monitoring program for the above activities vould be
prepared by WAPDA's M&E organization, including a work schedule and organiza-
tion, including designated personnel and costs. This program would form the
basis of a memorandum of understanding to be reached between IMO and WAPDA's
M&E Unit to be completed by no later than February 1, 1986. This memorandum
would be sent to IDA and the other participating cofinanciers for review and
comment.
C. Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation Study
8.      Key Indicators.  The impact evaluation study would collect and
analyze data on the following key indicators: crop yields, cropped area and
increases in cropping intensities; cropping patterns; land use, particularly
land abandonment; crop and livestock production; farm incomes of
beneficiaries, including assessment of their ability to meet agreed project
cost recovery provisions; distribution of project direct benefits, with
emphasis on assessing the impact on tenants and other low income groups; farm
employment levels; secondary economic impacts; effectiveness of WUA's in
providing adequate O&M of improved watercourses and field drains; and other
relevant and unforeseen project impacts that may emerge.
9.       Approach.  The evaluation should be as simple and focused as pos-
sible, and should make maximum use of existing information and data including
available primary and secondary data sources, information generated during
project preparation and appraisal, satellite imagery data, and aerial
photography (where appropriate). This approach should facilitate comparison
of forecasted and estimated actual changes of key parameters (e.g.,
depth-to-watertable, cropping intensities, farm incomes) according to repre-
sentative subareas. Collection, including field survey design and analysis
of data should seek to establish project benefits and estimate the extent to
which the main production and income incremental benefits (e.g., difference
between "with" and "without" project scenarios) can be attributed to direct
project actions or to non-project factors. The evaluation study should: (a)
adopt appropriate and cost-effective data collection and analytical
methodologies, including the use of representative farm models and "control"
areas and farmers for establishing reasonable "without" project scenarios;
(b) carry out selected studies on topics cited in para. 8 in order to monitor
the accretion of project benefits; and (c) establish key relationships (e.g.,
depth-to- watertable and crop yields) in order to assess project impact on
production and farm income levels, including farmer's capacity to meet the
project's scheduled cost recovery provisions as illustrated in the farm
models.



-101-
ANNEX 8
Page 4
10.      Schedule of Main Activities.   The impact evaluation study would be
implemented in accordance with the following schedule: invitation of
detailed proposals - September 30, 1985; selection of consultants - February
1, 1986; detailed study design - first half of 1986; baseline survey -
1986/87; intermediate surveys, progress reports, and selected studies on key
topics in order to monitor build-up of project benefits - 1988-1992; interim
evaluation report, including contribution to project completion report - end
1993; post-project surveys, progress reports and final evaluation report -
mid-1997, or about four years after the completion of overall project works.
It is expected that the institution selected to implement the study would
submit (by April 1 of each year) to GOSind, IMO, PSC, and the participating
cofinanciers an annual progress report on the main evaluation activities,
problems, and findings for the period under review, and a summary of planned
eraluation activities and staffing arrangements for the following year. The
first report, which should include a detailed implementation plan for the
overall evaluation study, should be submitted to the concerned entities for
their review no later than April 1, 1986. The selected institution also
vould assist GOSind in preparing the project completion report to be sub-
mitted to the cofinanciers within 6 months following the close of the
project.
11.      Implementation Arran2ements.  The evaluation study would be carried
out as a separate project activity by an independent local institution with
the assistance of international experts. Based on the study requirements and
available funding, it is estimated that such experts would: (a) be composed
of an agricultural economist/farm management specialist, an agronomist, a
statistician, and other experts as required (e.g. sociologist); and
(b) provide overall assistance of about 70 man-months over the 11-year study
period. To facilitate coordination among the various participating agencies
in the full utilization of the project's overall information system, par-
ticularly during the early stages of project implementation, the monitoring
data collected by IMO and the WAPDA M&E Unit would be provided to the evalua-
tion agency for the impact evaluation study. GOSind's Planning aud Develop-
ment Department, the study's executing agency, would assist wherever possible
in ensuring smooth and timely coordination and execution of study activities.
Where appropriate and necessary, the PSC would also intervene to ensure that
the study objectives are fulfilled. The participating cofinanciers have
agreed that IDA would administer the ?&E component on behalf of the agencies
providing the funding--CIDA, ODA, and the SWISS. In this capacity, and to
facilitate smooth implementation, IDA would coordinate their joint participa-
tion in this project component.



-102-                         ANNEX 9
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFAL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
Proiect File Documents
1.      Sir H. MacDonald and Partners Ltd. and Hunting Technical Services
Ltd. Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I Project Preparation, Main Report and
Annexes 1-16. WAPDA. January 1984.
2.      Sir M. MacDonald & Partners Ltd. and Hunting Technical Services Ltd.
Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage I Project Preparation - Album 1, Soil and Land
Classification; Album 2, Engineering. WAPDA. January 1984.
3.      Sir M. MacDonald and Partners Ltd.  Left Bank Outfall Drain -
Remodelling of KPOD Outfall. Instructions for Tendering; Conditions of
Contract; Specification; Detail Dravings; Bill of Quantities; and Tender
Form. WAPDA. December 1983.
4.       Sir M. MacDonald and Partners Ltd. and Hunting Technical Services,
Ltd. Left Bank Outfall Drain - Si-nary Report. WAPDA. October 1983.
5.      Project Planning Organization (Southern Zone) WAPDA and Sir M.
MacDonald and Partners Ltd. Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage I Report. RAPDA.
March 1981.
6.      Sir M. MacDonald and Partners, Ltd. and Hunting Technical Services,
Ltd. Left Bank Outfall Drain, Main Report and Annexes 1-7. WAPDA. April
1980.
7.      Left Bank Outfall Drain - Project Planning Report. WAPDA 1969 and
1972 (Revised Phase I).
8.      Hunting Technical Services Ltd. and Sir M. MacDonald & Partners Ltd.
Lower Indus Report. Main Report, Supporting Reports 1-28, Supplements and
Maps. WAPDA. 1966
9.      Project Planning Organization (Southern Zone) WAPDA, HyderabaQ.  Left
Bank Outfall Drain Stage I: Core Programme, Spinal Drain RD 450-820, and
Completed Works. Reclamation South Publication No. 69. WAPDA. September
1982.
10.     Project Planning Organization (Southern Zone), WAPDA, Hyderabad PC-I
for Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage I Umbrella Project (component projects).
February 1984.
11.     Directorate on On-Farm Water Management Project, Hyderabad, Sind.
PC-I for On-Farm Water Management (LBOD) Project. February 1984.



ANNEX 9
-103-                         Page  2
12.     Government of Sind, Irrigation and Power Department.  A Study on
Reasonable Requirement of Funds for Operation and Maintenance of Canal
Irrigation System, Scarps and Protective Bunds in Sind. 1979.
13.     Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I Project.  The Indus Basin Model and
its Adaptation to Evaluate LBOD Stage I Project. Irrigation I Division,
World Bank.
14.     T. Brooke.  Revised Linear Programming Models for LBOD Component
Project Area. January 25, 1984.
15.     C. Straub, F.J. Nurray, I. Carruthers, A. Youssef.  Left Bank Outfall
Drain Stage I Project - On-Farm Water Management Component. Working Paper,
February 1984.
16.     V. Gallay.  Left Bank Outfall Drain, Pakistan.  Observations on the
Irrigation Canals, Structures and Outfall Drains. ADB. February 1984.
17.     Anis Youssef. On-Farm Water Management Draft Report for World Bank
Staff Appraisal Report. 1984.
18.     J. Waterhouse.  Draft Report for World Bank Staff Appraisal Report.
February 1984.
19.     F. Murray.  Left Bank Outfall Drain Project, Pakistan.  Consultant's
Report: Sociological Aspects of LBOD Stage I Project. ADB. March 1984.
20.     Nara/Jamrao Canal Remodelling.  Preliminary Design Note. April 1984.
21.     WAPDA and Consultants.  Chotiari Lake Project.  Cost Estimates and
Preliminary Design Note. April 1984.
22.     IUCN Conservation Monitoring Centre. A Preliminary Environmental
Profile of the India - Pakistan Borderlands in the Sind-Kutch Region. A
Report for the World Bank. October 1983.
23.     LBOD - Stage I Project.  Supplementary Tables and Procurement
Schedules, Irrigation I Division, World Bank.
24.     LBOD - Stage I Project.  Detailed Cost Tables, Irrigation I Division,
Vorld Bank.
25.     LBOD Stage I Project, Detailed Crop Budgets and Farm Models for
Assessing Project Impact, Irrigation I Division, World Bank.



PA KI STAN                                                     |             AFGHAI -
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN                                                                   ..
STAGE I PROJECT                                                                o           ,
-P A kv 
"-s r-ao r.as ceer oreowred Ov rhe wo*a eank s stafr eJc.etry tor rne coner.ene of                  c.
e raC-rs ar s .S  e for the ,nernal Lse or ThleWofl 6ank and me Jnematonao         .              x
;.'JnZe Caroc'a.a' .l,e dnoenabo,rns use and the Dsurdanes shoi0 on Ms mao do not
r 0- Mre r- Zr: aoif T V.n Ba and mer iat.anal Fna.ce Cocaton. any mdglex it
_- rne iegal Sats Or any ferrIo Or any enrrdoreent or acCeotance or sufh bouniri;es
A toanan 5ec
6 \9{ b8" /   TO S,,kkur                         690                                             70°
PROJECT AREA
/ \ | Moro
Moro \l                                   .PROJECT COMPONENTS-
-- }!   t     *Project Subarea Boundaries
\   1\   ~   <   ,Droinoge Tubewells
NA WAB A H                   0                       ~- ' \ :::::Scavenger Tubewells
'C- '\ 't  \     NAA VI   5HA- H                                                             Tile Drainage
'    \2 1 "\ \                 NG        o k            '-    ~ \I,    '-oticri ice            '  Surface Drainage
0                   \<Z    Reservoir Construction
. . . . . . . . . .--:'::-    Canal Remodelling
' x     '\ ---   5           -          +   >      g              ~      -- Outfcll Drain
tt-__  \       i   . . - -~~~~~Songjhcsr . . 
EXISTING
-26°   'G, \@ .o .Q   O      A\ 'A I                                      -   Outfall Drain
26'        RD-82C7Nr ~~~~~~~~~~~~--Canals
9   \/ ;.River & Bunded Area
\  o    Selected Towns & Villages
*  Koandidari\                                Major Roods
0f ts > °Tano \    ~   \ c                     -      Barrage
>>* 8   Adam                                A ts >   1  RD-J5G   Relative Distance Measure"
JX f  o [  3" tus-  _       lnfercettor draIns, walercourse
Mirpur J  1lw  ~  .            niprovements, elec'rifbcoton, and
I  * Korr tv ,>?t  Mirpurks 05       precision land levelling will be
carried oul throughout the
N  HYD     ERABADABAD'f A  {5H                                           \     proiect area.
__\  /  R \  t----r  ----   \  ** RODrReIat,ve Distance Scale;
I unit  1000 fl
/     Ta~~ndo Mohd                Dir       ~0                           10    20    30
han                                                   I       I <  ) 1   |  MILES
-250
Tdo Thotta </g>,f   /        Ze too!in ond /GhA         69°              X      /                         700



IBRD 18245
C,;>                          680      -    -                       o           706                              JUNE 1984
-TAN         -
ZBAtL UCHISTAN9                                                                            PUNJA B
280 
NS~//~                                                                                                                      280~
/~ , yf6'                                                  7,                          /      _2e/iV   X
NDIA                            Lorkana°                       a rrage
4~~~      g                  ,~~~~---             Khalrieurj
_,'  .  . /PROJECT  LOCATION
-' X  /PROJECT COMPONENTS:
5 X    S   -     /        /                                      --/       Project Subarea Boundarios
/                        I         ~            Reservoir Construction
| Dadu°                                                                         Canral Remodelling
w \ Outfall Drain Remodelling
Outfall Drain
\   --- NsAW AH .-                                     EXISTING:
\   SeI'waz ^    - Nc ,bskah >* ,- Outfoll Drain
0\         {                            -\- '-   Canals
260                                                                               -------    River
i  RD-820+\\?],  LA S                              Left Bank Catchment Area   26°
260-         Approximate Coverage                                                           a      Selected Towns & Villages
of Project Area Map                        ^                                          Barrages
/                                   - \   \  Tidal Mud Flats
/,, 8              M              ;rr-:-_ h- -- Seasonol Flooding/Salt Pans
Kl a  fForroge.            .- a             U erkot      4RO-CS0  Relative Distance Measure"*
/ -                          °Hyderabad   ^/jM/PP.                     -. °  .-   Provincial Boundaries
-.   /                                       -t KHkS xH                            Iniernational Boundaries
'ID ~   RD-.4 0
. 2                                               Karl \,  0 |                    0      20      .:0    60 MILES
Karach.              I                     -      \
;    Thatrao                                RA PA KISTAN
M                        ~~~~~~~~Kcdhcn Po eiiis-  .5
*!  -,                     GtrGS~~~~~~Ou/a  'roin 9 tDhoro P,,a, Outfo// Dgroin
-240                             - .         ,     -                                  - -   - ;?cnnRc f S Q 7 Jh '.       24°-
2501               -    - I                                                     N         D -1            A
680   -700  -_



