Documt S
The Woeid Bank
FOR OMCAL USK ONLY
C  R9. /i53-2-  'AR
1et N.. P-3897-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCITON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 147.6 MILLION (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE ISLAMC REPUBLIC OF PAKIST%AN
FOR A
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
November 13, 1984
ther .6,1. d1ti  afuPul -i    u tbhrwhe be dis_asi whhw W_ M jmuk auhhs uig  jt



Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
11S$1.00 - Rs 13.50
Rs 1.00 - 'US$ 0.07
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ADBREVXATIONS
ADB        - Asian Development Bank
ADBP       - Agricultual Development Dank of Pakistan
ADP        - Annual Development Program
CIDA       -  Canadian International Development Agency
CIMP       -  Commad Water Management Project
DPOD       - Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain
ECREC      -  Emecutive Coumittee of the National Economic Council
GOP        -  Government of Pakistan
GOSind     -  Government of Sind
ha         -  hectare
ICB        -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA        -  International Development Association
IND        -  Integrated Nanagement Organization
km         - kilometer        -
IPOD       - Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
a          - meter
N&E        -  Monitoring and evaluation
Mt         - metric ton
ODA        -  Overseas Development Administration
OFWM       -  On-farm water management
OPEC Fund  -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
Fund for Development
O&M        - Operation and maintenance
PC-l       -  Planning Coumission Proforma No. 1
PSC        -  Project Steering Committee
SCABP      -  Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SDC        -  Swiss Development Cooperation
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme
WAPDA      -  Water and Power Development Anthority of Pakistan
WUA        - Water Users' Association
GLOSSARY
bund        -   embankment to retain water
command     -   area receiving irrigation water
dhand       -   natural depression or lake
watercourse -   irrigation distribution system flowing from
a canal



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUENARY
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:            Sind Province
Amount:                 SDR 147.6 million
(US$150 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:        From the Government of Pakistan (GOP) to the
Government of Sind (GOSind) and the Water and
PoweriDevelopment Authority of Pakistan (WAPDA)
through budgetary allocations in accordance vith
normal GOP procedures.
ProJect Description     The eight-year project would be the first stage of
a major orainage program in Sind Province to
reverse the deterioration of the land resource
base caused by waterlogging and salinity.
Integrated irrigation, drainage, and water manage-
ment measures would permit increased cropping
intensities and a reduction in abandoned land in
an area of wore than 0.5 million ha. Principal
project components include: (a) completion of a
300 km outfall drain and remodelling of existing
drains to dispose of saline effluent to the
Arabian Sea; (b) installation of a surface and
subsurface drainage network in the three subareas;
(c) installation of a power distribution systeh
to supply the drainage tubevells and drain pumps;
(d) introduction of on-farm water management
practices including renovation of about 920 water-
courses and precision land levelling; (e)
remodelling of the Nara and Jamrao Canals, as well
as construction of the Chotiari Reservoir, to
provide supplemental irrigation water for the
project area; and (f) technical assistance for
project design and implementation. About 140,000
farm families (910,000 people), of whom three-
quarters are below the rural poverty level, would
benefit directly. Annual foreign exchange
benefits of about US$180 million would be expected
from additional production of about 315,000 mt
This document has a restricd distribution and may be used by recpents only in te performance of I
their ofricial dute Its conents may not otherwise be disclosed without World  k authoriationa |



tons of seed cotton and 215,000 Ut tons of whiet.
Since the project consists of a number of
integrated components, delay in completing any cne
part could jeopardize the viability of the total
project. To minimize this risk, project ezpeudi-
tares have been carefully phased and adequate
provision bas been mde for consltants to rein-
force the mangemt organization.
Estimated Costs: a
(U-S$ Millions)
Item                         Local        Foreinu        Total
Drainage Disposal System                  33.2          38.0          71.2
Javabshsh Area                            32.9          27.7          60.6
Sangbar Area                              39.4          40.0          79.4
Nirpurkbas Area                           48.5          50.6          99.1
Water Resource Development                50.6          31.2          81.8
Institutional Development                  0.9           8.4           9.3
Project Information System                 1.5           1.5           3.0
Total Base Cost                          207.0         197.4         404.4
Physical Contingencies                    29.3          28.1          57.4
Price Contingencies                       8G.8          93.1         173.9
Total Project Cost                    317.1         318.6         635.7
Fiuancinz Plan:                                   (p. jiions        L
Local        Forei*u        Total
IDA                                   50.1         99.9          150.0
Asian Development Bank (ADB)          35.1         86.9          122.0
Saudi Fund for Development            13.5         38.5           52.0
Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA)            9.5         28.0           37.5
Overseas Development
Administration (ODA-UK)              4.2         31.4           35.6
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC)    8.0          2.0           10.0
OPEC Fund for Development              0.0         10.0           10.0
GOP                                  196.7         21.9          218.6
Total            317.1        318.6          635.7
J Including about US$97 million in taxes and duties.



~~~~~~~~~~~-i-
Estimated DisburseMents:
(us$ miillions) 
IDA FY       F8   FY     F         89  'O  FY91  PY92  F193  YY94
Annual       9.6  13.4   20.0  19.5  27.9  24.0  18.4  12.3   4.9
Cumulative   9.6  23.0   43.0  62.5  90.4 114.4 132.8 145.1  150.0
sRate of Return:   14Z.
Aiwraisal Report: No. 5185-PAK, dated November 5, 1984.
M3RD 18245



INTERNlTIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOUIIUDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECVIM
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAXCISTAN FOR A LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE I PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR 147.6 million (US$150 million equivalent) to the ISlamic
Republic of Pakistan on standard IDA terms to help finance a Left Dank
Outfall Drain Stage I Project. Six other external agencies are expected
to participate in the financing of the project in amounts and on terms as
follows:
Amount                        Terms
(US$ million
Azency                     equivalent)          Z Per Annum       Yearshrace
ADB                          122.0                    1               40110
Saudi Fund                    52.0                    3               2018
CIDA                          37.5                  grant               -
ODA                           35.6                  grant
SDC                           10.0                  grant              -
OPEC Fund                     10.0                    1               17/5
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      The most recent economic report 'Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments" (No. 4906-PAM, dated February 24, 1984) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 13, 1984.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable. GDP
grew by 5.8Z, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in
industry by 8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which
declined slightly from 13.6Z of GM? in FY82 to 13.4Z of GNP in FY83, was
among the few unfavorable events. -National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from 10.9% to an estimated 14.1% of GNP. The declining trend
.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President-s Report P-3831-PAR (Second Small Industries Project), dated
May 25, 1984.



-2-
in the rate of inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price
index, the rate of inflation slowed from 11.5Z in FY82 to 5.2Z in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in
FY83. The current account deficit, at US$554 million (1.8X of GNP), wan
less than half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome
reflected three main factors: a resumption in the growth of ezports fol-
lowing a substantial decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of
imports; and buoyant remittances from migrant workers. Exports grew by
13%, nearly regaining their FY81 level. The most striking feature of the
export performance was the growth of non-traditional exports, which
increased by over a third. The drop in imports reflected, inter alia.
higher domestic production of oil and import-substitution in some key
commodities. The incipient recovery in world trade and delinking of the
exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with its subsequent
depreciation, contributed significantly to the improved balance of pay-
ments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current account, normal
levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IN! purchases,
Pakistan's reserves more than doubled. At the end of FY83, gross official
reserves stood at US$1,911 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real grovth rates in national output (6.3Z),
agriculture (4.4Z), industry (9.lZ) and exports (9.2Z), though below Plan
targets, were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78
and very respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the
same period. This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant
remittances - benefited large segments of the urban and rural population.
The output of all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency
in wheat and sugar vas achieved. Encouraged by improved government
policies, private investment in manufacturing expanded by 8Z p.a. in real
terms; this expansion was more than offset by the declining public invest-
ment in the sector, however. The balance of payments performance was
quite satisfactory: the current account deficit declined significantly
relative to GDP. Government fiscal and credit policies reduced budget
deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary pressures gradually
subsided. This progress was made despite a number of unforeseen events:
(a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external terms of trade
after 1979; (c) the crisis in Afghanistan, which necessitated increased
outlays for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued decline in
real net aid flows.
6.      In recent years the Government bas taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural, industrial, fiscal and credit policies. In
agriculture, particular attention bas been given to improving farmer
incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major crops bave
been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the same
time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy. An



-3-
Agricultural Prices Commission bas been set up to wake recommendations on
appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
7.      The Government has formulated and begun to implenent a new
agricultural policy based on the main recommendations of a UE3P study on
irrigated agriculture. The program emphasizes the need for efficient
water delivery systems through the rehabilitation of canals and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer, and an expanded role for the
private sector. Other programs-in pesticides, seeds, agricultural
credit, extension, research and farm power-have also been strengthened.
These initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
8.      Major changes have also been wade during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970; of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and grovth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been
denationalized; constitutional safeguards have been provided to private
industry against further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas
open to the private sector have been widened. A wide range of fiscal
incentives have been granted to encourage private investment and ezports.
These have been supplemented by a liberalization of imports which has
improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure
has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and stimulated private investment, wainly in
small and medium-scale projects.
9.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. The management and
organization of the public sector, and the performance of individual
enterprises has been reviewed. In accordance with the recommendations of
these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector-holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level.  Some public sector units which bave
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures have helped to increase production and capacity utilization
substantially in the public sector.
10.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan
period. The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the
banking system, whic.. stood at 8.8% and 4.3Z of GDP in the first year of
the Plan, fell to 6.4Z and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced
levels of government borrowing from banks, together with overall credit
restraint, led to lowe- rates of growth of the money supply and lessened



-4.
inflationary pressures; prices rose by 52 in the final year of the Plan as
compared with 8Z in the first year. The improvement in fiscal performance
wan, however, largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than
better revenue performance. Real expansion in current expeuditures on
economic and social services barely kept pace with population growth and
development expenditures declined relatively to GDP. At the same time,
government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public saving.,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8X of GNP,
amounted to only 1.6Z in the last year of the Plan. Greater resource
mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the implementation
of the Sixth Plan.
11.    The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these
improvements, further wide-ranging measures to address the main issues
are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently improved economic
performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88). These issues
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture;
the structure aud competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation of
domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; and the problems of resource mobilization.
12.    Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly
for roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55Z of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Except in the important case of vheat, agricultural growth since the
mid-1970s has been the product of acreage expansion with little improve-
ment in yields. Because of the high cost of extending the irrigation
system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is essential. The achieve-
ment of higher productivity will require improved agricultural services
and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as vell as continued
attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part of the Fifth
Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards projects
designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve quality
of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. To encourage greater agricultural yields, the
Government must also continue to rationalize prices of agricultural out-
puts and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have been taken in a
more systematic and timely fashion based on recommendations by the newly
formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have been
brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These efforts, too,
will need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
13.    Manufacturing contributes about 15X of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again



accelerated. To provide a solid economic basis for continued rapid
growth, incentives for greater private and public manufacturing enterprise
efficiency vill have to be implemented. Despite some success in reviving
the private sector and improving the performance of public enterprises,
much remains to be done to bring about a major restructuring of industry
and place it on a competitive basis. 'he efficient long-term development
of the industrial sector will require both a relaxation of government
controls and rationalization of industrial incentives. To encourage
industrial gruu:h more in line with Pakistan's comparative advantage, the
process of import liberalization initiated over the past few years must be
continued. In addition, the differential rates of protection given to
various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To provide
further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract risk
capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling System
in FY84-which has set performance objectives for individual enterprises
and will provide bonus incentives for managers-should contribute toward
the achievement of these objectives.
14.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs accounting for over 262 of
total imports. Energy investments to improve the energy situation total
over 33Z of public investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The
Government-s efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjusting domes-
tic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy forms
and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydroelectricity and natural gas resources as well as
by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil
sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with
foreign private companies.  Nevertheless, due to a variety of techn,cal,
geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as
well as the development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's
considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized.
The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such
matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to
accelerate progress.
15.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid economic growth, it is
also necessary to contain the rapid growth in population, currently run-
ning at about 2.8Z p.a. Family planning programs have so far had little
effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environment
of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on government resources simply to maincain



-6-
education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
Hovever, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates
can be much reduced. The Government has recently hbown wore awareness of
this problem.
16.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and
ezternal resource constraints. National savings averaged only 12% of GNP
over the Fifth Plan Period. To improve the budget and the balance of
payments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings
levels in the economy, particularly in public savings. Given the size of
the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a comprehensive
strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including taxation
policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and implicit
subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public enterprises,
will be needed.
17.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development.
The Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies an vell
as on a public expenditure program.  Recognizing the importance of a
dynamic private sector for rapid economic growtb and the limitations on
public sector resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private
sector, increased emphasis on market incentives for greater production and
efficiency and for increased participation in sectors where the Government
has previously played a large role. The size and composition of the
public sector development program is ap; ,priate provided the necessary
resources can be raised. While public development expenditures would
expand only as rapidly as gross domestic product, this iB a realistic
target given projected available resources and the demands for improved
public services. To achieve such an expansion - a reversal of the declin-
ing trend experienced under the Fifth Plan - and to finance an increasing
share from domestic resources will require a major mobilization effort.
The largest increases in sectoral allocations will go to energy, agricul-
ture and irrigation, and the social sectors.  The shift in the composition
of the public sector developmeat program is justified because of the
threat to future growth posed by energy shortages, the need to increase
agricultural yields by imp.-ovements in agricultural and
irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the social sectors.
18.     The recent policy initiatives, which are to be continued during
the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial
borroving and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing. At the end of calen-
dar 1982, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the undisbursed
pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 billion was owed to
bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's exter-
nal public indebtedness was 15.2X and in external debt service was 12.1%.



-7-
According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and services), which was about 13.7% (including IMF charges) in
FY82, is likely to remain below 15Z during the 1980s, even with sonewbat
higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROU1P OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
19.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof whicb were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in almost all sectors of the economy. This has included its
involvement with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program
of works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately
3)% of total Bank1IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 26% for industry including import program credits; 211 for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14% for energy
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 4Z for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5% for a .'L.
20.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are
responsible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth;
and thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban
development.
21.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural support-
ing servi_es; improving water management; reversing or controlling
salinity and vaterlogging; and expanding livestock development. An impor-
tant purpose of this lending is to assist the Government to obtain a
balance between further investments in physical infrastructure and com-
plementary institutional improvements.
22.     In industry, lending through DFCs and other financial inter-
meaiaries which has been mainly for the private sector totals US$488.5
million. This includes eleven Loans/Credits for the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), two Credits for the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), one Credit for the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), two Credits for Small Scale
Industries through five commercial banks, and a Loan/Credit for industrial
investment through five participating financial institutions including two
commercial banks. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinp."y engineering loan.



As of Septedmr 30, 1984, IFC bad mde istents in 15 Pakistan
enterprises for a total of US$174.2 million, of which US$163.2 zillion vas
by wa of loans and US$10.9 million by equxty participations (these are
shown in Annez 1)_ About US$51.0 zillion of these investments rema ned
outstanding.- IC has assisted enterprises in the fields of pulp and paper
products, textiles, food and food processing, petrochemicals, cment,
steel, fertilizer, plastics, and vood processing. IPC is also a
shareholder in PICIC.
23.    The  anmk has bad a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In Dover the Bank Croup has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply
Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development Anthority (WhPYA)
with four and thre¢ projects respectively; the sector has also been
assisted by the conscruction under the Indus Basin Development Program of
Nangla and Tarbela Dams. In petroleum. the two Sui gas transmission
compazies have been assisted with five projects, while the Bank Group is
financing two petroleum projects, for production and exploration, and is
playing an important role in strengthening the public Oil and Gas
Development Corporation. An IDA credit to support a Coal Exploration
project was approved in mid-1983. These efforts are assisting in the
efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for
increased private imvestment iu the sector. Iu addition, IFC has made
three loans in the petroleum sector.
24.    The focus of Bank Group lending for trasuport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and
strengthening the institutions responsible for these services. especially
the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistam Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph
Department, and federal and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed
four projects in the urban and vater supply sector, two of which are
currently being implemented. Five credits for education totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. A first population project
was approved in April 1983.
25.    In addition to financing specific bigh-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank bas from time to time supported
Pakistan-s development through program assistance. A first structural
adjustment lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors
in June 1982. This SAL program consisted of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
26.    Arnn  II contails a summary statement of Bank Loans and ID
Credits as of September 30, 1984. Credit and loan disbursenents have been
generally satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due



-9-
to protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to lowness in the procurement of goods and services.
Rapid turnover of -snagerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
27.    A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are cur-
rently under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include
projects for power transmission and generation, direct and indirect
industrial investments, oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture,
telecommunications, urban development and education. Pakistan coutinues
to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I.
To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority
projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some
local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
28.    In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government
of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND I2RRGAXION SECTOR
29.    Despite its declining relative importance, agriculture continues
to dominate Pakistan's economy. It contributes about 30Z of gross domes-
tic product, provides about two-thirds of total exports, and employs
approximately 55Z of the countryWs labor force. The agriculture sector's
grovth rate decreased from an annual average of 6X in the Sixties to 2Z in
the Seventies, in large part because of inappropriate policies. Following
the change of Government in 1977, agricultural policies improved and
growth rates rose to an average rate of 4.4Z during FY1979-83. A tem-
porary setback in FY1984 caused by severe insect damage to the cotton crop
and adverse weather conditions is not expected to slow the overall pattern
of growth.
Irrigation and Drainaae
30.    Pakistan has a total land area of 79.6 million hectares (ha) of
which about one-fourth is cultivable. The Indus irrigation system,
commanding 632 of the total cultivable area, generates about 90Z of the
nation's total value of -agricultural output. While the Indus waters have
been used for irrigation for some 3,000 years, the basic system for con-
trolled year-round irrigation was installed under British colonial rule in
the 19th and early 20th centuries. Following partition of the subcon-
tinent in 1947 and subsequent agreement on division of the Indus waters,
large irrigation investments were made in Pakistan in the Sixties and
Seventies. In general, these projects sought to replace water lost
through partition and increase water supplies by providing reservoir
storage and making greater use of groundwater to increase both the area
irrigated and the cropping intensity. Today, the Indus irrigation system,
which comprises three major storage reservoirs (Tarbela, Nangla and



-10-
Chasma), 19 barrages or headworks, 12 link canAls, 43 canal coumands, and
some 89,000 watercourses, is the largest contiguous irrigation system in
the world.
31.    While development of the irrigation system has made possible
increased agricultural production, it has not done so without a cost. The
greatly increased continuous use of Indus waters for irrigation has sig-
nificantly altered the hydrological balance of the Indus Basin. Seepage
losses from irrigation canAls, distributaries, minorsr and watercourses,
as well as deep percolation from the irrigated lands, have cauwsed a
gradual rising of the groundwater table, resulting in waterlogging and
salinity of much of Punjab and Sind provinces, vhere most of the countrys
food and fiber crops are produced. The watertable, which was at least J5
meters (i) deep in most areas in the early 1900s, is nov less than 3 u in
at least 50Z of the Indus Basin. A 1961 survey estimated that 40,000 ha
of irrigated land was being abandoned annually at that time as a result of
waterlogging and salinity, and available inEormation indicates that aban-
donment is continuing.
32.     In the early 1960s, to relieve Pakistan's waterlogging and
salinity problems, the GOP initiated a series of salinity control and
reclamation projects (SCARP) featuring public tubevell installation for
drainage and supplemental irrigation in fresh groundwater areas. To date,
about 12,000 such tubevells have been installed, mostly in Punjab
Province. While tubevells have alleviated waterlogging and salinity in
some areas, large saline groundwater areas, especially in Sind Province,
still need immediate drainage relief. Moreover, benefits from public
tubevells have been limited owing to inadequate operation and maintenance
CO&N) caused by technical, financial, and managerial problems.
33.    No Operations Evaluation Department report has yet been prepared
for a project in irrigation or drainage comparable or related to the
proposed LBOD project. However, over the last 25 years the Bank Group has
played a major role in the development of the Indus Basin. The Bank
facilitated the negotiations that resulted in the 1960 Indus Waters Treaty
which divided the waters between India and Pakistan. Subsequently, the
Bmnk mobilized financing for and administered the Indus Basin Development
Fund established to finance a massive civil works program including con-
struction of the Nangla and Tarbela dams. In performing this role and
supervising the projects, the Bank's tecbnical, institutional, and policy
advice has had a significant impact on the development of Pakistan"s
irrigation water resources. Partly as a result of tbis assistance, the
Water and Power Development Authority MAMPA) is today a relatively strong
institution capable of undertaking major civil works projects, and con-
siderable technical expertise exists in both the public and private
sectors. In more recent years, the Bank has helped the GOP execute a
number of studies to set the course of future investments in irrigated
agriculture.



-11-
Government Policvyand Bank GrouD Assistauce
34.    The GOP now recognizes that the huge investments in its irrigation
infrastructure in the Sixties and Seventies vill be wasted if they are
not properly maintained and if adequate drainage is not provided. The
Government also acknowledges that greater emphasis must be given to on-
farm ater management and complementary agricultural services. The
Government's current investment priorities in agriculture favor
rehabilitation and programs to reach the farmer directly, as well as
selected major infrastructure projects, notably in drainage. This invest-
ment program will be backed up vith continued efforts to widen the role of
the private sector and maintain appropriate input and output pricing
policies. The Bank is supporting this strategy by financing a nmber of
projects in water management, irrigation system rehabilitation, salinity
control and reclamation, research, credit, and eztension.
35.    Nany of the agricultural policy reforms initiated in recent years
grew out of a strengthened dialogue with the Bank. Bach of the irrigation
projects has incorporated provisions to improve 0K and cost recovery (see
paras. 53-55 and 64-67), while the Fertilizer Imports Credit
(Credit 1066-PAt fully disbursed) and SAL (Loan 2166lCredit 1255-PAZ fully
disbursed) dealt in addition with agricultural pricing and input
subsidies. Procurement prices for Pakistau's major crops - wheat, cotton,
and rice - are at or near parity with world market prices, and current
output-input price ratios appear to provide adequate incentives to
farmers. All subsidies on pesticides were eliminated by 1983, and the
Government has regularly reduced the fertilizer subsidy in accordance with
its commitment under the Fertilizer Imports Credit to phase out the sub-
sidy by mid-1985.
36.    Despite the policy reforms of recent years and the GOP's essen-
tially correct priorities, a great deal more remains to be done if the
potential of the agriculture sect.or is to be realized. More attention
needs to be given to the link between extension and research, and to
coordinated availability of agricultural information, inputs, marketing,
and credit. Of particular importance will be the achievement of a balance
between further investments in physical infrastructure and programs to
improve the delivery of inputs and services to the farmers. In the past,
the latter efforts have foundered because of inadequate funding and weak
institutions and management. Success in ieproving services at the local
level will require better coordination both between the federal and
provincial governments and among various provincial agencies. The Baneks
sector dialogue with the GOP is focused on these issues with a view toward
support for further policy reforms through a possible sector lending
operation.



-12-
Sind Province and Proiect Area
37.    Sind Province contains about 25Z of Pakistan's total irrigated
land. Located in the lover part of the Indus Plain, it is also the
repository for the entire Plain's drainage water. Approximately 3.2
million ha, or more than 50X of Sind's total irrigated area, are already
severely affected by vaterlogging and/or salinity problem s.
38.    The proposed project would cover an area of about 516,000 ha in
Sind, vbere there has been a dramatic rise in the watertable during the
past 20 years. Currently, about 302 of the area has a watertable less
than 1.2 v in depth, which bas induced salinization of uncropped land.
Both cropping intensity and yields in the project area are low relative to
Sind's potential. Lack of sufficient irrigation water and problms
associated with the rising water table add salinizution are the main
constraints. In addition, although fertilizer use is widespread, inade-
quate cultivation practices, poor pest control, and limited use of high
yielding seeds contribute to the low yields.
39.    The project area's population of about 1.2 million, of which 73Z
are classified as rural, comprises ,.6Z of the zural population of Sind.
The project area includes an estimated 113,000 farm holdings, the majority
of which are over 20 ha. However, since about 60Z of the units are farmed
by share-cropping tenants, the average operational _am unit is less than
half the size of the average land holding. Thus, about 701 of the opera-
tional farm units are less than 5 ha and 901 are less than 10 ha.
40.    As noted above (para. 36), supporting agricultural services
throughout the country, including the project area, need to be
strengthened. While this will be a long-term effort, existing services,
reinforced by ongoing and ;roposed projects, Are considered adequate to
support LBOD Stage }. Agricultural credit is available in the project
area from the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADEP) and from
commercial banks. The availability of credit is being expanded through
support to ADBP by the Bank and other donors. Narketing and pricing of
inputs and outputs are adequate for the expected project output. The
ongoing Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Reseurch Project (Credit
922-PAK) is strengthening extension services in much of the proposed LBOD
project area, and the remaining area will be covered during implementation
of LBOD. While research is still not adequate to meet the practical needs
of farmers in the area, this too will be improved under the ongoing
Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1158-PAK).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement
41.    Proposals to halt and/or reverse the waterlogging and salinization
in Sind by constructing major drainage facilities date back to the mid-



-13-
Sixties. Even at that time the Governmet realized that a comprehensive
program to include improvements in the irrigation system and water manage-
ment as vell an drainage was required. Hovever, owing to a shortage of
funds, the GOP initiated, with its own funds, construction of only a main
spinal drain in the 19709 on the assumption that external financing could
be found to complete the required works At the GOP's request, in 1982
the Bank agreed to serve as Executing Agency for 1)1P-fitnnced preparation
of a broader integrated project.  The Bank's willingness to assume this
role was based on: (a) its already substantial involvement in the
development of the Indus Basin irrigation system; (b) its conviction that
a drainage program of considerable magnitude and complexity was required;
and (c) its continued commitment to support the agricultural sector as the
mainstay of the economy.
42.    The proposed project represents the culminatioa cf nearly two
years of intensive vork, which built upon and amplified earlier work.
During this time Bank staff had considerable influence on the design of
the project and were able to help ensure its technical and economic
viability. In addition, the Bank assisted the GOP in early identification
of cofinanciers, a factor which made possible unusually close collabora-
tion among the potential donors and with concerned Government agencies.
Four donor agencies participated in the appraisal in January/February
1984, and a cofinanciers' meeting was held in Paris in Nay 1984.
Negotiations were held jointly with the Asiaa Development Bank (ADB) in
Manila, September 19 to 25, 1984; the Pakistan delegation was led by Wabab
Sheikh, Secretary, Ministry of Water and Power. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Pakistan: Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage I Project" (Report No.
5185-PAR, dated November 5, 1984) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplementay project data sheet is attached as
Annex III. The Executive Director for India was apprised of the-proposed
project prior to appraisal, and the Association has been informed that the
Government of India has no objection to the project.
Objectives and Scope
43.    The proposed project would be the first phase of a comprehensive
Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) program to provide drainage relief and
improve agricultural production within 11 sub-areas covering the entire
left bank of the Indus River below the Svkkur Barrage. LIOD Stage I would
include three sub-areas - Nawabshah, Sanghar, and Hirpurkhas (Map IBRD
18245) - selected on the basis of agricultural potential and need for
drainage. Nawabshah is served by the Rohri Canal, and Sanghar and
Mirpurkhas by the Eastern Nara Canal, which feeds into the Jaurao Canal.
The limited original capacity of these canals, reduced further by erosiou
deposits, deprives the subareas of valuable potential water. Construction
of a substantial part of the main spinal drain has been completed with GOP
financing; and the GOP is currently remodelling the Rohri Canal. The size
of the proposed Stage I project reflects the economies of scale associated



-14-
with the core drain and the fact that it has the highest net present value
of various alternatives.
44.     The project, to be implemented over an eight-year period
(FY86-FY93), would consist of a major outfall drain and a comprehensive
drainage systemi to: (a) provide surface drainage for an area of about
516,000 ha; (b) provide sub-surface drainage relief for an area of about
392,000 ha; and (c) transport excess vater and salt out of the area, thus
reversing deterioration of the land resource base due to waterlogging and
salinity. To obtain maximum agricultural benefits from the drainage
investments, the project would also include improvements in irrigation
facilities and on-farm water management (OFn), as well as institutional
support to ensure adequate OEM throughout the system. EKisting water-use
efficiencies would be improved and unused surface flows, which currently
escape to the sea, wouLd be stored for later use in the project area to
increase cropping intensities from the present 81Z to about 117Z.
Proiect Description
45.     The project would include the following components:
(i) Spinal Drain
(a) Completion of a main outfall drain under the Government's
ongoing program;
(b) Construction of a bifurcation structure at the junction of
the KadhAn Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and the Dhoro Puran
Outfall' Drain (DPOD);
Cc) Remodelling of DPOD and RPOD to carry drainage flows from
the spinal LBOD and the existing drain from the Kotri
cormzand;
(d) Construction of an outfall from Pateji Dhand to Shah Saanmdo
tidal creek;
(ii) Drainage Works
(a) Construction of a surface drainage network to feed LBOD, and
the installation of drainage tubevells, scavenger wells, and
interceptor and tile drains for sub-surface drainage and the
recovery of some fresh groundwater to supplement present
irrigation supplies;
(b) Construction of 11 kV distribution lines and enlargement of
four grid stations to provide power for drainage tubevells,
scavenger tubevells, tile drainage pumping stations, and
interceptor drain pumping stations;



-15-
(iii) Irrimation Works
(a) Remodelling of the Nara sad Jamrao Canals, rehabilitation of
the Jamrao headvorks, and construction of Chotiari Reservoir
to provide seasonal storage of about 864 million cubic
meters; and
(b) Improvement of about 920 watercourses and precision levelling
of about 26,000 ha.
Project Imulementatiou
46.    Since the phasing of all other components would depend on the
timely completion of the spinal drain, the Government has agreed that
adequate provisions would be made to complete the spinal drain and
associated structures up to the Navabsbah sub-area to required capacity by
July 31, 1986 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.10). Another
prerequisite for project implementation is eompletion of certain portions
of the ongoing Robri Canal remodelling which the Government is also
financing by itself. The GOP and GOSind have agreed that the Robri
remodelling would progress at a rate which was sufficient to make the
benefits available to the LBOD Project area by January 1, 1990 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04 and draft Province Project
Agreement, Section 3.09). The full benefits expected from construction of
the irrigation works, including the Chotiari Reservoir, would only be
achieved if use were wade of all the additional water. The GOP and GOSind
have given assurances that the water supplies made available by the Nara
and Jamrao Canal remodelling and constructi-n of the Chotiari Reservoir
vould be fully utilized in the IBOD Stage I and adjoining areas, including
the proposed Makhi-Faresh project to be financed outside the IBOD project
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.11 and draft Province
Project Agreement, Section 2.15).
47.    Project Manazement. WAPDA would be responsible for implementation
of all aspects of the project except the Nara and Jairao Canal remodelling
and OPWN, which would be the responsibility of GOSind's Department of
Irrigation and the OFWM Directorate in the Department of Agriculture,
respectively. A Proiect Steeriwn Committee (PSC), comprised of ranking
officials of WAPDA and GOSind's 'epartments of Irrigation, Agriculture,
Planning and Development, and Finauce would provide overall project
guidance and coordination. An Intesrated -Manamement Ortanization (I)D),
headed by a Chief Engineer assisted by internationally selected
consultants, would manage and coordinate project implementation.
Establishment of the PSC and the IMO, with powers and functions satisfac-
tory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.05, 3.06, and 6.01(d)). The 3H0
would be subdivided into seven offices, each headed by a Project Director,
to implement the various project components including the three sub-areas



-16-
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07). These units would be
staffed with qualified personnel from WAPDA and GOSind, depending on the
agency responsible for the component. Assurances have been received from
WAPDA and GOSind that the staff and local consultants required for project
execution would be provided, if and when necessary, on a timely basis,
and WAPDA has agreed that key INO staff for the first year would be
appointed by April 1, 1985 (draft WAPDA and Province Project Agreements,
Section 2.08).
48.     The Project Directors would have responsibility for the planning
and implementation of civil works, including OEM for one year after
completion. The Project Director for OFWM - who would liaise between
the Chief Engineer, IMO, and GOSind's Department of Agriculture - would
be responsible for planning and execution of the OFWM program including
watercourse renovation, precision land levelling, water management, estab-
lishment of demonstration plots, and organization of Water Users'
Associations (WUAs). The approach followed for the OFIM program would be
similar to that successfully initiated under the ongoing OFUN Project
(Credit 1163-PAK).  Under the LBOD project additional OFWM teams would be
fielded to ensure full coverage of the project area. For this purpose
GOSind has agreed to complete training of at least two additional OFWN
field teams by April 1, 1985 (draft Province Project Agreement, Section
2.09).
49.     As under the ongoing OFWM Project, farmers along a given water-
course would be required to form a WUA as a condition of receiving assis-
tance to renovate the watercourse. The WUAs would again be responsible
for renovation and 0& of the watercourses. To perform this task the WUAs
would manage the farmer contributions of labor and cash (see para. 65).
In addition, under the LBOD projecL. GOSind would undertake a phased
program to extend the WUA functicns to include drainage O&M. For this
purpose, by July 1, 1986, GOSind would amend the WUA Ordinance of 1982, or
take other measures as necessary, to extend the powers and respon-
sibilities of WUAs to cove. all aspects of drainage (draft Province
Project Agreement, Sections 2.10, 2.13, and 3.08).
50.     Monitoring and Evaluation {M&E).  Monitoring of physical
parameters would be incorporated in the ongoing data-gathering program of
WAPDA's N&E Organization which is to be expanded under the project. IMO
would: (a) by September 30, 1985 submit to IDA for comment a detailed
monitoring and reporting program; and (b) by February 1, 1986 execute a
memorandum of understanding with WAPDA's M&E organization covering the
agreed monitoring work plan (draft WAPDA Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
GOSind's Department of Planning and Development would be responsible for
the eleven-year evaluation of the socio-economic impact of the eutire
project. GOSind would: (a) by September 30, 1985 submit to IDA for com-
ment a program for impact monitoring and evaluation including terms of
reference and invitations for proposals from independent local institu-
tions to carry out the work; and (b) by February 1, 1986 conclude with



-17-
such an inotitution a contract acceptable to IDA, including a sub-contract
with a suitable internationally selected institution, to carry out the
impact eveluation study under terms of reference and conditions satisfac-
tory to IDA (draft Province Project Agreement, Section 2.14).
51.     Sechnical Assistance and Trainina.  In view of the size and tech-
nical and managerial complexity of the project, a substantial amount of
technical assistance and training would be required. The project would
provide about 878 man-months of internationally selected consulting serv-
ices to assist project management in overall planning and monitoring of
project implementation; special studies; preparation of design criteria,
final designs, specifications, tender documnts, and contracts; supervi-
sion of construction; and preparation of 0& procedures. In addition,
provision has been sade for about 264 man-months of local consultants to
assist GOSind as necessary in carrying out the OFN program. The interna-
tionally recruited consultants would be appointed and fielded by July 1,
1985.  The consultants for O011 would be appointed and fielded no later
than January 1, 1987 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 and
draft WAPDA and Province Project Agreements, Section 2.02).
52.     In-service local and overseas training would be provided to
professional staff. About 30 engineers and other professional staff would
receive mid-career and in-service training in O&M management. Visiting
experts, coordinated by the overall project consultants, would conduct
numerous short training courses. Training of additional staff for the
project s OFWM program would be couducted mainly in the field bv existing
staff. In addition, to improve the environmental monitoring capability
raquired under LBOD (para. 69), officers of the Sind Department of
torestry and Wildlife associated with the Rann of Kutch Wildlife Sanctuary
would receive training as required.
_Oeration and Maintenance
53.     In past years, 0&M of the irrigation system has suffered from
inadequate funding and weak technical and organizational capacity at the
provincial level. While recent efforts, supported by Bank Group assis-
tance and associated Government comnitments, have done much to correct the
situation, GOSind recognizes that further improvement in funding and
efficiency is required throughout the province.  In the meantime, WAPDA
and GOSind intend to ensure that all LBOD facilities are properly operated
and maintained from the start. An O&M organization would be set up within
the IMO to operate and maintain all drainage works constructed or improved
under the project. About one year after completion of a given component
or area, the staff, equipmeut, and facilities required to maintain it
would be transferred from the IMO to GOSind s Irrigation Department. To
ensure smooth turnover, assurances have been received from GOSind that
provincial O&M personnel would be seconded to the IMO for at least one
year prior to completion of works in a given area. In addition, GOSind
and WAPDA would jointly inspect the facilities both at the time of comple-



-18-
tion of the works and again one year later immediately prior to transfer
of the facilities to the Province (draft WAPDA and Province Project
Agreements, Section 2.11).
54.     The INO would develop operational procedures and by January 1,
1988 would submit a draft O&1 manual to IDA for review and coment.  The
manual would be updated as project components were completed, and a final
manual would be prepared by January 1, 1991 (draft WAPDA Project
Agreement, Section 2.10).
55.     To further guard against long-term deterioration of the system,
GOSind, assisted by WAPDA, would designate an independent technical team
acceptable to IDA to monitor and review every three-years, beginning by
January 1, 1988, the 0&M requirements of LBOD-Stage I in light of opera-
tional experience. Funding for 0&K of the drainage facilities constructed
under the project (including the spinal drain), when taken over by GOSind,
would be provided from the provincial budget. Assurances have been
received from GOSind that adequate funds vould be made available each year
to meet O&M and capital replacement requirements of the drainage
facilities constructed under the project, as determined by the periodic
independent technical iLviews. In addition, GOSind has reconfirued its
existing commitment under the Command Water Management Project (Credit
1487-PAK) to review annually the required funding for 06K of the
Province's entire irrigation and drainage system and submit its proposed
funding levels to IDA, for review and comment, by February 1 each year
(draft WAPDA Project Agreement, Section 2.12 and Province Project
Agreement, Sections 2.12 and 3.04).
Proiect Costs
56.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$635.7 million,
including US$97.1 million taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs are
estimated at about US$318.6 million, or about 501 of total project costs.
Base costs are expressed in September 1984 prices. About US$10.6 million
is for O&M of completed works during project implementation. Project
costs include physical contingencies (10-20Z of base costs) and price
contingencies based on projected local (6-8Z) and international (6-9Z)
inflation rates. Farmer-donated labor for watercourse renovation totall-
ing approximately US$1.0 million has been excluded from the cost
estimates.
Financing
57.     Tentative project financing totalling a3out US$417.1 million, or
about 77Z of project costs net of taxes and duties, has been agreed upon
by six external cofiuanciers, including IDA. This amount would finance
about 93Z of foreign exchange costs and 55% of local costs (net of taxes
and duties). The expected cofinanciers and the terms on which their funv-s
would be made available are shown in para. 1 of this report. All external



-19-
funds would be passed on to GO0ind and WAPDA through budgetary allocations
according to normal GOP procedures. The GOP would finance the remaining
Us$218.6 million, including about US$97 aillion tazes and duties. The
proposed IDA Credit of US$150 million equivalent would finance about 282
of total project costs (net of taxes and duties). IDA would finance
construction of KPOD and DPOD, Nara and Jamrao canal remodelling, and
electrification; and IDA would joint-finance technical assistance with the
ADB and OFWM with SDC. To facilitate financing of the project, the GOP
would establish a Special Account in the State Bank of Pakistan into which
IDA would advance funds according to standard IDA procedures for such
accounts. Sub-accounts for WAPDA and GOSind would be established for
their respective parts of the project. Nost IDA-financed expenditures
would be made through the Special Account. HowEver, payments for the
internationally recruited consultants, civil works contracts over US$3
rtillion, and certain large procurement packages would be made in accord-
ance with normal IDA credit withdrawal procedures. Conditions of credit
effectiveness would require, inter_alia:  (a) final approval of an
umbrella PC-I (the GOP's project document) for the entire project by the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC}; (b) estab-
lishment of the Special Account; and (c) meeting all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the financing from the other external agencies
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.02(c) and 6.01 (a,b,c)).
Procurement
58.     Each cofinancier would agree with the GOP on procurement proce-
dures to be followed. About US$284.2 million equivalent, or 53Z of
project costs net of taxes and duties, is ey,"ected to be procured accord-
ing to international competitive bidding (ICB). Procurement procedures
are summarized below:



-20-
Procurement Arrgniements According to Proiect Component
(USS million equivalent)*
Co,monent,                     ICB          LCB    Other        N.A. a/   Cost
A. Civil Works
1. Outfall-Drain System
Core Program                                    8.4 a/       1.9       10.3
KPOD & DPOD              19.9 (19.9)                         5.0     24.9(19.9)
Tidal Link                                     29.6 hI       6.0       35.6
Sub-Area Drainane
Components
Surface Drainage          34.8                               6.7       41.5
Drainage Tubewells        48.3                              10.2       58,5
Scavenger Wells            17.0                 12.0 c/      5.0       34.0
Interceptor Drains         13.6                 16.4 4       4.7       34.7
Tile Drains                15.0                  19.1 Al     5.2       39.3
3. Irrigation/OFWM Works
Nara Canal Remo-        31.8 (30.5)                          6.3     38.:(30.5)
delling
Jamrao Canal Remo-      43.3 (42.3)                          9.7     53.0(42.3)
delling
Chotiari Reservoir                              30.4 gJ      5.8       36.2
OFWN                                          17.0(8.0) e/           19.2(8.0)
4.  Electrification          47.3 (39.5)             11.2 aJ     2.2     66.0(39.5)
5. Maintenance Depot
(Includes Workshop)                     1.0                  7.5        1.1
B. Equipment & Vehicles
OFWN                                          0.3 (0.1)      0.1        0.4
Maintenance Equipment                            20.8 cJ    12.6       33.4
Maintenance Depot/Workshop                       0.5 CD      0.3.       0.8
Electrification Equipment           -           10.6 a/      1.8       12.4
C.  Technical Assistance    13.2 (4.8) f/                                13.2(4.8)
& Training
D. Administration
Engineering                                                 41.4       41.4
OFWN (Salaries &
Other)                                        9.5(4.9)      0.2      9.7(4.9)
O&M and camps during                                        10.6       10.6
construction
E.  Monitoring & Evaluation                           4.3  /     0.1        4.4
F.  Land Acquisition        -                                   17.0        17.0
Total Project Costs      284.2(137.0)   1.0  190.1(13.0)   160.4   635.7(150.0)
*  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ To be financed by GOP (including taxes and duties of about US$97 million).
O To be financed by Saudi Fund and procured under their ICB procedures.
c/ To be financed by ODA..
d To be financed by CIDA.
ej To be financed jointly by IDA and SDC.
f/ To be financed jointly by IDA and ADB.
^| To be financed jointly by CIDA, ODA, and SDC under untied grant aid and
administered by IDA.



-21-
59.     The XPOD and DPOD and canal remodelling financed by IDA would
follow ICB procedures, with all labor, materials, and equipment to be
supplied by the contractors. The electrification works financed by I;A
would follow IDA's ICB procedures.  The OPFM works, which are not suitable
for ICB because they are small and scattered, would be carried out under
small contracts awarded in accordance with local competitive biddiug
procedures satisfactory to IDA or force account, as well as with farmer-
contributed labor organized by the WUAs. The appointment of local super-
visory consultants for the OPFM component would be in accordance vrith IDA
guidelines. Other consultants and training would be funded on a joint
basis by IDA and ADB. These consultants would be internationally selected
and engaged by WAPDA on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and ADB.
The selected international consulting firm would be encouraged to
associate with a local firm.
60.     The relatively small amount of office &nd survey equipment
required for the OFPM component would be procured following GOSind proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA comparing prices from at least three independent
sources. The aggregate amount of such locally procured equipment would
not exceed US$300,000 equivalent. Civil works contracts over US$1.0
million would be subject to IDA review prior to award. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-award review. A 7.5Z preference on ICI
civil works contracts would be extended to qualified local contractors in
bid evaluation under ICB.
Disbursements
61.    D5-sbursements from the IDA Credit would be made against:
(a) Civil Works:
,i)   KPOD and DPOD -  80Z
(ii) OFWM - 42%
(iii)  Electrification -  74%
(iv) Nara Canal Remodelling - 80%
(v) Jamrao Canal Remodelling - 80%
(b)  Office and Survey Equipment:  60% of local expenditures
(c) Administration:
Incremental salaries and operating costs for OFWM, including
supervisory consultants - 50%
(d) Technical Assistance and Trainin2: 37X



-22-
62.    Disborsements for (a) [except for item (ii)] and (d) for contacts
of  S$1.0 million equivalent or bigher wotld be fully documnted.
Disbursements for items (a)Cii), (b), (c), and civil vorks for cotcts
below US$1_0 million vould be made aai-nst statemts of epures.
Supportin    c    t would be retained by the implementing agencies for
review by IDA. Reimbursement applicti  for expenditures to be funded
tbrough the Special Account would be accompanied by a statemet of trans-
action an the Special Account since the previous application, vith the
balance certified by State Bank of Pakistan. It is  ticipated that the
final disrst  ould be completed by December 31, 1993, about six
months after project completion. The disbursement schedule is based on
the di sement profile of IDA-supported irrigation and drainage projects
in Pakistan, taking into consideration the mne use of a Special Account
which is expected to ezpedite disbursements.
Cost Recovery
63.    GOP officials recognize the importance of cost recovery as a means
to ensure adequate OEX funding and resource mobilization to sustain the
irrigatio and drainage system. At the same time, they point out that the
imposition of such charges is a provincial responsibility over wbich the
federal government has limted authority; and they emphasize that the
charges must be perceived by those asked to pay as reasonable in relation
to increases in agricultural production and income. Over the Last four
years, considerable progress has been made in Sind Province in increassng
both the lewel of O&K funding for irrigation and the share of such funds
recovered from the beneficiaries. In accordance with a number of existing
IDaBank agreeents, Sind increased water char-es during FY1981-84 by an
average of about 25Z a year in nominal terms. Iu addition, Sind intro-
duced iu FY1984 a dra       charge of about Rs 40 per cropped ha for the
beneficiaries of public tubevenls and a smaller amount for beneficiaries
of surface drains. Most recently, under Credit 1487-PAZ (signed June 13,
1984) GOSind reaffirmed its existing comitment to increase water charges
periodically, or uske other appropriate financial arrangements, to cover
an increasing percentage of the irrigation O&N costs so as to recover the
full costs by July 1, 1988.
64.    During negotiation of the proposed LBOD-Stage I project, the
GOSind representative stated that the Province intends to increase water
charges this year by 102 and again ia F11986 by 15Z. In addition, it was
agreed that by February 1. 1986 GOSind would reviev with IDA the status of
compliance with the existing provision under Credit 1487-PAC and measures
required to meet the 1988 target for full irrization O&E cost recovery
(draft Province Project Agreement, Section 3.06).
65.    0&  costs8, including capital replacement, for IBOD Stage I would
be high both in absolute terms and relative to existing irrigation 06W



-23-
expenditures because of the high energy and replacement costs of drainage
tubevells. Thus the total drainage OEM costs of LBOD-Stage I would
average about Rs 600 per cropped ha, which represents about 70Z of
GOSind-s total FY1984 OWH expenditures for irrigation. To help ieet these
drainame expenses, GOSind has agreed (a) about one year after commencement
of full operation of the facilities in each sub-area, to collect drainage
charges from the beneficiaries to cover 25Z of the OWH costs of the
facilities; and (b) thereafter, at least every two years, increase the
drainage charges so as to recover at least 501 of the OWH costs by July 1,
1995 and all the OWM costs by July 1, 2005, provided that the drainage
charges keep pace and are co-mensurate with the benefits actually accruing
to the beneficiaries. In addition, the Province has agreed to meet with
IDA three months before the initial cbarge and each increase to review the
actual benefits against the projected benefits and proposed charges (draft
Province Project Agreement, Section 3.07). Estimates of the actual
benefits would be obtained from the impact evaluation study (see
para. 50). While no recovery of capital costs for drainage facilities is
proposed, as under existing projects, faDmers benefiting fro watercourse
improvements vould contribute all unskilled labor and repay 25Z of the
cost of materials (draft Province Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
66.     The initial combined irrigation and drainage charges (Rs 245 per
cropped ha) collected from the project beneficiaries, none of whom no pay
drainage charges, would be some three times greater than current charges
(Rs 60 per cropped ha) for irrigation. The total recovery of irrigation
and drainage OM costs proposed at full development (year 2005) would
represent about 10-25Z of the net increment&' farm income, depending on
the farm size, watertable, and cropping intensity. If an existing Islamic
levy on agricultural production is included, the share of project-related
incremental farm income recovered increases to 15-30%.
Benefits and Risk
67.    Benefits. The project would increase agricultural production over
about 516,000 ha by lowering watertable and salinity levels, saving or
recovering water lost from the irrigation system, and p:oviding supplemen-
tary eater. The effect of reversing the abandonment of land, combined
with increased cropping intensities and yields, is expt-ted to result in
annual incremental production of about 315,000 mt of seed cotton, 215,000
at of wheat, and moderate increases in other crop and livestock products.
The total annual foreign exchange benefits of this production would be the
equivalent of about US$180 million. Additional benefits are ezpected from
reduced damage to infrastructure currently caused by storwater and high
watertables. The estimated economic rate of return for the LBOD Stage I
project is about 14Z. While the previous investments in the spinal drain
are justified "sunk costs", if they were included the project would still
be economically viable with a rate of return of about 12Z.
~~~~~hn~~~~~~~~~~~.                       . .... .. ..



-24-
68.    About 140,00 farm families, or 910,000 people, would benefit
directly from the project, and another 120,000 would benefit indirectly.
Increases in income levels would range from 22% to 118% and would be
expected to accrue primarily to families with annual incomes currently
below US$100 per capita. While it is difficult to predict precisely the
effect the project would have on the income of the tenant farmers who
comprise nearly 75% of the project area-s population, based on existing
practice, they would be expected to receive 50Z of the additional farr
income and to share the water and drainage charges and other levies on a
similar basis. On this assumption, the annual income of a typical tenant
farm of about five ha is expected to be about US$270 per capita with the
project as compared to US$175 per capita without the project and to US$90
today (all in mid-1984 prices). Tenants would be protected from eviction
by a number of statutory and acquired rights, and the substantial project-
generated farm employment requirements would further protect their rignt
to the land and ensure that they received an equitable return. Since the
population of the project area is expected to double during the project
development period (1985-2010), without the project underemployment would
become a major socio-economic problem and migration to Karachi and other
cities would increase substantially. By contrast, after allowing for some
mechanization, the project would generate additional farm labor require-
ments equivalent to about 42,000 man-years or a 47% higher demand than
without the project. On balance the income distributional effects of the
project are likely to be neutral. Bovever, in view of the importance of
this subject, it would be given special attention in the impact evaluation
study (para. 50).
69.    Environmental Imwact. The basic purpose of the project would be
to improve the environment of valuable agricultural land wbich is increas-
ingly threatened by waterlogging, salinity, and associated flooding and
water pollution. Initial concerns about the possibility of environmental
damage from saline drain-ge either in Pakistan or across the border in
India were given intensive consideration during project preparation. The
final design, incorporating a bifurcation weir across the Dhoro Link,
would permit regulation of the quantity and quality of drainage flow from
DPOD so that mainly fresh stormwater, vhich is necessary to support
wildlife and fisheries, would reach the Shakoor Dhand. The weir would
divert the saline flows through KPOD, entirely within Pakistan territory,
to the sea. Construction of bunds would prevent any overflov into the
Rann of Kutch or transboundary flow into India on the way to the sea. To
ensure proper monitoring of the environmental impact of the project, staff
of the Department of Forestry and Wildlife would be trained, and offices
and quarters for field staff monitoring the environmental impact would be
constructed.
70.     Risks.  Given the magnitude and integrated nature of the project,
delay in completing any one part would jeopardize the success of the total
project. In particular, delay in completing the irrigation works would
reduce the expected increases in agricultural production and jeopardize
* * 



-25-
the economic viability of the project. To minimize this risk, project
expenditures bhre been carefully pbssed and internationally recruited
consultants vould reinforce project anagement. The strong com.ituent of
both the federal and Sind governments to the project should ensure that
necessary funds are made available. In addition, IUPDa's proven
capability to execute large complex projects should reduce the possibility
of construction delays. A further risk that nadequate O&N of the
project's drainage system would cause a shortfall in expected incremental
agricultural production would be minimized through initial funding of DAN
incremental costs, teecnical assistance, and training during project
execution and a series of agreed measures to maintain adequate 0l levels,
as well as additional provincial revenues from cost recovery, throughout
the life of the project.
PART V - LEG&L INSTRUMENTS AND AUTRITY
71.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements
between the Association and WAPDA, and between the Association and
Proviuce of Sind, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Additional conditions of effec-
tiveness would be approval by ECNEC of the final PC-1 document for the
entire project; meeting of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the agreements of the other external agencies; opening of a Special
Account in the State Bank of Pakistan; and establishment of the PSC & IDM
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
72.    Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
73.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.     I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 13, 1984



-26-                                          hUNx r
'~~~               ~    ~                                        -5 01               36 1-
luob-    970b-          013 -  -    -AB
'ml. ''.  l                                                      ano
M31:W.                            227S      26. 
IN- 1m mi
CKILOtMDZ Or on. Mg086tlZu         SIL0      33.0        179.0            271.                   56.3
m.s 2SLu
P  U70.0 IDNL 4ZaK C2SA6)   41tSLO 60669.0  - 7125.0
UmNII 1O9LA        CZ OF   1       22.1       2.9         29.O  11z7                              347
PlOOATU5     Mt MR 2000 01.                              3.6 M
S tZomw  MV I3omm CR1w                                 37.3 
10I5.AUO     -                                            .9
ssromez   nJ. 
PM SQ. mi.                       57.0       75.2       105.1            166.6                  26.9
PM SQ. IOL a613  3A1            203.5      268.4       333.6            31S5                  '173.1
201066231 ACC SVOUIS CZ)
0-t4 us                         43.8       463         461              35.80
XS-" me5                         SL         -0.3         0.              5.                     57.6
65MD  A.                                      .          2.7              4.3                    3.3
74UAT    COM0 JXK Z)
SODL                              Z.3        1.8         3.0              L9                     4.3
4.6        4.0         4.3              4.1
CE  3r  1C  Cm 32165)              46.6       46.6        41.0             Xr.7                   30.1
3CRE D313S NAm (5 MM)              ZL4        19.3          .4             10.1                    9.5
can     200OC3w 2aX                 3.4        3.4         3.0              1. -                   3.0
AC     ,IS. _L   C(   )            -       101t        324O t0 .c 
-   CZ OUzm    )                   -         6.014             t ,,-
1omD Am  -OMM13
~~~~~~INU  Or NOo P06ERCAwmL
C*10R-l                            J,OF = w.0  106.0     106.0            19.7                   11.
CA*R    C Z OF _gtsRDM)          a" o       O le        OILO             9r.7                  11K4
1Rs  CnE61PER0AT)                560        65.0        65.0             54                     57.0
__ M= *8511 a  P5S             23.0       2L-0        2. 0        2 Q 19                       14.1
CsD CAe 1-4) MM AT                 25.4       23.0        18                9.8                    7a.2
'M EPCT. £z u7 C(wan               43.1       44.0        49.8              0O                    60.4
PWAr IK  RAE CP13t MS)   t         6L5       143.0       129               13                     663
ACE  T SIlK SaU   CS209)
TOML                                        2L0         29.0 if          39                     37.0
URBW 3                                      77.0        60.0 if-         70.9                   54.8
RL                                 ..        4.0        17.0 f           22t                    26.4
ACCES TO910RM   DISPOSAL
CZ Or POIuMATIOU)
TOZIL                              .         3.          6.0 .ZgIII                              UL3
Ulmaw                                       12.0        23.0 /J          72.8                   47.4
95*1.           ..         ..          ..              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.6  33.3
1095X6710 PM3 ftISICIaN          5400       4300.0/b    3180.            3184.2                 7749.6
POP. 113 MOR10 11360            11860.0   i05i0.oj9    5090              47931.1                26404
Lop. PM HOSPiTA 3so
70rAL                          1750.      1860.        1560.0 /C       1064.5                  1066L.2
Mmar                            510.0      600.0       710.0 /*         256.0                  653.2
MOMRAL                        22350.0    £2410.       11360.0 re       5994                   23946.6
A*mlnlM  PON 30SP1V1. MM             ...                     .                .2.0
AVRG SDIZ  OF3333
TIOZAL                            5.4        5.3         6.1/IC
amaw                              5.6        5.5         C.A r
R,RAL                             5.4        5.2             /                                   Q
AVERAGE N0. Or 1105/O01IR
TOTAL                             3.1        2.0 It
W_ SDC 1336Q0 105 K 01; SsZQO U93.1          2.7r
3.1        2.8 aIF
ACO T 1T0  1C. (-0O  MU1M10 .)
5101.0                            .        17.9 At
maw                                ..        5 r...1
aL                                 ..        s......4.9



-27-                                         A           I
- wcm umwmU  mc s
1LMoik    lgyoik    3ImAub         LIl a P.ACC           &SUa & FAWC&
namxt  20oL                     350        40.         56.              97.4        o        1020
PAIS                  46.0       57.0        78.5            U0.5                  105.9
TIMAW                   UO        LO 1331.0            2       L7                   390.2
S     _CUARb TO5.               11.0       13.0        17.0            339                    46.0
-  RAZZ               11.0       2410        27.0             44.6                  4B.7
FUIAN=                 3.0        5.0         7.0            26.                    43.1
vOMUMArL CZ1 3CA                   L0         L5         1.0 /c          2.2                   17.5
_          1MU
PKWAWir                         39.0       4L.0        48.             3L.5                   3L8
SinOMLVM                        24.0       200         23.0 lc         1L.7                   23.5
LIE.? WRAIC!  "Z a)  15.4  20.7 .J    /24.0            534 c72.9
-ommor'
1*           UIUK      MV          1.5        2.6         3.4             0.9                   1 0.1
UlllO     I/          FM           6.0       17.1        67.0           112.I                  113.6
TV    5JlO          V               ..        L6          9.7            15.7                   S0.1
8QMAZI wAX CERL
FM i00 0 1                       13.2                  17 Ic            16.2         -        539
C 1_ AL MUL                        1.7        3.0 I1      Z.L2 j          3.6                    3.4
=LUJ    WlC= m )                I448LO    1731.0      25210.0
136*5 CPIt)                      6.6        9.3        10.3             33.3                  33.S
A3     1OCOLI   traClu*         6L0        59.0        57.0             69.6                  52Z
ZRoKm C 1CQl                    1M0       19.0        20.0            1.6                    17.9
TOtAL                           31.5       2.7         29.0             42.6                  38.7
AUZ                             5.2       50.4        49.3             54.7                  50.9
PIALZ                            5.7        5.5         6.0            29.6                   26.6
mIDCom      D      0               L.5        L7          1.8             1.0                    11
xe -
n
uosmo St
lICHESD St or DDuUS            2aL3 Jk    17.6           ..              ..                   2L2
NIGRIT 2D0 or       45 45.3 4i *1.                       __                                   48.0
1TAM= 20                         6.4 iO    8L0           ..              ..                    6.4
TI  40Z CrO                     17.3 if    2Z0.          ..              ..                   13.5
- -S: vw 
TZWZ CUSS PER cApmo
0UNS                              ..       66.0 /1    176.0 /c         133.9                 1S6
RALA                              ,.       47.0 I     122.0 re         111.6                 1O0
99TAD XZADQ oEy EO
O ZUSS C P  CA)
am.                                        36.0        38.01             ..                  177.9
URAL                              ..       2Lo            o SLO          ..16.6
ZSTEUD MV. MM AU!!
WVuz im  LEU  CZ)
0353                              ..       42.0/1      3Z.O Ic         4                      23.4
RURAL               *.                     43.0 1      29.0 _          51.7                   37.7
on1 AIYZL£CI?
a he   ap awm  foe SWc lu=aer a   popoItle-.laht.e  rtl_#uc  _. Cevaq  of teatae momg the
4=almeton dlpaid ea avallaMllt of data .d Is ot _nIEr..
11e  eta_is "ted. "Ita foer19,0' et   to r ea r yew eeus 1959 and 1961; 'Dta fer 1970  etm  s 1969 ..d
1971; tad dat1 foe 9bat beget Vettamet" bttcm.3 1910 tel 1362.
ic   979;   196; 1. 1977 IL9 /       V76; I 195; I&g WGc s, tot a   Petll n t etcy;  1973  j 192; 
196.
JnE 1914



-28-                                                    ANNEX I
arivagems W nowL possation                               Page   3
m l.b      . em oftm     .1 m1 1.. I dmft.3uim m1 -Up  mmd IV 436o Mm"s". L. mlbI.  dl          am .  am  .4%. inl     M. md
mlei -      w  _. _. a-m          w      .... __ _            J e   1 _   me. ft   l_ 1       l   ms -. 'm lb _e   .m   e
ml -..             'nolIs    .   .1eI    mmM to-w    -           off"dietam.19... mistime  ee.    bis6mu .me              me
elfnlle). le lb  w-mm   se  dlm4 lb    mm                -"Po"tlm  slm  waamdte  -  t. -% f-elies m ad  w.-I A" v  31.4ew  : lb  -maul..
g.m km due      ~ 4e.06-iin   3m- lb   "e .1 .nle   -ft lb ieli.e-   =u~-l   mi:l   .6 mi mi I. ml dMli-   m. -M  1.
meml .mle.k  em    . 6.553.66mm   u         II.   -  -e"n     -  --IF ...6e  ft .wpm" lb ml.. .1 m .eel.. M  1kem  -c lb       a" 
-~ (.meu..                                                                                  j    - Fqelml.3 4.1dol hr  Im .1m.eneie1
-e .za em-.                                                         _____________________ _-___ A  _-L._ m d.I%  l m
_-zr  ~~F  I~ t ~ _e ~~- ~-e X-~-X -__ _WIN                                                           %_ated w
c,W fee Cwffl lhreZ mell  1-umlir  - ie   li"I.  ini. eum. .. w                                 . A-1  "   .0   te411.d ftwasa  m
le_  two. _cm so e     .6 _m kl        _msm _. __lie  _                                               _, 1_  ,immsrts Ull,
aWE mUl_E_ 4.3.   .                                  _     _     _ t                                                   mmm.W leessi .-___
vyEL      m   me.-. .s1m-  - .... e    -       .                   mlek.3mil PK-MImI.            " I mm.,!   emeIeu   mhlt or a
me -  l.-  -.- a1. (Sel %~mie)                   .952.9oUled .00.M*ee. .3mltei emdd mfeeilbamfflM          WAlp  gei
_:--         -           _l 1, kl -  tlW. 3m.  1     2.. _ma _
mi _.   ._aelelapl -1 k-e. .                             go.              sm         .  -1-3A.6W W., =           r _        SWUM _
-14.    l l3e.    2  U_| I                                                                 . .........
,__ !m. 9___         -e..gi.I, Ia leS.  -I6,  3                      ,u--  "-L&tt
- -Lm dft- S. ffiecauxt, -wom - Ilm U-t ~$                                          m    *  - 0   n e
u~~~sl                  A. *z_- ."V"  -  r 1st   g-._  
_____________ _  sr _U f_____U|___- _ .e U b  m    mu - i m-p
.616mm mudslem    1km e.t. emef.    mlev1m                           llbtm.ml.A3                ~  we     - itm  l. Moo 5m1m
b-1   I%.~  .9 Ppzm.-- SW"  eo  mw
-M4    U.  &  pmime-..sem e mtUL    1mm  to. r- be  aJmd le eel m- -*O - .                        4.ll in..lmLf
-v& 0   akeleml ml me lb   m    We ml beslilh                 emilm  .smii.L " emleem emalub            em-m .m .M m 
,. W.t.       1 ,..R. m.2 l   mm      - .Re mf                                       t _.  _ me s e_-
Iee.    Ielf   hr  6edmUt    rewm  .1.. m "mlb..-aeml..                                  =rseiam..  e  e  emlile    Wegeelei.d rw     -mn-
..imi dm1.. I.Imbu, mmiq -  s... .aMe .me- .ml.1    -~a                                                  me2ow t
s-_ _ ,_ emIm-.. _. 3_ * mw _e *_ _.e        -- i m-l 
X__ _ @__ Z D~~-_  * tlMd -ttm". 1-
_-em I. ml.: em-ed me-mUir e=-mI m-U?.V.
>-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r - - r  d-t__ _  *                            ,_,_ t   1{__                   |
_      _0 C%  ft-UC  _             -_      U-* _t '-.                  tdp.OL             "O 'gt--
Sm  mmm            mu_Fl.               _~ _uel  dbl memlS leel
de sml 5_.___1                                  _  _-e  m  e,_i -                                      m1     duI aldm_e.me -l
_                                   _-.   _ d _ - lb _b -e            . _.           1-f -   b  e.   m                    r
ei m               po d   m  lb .-  _" m          .- .                   .. -tm _t _                   _   _ ,      m
Imleel l  sm.m. _le. .ges    .  lb               le                   rSei _  _                           dme "e. -4 3 i _     ed m
mm.t m-elb                   L                                     l     m.     go. IS mmd sm        es
t"l.                                                                 R   -v    L        _         z __ __ w. b
*. l  im C-. .- smem   -*   m f .-em                     pstIls _   _  eme_-emi. -  mer _sel-bs _ I SdIem
SejIlt. lb1.3 am..mn.let .111  ma    lbsd   m.ieemlptU-                                            e .4 mmau ml55in Immu e
I..    dim lb                                                                                  Fkm  m. i. ¶.  P  le l, *_1  ., _ _ _w_  -S._
_m.: 1          _     -meess__4 ,u.                             r_ _                                   tm_e  r  _ _ d- *m e.  Imem-r mu.
elelem.  .3lmu7 _e%letimL -   lba ..mimle. . lb pm-a !. iee        i     _ ..i      t  ee.     r 7- ._wm e.se _   .  _
7-    _U!.0-  &M  Is                                                               _rr "a        at_ l-ft  _Wa  U         1-
lb  meel- Dm 6.111137 "'me mt .uim.ted .. --M                                               A mi -W m t_[i,1 - Im      M
4 am  d.                                 _m116t.m... _.11. -o_ .hl5 ee_ mPh..                                - T ed S tede.s  _  e .. _ _ .
~~~~~~~~~.'.Ci-                                                                  d t- yl    - _.0C'I   __ W| am~S fO_P
||r*Kt ~~~ ~ I                                                                             la*  1MR- L-u 1-   f
,z,,Z,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~pln                                         ,,_me.  ,,,eillm . 1m.t _ebS  1. u
8._  ..-   d _ el.  seselel._, _m     Se ..  low_ewe. (I - kCIWesm                                        ..N.._ .l _e   ..  _ ..
lemI .ml 153, 395. ml1.33  ms1.                                 elsil-aW  " an.. .t  Wsese .li      towee eml. m a. 6.dm6 lsI.
- h 3me. 1.. esremileesi Smi - |mel    me. mimi_.. .: led                                             lee    - Wamd  0_ me- _
miul _am.    me _ t * al_ de__K..
_|__-__*f_-_-e _s __A_Ss________________1a p.... p. ee-e. C
~mle                 _     ml e*. m  __ess __d2- _mr                             a                         Fm_,. _ ml.................. _m _.h._
se-em  lem  3.3................ __ nee m....e.......l..e..  r  m.  -.e_en m.
-m       I      I - in.1-      _.      ee  a_      4.
==S -r                   :.La __                                     _m _   _                           a  e       
.mu-%..am    l I-1 -               -  I ai    mel ee. a__-                       . m .      mill e_  _1  aMe ie_m. t_1l m
smimiem h   .ie1.-   ml 1115il.                    mUmmi mime I emma..  e leire. ---M           e,me.I mel.
._____________ __- meL II.. k1m ser lbmme .6 .md-                     ami. dr _ d_. Re. ..mef_        . _t _.  e        l se  am
mur mlmlem ieee. a9ls. me am em..                          elmb i-la  Sammieg.2 d
inim-. I.-I  - 2_ .e _m _- .. -                                      % em m _m  se-.mi m          e r_  ins_l-a _
i_~~3                 _m  it _ d . e|   tet o_ _m  II                11 m_Sli  mil v   am . tmim .11m     11 elSe
__ _                                                                      p    em _ _i  _  -O anb l  ie    se_ _ m -    t_  re_ a  rmm  _m   _e  _d
a       .. -                         t- me-   mes    - emem.       _        m   __ 9 _ltm.  -u..Mr. _i      _        "lM Om lime tem
=90    _W9    f d"W    Adw_p              . -0 t_- fS.                                   -W _-  _      -  1     C-  ba _M  ~r   two
go- -Alhtes to".mismm  "amno   1-                                  I
Vmet. Pimi.._- he.. leesinl m d __.) t_ _m m et mZeee- mu_                                                             11 l_e mate  W
_~~~~AM     _=             _  *m m- 0wm  oel               r      _        W                  _-t                    . r~  ____ME
.S _ r_ _-P                  _           -  W,  _               PMMm   _t _d_. -3W  r._il                W_a 
mI.  _ee e _     m                  a    . _  _ _                            I. r     ML   - -  b.. kmmrb -  _s                   _
em _e..           eme. 11 _M *_ee s .    elW
lble.lme.e emz em rmi inm   a  -   _i-- r. M                        r                          msm  J i    em_   e     se sm _eliX- . . mie
t-a ....qu - &-  . ftertbcg~ tom-tw mseimime el mm    lsalml   ie   em-m
by_NW bl-4 - Obvmlmgt-g -0 rw -0-a                                          - lbe" Cm-We t . _S .a       as e _   r
9-                                      ime6%-em  .mlt.w               'u.1t.t eM.e-.1 .t  imt  Id. lah iNW - mSemme  ms  ee.k
"Wd-Me=        1MeleSllmlalee.Pmhtalm                                                    - So plrs   i-               . _
-lm  I              d                        . -U - .le   t. Is e                                          . e       . mfe 1:
d _Iem  mm _ _ _ r semmI  ieee_U. _ lst. r_ am                         me iw din.
em..                                                                                     -  ~~. ~* 6q3e-ftmew  2lmeims.
-Wir          miesles _gin he         f __m l -    lb e a.leS e l-   r                                     _    _     -   a_l, -a1m m  *
_m. sulem ef- em_ .m         im m..is _e  em ee. em               _         .iSn .611_1  ml me lit.          mm6 e_ _i immee
,1.6~~ ~ ~~~~~ - -  _00. br MM _.-dt #___
.    ui . .. me!.. _eSs p... .. Pm.... ..                                 am.       me.3.. ibm em 1mm  U... ms-ueteeelm  m
Vona* me Isi    mmeg. mt 1mid. d Isbyl-Mo. elme-                     Is. mImme   C  mliIm .
mie    imedh  4   m      kuese              m   s sit                                         - *ie_immir IS- ml CSmd t_ m 
-i.e.. a  _rb m        be .      met a5      1 -k "  -a _t_
_m mime eaee.tl-am.6 seselmi      e  - P 0um. trd m__ _ u* _e                                      -
.6                           _Teeil  meet em_   1e                 Z              1mm(bb sesh l ha - mmee _r ead.t
_ _-s    e d  t m      _ _map  . . 4._1d  m cm.-"                                             mm
.315mm hr .11 inMIes emilleb  hr m seseddI                                    -arC 11m mguS. dI.
=l.. dumle. *_ mg.: _     _m _ e _ . _imI . ele. _ 3. .-
mmeem  m am am lb.: 11 gi.. e. emmm  i   mwtf1mW lmm  1i7  sem                                                mmsse" mmli glemle. 
.61m   6.16m   ..~  s.lbm. mu. 5  .6. bmmi .mlaem  ea semlefebi ml..=                                               J..-
-.. ea   mehS  a-es am  me ime..km1 W"".                                                                                        -
-1          -                - C L emll.: S. i_
~~~~f- --dm    __swte -Led-t - -U    ~                                      111
-~~~~~i _   X  EDE __ z_V -_ soft am el %-
~~~~~~~C                                        -    _____P- 
M Ime -1  -3. m   U 1M  em e-m Wmi. WV . ailS mlr 197mlgmi   hs  11pmmma!mdulSStsn   .
C mt                            1        IWm.    IWA
C-. "owes- ad dgpmu .00   .99tnt ulhm .- .; .                                                         m.s
d -P-.W I -s-b~Wlmllm MdogpCp ,emet il solb                                r.~I    .~1m sI   .  sll                 mie



-29-
Page 4
ECONOMIC  EYRWPH   PM~
So ATIOAL PRODucT I- 19Ul83  a                                  #N L              W   C (Z. costlant  rices)
flLbillion    21...           1969170-1974175   151992LA19l1L!Z  198517    19J.3i/L
GOP at  rket prices             33.07          100.0              3.5              6.8            3.8     7.3      5.6
Gross domestic investment        5.13           15.4             -5.5              4.0            9.4     9.0      3.4
Gross ntional sving              4.12           14.1             -2.1              6.9            5.0    20.3
Current account balance         -1.00           -1.7
Resowrce gap                    -3.18          -10.1
OUTY. L_OR FORCE AD PRODU=YT            1963184
ValIe Added           Labor torce.&         V. A. Per Worker
-                           $ lg~~~~~~~RimQ  -Z  Nlillia    _2             QSS    _;_
Agriculture                     6,679      24        14.1      53             474      6
Industry                        7.832      29         5.2      19           1.506    147
Services                       lZ812      47          7.4      28           1.731.   X.
Total/Average                27.323    100         26.7     100           1.023    100
GOVWUnnXT FInAE
General government                              Federgal Govern-yut
(RB billion)           Z of CDP                (is bilion)*        I of ODP
M/82114 /e    1983184  1979I80-1983I8          19S3I  1a  1983184  1979180-1983184
Current receipts                  73.2           17.4         16.6                58.2         13.9         12.8
Current expenditures              71.9           17.1         14.9                5i9                       11.4
Current surplus                    1.3            0.3          1.7                 2.3          0.6          1.4
Capital expenditures Lf           29.1            6.9          8.3                22.1          5.2          6.5
External assistance (net)          6.0            1.4          2.8                 6.0          1.4          1.3
MNEYW. CREDIT AOMEPRCES
1976177  1977178  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981182  1982183  1983/84 La
(Rs billion)
Honey and quasi ucney                51.7      63.7    76.5      90.7    103.5   113.6       146.0    161.5
Rank credit to public sector         29.5    34.3       43;l    48.1      54.1     60.1       71.4    77.8
Bank credit to private sector        30.1      35.7     41.7     50.6     58.7     70.9       86.9  .105.6
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as Z of CDP    34.6    36.7       39.0     38.3     37.0     35.1       40.1     38.7
Consumer price index (1975/76-100)  111.8    120.5   128.5   142.2    159.8    175.3         113.7    199.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                 11.8       7.8      6.6     10.7     12.4      9.7       4.S       8.3
Rank credit to public sector         28.8    16.6       25.6     11.6     12.5    11.1        18.8      9.0
Rmnk credit to private sector        30.3      18.6    19.6      18.5     16.0     20.7       22.6    21.5
1!a Provisional.
lb Does not include une ployed labor force.
Ifc Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
/d Consolidated revenues nd expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
La  Revised budget data.
I   Excluding principal repaymnts of loans. Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current eXPenditures.
:. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



-30-
Page 5
UUJJICE or ?AJS                                                                         I      WmILIlA !Wg     1971/79-1982183
mIiltF  m2Lui 19801S1  m81i2  198LD8  ImLDS                                     Ws  ilhim        tL
(WSS millioe)
ports of goods, 7FS             2,107    2.935   3.U1    3.052   3,416   3,440          aw cotton                  302,3        12.4
lmports of goods. mis           4      f     5.,709  -6.j6    6.672   6.5U   72OS4     Cotton yom                  210.7         8.6
Reource gap (deficit - -)      -2.376  -2.734  -3.005   -3,627  -3.172  -3.619         Cotten cdoth                252.3        10.3
lice                       401.9        16.4
ITterest payoets                 -261    -285    -357    -453    -421    -477          All other cemditizs       I'M      S     2.3
Workers remittances             1,395   1.746   2.097   2.225   2.886   2.737            Total                   2,44.6        100.0
Other factor payments (net)       134      151     274      325      162      331
Net tasfers                                           -  ----,  -- Lr
Balanc on currnt accewnt       -1.110  -1.140    -991  -1.530    -554  -1.028                   E.WL.DJJ   191
Direct foreign invest              ..       ..       ..m.t
get 3LT borrowing
Disbursemets                    813   1.134       956   1.102   1.301   1.234
imortiion                       -235    -1C    -516    -492         86    -56        Public debt. including garanteed   9.141.1
Sub-tocsl                       578      824      440     610      915      665      Nonguanteed private debt Li
Transactions with IIWI            -14       78      315     358      413      -15        Total outstanding and dicer_ed    9.141.1
Other itms n.e.i. fL              238      600      S46     364      337      296
Inreser  in reserves C-)          308    -362    -291       198  -1.111        82            DT SzKVCE RAT1O FOe 198Z183 LZ
Gross reserves (end t r),         386      748   1,039      861   1.952   1.70                                                  2
Official Cold (yr e d;
million ounces)                  1.8     1.8      1.8      1.8     1.9      1_9
Public debt. including guarateed        11.2
Eon-guarante  private debt                -
ue and Related Materal                                                                     Total                               11.2
Petrolem imports  g               530   1.079   1,535   1.710   1.610    1,419
Petrolem aports a                  61      178     126      194       77      72
MT_E OF    El RDI  l C  (Jue 1983)(Wmlio)
Tbrusb Nby 11- 1972          FTom  aX 12, 1972-eb. 15. 1973
USSI - Rs 4.7619                    USS1 - Rs 11.00                         Outstanding nd disbursd           353.5   1,105.7
-- 1 -11S0.21                       Rs 1 - USSO.09                        BUdisborsed                         11IU6J     67.,3
Oftstand;in  includin   diburse   468.2   1.776.0
Tx=Feb. 16,1973-Jan, 7. 1982   from July 1981-Juoe 1982 AL        rm July 19S2-Jue 1983 LK       Frm Jul1913-June 19116 
115$ 1 -U1Ws 9.90                  USSI - Rs 10.55 S$I s - f 12.75                               US$1 - Us 13.75
as  I - USSO.10                    Re I - USS0.095                as I - 1150.078                 Ba 1 - uSso.073
Lk  Including Trust Food.
b  Including met sobrt-term borrowing and errors sd omissio.
A Zecluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy omuces.
L- Crude and derivatives.
lt Non-guaanteed private debt service is neligible.
Il atio Of actual debt service to exports of goods. mon-factor services and vorkars- remittnes; debt service doe not iclude
short-tems or W cbarges.
IL  Effective Juary 8. 1982, the rtpee is being _maged vitb referece to a weigbted beasket of curmecies. The arwage
exchae  rate soes is vis-a--via  5$ for the period hown.
Not available.
October 1984



-31-
ae 1
STATUB 07 MEW GDMU DPMU&TB 13 PMEITM
A.   AMn        OF-Us WUS AMID         MOM  (am of 5sutamba  30. 191) &
CUS million)
Leon/                                                  CARMot net of cancllatimons
Credit   FiLcal                                                                 1.dis-
_~~~~Jih                         £I.    hlluaE                                 Iuu    3!       D.      1
ginty-five loan  and credits fully disbwred 1k         781.4  32.0    960.81i
630       1976   Second Labore Water Supply             -              26.6    0.2
643       1976   Irrigation a Drainage (Rhairpur)       -              14.0    4.4
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Deelopment            -     10.0     -        3.8
678       1977   Third Education                                       15.0    3.5
751       1977   Hill Farming Tech. Dvelopmt            -               3.0    0.1
754       1978. Salinity Cotrol & Reclamation           -              70.0   67.0
813       1978   mjab  Ent. & Agric. 3ew.               -              12.5    5.7
877       1979   Salinity Control a Rcl.- (ardan)    -                 60.0   54.4
892       1979   Primary Eduation                       -              10.0    4.5
922       1979   Sind Agricultural ZEtmion              -               9.0    6.2
968       1980   Third  WAP   P!owr                    -               45.0    8.9
974       1980   Third Highwy                           -              50.0   24.4
1OL9      1980   PICIC Industrial Delopment             -              40.0    4.8
llOgL     1981   Vocational Training                    -              25.0    9.8
11L3L    1981   Sall Industries                        -              30.0    3 7
1157l     1991   Grain Sto r                            -              32.0   20.9
1l58Li    1981   Agricultural Researcb                  -              24.0   17.0
1163L&    1981   On-Fm Wafter Manaogmewt                -              41.0   15.8
11iiSL    1982   Industrial Development (IDUP II)       -              30.0   11.0
2122      19U2  Forth Telecomeunication                 40.0           -       20.4
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5             -       30.8
2247      1983   Recerroir Maintenance Facilities       10.2           -       10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)             10.0           -       7.4
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Nortbern Gas Pipelines      43.0            -      42.2
1239LI   1982   Irrigation Systm  Rehabilitation    -                  40.0   28.2
1243Li   1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & gr.         -               14.0   10.8
1256kL   1982   Tecbnical Assistance                    -               7.0    5.1
127S/e    1982   Eleventh tailvay Project               -              50.0   41.6
1348LI    1983  lahore Urban Development                -              16.0   14.8
L350jj   1983   Population                              -              18.0   14.9
1355jg    1983   Coal Engineering                       -               7.0    6.5
13741I    1983   Karachi Water Supply                   -              25.0   22.9
1375Le    1983   Fourth Drainage                        -              65.0   59.3
1380Le    1983   Agricultural Developmet (ADBP V)   -                  47.8   21.3
2218      1983   Refinery Zngineering Project           12.0           -        9.5
2351      1984   Petroleum Dxploration                  51.5           -       51.3
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development 30.0              -       25.6
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit           50.0           -      49.9
1439Le    1984   Industrial Investent Credit            -              50.0   47.2
1461ai    1984   Integrated Hill Farming Development -                 21.0   2l.0
1480Le    1984   Second Technical Assistance            -               7.0    6.6
14871c    1984   Car_ud Water Management                -              46.5   46.5
1499Lc    1984   Secend Small Industries                -              50.0   50.0
Total                                                1,066.6  42.0  1,962.2  909.9
of which bas been repaid                             593 9   01      3I54
Total nov outstanding                                  562.7  41.3  1,926.8
Amount sold                  23.9
of which has been repaid    23,_
Total nov beld by Bank and IDALd                              KA 43   9Z6.8
Total undisbursed                                      247.1   3 A., 659.0  909L9
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a searate report
on all RSankIDA financial projects in execution, wbich is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Director, on April 30 nd October 31.
Lk Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan whicb have no been taken over by Bangladesh.
LI Not yet effective.
Id Prior to exchange adjustment.
-l IDA Credits under the 6th Repleniebhmnt denominated in SDRs. The principml
in shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed mounts are
compusted at the merket rate on dates of disbursements.
uL By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the crrent principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAZ (both fully disb s ed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sebtember 30. 1984)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In USS   Million
Year    Obligor               TvIe-of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63     -         0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -         0.75
1962-    Gharibval Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       CemenL                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -       0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.26    0.84      20.10
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.37       2.77
l!fl9    Pakistan Oitfields
Ltd. and ;ttock       Chemicals and
Refinery Lid.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene.bags             1.78     -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.05      -        4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       86.05    1.56      87.61
Total Gross Commitments                   163.24   10.97    174.21
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              122.83    0.39    123.22
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          40.41   10.58      50.99
Undisbursed (including participants)       67.12    0.33      67.45



-33-
ANU    E III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAR
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA -SEEE
Section I:         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project:
-Two years
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
WAPDA and GOSind assisted by consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project:
March 1981; March 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
January 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
October 1984
(f) Plauned date of effectiveness:
March 30, 1985
Section II:    Special IDA Imlemlmentation Action
In view of size and complexity, considerable staff
involvement will be required over implementation period
of eight years, and some staff will be required to
administer impact evaluation study to be completed
about four years after credit closing.
Section III:   Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Approval by ECNEC of the final umbrella PC-1 document
(para. 57);



-34-
AN Z -ITI
Page 2 of 2
(b) Meeting of all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of other external financing agencies (para. 57);
(c) Establishment of PSC and I)o, and opening of Special
Account (paras. 47 and 57);
Other 8Decial Conditions
(a) Spinal drain to be completed by July 31, i986 and Rohri
canal remodelling benefitB to be available to project
area by January 1, 1990 (para. 46);
(b) GOSind to smend UA Ordinance, or take other measures
as necessary, by July 1, 1986 to cover drainage (para.
49);
(c) GOSind to wake available each year adequate funds to
meet O&M requirerments as determined by periodic inde-
pendent review (para. 55); and
gd) GOSind to (i) collect drainage charge to cover 25Z of
OH costs one year after completion of drainage system
in given subarea, (ii) increase charge at least every
two years so as to recover at least 501 of drainage OWH
costs by July 1, 1995 and full drainage 0&N costs by
July 1, 2005, and (iii) review with IDA three mouths
before initial levy and each increase actual benefits
against projected benefits and proposed charges (para.
65).



[  P A K I S TA N                                                , /)AFGHANISTAN !r
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN
STAGE I PRO.'0ECr7                                                       _o            j
im map has been pr1eaed by fla lw\M mug emw* hI.e cmmmue of            _      _
tPe eadwS and a eackie* for nAg euel  of wm trfa qak I.d No Wh r*ah:nJ 
FdwnCe CaOrzaaah  The dWaad aANu" baepd and VW baWIdw,e Elm" on NWe iD dO nd6
AW   N eat at The RUN st dNW and VW hateAal Fu_ Caa . NW :: eU
an NWe &e slatuO dm teary or Ny'W adeae or accWama, at_s uc hl.. 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t:Ai'aion 'Sa
69'                                             70/
( i', fiMoro   *'>                     N                                    PROJECT  AREA
(                   .n \    \                                                               FPROJECT COMPONENTS:
z  z   t   -  \     sy                                          Project Subarea Boundaries'
d                   -. -        X             ,~                                |      1Drainage Tubewells
NAWABSHH Lt  |   ---      J' \Scavenger Tubewells
C.                                    tE t \ NAWABSffA^/ - \ tZ A 3Tile Drainage
e 85ko \     >      .            ~j-*                          sChofiari lohe    I _    Surface Drainage
I  ~~~  No.wobshoh                                    _____~~~~~~~~!2  Reservoir Construction
\   %.<                                                                   .-- -  Canal Remodelling
-'  Sakrortd.........                                                   Outfall Drain                   -26
t-V-__ \ 5 . a~Sarigharl 
artgh~~~~~~~rj ~~EXISTING'                                  2e-
-26° RD-                                                                                     Oulfall Drain
River tE 3unded Area
N                                                             ofil\/   \  0\si   \ 1 3   >   # O   Selected Towns S Villages
x  ))1 \   \   Kandiori,\\ .s  Z. tMajor Roads
vgfts_          °Tand                                       IINII II    Barrage
A bdom   -, <s.    NkA              m E<RD-45o  Relative Distance Measure"t
Ar5                               d c: i   M/l^.CJ   \    i/rerolor d'7infS walereCourse
improvements, Ilecr-Fification, and
IMi irpurkk ios    i M       iprecision lend levelling wil be
coreied out throuighou', the
N      HYDERABAD                                                                   pro ject ee.
\ f e X X t X \ **~~~~~~~~~~~RD  Reloeives Oi5tope Scale;.
ndo M / hond      Digri                               0 \   i   o  Io    20    30
MILES                  24
-25'          2ffi¢Zz  J                  S     S \                       /                                          .25'
Th r*e/ea  -    /           Zo drMin and Aho          bge69           /     /                        70'               I.
-,:~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~7



IBRD 182
Sir                              .10i          7r                            JuJ|E 19
SA L UC-HISTAN IVUNA
2
NDIA                         LOt        a ,/no                                                                --
PROJECT LOCATION
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
i  S       ///7ts;if          /    /  cov       D   -              -      Proiect Suba-eo Boundaries
f i/fReservoir Construction
|________________I__i-.i---                               Conal   Re ondelling
i -|iL: -Outfoll Droin Remodelling
j   s   ccnc  tf    Z { - |                    >       __-  ~~~~~~~~Otfall Drai
\   MC,,C!     \\ {  
§ <\- A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X EZISTING:
ii \  s   °\\  N a      b    r                  -     ~~Outfall Droin
I                                  :                                   \\ > >Canals
-26                                                o                                    River
A;                \ oaimotA                                   -  0 - ! Left Boasi Catchmt Area
-26'-o  Aj   A o   \f                                    - -                                 Selected Towns & Vill0ges
of ArorIi, A-* Alfp               \\3-\oBoroga
\ d   t    ,   \           -- -- - ~~~~Tidal Mud Flasts
.   /       //                       }  m  rs                      -_-' Seasonal Flooding/Salt Pans
e        .AV)-A  Relative Distance MeasurePe
I,)t                                  i                                     Prowincial Boundaries
/ J-~ /  \                                 v    \  dbInternational Soundories
|    -}J                      /1.1 / X           R    \ |  |/                0      20    40    60 MILES
K    hrochi              /                                                               \
T                           0~~~41
hatto        danPPiji  ~   D 5
Kadhan Porte#il/I
z  -  \^-      /ft i        r~~~Oufall Draoin,<rOro PO ra OMz97 90// Droa .          _7
jPD-U P0           
f           - I --                          - -         a   O-    h
Rano ol KvtchonoKuth 
2254                                                                   -      :--  9_      -'     -           -
Ar . a;tob, an   Seo                -              i;      -f               * N  _)            _ A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                           -






