Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18037
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE-1 PROJECT
(CR. 1532-PAK)
June 19, 1998
Rural Development Sector Management Uinit
South Asia Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. 'Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
At appraisal (1984) US$1 =Rs 13.5
ICR (December 1997) US$1 = Rs 44.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I mile (mi)                  =1.609 kilometres (kin)             I long ton (Ig ton)          =1.016 metric tons (t)
I acre                       =0.405 hectares (ha)                I cubic foot/second          =0.0283 cubic meters/second
I square mile (sq. mi)      =259 ha                                                          (m3/sec), 28.32 litres/second (1/sec)
pound (Ib)                  0.454 kilogramiis (kg)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank                             LBOD          Left Bank Outfall Drain Project (CR 1532-PAK)
ADP           Annual Development Plan                            NDP           National Drainage Program (CR2999-PAK)
AWB           Area Water Board                                   NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
CCA           Canal Command Area                                 ODA           Overseas Development Administration
CIDA          Canadian International Developmenit Agency         OFWM          On Farm Water Managemenit
DAS           Drainage Advisory Service                          O&M           Operation and Maintenance
DCA           Development Credit Agreement                       OMD           Operation and Maintenance Directorate, WAPDA
DFID          Departnent for Internationial Developmenit         OP            Operation Plan
EMMP          Environlmenital Monitoring and Management Plan     OPEC          Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
EPA           Environimlental Protection Agency                  POM            Plan for Operation and Maintenance
ERR           Economic Rate of Return                            Rs            Rupees
FO            Farmier Organization                               RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
FY            Financial Year                                     SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
GOP           Government of Pakistan                             SCARP          Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
GOS           Governnent of Sindh                                SDC            Swiss Development Cooperation
IBIS          Indus Basin Irrigation System                      SDSC          Sindh Development Studies Centre
ICR           Implemenitationi Completioni RZeport               SIDA          Sindli Irrigation and Drainage Authority
IDA           Interniationial Development Agency                 SMO           SCARP Monitoring Organization
lDC           interest During Construction                       SDR           Special Drawing Rights
IsDB          Islamic Development Bank                           SFD           Saudi Fund for Developmenit
IIMI          Initernationial Irrigation Managemiienit institute  STW          Saline Tubewells
IMO           Integrated Managemiient Organization               WAPDA         Water and Power Developnient Authority
IPD           Irrigation and Power Departmenit                   WUF/A         Water Users Federation/Assopiation
ISRIP         Interinationial Sedimenit Research Institute of'
Pakistan (formerly ACOP)
GLOSSARY
abiana        water charge rate                                   rabi           dry season (mid-October to mid-April)
chak          lowest order of irrigation commanid (about 450 ac)  watercourse   irrigation distribution system in a chak
kharit'       wet season (mid-April to mid-October)
Vice President                          Mieko Nishimizu
Director                                Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Mangers                          Ridwan Ali and Michael Baxter
Staff Member                           Joseph Wambia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE - 1 PROJECT
(Cr. 1532-PAK)
Table of Contents
Preface.
Evaluation Summary ............................1.,.,,.,.ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES.1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                                         2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                              8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .                                                         10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE. ... 12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE . ... 13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .                                                          13
H.. FUTURE OPERATION .15
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............................ 16
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1         Summary of Assessments .  , , .              .....................,,,. 17
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/Credits.                                               18
Table 3        Project Timetable ...........                                   ,. 20
Table 4        Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .  ,        20
Table 5A       Key Indicators for Project Iimplementation: Implementation Indicators . 21
Table 5B       Key Indicators for Impact Indicators .22
Table 6        Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................      23
Table 7        Studies Included in Project .24
Table 8A  Project Costs .39
Table 8B    Project Financing ...........                                           40
Table 9        Economic Costs and Benefits .......................,,,.,.,.,.40
Table 10       Status of Legal Covenants ..................... ,.. 41
Table 11       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .46
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inpults .46
Table 13       Bank Resources: Missions ..................                          47
APPENDICES
A.             Mission's Aide Memoire ...................         ..               .. 49
B.              Borrower's Evaluation .5
C.    Economic Analysis .75
D.              The Drainage Crisis                       .81
Map: IBRD 18245
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTAT][ON COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OIUTFALL DRAIN PROJECT
(Cr. 1532-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Com]pletion Report (ICR) for the Left Bank Outfall Drain
Project in Pakistan for which Credit 1532-PAK in the amount of SDR 147.6 million equivalent
was approved on December 13, 1984 and became effective on September 30, 1985.
The credit closed on December 31, 1997, after two extensions amounting to four years.
The last disbursement was made on May 18, 1998 when SDR 46.67 million was canceled from
the credit. The agencies listed below provided co-financing for the project.
Agency               Board Amount              Disbursed Amount
($USM)                      ($USM)
IDA                          150.0                       140.5
ADB                          122.0                       169.4
CIDA                          37.5                        11.9
SFD                           52.0                       43.1
ODA/DFID                      35.6                       32.6
OPEC                          10.0                         8.8
IsDB                           0.0                         8.7
SDC                           10.0                        10.0
M&E Trust Fund                 0.0                         4.6
(SDC/DFID/CIDA)
Borrower & GOS               218.6                      415.5
The ICR was prepared by the Task Teaml following two Bank Missions that visited
Pakistan in January and March 1998. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing information on project activitiies, submitting a future operation plan, preparing its
Completion Report on project implementation and commenting on the draft ICR. The
Borrower's evaluation is included in Appendix B of this report.
I J. Wambia (LBOD Task Team Leader, Sr. Financial Analyst/Economist, SASRD); T.K. Balakrishnan
(Financial Analyst, SASRD); M. Percy (World Bank Resident Monitor, SASRD); M. Onishi (Projects
Analyst, SASRD); and W. Jones (Consultant).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE -1 PROJECT
i(Cr. 1532-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Left Bank Outfall Drain Project (LBOD) responded to the Borrower's mid-1960s
request for assistance in a major drainage program in Sindh to reverse the environmental
deterioration caused by waterlogging and salinity. The project is the cornerstone of the
Borrower's long-term strategy to reduce waterlogging and salinity and conserve its river basin.
About 5 million hectares of a cultivable area of about 20 million hectares are being threatened.
The Borrower began building a main Spinal Drain in the 1970s with its own funds in expectation
that external financing would be found to complete the project. In objectives, scope, cost, and
complexity, LBOD has been the most ambitious drainage project ever implemented in Pakistan.
Project Objectives
2.    As per the 1984 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), project objectives were to: (a) provide
surface drainage for about 516,000 hectares of cultivated command area (CCA); (b) provide sub-
surface drainage relief for about 392,000 hectares of CCA; and (c) transport excess water and salt
out of the LBOD area, thus reversing long-term environmental deterioration of the land due to
waterlogging and salinity. In 1993, after the Mid-Term Review (MTR), project objectives were
modified in the light of structural problems revealed during implementation. While retaining the
SAR's physical objectives, the post-MTR project sought to foster the long-term financial
sustainability of the project by developing and pilot-testing new institutional arrangements by
promoting policies of decentralization and beneficiary participation, incorporating social,
financial, communication, and environmental dimensions, and enhancing private sector
participation.  The redefined objectives increased focus on sustainability and shifted the
implementation strategy from a project ito a program/sectoral approach. (Refer Paragraphs 1 to 5
of main text).
Implementation Experience and Resu]lts
3.    Sector Policies and Institutional Development: The project substantially achieved its
re-defined sector policies and institutional development objectives. These objectives were
introduced progressively during implementation. LBOD's program/sector approach has led to
significant advancement of sector policy and institutional development in Pakistan's water sector.
The project played a key role in the dialogue on the long term vision for irrigation and drainage
in Sindh Province and Pakistan. To the formulation of water policy and development strategy,
the project introduced or substantially advanced national water sector policy and practice in



ii
respect of: (i) social and environmental dimensions; (ii) private sector participation; (iii) cost
sharing arrangements; (iv) realistic financing; (v) communication with local and national
stakeholders; (vi) partnership with NGOs; (vii) donor coordination and cofinancing; and (viii)
contract administration. The project also facilitated the testing of new institutional frameworks.
The project developed the Government of Sindh's and WAPDA (Water-South)'s institutional
capacity especially to deal with social and environmental management, resettlement planning,
and beneficiary consultation and communication; and to design and manage large-scale irrigation
and drainage projects. (Refer paragraph 6, 7 and 14 of main text).
4.     Financial Objectives: The project partially achieved its financial objectives. To ensure
satisfactory operation and maintenance (O&M), the original design of LBOD focused on
ensuring sufficient government budgetary allocations for O&M, and on cost recovery of O&M
costs through increase in water charges. This was in line with the overall sector strategy for
irrigation and drainage in Pakistan at that time. Experience in LBOD during implementation, as
well as on other projects in the irrigation and drainage sector, demonstrated that this public sector
approach in which Government would be responsible for O&M costs was neither workable nor
sustainable, although progress was made in increasing O&M  budget allocations.   A
fundamentally new approach was adopted since 1992 for the irrigation and drainage sector in
Pakistan.  The new strategy is to reduce the role of the public sector, decentralize the
management of the irrigation and drainage system to autonomous commercially-oriented Area
Water Boards (AWBs) at canal command levels, and to transfer management of the system at the
minor/distributary level to beneficiaries. The strategy in LBOD was also modified accordingly
since the Mid-term Review, although the project's legal covenants were not modified pending
full transition to the new arrangements. The focus since the MTR shifted to establishing
arrangements for long-term sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system in Sindh province
in general and LBOD in particular, in line with the new strategy. There has been substantial
progress on establishing the new arrangements. There were problems relating to recovery of
periodic installments for watercourse improvements. A different approach using an upfront cost-
sharing arrangement was adopted which resulted in higher effective recovery rates and lower
administrative costs. However, there is still a backlog of arrears which has not been recovered.
(Refer paragraph 8 of main text).
5.    Physical Objectives: The project achieved many of its physical objectives as defined in
the SAR and MTR Report; and will fully achieve them on completion in four years with financial
support from the National Drainage Program (NDP) Project (Cr.2999-PAK). At credit closing,
drainage infrastructure was substantially completed and irrigation infrastructure was partially
completed. The strategically-important Spinal Drain and Tidal Link serving LBOD were
completed. Actual on-farm water management works exceeded targets. Remaining (on-going
works) are completion of the installation of about 660 saline groundwater tubewells (STWs) and
associated channels, Nara Canal Remodeling, construction of Chotiari Reservoir2 and the
associated resettlement of affected persons. Contracts for all these components are at various
stages of completion. (Refer paragraph 9 of main text).
2     Delays in construction of Chotiari Reservoir were mainly due to the application of the Bank's resettlement
policy during MTR. In order to minimize the number of resettlement affectees, the Bank encouraged the
Borrower to realign the embankment of the reservoir.



6.    Production and Poverty Reduiction Objectives: Due to the slow take off of the project
implementation mainly caused by the security problem in the country, achievement of production
and poverty reduction objectives is behind schedule but these are likely to be achieved, albeit
with further delay, provided that institutional arrangements, organization of system O&M and the
financing thereof are in place. The socio-economic impact evaluation data indicate that the
project's interventions would lead to increases in agricultural production, thereby raising farm
incomes and agricultural employment, as projected in the SAR. In the entire project area, there
are early indications of the project's positive agricultural impact on abandoned land, cropping
intensity, and yields, although these are modest and inconclusive, reflecting the fact the drainage
works in two project areas and the main irrigation works have yet to be completed. In
Nawabshah, where the drainage works are completed and fully functional, the socio-economic
impact evaluation data indicates significant positive impact. The socio-economic impact
evaluation data also indicates that the, project's agricultural impacts would have significant
poverty impacts. (Refer paragraph 10 of main text).
7.    Environmental and Social Olbjectives: The project had significant environmental
benefits from reduction of waterlogging and salinity, and evacuation of saline drainage effluent to
the sea. There will be further benefits when the full drainage system is completed and
operational. The project also had substantial achievement on social aspects, although these were
not explicitly included in the original design. Performance on resettlement has been mixed.
Although resettlement was not included in the original project design, the Bank successfully
obtained the willing agreement of the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) and the Government,
at Mid-term Review, to prepare and implement a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the
Chotiari reservoir according to the Bank's policies and procedures. Although the Government
has prepared a RAP and has taken several actions, the implementation of the RAP has been
delayed. The main and immediate prio:rities are to regain momentum on implementation of the
RAP including development of the resettlement site, appropriately compensation and resettlement
of the affectees, and building institutional capacity for resettlement. (Refer paragraphs 11 to 13
of main text).
8.    Project Costs, Financing Arrangements and Implementation Timetable: Total
project costs at completion are estimated at US$1,021.0 million. Following the extension of the
original closing date to December 31, 1997, actual total project expenditures amounted to
US$845.1 million, 133% of the US$635.7 million estimated at appraisal. IDA disbursed
US$140.5 million, 94% of the US$150 million projected at appraisal. IDA canceled $62.3 million
at the close of the credit to comply with the Bank's policy of not extending closing dates to utilize
credit funds. The rest was cofinanced by ADB, SFD, DFID, CIDA, SDC, OPEC, IsDB,
Government of Sindh, and the Borrower. The cost increase was mainly due to: (a) the security
situation, and resulted in higher bids, shorter working hours, periodic disruptions in
implementation, and inadequate superviision by the Borrower, Government of Sindh, and donors
alike; (b) a very substantial increase in the number of structures, drain crossings, etc.,
underestimated at appraisal; (c) inadecquate consultation with beneficiaries during preparation,
design, and earlier implementation; (d) weak contractors; (e) changes in the designs for major
physical works, resulting in major delays, rehabilitation, and contract cancellations; and (f)
omission of major cost categories in appraisal estimates, notably interest during construction
(IDC), beneficiary consultation and participation. External financing was not adversely impacted
because cost increases were modest in the foreign currencies in which most cofmancing was
denominated. But the combined contribution of the Borrower and Government of Sindh
increased substantially, from US$218.6 million estimated in the SAR to US$474 million



iv
equivalent. This was because there were huge increases in local currency costs which were the
responsibility of the Borrower and Government of Sindh to finance, notably IDC, land
acquisition, administration and overheads. Implementation delays were caused mainly by: (a)
security problems which resulted in a 4-year delay in implementation; (b) flooding; (c) change of
project approach/redefinition of project objectives; (d) delays in decision-making primarily by
WAPDA (on procurement, appointment of key staff, acquisition of land), and Government of
Sindh (on the resettlement program); (e) delays in release of counterpart funds by the Borrower;
and (f) unsatisfactory contract sequencing. (Refer paragraph 28 of main text).
9.    Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives: The project's achievements
were mainly due to the continuing commitment, despite numerous changes in the Government, of
the Borrower, Government of Sindh, WAPDA, and cofinanciers to the project objectives.
Flexibility of the government and donors in adjusting project design in the light of experience
gained in the course of implementation contributed significantly to the project's achievements.
The shortfall in the completion of physical works resulted mainly from the factors cited in
paragraph 9 above. (Refer paragraphs 18 to 27 of main text).
10.   Bank and Borrower Performance: The Bank identification was satisfactory, but in
retrospect, the Bank was deficient in providing preparation assistance and in appraisal. However,
preparation and appraisal were consistent with prevailing practice and the body of knowledge
then applicable to such development projects. The Bank failed to recognize the defects of project
design regarding complexity, scope, remote location, fiscal capacity (of the Borrower,
Government of Sindh, and WAPDA), sustainability, implementation capacity, and monitoring
and evaluation (M&E). Bank project supervision was satisfactory. The Bank's Management
maintained an active interest in the project, and provided sufficient resources for supervision.
The Bank provided effective leadership among the LBOD donors. Due to the large number of
donors and implementing agencies, supervision and consensus building among the various parties
was complex. There was good to excellent cooperation among the donors and with the
Borrower, Government of Sindh, WAPDA, and the project consultant teams. The Borrower's
overall performance was satisfactory. The Borrower recognized the strategic importance of the
project and was receptive to redefining its objectives and design to focus on post-completion
sustainability. (Refer paragraphs 36 to 40 of main text).
11.   Project Outcome: In terms of broad development and strategic objectives, the project
outcome is satisfactory, although the project will take another four years to complete; its
completion is being financed by the Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Government of
Sindh, and the Borrower under the NDP Project. A number of LBOD donors (notably DFID,
SFD, and SDC) are likely to continue financing the completion of some aspects of LBOD during
the early implementation of NDP. As the 1984 SAR anticipated, the project's agricultural
benefits, principally from better drainage, will build up rather rapidly in the first five years after
the works are commissioned, with continued increments thereafter. The Nawabshah perimeter
was commissioned in 1995, while Sanghar and Mirpurkhas have not yet been commissioned.
There are early but tentative indications of the project's positive impact on abandoned land,
cropped area, cropping intensity, farming intensity, yields, land holding and land tenure. The
project's outcome at the credit closing is satisfactory in achievement of its SAR objectives. The
projected economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 13%, close to the 13.6% projected at
appraisal and the MTR's 12.5%. The MTR gave the project a set of broader, sectoral objectives
which, while critical for attainment and sustainability of the SAR's narrower physical and
agricultural benefits, were also of great (but unquantified) value beyond the project area for



v
Sindh Province and for Pakistan. Since the MTR, beneficiary participation has intensified
considerably; the sector policy environment for the future operation and maintenance of the
project has improved dramatically, and WAPDA and Government of Sindh have embarked on far
potentially reaching institutional reforms. The National Drainage Program (NDP) Project is
predicated on these achievements. These developments suggest that actual benefits to Pakistan
will be substantially higher than those captured by the ERR based on projected increases in
agricultural production on the LBOD commands. (Refer paragraphs 41 to 47, and 15 to 17 of
main text).
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The project is more likely to be sustainable after completion. The major factors which are
necessary to ensure LBOD's sustainability are: (i) satisfactory institutional arrangements for
O&M; (ii) beneficiary participation in O&M, including direct management of the tertiary system
by beneficiaries; (iii) adequate funding arrangements for completion of LBOD, and for carrying
out post-completion O&M; (iv) satisfactory technical plans for carrying out O&M; and (v) a
sector policy framework which is supportive of and conducive to all the above. All the above
arrangements are substantially in place thereby laying a good foundation for sustainability of
LBOD. Another very important aspect which has a positive bearing on sustainability is that,
given the long-term and strategic importance of LBOD to the irrigation and drainage system of
Pakistan in particular, and the economy in general, the Government of Pakistan and the
Government of Sindh are very strongly committed to the sustainability of LBOD. By focusing
the attention of the Borrower, Government of Sindh, WAPDA, and the donors on the issue of
post-completion, financial and environmental sustainability since the MTR, LBOD has played the
pivotal role in improving not only its own post-completion sustainability, but also that of
Pakistan's entire irrigation and drainage system. (Refer paragraphs 29 to 35, and 48 to 51 of main
text).
13.   The key lessons learned about design, implementation, and sustainability of LBOD
specifically and similar large irrigation and drainage projects supported by the Bank are the need
to: (a) integrate and mainstream financing arrangements for monitoring and evaluation in order to
demonstrate the conviction of the Borrower and donors that it is a mainline activity, while paying
sufficient attention to the design of the M&E program; (b) clearly define benchmarks for
measuring interim outcomes and assessing potential impacts for projects with long
implementation periods, so that there is no need to wait until completion in order to determine
likely outcomes; (c) set explicit performance indicators; (d) consider carefully the technical and
political feasibility, and financial justification of financing dams and reservoirs if they involve
resettlement; and (e) ensure the capacity of implementing agencies to carry out the resettlement
program as mandated by Bank Policy. Wiith regard to NGO involvement, the national and local
NGO community in Pakistan has been critical of the slow pace of the implementation of the
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the lack of their involvement in the RAP's implementation.
In other projects, NGOs have played an effective advocacy role on behalf of the affectees and
facilitated the implementation of the resettlement program. Furthermore, in other projects,
expatriate resettlement specialists, as well as independent panels consisting of expatriate
resettlement and environmental experts have played a valuable role in building capacity of the
Borrower, and providing regular and realistic feedback on RAP performance. (Refer paragraph
52 of main text).



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE -1 PROJECT
(Cr. 1532-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    An effective and efficient drainage system is essential to sustain environmentally-sound
irrigated agriculture. The aquifer on which the Indus Basin Irrigation System (IBIS) is overlaid
averages 3000 feet deep and is completely unified. The Indus Basin has flat topography, porous
soils, and semi-arid climate with high evaporation. In such an environment, irrigation without
drainage leads inevitably to rising watertables and eventually salinity. There is a widespread
consensus between Pakistan and its principal donors that the lack of an effective drainage system
for the IBIS is by far the principal threat to the sustainability of agriculture in the Indus Basin,
and that it demands urgent solutions. Not only must the drainable surplus be reduced
dramatically and permanently at source, but internal drainage must be more adequate, and the
IBIS must be provided with a drainage outlet to the Arabian Sea.
2.    The Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) Project was designed to support integrated
development of irrigation and drainage in part of the Sukkur Barrage command on the left bank
of the Indus River --  specifically through construction of a major outfall drain and a
comprehensive drainage system in three districts (Nawabshah, Sanghar and Mirpurkhas) in the
Province of Sindh over an eight-year period (FY86 to FY93). The major project objectives stated
in the SAR were to: (a) provide surface drainage for about 516,000 hectares of CCA; (b) provide
sub-surface drainage relief for about 39:2,000 hectares of CCA; and (c) transport excess water
and salt out of the LBOD area, thus reversing ecological deterioration due to irrigation-induced
waterlogging and salinity. Principal project components included: (a) completion of a 300 km
outfall drain and remodeling of existing drains to dispose of saline effluent to the Arabian Sea;
(b) installation of a surface and subsurface drainage network in the three subareas; (c) installation
of an electricity distribution system to power the drainage tubewells and drain pumps; (d)
introduction of on-farm water management practices including renovation of about 920 water
courses and precision land leveling; (e) remodeling of the Nara and Jamrao Canals, as well as
construction of the 55 km long Chotiari Reservoir, to provide supplemental irrigation water for
the project area; and (f) technical assistance for project design and implementation.
3.    The project's objectives seemed appropriate and desirable at appraisal. However, in the
90's, the untenable fiscal burden of maintaining and sustaining project works became apparent.
Implementation experience had also demonstrated the critical need to secure the cooperation of
project beneficiaries, not only to facilitate construction of project infrastructure through their
lands, but also to safeguard project assets from vandalism. Government, the donors, and the
participating agencies re-evaluated project objectives and design. The mid-term review (MTR)
concluded that the SAR's objectives were clear and realistic but narrowly focused on area-
specific physical improvements with inadequate emphasis on long-term sector and non-
engineering aspects of preparation, design, implementation, and post-completion sustainablity



2
issues. Without major financial and institutional changes, even the SAR's objectives could
neither be attained nor sustained. Therefore, project design and implementation strategy was
redefined to include social and environmental dimensions, beneficiary consultation,
communication, and participation. Specifically, the project concept was repositioned to
emphasize its strategic role in: (a) laying the foundations for environmentally sustainable
irrigation by evacuating saline drainage effluent from the Lower Indus Basin to the Arabian Sea,
through the Spinal Drain and Tidal Link; (b) fostering the long-term financial sustainability of
Pakistan's irrigation and drainage system by developing and pilot testing new institutional
arrangements for management, promoting policies to mainstream beneficiary participation,
incorporating social and environmental dimensions, and encouraging private sector participation;
and (c) improving technical foundations for irrigation and drainage in Pakistan by demonstrating
the technical and economic efficiency of virtually all the major drainage technologies when
applied on a large scale and testing a few that can be considered novel in developing countries
(e.g. interceptor drains and scavenger wells). Redefined objectives contributed significantly to
the evolution and development of Pakistan's new irrigation and drainage strategy.
4.    After the MTR, the project took a flexible program/sectoral approach. Although the
original design of the project itself was not simple, this revised approach added some complexity.
The added complexity consisted of the following:
a)    realignment of the embankment for Chotiari Reservoir; adjustment of the spoil
disposal strategies for the major canal works and of sediment disposal during
O&M through continuous maintenance dredging; and addition of modem
telecommunications and control system on Nara Canal;
b)    addition of NGOs, Panels of Experts (for Chotiari Reservoir, Tidal Link, and
Nara Canal Remodeling), non-engineering consultancy groups, and the
Government of Sindh's Revenue Department and Environmental Protection
Agency (SEPA) to the already large number of implementing agencies.
(WAPDA, Irrigation and Power Department, On-farm Water Management -
OFWM Directorate, Planning and Development Department - P&DD) This is in
addition to co-ordination and monitoring by P&DD (GOS), Ministry of Water
and Power (MWP, GOP) and the Planning Commission (GOP); and
c)    addition of environmental management, resettlement, and institutional reform
pilot initiatives to the physical works.
5.    The changes introduced at MTR to make the project sustainable were a direct reflection
of the demands by the development community (specifically donors and NGOs), which
challenged the implementing agencies' familiarity and skilled capacity. The project at inception
was an extremely risky venture, especially given the low emphasis on post-completion O&M and
sustainability relative to the large investments that were envisaged. The changes introduced by
the MTR added complexity on one hand, but mitigated the risks and enhanced sustainability on
the other.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Sector Policies and Institutional Development: The project substantially achieved its
re-defined sector policies and institutional development objectives. These objectives were
introduced progressively during implementation. LBOD's program/sector approach has led to
significant advancement of sector policy and institutional development in Pakistan's water sector.



3
The project played a key role in the dialo,gue on the long term vision for irrigation and drainage
in Sindh Province and Pakistan. To the iormulation of water policy and development strategy,
the project introduced or substantially advanced national water sector policy and practice in
respect of: (i) social and environmental dimensions; (ii) private sector participation; (iii) cost
sharing arrangements; (iv) realistic financing; (v) communication with local and national
stakeholders; (vi) partnership with NGOs; (vii) donor coordination and cofinancing; and (viii)
contract administration. The project facilitated the testing of new institutional frameworks.
Under LBOD, a pilot-oriented feasibility study for an Area Water Board (AWB) on Nara Canal
Command was carried out, with funding from IDA's Institutional Development Fund (Grant No.
28879); and pilots of wholesale (distributary-level) Farmer Organizations (FOs) are underway in
Nawabshah, Sanghar, and Mirpurkhas Districts with the International Irrigation Management
Institute (IIMI) as the principal consultant. While the membership of the pilot FOs reflect the
socio-cultural setting, large landlords have not dominated the leadership of the pilot FOs; farmers
have indicated their willingness to take over responsibility for O&M of on-farm irrigation and
drainage facilities; and the Joint Managenment Agreements between the FOs and the Government
of Sindh are expected to be signed soon. The expectation for success is partly based on the
experience of LBOD and of other related initiatives in Pakistan (specifically, privatization of
irrigation tubewells). Since 1994, over 70 village level FOs have been established in Sindh
around fresh groundwater (FGW) tubewells which are being "transitioned" (transferred) from
Irrigation and Power Department (IPD) to farmers.
7.     The project developed the Government of Sindh's and WAPDA  (Water-South)'s
institutional capacity: (i) to deal with social and environmental management, resettlement
planning, and beneficiary consultation and communication (e.g., establishment of WAPDA
Environmental Cell and Drainage Advisory Service (DAS)); (ii) to monitor and evaluate large
scale irrigation and drainage projects (through capacity building for the Sindh Development
Studies Center); (iii) to design and manage large scale irrigation and drainage projects including
project management, technical design and O&M (through secondment to consultants, study tours,
etc.); and (iv) for financial management and accounting of large-scale projects. Through the
project, implementing agencies were exposed to: (i) all the major drainage technologies; (ii) new
institutional thinking (e.g. private sector participation in O&M through contracting, beneficiary
participation, partnerships, etc.); and (iii) building partnerships with stakeholders outside of direct
implementing agencies (NGOs, farmer groups, media, international centers of excellence).
8.     Financial Objectives:  To ensure satisfactory O&M, the original design of LBOD
focused on ensuring sufficient government budgetary allocations for O&M, and on cost recovery
of O&M costs through increase in water charges3. This was in line with the overall sector
strategy for irrigation and drainage in Pakistan at that time. Experience in LBOD during
implementation, as well as on other projects in the irrigation and drainage sector, demonstrated
that this public sector approach in which Government would be responsible for O&M costs was
neither workable nor sustainable, although progress was made in increasing O&M budget
allocations. A fundamentally new approach was adopted since 1992 for the irrigation and
drainage sector in Pakistan. The new strategy is to reduce the role of the public sector,
decentralize the management of the irrigation and drainage system to autonomous commercially
3      The original LBOD targets were to ensure full cost recovery of O&M costs of the irrigation facilities in
Sindh Province by July 1988; and to recover 50% of the O&M costs of the LBOD drainage facilities by July
1995 and 100% by July 2005, provided that these were commensurate with benefits received by
beneficiaries.



4
oriented Area Water Boards (AWBs) at canal command levels, and to transfer management of
the system at the minor/distributary level to beneficiaries. The strategy in LBOD was also
modified accordingly since the Mid-term Review, although the project's legal covenants were not
modified pending full transition to the new arrangements. The focus since the MTR shifted to
establishing arrangements for long-term sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system in
Sindh province in general and LBOD in particular, in line with the new strategy. There has been
substantial progress on establishing the new arrangements including the following:  (i)
establishment of an autonomous Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA) and an
autonomous Nara Canal Area Water Board (AWB, which would assume most of LBOD's O&M
responsibilities), and which have the necessary institutional structure and incentives to achieve
long-term financial sustainability; (ii) three pilots for direct management of the irrigation and
drainage system by Farmer Organizations (FOs), which have demonstrated the viability of
farmer-management of the system, and which in the longer-term would substantially reduce the
public sector role in and financing of O&M; and (iii) streamlining and cost reduction through
carrying out of O&M through contracts awarded to the private sector (instead of the traditional
force-account method). Since 1995, WAPDA's O&M Directorate has been carrying out O&M of
completed LBOD facilities through performance-contracts awarded to the private sector.
Performance on other financial aspects was mixed. There were problems relating to recovery of
periodic installments for watercourse improvements. A different approach using an upfront cost-
sharing arrangement was adopted which resulted in higher effective recovery rates and lower
administrative costs. However, there is still a backlog of arrears which has not been recovered.
There were also problems relating to quality and timeliness of financial statements and audit
reports. Achievement of financial objectives has been accordingly rated as 'Partial'.
9.    Physical Objectives: The project achieved many of its physical objectives as defined in
the SAR and MTR Report; and will fully achieve them on completion in four years with financial
support from the National Drainage Program (NDP) Project (Cr.2999-PAK). At credit closing,
drainage infrastructure was substantially completed and irrigation infrastructure was partially
completed. The strategically-important Spinal Drain and Tidal Link serving LBOD were
completed, allowing directed evacuation (other than through the Indus River) of saline effluent
from the Indus Basin to the Arabian Sea for the first time. Approximately three million tons of
salt are being evacuated to the sea annually through this channel although some remedial and
remodeling works are required on both channels. Surface drainage targets were fully achieved.
Surface drains now serve 1.21 million acres (Table 5). Sub-surface drainage facilities are close
to complete (Nawabshah 100%, Mirpurkhas 80% and Sanghar 70% completed respectively).
Both surface and sub-surface drainage systems became operational in Nawabshah in late 1995.
Irrigation improvements were about 85% complete at the credit closing. Works on the Jamrao
Canal and part of the Nara Canal (including the Ranto Canal) have been completed, although not
commissioned pending the completion of the remodeling of the Nara Canal. Actual on-farm
water management works exceeded targets. Under the On Farm Water Management (OFWM)
component, 1,450 watercourses were remodeled and 82,942 acres of land were precision leveled.
This substantially exceeded the SAR targets. The remaining (ongoing) works are completion of
the installation of about 660 STWs and associated channels, Nara Canal Remodeling,
construction of Chotiari Reservoir4 and the associated resettlement of affected persons.
4     Delays in construction of Chotiari Reservoir were mainly due to the application of the Bank's resettlement
policy during MTR. In order to minimize the number of resettlement affectees, the Bank encouraged the
Borrower to realign the embankment of the reservoir.



5
Contracts for all these components are at various stages of completion. Achievement of Physical
objectives is rated as 'Partial'.
10.   Poverty Reduction:  The socio-economic impact evaluation data indicate that the
project's interventions would lead to increases in agricultural production, thereby raising farm
incomes and agricultural employment, as projected in the SAR. In the entire project area, there
are early indications of the project's posiitive agricultural impact on abandoned land, cropping
intensity, and yields, although these are modest and inconclusive, reflecting the fact the drainage
works in two project areas and the main irrigation works have yet to be completed. In
Nawabshah, where the drainage works are completed and fully functional, the socio-economic
impact evaluation data indicates that the cropping intensity increased for the rabi crop from 58%
in 1988/89 to 69% in 1996/97, and for the kharif crop from 51% in 1988/89 to 64% in 1997.
Yields for wheat have increased from 1.7 mt/ha in 1988/89 to 2.1 mt/ha in 1996/97, and yields
for cotton have increased from 0.6 mt/ha in 1988/89 to 1.4 mt/ha in 1996/97. Based on the
results for Nawabshah, it is reasonable to expect that the other component areas (Sanghar and
Mirpurkhas) will show similar agro-economic impacts, when the remaining two- drainage
components and the irrigation component become fully functional. The socio-economic impact
evaluation data also indicates that the project's agricultural impacts would have significant
poverty impacts. In the absence of direct quantitative data on the distribution of project benefits,
this is inferred from patterns of land tenure and cultivation. The socio-economic impact
evaluation data has confirmed that the pattern of land tenure and cultivation has been improved
by the project. The mean land holding in the project area improved from 42 acres in 1987/88 to
37 acres in 1996/97, while it increased in the control area (outside the project) from 33 acres to
38 acres. The percentage of land cropped by haris (sharecroppers) increased in the rabi season
from 62% in 1987/88 to 69% in 1996/97, and in the kharif season from 67% to 72%. Landless
households will also benefit from increased demand for agricultural labor. The achievement of
"Poverty Alleviation" objectives has been rated as 'Partial' reflecting that the poverty alleviation
objectives will be fully achieved on completion of the project's physical works.
11.   Environmental Objectives: The major environmental objectives originally envisaged
were through reduction of waterlogging aLnd salinity, which are among the major environmental
problems in Pakistan. Preliminary physical monitoring data from project areas with operating
drainage facilities (Nawabshah) indicate that these objectives are being achieved. It is quite
likely that other component areas (Sanghar and Mirpurkhas) will show similar physical impacts,
once project works are completed and O&M is effective. An important environmental benefit
which has been demonstrated is flood relief, which has also resulted in minimizing damage to
rural and urban infrastructure. The evacuation of standing water also has had significant health
benefits such as prevention of malarial and other similar diseases. The Spinal drainage system is
already evacuating about 3 million tons of salt to the sea every year. This quantity is expected to
significantly increase when the other drainage components are fully operational. Comprehensive
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) were carried out for the outfall drains and the
Chotiari Reservoir, and measures indicated in the Environmental Management Plan were/are
being implemented in collaboration with 'NGOs and other partners, including to protect flora and
fauna, endangered species, etc. Achievement of environmental objectives has been rated as
'Partial' reflecting that the major environmental benefits resulting from reduction of waterlogging
and salinity will be fully realized on completion of the physical drainage works.
12.   Social Objectives:  Although social objectives were not explicitly included in the
original project design, since the Mid-term Review there have been several achievements, most



6
significant of which has been sensitization of the Borrower and implementing agencies to the
various social issues including beneficiary participation; communication, information and
education with/to various stakeholders; gender; child labor; resettlement; and partnership with
NGOs and other stakeholders. WAPDA's DAS produced information materials on the project,
and implemented a communication strategy and farmer participation strategy interalia to involve
beneficiaries in O&M activities, assess farmer interest in tile drainage, and obtain beneficiaries'
views on construction planning and design. A gender strategy has been prepared and is being
implemented. This includes the formation of Women's Actions Groups (WAGs). The WAGs
would play a substantial role in O&M of the LBOD facilities such as on-farm drains, disposal
channels, installations, etc. In the longer-term, they would provide an effective base for other
extension activities. A rapid assessment was carried out of the project's impact on child labor,
which indicated no significant incidences of child labor resulting from the project's activities.
While there have very significant achievements on social aspects especially vis-a-vis the original
project design, rating on achievement of social objectives has been rated as 'Partial' to reflect the
mixed performance on resettlement as elaborated below. Achievement of gender objectives has
been rated as 'Significant'.
13.   Resettlement: The Chotiari Reservoir, which is funded under the project by the Saudi
Fund for Development (SFD), was originally designed without significant attention to
resettlement since it was expected that resettlement would be negligible and the Bank's
resettlement policies were not applicable at that time.  Resettlement considerations were
introduced at Mid-term Review. The Bank successfully obtained the willing agreement of SFD
and the Government to prepare and implement a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the Chotiari
reservoir according to the Bank's policies and procedures. Contract award for the reservoir was
delayed pending the formulation, adoption and upfront actions on the RAP. It is estimated that
about 594 households would be affected by the construction of the reservoir and would need to
be resettled. A RAP was prepared and is being implemented. The RAP resulted in a major
redesign of the reservoir to minimize resettlement requirements, escalation in costs, and
implementation delays; and stretched the capacity of implementing agencies. The Bank provided
substantial assistance in implementation of the RAP, including sensitizing the Borrower and
implementing agencies of the need to address the resettlement issue, carrying on dialogue at
senior political and administrative levels, providing financial and technical assistance, and
carrying out dialogue with various NGOs who have shown interest in the resettlement program.
The Government has taken a number of actions to implement the RAP, including adopting the
RAP and the entitlement packages; providing the necessary resettlement site; establishing the
Chotiari Resettlement Agency (CRA); engaging a local NGO to provide implementation support;
establishing a Community Monitoring Committee (CMC) consisting of leaders of various
community-based organizations (CBOs); organizing a number of workshops with local
institutions and community leaders; appointing an Independent Monitor; and implementing an
information, education and communication program. The Government has also demonstrated
significant commitment and flexibility to implementing the resettlement program including
paying market prices for land compensation, and providing land compensation to landless
affectees and paying off their debts, which are departures from its established policies and
practice. The Government has also agreed in principle to provide an appropriate resettlement
package for affected herdsmen and fishermen, although these were not included in the original
resettlement package. However, the implementation of the RAP has been significantly delayed
mainly due to delays in the construction of the Chotiari reservoir itself, limited administrative
capacity of the Government of Sindh, severe financial crises in GOP and GOS, the complex
socio-economic setting of the reservoir area, and the remote location of the prospective host area.



7
The main and immediate priorities are to regain momentum on implementation of the RAP
including development of the resettlement site, appropriately compensation and resettlement of
the affectees, and building institutional capacity for resettlement and development particularly
that of the CRA. The Bank will also continue its efforts by maintaining effective dialogue with
the Government; intensifying supervision and providing technical advice on the RAP; and
establishing effective dialogue with the donor community, various national, regional and local
NGOs, and other stakeholders.
14.    Public Sector Management andi Private Sector Development: The project contributed
significantly to these objectives through its contribution to sector policy on and implementation
of institutional arrangements for long-tern sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sector, and
the institutional development of various public sector institutions notably WAPDA and
Government of Sindh (as explained earlier). Although private sector development was not a
stated objective of the project, the project's redefined focus in promoting a new approach to
carrying out O&M through contracts awarded to the private sector has opened up several new
avenues for the private sector to be involved in the irrigation and drainage sector. The transfer of
management of irrigation and drainage facilities to beneficiary groups, piloted through the
project, would substantially contribute to private sector development. Achievement on these
aspects is therefore rated as 'Substantial'.
15.    The project was partially complete at credit closing. It is difficult to quantify benefits in
terms of increased agricultural production arising out of project activities. The most recent
results of the project's socio-economic evaluation, based on ten Nawabshah watercourses where
the system is already working, are positive but inconclusive. Physical indicators (depth to water
table, soil salinity, etc.) are positive where the system is working. It is reasonable to expect that
farmers will progressively adjust their cropping patterns and increase yields as projected at
appraisal. On this assumption, and using actual costs to date, current projections of economic
prices and assuming project completion by 2002, the Borrower's most recent economic internal
rate of return (ERR) estimate is 14.6%. This is broadly identical to the SAR (1984) estimate of
13.6% and the MTR (1993) estimate of 12.5%. Increased real farm prices contributed to
improvement in the ERR. The Borrower estimates that, with drainage alone, but without
irrigation improvements slated for completion by 2002, the ERR would still be 11.5%, whereas
with drainage, irrigation and improved agricultural services, it could rise to 17.9%. These
estimates were based on a comprehensive and thorough re-evaluation that was prepared for the
Borrower by the project implementing agencies and their consultant teams over a period of one
year as a part of the process to authorize increased budgetary allocations for the project (notably
the Chotiari Reservoir) and for its inclusion in NDP. The ICR team re-validated WAPDA's
economic re-evaluation of Chotiari Reservoir, revised cost estimates, and the underlying
assumptions based on its review of the latest PC-I (1996) and the M&E evaluation studies.
16.    The methodology of the Borrower's return estimates is entirely correct and the
assumptions are consistent with the best current estimates with one exception (the completion
date). It is now extremely unlikely that project works will be completed in two years from credit
closing by 2000, as assumed by the Borrower's most recent PC-1. These works comprise the
completion of Chotiari Reservoir and Nara Canal. Therefore, assuming that most benefits (and
only a few costs) will be delayed because these works will not be completed until early 2002, the
ICR re-estimates the economic ERR to be 13%. See Appendix C for details.



8
17.   All SAR, MTR, and ICR estimates of benefits have been based on agricultural benefits in
the project commands. It is likely that these will not prove to be LBOD's principal benefits. The
LBOD sectoral reforms, especially those introduced as a result of the MTR, and being
implemented under NDP, may not only have contributed to saving the project but also have
significant positive implications for the rest of irrigation and drainage system in Sindh and
Pakistan. A long-term solution to the country's salt and waterlogging problem is inconceivable
without LBOD. Equally important, the institutional reforms being introduced to make LBOD
sustainable look like the only practical way to achieve the same result in the rest of Pakistan. The
benefits from these LBOD innovations, coupled with the benefits to the environment and public
health from the evacuation of stagnant pools, improvements in rural infrastructure from the
lowering of water tables, and development of fisheries on Chotiari Reservoir, are likely to
outweigh the value of incremental production on the LBOD commands. However, these cannot
be quantified, using the available information, and are excluded from the ERR estimates.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
18.    Prolonged law and order problems in interior Sindh, including the project area, caused:
(i) shorter working hours by contractors and project staff; (ii) higher, sometimes dramatically
higher, unit prices of works; (iii) periodic disruption in project implementation; and (iv)
inadequate supervision by the Borrower, Government of Sindh and donors alike.
19.    Heavy rainfall led to widespread flooding in 1988, 1992, and 1994, delaying
implementation of several contracts by months due to the poor storm drainage.
20.    Because CIDA withdrew from the LBOD Project5, the tile drainage component in
Mirpurkhas was not completed. It has been transferred to NDP.
21.    While the Borrower and donors planned resettlement that was fair and just to the 594
families slated for resettlement as a result of Chotiari Reservoir construction, the economic and
financial costs have been extremely high. The Chotiari Reservoir contract was ready for award in
1992. WAPDA deferred the award at the request of the Bank pending agreement between the
Bank and Government of Sindh on a RAP for Chotiari. The reservoir was re-designed to reduce
displacement, preserve flora and fauna, protect grazing lands for nomadic pastoralists, and
improve safety, and will now cost nearly three times (US$87 million) the SAR estimate (US$36.2
million). Much more serious, the resulting seven-year delay in completion of Chotiari Reservoir
has also delayed provision of more irrigation water to farmers and prevented them from
increasing cropping intensity once drainage works are completed (expected in 1998/99). To the
extent that these delays will also defer cost recovery for LBOD O&M, the adverse impact on
sustainability would be compounded.6
5      Due to changed CIDA institutional priorities.
6      A note on implementation of Chotiari RAP is available in the project files. It describes the issues, what the
Bank and the Borrower have done about them, involvement of NGOs, community participation and
ownership of the RAP, and next steps (i.e. what the Bank and Borrower plan to do further.)



9
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
22.   Satisfactory achievement of the re-defined project objectives to date has been largely
attributable to: (i) recognition by senicr -officials of the Borrower, Government of Sindh, and
WAPDA of the strategic importance of LBOD; (ii) a highly effective Project Steering Committee
to co-ordinate the project; (iii) both Borrower's and Government of Sindh's willingness to change
project priorities in the MTR; and (iv) the Government of Sindh's unfailing support to the project
by providing adequate counterpart funding in the face of a prolonged period of insecurity,
political instability, and severe fiscal constraints.
23.   On the other hand, the changes introduced in the MTR, which delayed project progress
considerably, were necessitated by the lack of governments' sector policies and project
preparation guidelines for: (i) satisfaictory O&M financing arrangements; (ii) social and
environmental dimensions; and (iii) beneficiary participation.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
24.   The implementing agencies were flexible and receptive to the redefined project
objectives and design to focus on post-completion environmental and financial sustainability, and
to redress the over-reliance on engineering aspects of the project's design.
25.   The main engineering consultants were not appointed until more than two years after
Board Approval. Financial, environrnental and resettlement consultants, and the NGO
collaborating on the resettlement program were not appointed until after the MTR. As a result,
the project in its eventual scope did not take off until mid-1993/94, even though physical works
began in earnest after mid-1987.
26.   Implementation delays were also due to design changes at the request of donors affecting
the project's main physical works, notably the Nara Canal remodeling contracts, and Chotiari
Reservoir. This eventually led to not only implementation delays and cancellation of major
irrigation contracts that were ready for award, but also substantial cost increases.
27.   Design and execution of M&E, was faulty. The statistical design (i.e., specification,
measurements, sample frames, tests of hypothesis, controls, etc.) was not sufficiently robust; the
sequencing of surveys with the implementation cycle was not synchronized (so that, in effect, the
M&E program produced an eight year series of baseline surveys); there was little integration
between socio-economic and physical M&E, or between M&E results and implementation
planning and design; poor organizational and financial designs for the M&E program undermined
the effectiveness; and the capacity of the M&E consultants to carry out the M&E remained weak
throughout the project despite recourse to substantial technical assistance.  The structural
deficiencies of the M&E organizational design defied several attempts by the Government of
Sindh, WAPDA, and donors to find effective solutions.
28.   Project Costs, Financing Airrangements and Implementation Timetable: Total
project costs at completion are estimated at US$1,021.0 million. Following the extension of the
original closing date to December 31, 1997, actual total project expenditures amounted to
US$845.1 million, 133% of the US$635.7 million estimated at appraisal. IDA disbursed
US$140.5 million, 94% of the US$150 million projected at appraisal. IDA canceled $62.3 million
at the close of the credit to comply with the Bank's policy of not extending closing dates to utilize



10
credit funds. The rest was cofinanced by ADB, SFD, DFID, CIDA, SDC, OPEC, IsDB,
Government of Sindh, and the Borrower. The cost increase was mainly due to: (a) the security
situation (as explained earlier); (b) a very substantial increase in the number of structures, drain
crossings, etc., underestimated at appraisal; (c) inadequate consultation with beneficiaries during
preparation, design, and earlier implementation; (d) weak contractors; (e) changes in the designs
for major physical works, resulting in major delays, rehabilitation, and contract cancellations; and
(f) omission of major cost categories in appraisal estimates, notably interest during construction
(IDC), beneficiary consultation and participation. External financing was not adversely impacted
because cost increases were modest in the foreign currencies in which most cofinancing was
denominated. But the combined contribution of the Borrower and Government of Sindh
increased substantially, from US$218.6 million estimated in the SAR to US$474 million
equivalent. This was because there were huge increases in local currency costs which were the
responsibility of the Borrower and Government of Sindh to finance, notably IDC, land
acquisition, administration and overheads. Implementation delays were caused mainly by: (a)
security problems which resulted in a 4-year delay in implementation; (b) flooding; (c) change of
project approach/redefinition of project objectives; (d) delays in decision-making primarily by
WAPDA (on procurement, appointment of key staff, acquisition of land), and Government of
Sindh (on the resettlement program); (e) delays in release of counterpart funds by the Borrower;
and (f) unsatisfactory contract sequencing.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The major factors which are necessary to ensure LBOD's sustainability are: (i)
satisfactory institutional arrangements for O&M; (ii) beneficiary participation in O&M, including
direct management of the tertiary system by beneficiaries; (iii) adequate funding arrangements
for completion of LBOD, and for carrying out post-completion O&M; (iv) satisfactory technical
plans for carrying out O&M; and (v) a sector policy framework which is supportive of and
conducive to all the above. All the above arrangements are substantially in place thereby laying a
good foundation for sustainability of LBOD, as elaborated below. Another very important aspect
which has a positive bearing on sustainability is that, given the long-term and strategic
importance of LBOD to the irrigation and drainage system of Pakistan in particular, and the
economy in general, the Government of Pakistan and the Government of Sindh are very strongly
committed to the sustainability of LBOD. Project Sustainability has been therefore rated as
'Likely'.
30.   Institutional Arrangements: The Government of Sindh has enacted the Sindh Irrigation
and Drainage Authority (SIDA) Act 1997 to decentralize management of the irrigation and
drainage system to autonomous entities, viz., SIDA, AWBs, and FOs. Satisfactory institutional
arrangements for O&M of LBOD have been substantially established through the Nara Canal
AWB which is an autonomous public utility and which will be substantially responsible for
management of the LBOD infrastructure (other than below the minor/distributary level and
subdrains which would be the responsibility of beneficiaries). The technical foundations for the
Nara Canal AWB, including organization, staffing, finances and engineering aspects, have also
been established7; and the AWB is expected to commence operations in October 1998. The Nara
Canal AWB has the necessary legal authority, institutional structure and incentives to
satisfactorily manage the LBOD infrastructure (e.g., operational autonomy, funding arrangements
including retention of revenues, need-based staffing, beneficiary representation, operational and
7     through a study funded from the Bank's Institutional Development Fund (IDF).



11
financial transparency, and financial self-sustainability targets). In the interim period, WAPDA's
O&M Directorate has been carrying out O&M of completed LBOD works. It has emphasized
sustainable and cost-effective O&M through a change from traditional maintenance practices
(force-account) to the development and testing of performance-based contracts awarded to the
private sector.
31.    Beneficiary Participation: Experience has demonstrated that beneficiary participation in
the management of the irrigation and drainage system is one of the most important requirements
for long-term sustainability. Measures have been taken to involve beneficiaries substantially and
directly in the O&M of the LBOD infrastructure. Three pilots of distributary/minor level FOs
(which are federations of watercourse-level associations) have been on-going for the past 3 years,
and have demonstrated the social viability of farmer management of the tertiary irrigation and
drainage system. These FOs are expected to formally take over the management of the irrigation
and drainage system (including collection of user-charges) in their jurisdiction soon. These FOs
have provided the experience and models for mainstreaming the formation of similar FOs in the
whole LBOD area. The long-term strategy is for FOs to take-over the management of the system
below the distributary/minor canal and subdrains.  Substantial preparatory work for this
mainstreaming has also been completed under the Nara Canal AWB study. The Borrower's
future operation plan envisages the delelgation of the following responsibilities to beneficiaries:
(i) ensuring the security of wells and their ancillary equipment (pump houses, transformers,
conductors, etc.); (ii) maintaining the disposal channel conveying saline effluent from wells to the
sub-drains; (iii) monitoring and reporting on the performance of wells; and (iv) contributing to,
and arranging the collection of, drainage cess/abiana. A program of information, education and
communication with beneficiaries was initiated by WAPDA's DAS, and will be continued under
the NDP Project.
32.    Funding Arrangements: Funding arrangements for the completion of LBOD and for
post-completion O&M of the LBOD works have been established through the National Drainage
Program (NDP) Project. O&M of the completed LBOD works will be substantially carried out
through performnance-contracts awarded to the private sector. These performance contracts will
be funded from the IDA Credit for the NDP Project. The Nara Canal AWB and FOs will
progressively recover costs of O&M from beneficiaries8.
33.    Technical Plans for O&M:  Satisfactory technical plans for O&M  of the various
infrastructure, including O&M manuals, have been prepared with the assistance of LBOD
engineering consultants. Contract documents for O&M of the completed infrastructure have also
been prepared, tested and progressively refined over the past two years.
34.    Sector Policy Framework: The policy framework for the long-term sustainability has
been substantially established including: (i) a clearly outlined institutional framework for
management of the irrigation and drainage system; (ii) enabling legal framework for the
institutional reforms (through enactment of the SIDA Act); (iii) a commitment to phase out
subsidies for O&M in 7 to 10 years; (iv) substantial beneficiary participation in the management
of the irrigation and drainage system; and (v) incorporation of social and environmental
8      The SIDA Act provides for the Nara Canal AWB to become financially self-sustainable for O&M costs
within 10 years of establishment, and for FOs to be financially self-sustainable within 7 years of
establishment. The legal covenants under the NDP include requirements to ensure progressive movement in
this direction.



12
dimensions in irrigation and drainage management. All these factors would substantially
contribute to the long-term sustainability of LBOD.
35.   Risks: The sustainability of LBOD is closely linked to the success of the institutional
reform program in the irrigation and drainage sector in Pakistan. As with any major institutional
reform program, there are substantial risks of derailment of the program by vested and powerful
interests9.  These risks are mitigated by the strong commitment to and ownership of the
institutional reform program demonstrated by the Government, the substantial steps taken in
implementation of the reform program so far, and the substantial technical expertise support
provided through the NDP Project. The Borrower's report also highlights concerns about the
continued good functioning of the Tidal Link, the maintenance burden of the Nara Canal, the
technical sustainability of the installed tubewells, and the technical aspects of maintenance of the
constructed outfall drains. The drainage research program under NDP and other projects are
expected to provide some direction and answers to these questions.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   The Bank's performance was not satisfactory at preparation and appraisal. Project
design was too focused on physical and engineering aspects, with insufficient emphasis on social,
financial, communication, and environmental aspects, which, however, was consistent with,
prevailing practice and the body of knowledge then applicable to such development projects.
By including too many (eight) donors, the Bank added avoidable complexity to project
administration and coordination. Dealing with the eight LBOD donors strained the
implementation capacity of the implementing agencies, and the coordinating capacity and roles of
the Borrower and the Bank. The Bank's experience in LBOD and other projects suggest that a
more manageable number of co-financiers for a project such as LBOD would be in the order of 3
- 5. At appraisal, the Bank failed to ensure adequate readiness for implementation and to
recognize sustainability issues. As a result, implementation was delayed and the project had to be
restructured in its eighth year.
37.   However, throughout the project, the Bank provided effective leadership for change and
was flexible in restructuring project objectives to enhance sustainability. The Bank responded
quickly to integrate the findings and strategy recommendations of its Policy Paper on water
resources management10 and the subsequent strategy paperl 1. It played a significant role in the
dialogue leading to institutional and policy reform and in emphasizing the importance of the
environmental and social aspects. The Bank also maintained co-operation with co-financiers by
planning/conducting Joint Review Missions (JRMs). Due to the large number of donors and
implementing agencies, supervision and consensus building among the various parties was
complex. While donor coordination was at times challenging, the Bank was generally successful
in these efforts, and on the whole there was good to excellent cooperation among the donors and
with the Borrower, Government of Sindh, WAPDA, and the project consultant teams. Bank
management paid significant attention to, and allocated adequate resources for, supervision.
Continuity of Bank staff on supervision missions was highly satisfactory, despite the 12-year
9      These risks, and the corresponding risk-mitigation factors and risk-management measures, are discussed in
detail in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the NDP Project (Report No. 153 10-PAK).
10    The World Bank, A World Bank Policy Paper: Water Resources Management (The World Bank,
Washington, D.C., 1993)
11    The World Bank, Pakistan: Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options, Report No. 11884-PAK (The
World Bank, Washington, D.C. March 1994)



13
duration of the project. The Bank provicled effective leadership among the LBOD donors, inter
alia by/through: (a) regular, intensive, field-level supervision missions which were well staffed
with the wide range of specialists required; (b) assisting the Government of Sindh and WAPDA
to identify and recruit members of the various Panels of Experts to supervise and advice the
engineering consultants on complex design issues; (c) locating a full-time Field Monitor in
Hyderabad since the MTR to provide continuous Bank supervision and assist the Government of
Sindh and WAPDA with implementation; and (d) encouraging the Borrower and Government of
Sindh to allocate the requisite Annual Development Plan resources (ADP) for the project in the
face of severe budget constraints, especially during its peak demand years when the ADP
requirements of the project were nearly half of the Borrower's ADP for the water sector.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The Borrower, Government of
Sindh, and WAPDA recognized the straltegic importance of the project and accorded it a high
priority and visibility in all respects. WAPDA and the Government of Sindh assigned a
succession of competent senior officers to the project as General Managers and Chief Engineers
(Development) respectively. When the project needed major restructuring to improve the
prospects for its sustainability, the Borrower, Government of Sindh, and WAPDA were all
receptive to the redefined focus of the project's objectives and design. The Borrower and
Government of Sindh also provided adequate coordinating arrangements for the project through a
highly effective Project Steering Committee, which was chaired by the Additional Chief
Secretary (Development) of the Government of Sindh.
39.   Both the Borrower and Government of Sindh generally made adequate releases of
counterpart funds. This was a major accomplishment, given the size of LBOD, which accounted
for about half of the Borrower's water-sector investment program for several years during second
half of its implementation period.
40.   Since 1995, the Borrower, as well as the Bank, have paid significant attention to financial
and environmental sustainability aspects. The Borrower developed an environmental monitoring
and management plan (EMMP) for sensiitive components of the project. The EMMP includes
surveys of flora, wildlife, and fisheries at Chotiari Reservoir, Nara Canal, and the Tidal Link
outfall to the Arabian Sea.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   In terms of broad development and strategic objectives, the project outcome is
satisfactory, although the project will take another four years to complete; its completion is being
financed by the Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Government of Sindh, and the
Borrower under the NDP Project. A nurnber of LBOD donors (notably DFID, SFD, and SDC)
are likely to continue financing the completion of some aspects of LBOD during the early
implementation of NDP.
42.   As the 1984 SAR anticipated, the project's agricultural benefits, principally from better
drainage, will build up rather rapidly in the first five years after the works are commissioned,
with continued increments thereafter. Ihe Nawabshah perimeter was commissioned in 1995,
while Sanghar and Mirpurkhas have not yet been commissioned. There are early but tentative
indications of the project's positive impact on abandoned land, cropped area, cropping intensity,



14
farming intensity, yields, land holding and land tenure (see Appendix C, Table 1). The project's
outcome at the credit closing is satisfactory in achievement of its SAR objectives. The projected
economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 13%, close to the 13.6% projected at appraisal
and the MTR's 12.5%.
43.   The MTR gave the project a set of broader, sectoral objectives which, while critical for
attainment and sustainability of the SAR's narrower physical and agricultural benefits, were also
of great (but unquantified) value beyond the project area for Sindh Province and for Pakistan.
Since the MTR, beneficiary participation has intensified considerably; the sector policy
environment for the future operation and maintenance of the project has improved dramatically,
and WAPDA and Government of Sindh have embarked on far potentially reaching institutional
reforms. The NDP is predicated on these achievements. These developments suggest that actual
benefits to Pakistan will be substantially higher than those captured by the ERR based on
projected increases in agricultural production on the LBOD commands.
44.   Preliminary socio-economic monitoring and evaluation results are promising.  Key
indicators of land use in the project area where the project's interventions have had their impacts
have improved steadily in line with the project's rate of completion (between 1988 and 1997): (i)
the proportion of abandoned land has declined from 33% of CCA to 21%; and cropping intensity
has increased from 101% of CCA to 122%. The socio-economic impact evaluation study
projects that after completion of all project works, annual cropping intensity will exceed the SAR
"with project" projection of 117% (which has already been achieved prior to completion). The
area planted to cotton (an indicator of declining salinity) has increased from 46% in 1993 to 62%
in 1997. Wheat yields have increased steadily from 1.5 tons in 1990 to 1.9 tons in 1996. The
socio-economic impact evaluation study infers that farmers' confidence to expand the cotton area
in response to price increases since 1993 is a positive indicator of the project's drainage&impact.
LBOD's interventions will have a notable impact on agricultural production when the remaining
two drainage components become fully functional and works to increase irrigation water supply
are completed.
45.   Results of the project's physical impacts depicted in WAPDA's physical monitoring
reports are striking: in Nawabshah, where the project is completed and fully functional, depth to
watertable has declined significantly (area with depth less than 150 cm has declined from 48.8%
in 1994 to 21.8% in 1997); the area covered by soils with extremely high salinity (EC>8dS/m)
has declined from 32% in Lower Indus Plain to less than 20% in the reclaimed area; and cropped
area of CCA also increased from 58% in 1988/89 to 69% in 1996/97 for rabi, and from 51% in
1988/89 to 64% in 1997 for kharif. Based on Nawabshah's monitoring results, it is reasonable to
expect that the other component areas will show similar agro-economic impacts, once project
works are completed and O&M is effective.
46.   One major physical impact of LBOD's surface drainage system is flood relief. This
provided a favorable test of the usefulness of the LBOD drainage system. It helped farmers
reduce prolonged monsoon flooding, notably in 1994.  Visual observations have been
corroborated by cotton and wheat harvests in heavy rainfall years. On economic grounds the
drainage system is designed to transport the storm runoff from only very low rainfall events.
Nevertheless, LBOD has had a major effect in reducing inundation time on farmland after
significant rainfall events.



15
47.   The project is four years from completion. Its implementation will be completed under
the NDP. As project works are comimissioned, water tables, soil salinity, and sodicity are
expected to fall. When the remaining irrigation works are completed, more fresh water will be
available. Farmers can then be expected to progressively increase their cropping intensities; and
to shift from low-value to higher-value crops. The drainage of stagnant pools, and evacuation of
annual floods, are likely to contribute significant public health and economic benefits to the
project area, which is over 1.2 million aLcres of CCA. There are preliminary indications from the
M&E surveys that previously abandoned land in recently reclaimed areas is being cultivated
again, and tenants who had migrated to urban areas are returning to reclaim and farm their lands.
This trend is expected to intensify as the project nears completion and thereafter.  The
preliminary data also shows that the project may have a positive impact on land tenure and land
holding (see Appendix C, Table 1). The M&E surveys also indicate that the improved drainage is
benefiting rural infrastructure (notably roads and electricity and telephone poles, rural water
supply systems, and buildings), and thereby stimulating considerable economic activity on- and
off- the farm. This trend is also expected to continue. The physical and socio-economic
monitoring programs will be continued under the NDP Project to determine the magnitude and
extent of direct project benefits.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
48.   The Borrower and Government of Sindh recognize the importance of the project's
sustainability and are keen to find a way of maintaining it. The institutional arrangements
(including beneficiary participation) for post-completion management of the system have already
been explained in the section on 'Project Sustainability'. The SIDA Act of June 1997, enacted by
the Government of Sindh with the encouragement of the Borrower, provides the basic framework
for O&M responsibility and the financial payment mechanism for the LBOD project. Under that
Act, the project would be monitored and maintained by streamlined and autonomous entities
which that are financially autonomous and decentralized. Through this system, operational
responsibility of intra-provincial irrigation and drainage infrastructure has been delegated to
SIDA; that of intra-provincial irrigation and drainage within each canal command would be
delegated to AWBs; and that of on-farm drainage and on farm-irrigation up to minor/distributary
level would be delegated to farmer-controlled FOs. By and large, irrigation and drainage services
would be delivered to individual farmers through Water Users' Associations - WUAs (which
would become constituent members of FOs). These entities would develop and implement the
new payment system that authorize the next lower tier of institutional hierarchy to levy and
collect charges for irrigation and drainage from its affiliated members. The medium and long-
term vision is that the levies would be based on negotiations which would be held in the prior
season between each upper-tier organization and its affiliated member organizations (i.e., SIDA
with Nara Canal AWB, and Nara Canal AWB and WAPDA's O&M Directorate with FOs). This
new system would have in-built mechanisms for collectively enforcing payment for charges and
plugging leakage in assessment that are potentially more effective and far cheaper than current
system. Under these systems, the collection/payment of abiana and drainage cess would be
carried out in a more systematic and effective manner; and the operation and maintenance are
expected to be done more efficiently at the appropriate levels.
49.   The Borrower and Government of Sindh plan to expand performance contracts under the
NDP Project.  Through these contracts, they will invite the private sector's long-term
participation in irrigation and drainage O&M.  Detailed plans for O&M  training and



16
responsibility for contract approval would be elaborated in a Plan for Operation and Maintenance
that is being prepared by Government of Sindh and WAPDA as per Bank recommendations12.
50.    The Borrower experienced difficulties associated with the resettlement of 594 households
directly affected by the Chotiari Reservoir. Although some progress has been made in the
delivery of compensation payments, resettlement design and community development, the
implementation of the RAP is significantly behind schedule with substantial cost increases. In
addition, a formal proposal to deal with resettlement of the 178 herdsmen families grazing their
livestock in the reservoir area is still under preparation. Up-to-date information is required to
document future resettlement arrangements, including the implementing agencies' relationships
with NGOs, adequacy and practicality of the resettlement plan, options for income restoration,
number of people receiving cash compensation to date, and status of the new site's civil works.
51.    Physical performance indicators that should be monitored include: (i) amount of salt
transported to the sea; (ii) depth to ground water table; (iii) soil salinity; (iv) tubewell efficiency
and condition; (v) performance of interceptor and tile drains; (vi) performance of the Tidal Link;
and (vii) discharge and water quality of surface flows. A number of these are presently being
monitored by WAPDA through its SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) and ISRIP.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
52.    The key lessons learned about design, implementation, and sustainability of LBOD
specifically and similar large irrigation and drainage projects supported by the Bank are the need
to: (a) integrate and mainstream financing arrangements for monitoring and evaluation in order to
demonstrate the conviction of the Borrower and donors that it is a mainline activity, while paying
sufficient attention to the design of the M&E program; (b) clearly define benchmarks for
measuring interim outcomes and assessing potential impacts for projects with long
implementation periods, so that there is no need to wait until completion in order to determine
likely outcomes; (c) set explicit performance indicators; (d) consider carefully the technical and
political feasibility, and financial justification of financing dams and reservoirs if they involve
resettlement; and (e) ensure the capacity of implementing agencies to carry out the resettlement
program as mandated by Bank Policy. With regard to NGO involvement, the national and local
NGO community in Pakistan has been critical of the slow pace of the RAP implementation and
the lack of their involvement in the RAP's implementation. In other projects, NGOs have played
an effective advocacy role on behalf of the affectees and facilitated the implementation of the
resettlement program. Furthermore, in other projects, expatriate resettlement specialists, as well
as independent panels consisting of expatriate resettlement and environmental experts have
played a valuable role in building capacity of the Borrower, and providing regular and realistic
feedback on RAP performance.
12     The Bank recommended and Government of Sindh and WAPDA agreed that Government of Sindh and
WAPDA prepare the "Plan for Operation and Maintenance" that will include a more concrete financing plan,
operating plan, beneficiary participation plan and plan for O&M performance contracting.



17
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE -1 PROJECT (Cr. 1532 - PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLE
Table 1: ;Summary Of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives         Substantial      Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                      O3              0a                              [X]
Sector Policies                    PX]              0               0                0
Financial Objectives                0              [X]              El               Ol
Institutional Development         [P]                              0                D
Physical Objectives                 ol             [X]              0                0
Poverty Reduction                   El             [X]              O                a
Gender Issues                      [X]                             0                0
Other Social Objectives             [ ]            [X]              0                0
Environmental Objectives           [I]             [X]                              0
Public Sector Management           [X]              0               0                O
Private Sector Development         [IX]             0               0                a
B.   Project Sustainability                Likely               Unlikely             Uncertain
[X]                   a                    O
C.  Bank Performance                 Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                         Ol                   [X]                   O
Preparation Assistance                 0                     O                    [X]
Appraisal                              0                     0                    [X]
Supervision                             3                   [X]                   0
D.  Borrower Performance             Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                            0                    [X]                   0
Implementation                         O                    [X]                   O
Covenant Compliance                    0                    [X]                   E3
Operation (if applicable)              0                    [X]                   E3
E.   Assessment of Outcome              Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
EJ             [X]              0               0



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose               Year of            Status
7lI |Approval I
Preceding Operations
Khairpur Tile Drainage and  To improve drainage and reclaim  1976  Completed (PCR No. 7806.
Irrigated Farning        lands through provision of tile           June 1989)
Development Project      drainage and irrigation
(Cr.648-PAK)             development.
2.  Salinity Control and      To control salinity and         1977      Completed (PCR
Reclamation Project      waterlogging by building                  No.12889, Mar. 1994)
(SCARP) VI (Cr.754-      evaporation ponds for saline
PAK)                     effluent disposal.
3.   Salinity Control and     To increase agricultural        1979      Completed (PCR
Reclamation Project      production by improving drainage,         No.12890, Mar. 1994)
(SCARP) Mardan (Cr.877-  reclaiming land and improving on-
PAK)                     farm water management
efficiency.
4.  On-Farm Water             To increase agricultural        1981      Completed (PCRNo.7309,
Management (OFWM)        production by improving                   June 1988)
Project                  utilization of irrigation water
(Cr. 1 163-PAK)          saved through watercourse
renovation and desilting.
5.  Irrigation Systems        To increase agricultural        1982      Completed (PCR No.8794,
Rehabilitation I Project  production by improving                  June 1990)
(Cr.1239-PAK)            reliability and distribution of
water supplies; reducing crop
losses from rain flooding, and
strengthening PIDs' O&M
capability.                  _
6.  Balochistan Minor         To construct minor irrigation   1982      Completed (PCR
Irrigation and Agriculture   channels and develop agriculture.     No.13494, Sep.1994)
Development Project
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
7.  Fourth Drainage Project   To alleviate surface flooding and  1983   Completed (PCR
(Cr 1375-PAK)            facilitate field drainage by              No.14558, June 1996)
improving surface drainage and
installing tile drains.
8.  Command Water            To increase agricultural        1984       Completed (PCR No.
Management Project       production through improved               13428, Aug. 1994)
(Cr.1487-PAK)            water management, supplying
agricultural services and non-
water inputs.
Following Operations
1.  Second On-Farm Water     To consolidate gains achieved   1985      Completed (PCR
Management Project       under Cr.1 163-PAK and improve            No.11875, May 1993)
(Cr.1603-PAK)            OFWM programs in the four
provinces.
2.   SCARP Transition Pilot   To pilot transfer modes of public  1986   Completed (PCR
Project (Cr. 1693-PAK)   tubewell operation in fresh               No.11992, June 1993)
groundwater areas to private
ownership and operation.



19
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose               Year of             Status
Approval
3.  Agriculture Sector         To promote competitive           1988      Completed (PCR
Adjustment Loan (Ln.2986-  agriculture and enhance                   No.11225, Oct. 1992)
PAK)                      sustainable productivity and
growth.
4.   Second Irrigation Systems   To rehabilitate irrigation canals  1988  Completed (ICR No.16007,
Rehabilitation Project    and drains by providing                    Sept. 1996)
(Cr.1888-PAK)             equipment, technical assistance
and training.
5.   Private Tubewell          To test viabiility of integrated  1989     Completed (ICR No.15440,
Development Project       private tubewell development               March 1995)
(Cr.2004-PAK)             program for increased agricultural
production in fresh groundwater
areas.
6.   Third On-Farm Water       To increase agricultural         1991      Completed (ICR No.16634,
Management Project        production by effective use of             June 1997)
(Ln.3327-PAK,            water saved through watercourse
Cr.2245-PAK)             renovation and related areas.
7.   Second SCARP Transition   Follow-up on SCARP Transition    1991      Completed (Closing Date:
Project (Cr.2257-PAK)     Pilot Project to transfer public           December 31, 1997)
SCARP tubewells to private
ownership and operation in fresh
groundwater areas.
8.  Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia    To increase agricultural         1992      On-going (Closing Date:
Irrigation and Drainage  productivity by improving                   June 30, 1999)
Project (Cr.2410-PAK)     irrigation channels and surface
drainage.
9.  Nara Canal Institutional   To develop the legal and          1994     On-going (Closing Date:
Development Pilot Program  institutional framework for the           August 3, 1998)
(IDF Grant 28879)        management of the irrigation and
drainage system in the Nara Canal
Command
10. Balochistan Community     To develop sustainable minor      1995      On-going (Closing Date:
Irrigation and Agricultural  irrigation.                             June 30, 2001)
Project (Cr.2780-PAK)
11. Punjab Private Sector     To redefine the Goveniment's role    1996   On-going (Closing Date:
Groundwater Development  in groundwater development, and             December 31, 2001)
Project (Cr.290 1 -PAK)   develop the regulatory framework
for groundwater use.
12. National Drainage Program   To improve the efficiency of the  1997    On-going (Closing Date:
(NDP) Project (Cr.2999-    irrigation and drainage system and        December 31, 2004)
PAK)                      ensure its sustainability through:
(i) establishing appropriate policy
environment and institutional
framework and strengthening
capacity of sector institutions; (ii)
improving sector policies and
planning; (iii) strengthening the
technical foumdations of irrigation
and knowledge; and (iv)
improving the irrigation and
drainage infrastructure network.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                                                  March 1981
Preparation                                        -            March 1982 - December 1983
Appraisal                                February 1984'         January-February 1984
Negotiations                             Aut 1984        4       September-October 1984
Board Presentation                       October 4, 1984'       December 13, 1984
Signing                                            -            January 30, 1985
Effectiveness                            March 30, 1985          September 30, 1985
Midterm Review                                     -            October 1, 1992- December 31, 1993
Project Completion                       June 30, 1993          December 31, 2004
Credit Closing                           December 31, 1993      December 31, 1997
1.  Planned in Project Brief
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
___________________FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Appraisal Estimate
(Cumulative)                 9.6    23.0    43.0    62.5    90.4   114.4   132.8   145.1
Actual (Cumulative)          3.5     3.8     8.9    17.2    22.5    35.4    62.1    74.3
Actual as % of Estimate     36.5    16.5    20.8    27.5    24.9    30.9    46.8    51.2
FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal Estimate
(Cumulative)               150.0   150.0   150.0    150.0    150.0
Actual (Cumulative)         87.5   105.9   116.3    128.1    140.5
Actual as % of Estimate     58.3    70.6 j  77.5     85.4     93.6
Date of final disbursement: April 28, 1998
Source: SAR (estimates), World Bank OIS (Disbursement)



21
Table 5: Ke Performance Indicators
Part A: Project Implementation Indicators
Key Implementation Indicators         Unit   SAR Pre-   SAR Targets at   Revised Targets         Actual1 as of
Project        Project          at Project         12/31/97
Situation'    Completion'       Completion
I OUTFALL DRAINS
Spinal Drain (250 km)                   cusecs      4,200          4,200             4,200        100%-complete
KPOD Remodelling (55 km)                cusecs        600          2,200             2,200         100% complete
DPOD Remodelling (55 km)                cusecs       1,000         2,000             2,000         100% complete
Tidal Link (42 kmn)                     cusecs_         0          3,200             3,200        100% complete
2 SURFACE DRAINAGE AREA
Nawabshah                               acres           0         481,000           481,000        100% complete
Sanghar                                 acres      77,0002        374,000           374,000       100% complete
Mirpurkhas                              acres      74,0002        356,000           356,000       100% complete
3 SUB-SURFACE DRAINAGE AREA
Nawabshah                               acres           0         353,000           353,000        100% complete
Sanghar                                 acres           0         308,000           308,000        70% complete
Mirpurkhas                              acres           0         341,000           341,000        80% complete
4 IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENTS
(CAPACITY)
Jamrao Twin Canal                       cusecs          0          3,100             3,100         98% complete3
Jamrao Canal (Old)3                     cusecs      3,400          2,600             2,600             -
Jamrao Canal Remodelling - Sangharl     cusecs      3,200          1,350              1,350        100% complete
Jamrao Canal Remodelling - Mirpurkhas   cusecs      2,350          2,655             2,655         100% complete
Nara Canal Remodelling                   cusecs     13,500        20,000            20,000          85% complete
Chotiari Reservoir                      MAF          0.14           0.78              0.78         45% complete4
5 ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
Watercourse Improvements                Nr            0             920               1,481          1,450 (98%)
Precision Land Levelling                acres         0           64,000             80,000        82,942 (104%)
Demonstration Plots                     Nr            0              920               523             523(100%)
Demonstration Centres                   Nr            0                0                183           202 (110%)
NOTES:
I Source: SAR (Pre-Project Situation and Targets at Project Completion); LBOD Consultants estimates (Actual).
2 Stormwater drainage only.
3 Jamrao Twin Canal not yet commissioned. Part of the discharge in the Jamrao Canal (Old) will now pass through the
Jamrao Twin Canal.
4. Original Scope. Revised scope is 28% complete.



22
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators
Part B: Impact Indicators
Item                                  Unit       SAR Estimates                                Actual as of
Pre-      Future    Future        Baseline
Project   without   with
project    project
I Cropped Area as % of CCA
(Cropping Intensity)
(a) RABI
Nawabshah                          %       43%        51%        55%          58%            69%
Sanghar                            %       49%        55%        64%          52%            47%
Mirpurkhas                         %       36%        44%        41%          50%            52%
(b) KHARIF
Nawabshah                          %       39%        54%        61%          51%            64%
Sanghar                           %        44%        47%        76%          50%            56%
Mirpurkhas                         %       32%        34%        53%          42%            54%
2 Abandoned Lands as % of CCA
Nawabshah                          %       33%        23%        15%          20%            19.5%
Sanghar                            %       21%        17%        5%          26.5%          23.5%
Mirpurkhas                         %       35%        30%        25%          32%           20.5%
3 Yields
(a) WHEAT
Nawabshah                        mtlha      2.3        4.0       4.4           1.7            2.1
Sanghar                          mt/ha      2.3        3.5       4.3          1.4             2.2
Mirpurkhas                       mt/ha      2.3        3.5       4.1          1.8             2.2
(b) COTTON
Nawabshah                        mt/ha      1.2        1.9       2.4          0.6             1.4
Sanghar                          mt/ha      1.2        1.6       2.3          0.3             1.5
Mirpurkhas                       mt/ha      1.2        1.6       2.3          0.5             1.8
4 DEPTH TO WATERTABLE
Area with depth less than 150 cm
Nawabshah                          %      33.8%      48.5%                   48.8%          22.7%
Sanghar                           %       53.0%      61.1%                   93.5%          74.7%
Mirpurkhas                         %      52.4%      64.4%                   66.6%          64.8%
NOTES
1. Sources:
(a) Staff Appraisal Report (SAR Estimates)
(b) Implementation Completion Evaluation Study Report (Volume I: Executive Summary and Agro-Economic Survey
Results, Draft, December 1997), Sindh Development Studies Center in association with ITAD Ltd and Wye College
(Baseline and Actual)
2. All baseline figures are 1988/89 except Depth of Watertable which is 1994 (earliest available). All actual figures are latest
available (1996/97). The actual impact of the project will not be known until 2-3 years after the completion and
commissioning of the physical works. Physical works are likely to be fully commissioned by about year 2001/2, shortly
thereafter.



23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators in        Unit       Target at Project                 Actuall
SAR/Presidents Report                          Completion
Irrigation O&M Recovery/Cost in        %               100%                         33%
Sindh
Drainage O&M Recovery/Cost in          %                50%                          0%
LBOD Area
I  The targets are low because their due date is deferred to several years after completion, since their achievement and
applicability is directly linked to completion, successful operation (which in turn depends on adequate O&M financing), and
demonstration of benefits associated with the drainage investments. (Ref Section 3.07 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement).



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
(Selected List)
STUDY               PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
Environmental Issues    To identify          The following reports prepared: Environmental  Helped identify the major environmental issues
enviromnental issues,   Impact Assessment for Outfall Drain (January 89),   associated with the various civil works, and the
and mitigation and    Chotiari Reservoir and Nara Remodelling       mitigation and monitoring measures required.
monitoring measures    (December 93), and Ranto Canal (August 96). Final  Helped to sensitize need for developing
required              Environmental Report (June 95) and Environmental  institutional capacity for environmental
Management and Monitoring Plan, second revision   management in WAPDA. Provided valuable
(April 98). Surveys of Avifauna (October 97),  experience in environmental management to
Crocodile (November 97) and Hog Deer         project staff.
(November 97) of Chotiari Reservoir area, and
Avifauna of Tidal Link area (December 97). Four
Environmental Studies; ENV/1 Purchase and
analysis of satellite inagery (April 98); ENV/2
Identification of Sodic Soils (April 98); ENV/3
Conference on the Impact of Drainage on the
Environment (October 97), and ENV/4(a)
Enviromnental Education Centre, Sanghar, (b)
Wildlife Reserve at Chotiari and (c) Wildlife
Reserve at Tidal Link.
Resettlement Plan for    To identify resettlement  Resettlement Plan prepared (November 93).  Identified affected families, appropriate
Chotiari Reservoir and   requirements and    Implementation Action Plan prepared (September   compensation packages, and action plan for
Nara Remodeling       prepare an action plan    95)                                       implementation of the resettlement program.
to resettle any affected
persons
Chotiari Reservoir
a) Panel of Experts   To provide an          Several POE Review Reports prepared (1995,   Provided useful technical inputs on the design of
(POE) Reports         independent review of   1996 and 1997)                              the Chotiari Reservoir.
dam safety issues on
the Chotiari Reservoir



25
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                         STATUS                                 IMACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
b) Risk Assessment    To identify potential    Prepared. (May 97)                       Identified and provided comprehensive analysis of
Study                 risks and risk-                                                   potential risks of Chotiari Reservoir. Identified
mitigation and risk-                                              the required risk-mitigation and risk-management
management measures                                               measures.
c) Design Review      To document the design  Draft prepared (January 98)               Provided a comprehensive picture of the design of
Report                of the Chotiari                                                   the Chotiari Reservoir. Helped in designing an
Reservoir                                                         appropriate plan for construction in two phases.
d) Chotiari Reservoir:    To investigate potential  Report prepared (February 97)       Several of the identified measures were adopted.
Outstanding Design and  cost savings in
Construction Issues   construction of the
Reservoir
e) Review of          Review of procurement  Report prepared (March 97)                 Assisted with decisions on procurement of balance
Procurement of Works   constraints and decisions                                        of reservoir works.
needed if IDA were to
co-finance Reservoir
constnuction.
Irrigation Works
a) Nara Canal: Panel of To provide an       Various POE Review Reports prepared (1995 to    Provided valuable inputs in the design of the Nara
Experts (POE) Reports  independent review of   1997). Hydraulic Design of Storm Water Inlet at   Canal Remodeling Works. Redesign based on the
the designs of the Nara   RD 178+300 Nara Canal and Hydraulic Model  POE's recommendations resulted in cost savings
Canal Remodeling      Study (by Prof. Khalid Mahmood & Mr. Abdul    of about $50 million.
works                 Shakoor) prepared (June 96)



26
STUDY               PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
b) Review of Irrigation   To review the      Irrigation Works Concept Paper prepared       Provided a comprehensive documentation of the
Works                 objectives of the      (February 97).                                rationale, basis, design and interlinkages of the
various irrigation                                                  various irrigation works. Provided the basis for
works, the interlinkages                                            approval of the Nara Canal Remodeling works.
among the various
works, their continued
relevance, and
proposed actions to
achieve the objectives
c) Nara Canal         To identify measures    Sukkur Main Canals Control and               Provided the necessary technical knowledge for
Telecommunications    for modernization and   Telecommunication - Revised Report for Nara  modernizing the Nara Canal Command through
Study                 improved management  Canal Command prepared (June 94)               installation of modem communication facilities
of the Nara Canal
Command
d) Review of Nara     Review of fall structure   Report prepared (August 94), with Supplementary    Assisted with design decisions on fall structures.
Canal Remodelling     arrangements           Note (December 94)
Designs
e) Review of Dredging   Review of the        Report prepared (September 97)                Basis of decision to award contract.
at Jamrao Head        justification for and
titnmg of Contract for
dredging in the Nara
Canal at Jamrao Head
f) Commissioning of the  Review of works needed  Report prepared (October 97)             Assisted with preparations for separate
Twin Canal            for commissioning the                                               commissioning contract under National Drainage
Jamrao Twin Canal                                                   Programme.
already constructed
under LBOD Stage 1.



27
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED                                                                                       _
Monitoring and
Evaluation
a) Mid Term Review    To assess the progress   Completed in May 95 (draft - April 1993)  Reviewed project performance until 1992.
of LBOD Stage; and                                                 Provided the basis for restructuring of the project
identify measures to                                              to include social, environmental, participation and
improve performance                                                sustainability dimensions.
mid-stream.
b) rhysical Monitoring  To monitor the ph.;to1  Perldic monitorin g reports of L  Frf  Project  Enahled monitoring of physical hydrological
of LBOD Project       hydrological conditions  Surface Flows and Hydraulic Monitoring of Tidal   conditions in the project area (such as depth of
in the project area.  Link prepared by SCARP Monitoring Organisation   watertable). Provided data on physical impact of
(South), ISRIP and National Institute of     project interventions.
Oceanography, 1994 to 1997. First Annual Physical
Monitoring Report for 1995/96 prepared October
1996; Interim Report, February 1996, and Second
Annual Report for 1997, December 1997.
Conceptual Framework for Physical Monitoring and
Evaluation Work prepared (June 97).
c) Socio-economic     To determine the direct  Baseline and progressive impact data (from 1988    Provided data on direct socio-economic irnpacts
Impact Monitoring     and indirect socio-   to 1997) collected and documented (from 1988 to  (such as land use, cropping and farming
Study of the LBOD     economic impact as a    1997). Several reports prepared from 1987 to  intensities, yields) and indirect socio-economic
Project               result of project      1997 including Implementation Completion    impacts (such as impact on regional economy,
interventions         Evaluation Study Report (1997) which         development of trade and industry, impact on
summarizes the study, reports on Baseline Studies,  landless, women traders, etc.) of the project
annual agro-economic survey reports after the
Rabi and Kharif seasons, interim reports, etc.
Sociological Study (June 1997), Secondary Imnpact
Study (June 1997)



28
STUDY               PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
d) Review of          To assess the impact of  Report on Nawabshah Component prepared     Provided preliminary assessment of project
Performance of the    the LBOD project in    (December 95)                                impact.
Nawabshah Component  Nawabshah component,
since the completion of
the component in 1994
e) Performance of the   To assess performance   4 reports prepared on system performance (1994    Assisted in determining the actual performance of
LBOD Drainage         of the drainage system.  and 1995 monsoons, and 1996 and 1997)      the LBOD drainage system. Provided inputs to
System                                                                                    project management on operation of drains.
f) Tidal Link: Concept,  To assess the       Review of the Morphology of the Tidal Link   Assisted in determining the actual performance of
Design, Construction    performance of the   prepared (October 95; and post-completion 1996   the Tidal Link. Provided preliminary idea of
and Performance       Tidal Link; and identify  Monsoon - May 97). Report on Tidal Link:  remedial measures required on the Tidal Link.
remedial measures     Concept, Design, Construction and Performance
required              prepared (May - 96). Erosion of Tidal Link
(January 1996, Dams Safety Organization)
g) Economic Analysis   To reconfirm economic  Report on economic analysis of Sanghar      Economic viability of Interceptor Drains
of Interceptor Drains    viability of interceptor   Interceptor Drains prepared (January 96). Report  reconfirmed
drains                on performance of Interceptor Drains in
Nawabshah Component of LBOD Stage I Project
prepared (August 96)
h) Economic Analysis   To reassess the       Report prepared in 1997                      Reconfinned the economic viability of the
of Chotiari Reservoir    economic viability of                                            Chotiari Reservoir
the Chotiari Reservoir
after delays and cost
increases



29
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                           STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
i) Review of SAR      To review assumptions   Review of Without-Project assumptions in SAR  Findings utilized for economic analysis in Mid-
Projections of        made in the SAR        for selected agricultural indicators in the LBOD  Term Review
Agricultural Data     regarding land use,    Area completed (June 92). Reassessment of
cropping patterns,    agricultural indicators in SAR, with special
yields, etc.          reference to the impact of drainage on agricultural
production completed (May 93). Assessment of
implications for projected benefits based on trends
in crop production in the LBOD area completed
(November 91)
Recent trends in crop    To review and       Completed (November 91)                       Findings utilized in Mid-Term Review.
production in the     document bench mark
LBOD area:            data and present
Assessment of         information on crop
Implications for      production in the
projected Benefits     LBOD area; and to
assess the
changes/trends in area,
production and yields
per acre.
A Brief Note on Socio-  To make awareness of   Completed (February 1994)                   Information disseminated.
Economic Impact       the objectives of the
Evaluation Study      SEIES
(SEIES)                                                                                        __ _



30
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                 IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
Proposal for Improved   To include additional    Completed. (January 1997)               The Proposal was sent to the Government of Sindh
Integration of Physical  six watercourses in the                                         and World Bank for the approval.
and Socio-Economic    Study which are outside
Monitoring and        of the LBOD Project
Expansion of Control    area and where there is
Area Sample.          no possibility of
draining and irrigation
project in near future.
The objective of the
proposal was to
compare with and
without project
situation in a better
way.
Farmers'
Organizations
Issues in establishing    To provide information  Various papers prepared based on activities carried  Provided guidelines and discussion tools for: (i)
Farmer's Organizations  on the various aspects   out during implementation of the pilot projects for  preparing bylaws of WUAs; (ii) formation of FOs;
to manage irrigation  relating to formation of  FOs including: (i) on legal aspects; (ii)  (iii) measurement of drainage discharge; (iv) for
and drainage at       FOs and their takeover   membership, structure and functions of the  maintenance of distributaries; (v) addressing
minor/distributary level  of management of the    distributary level WUOs; (iii) use of fabricated  implementation issues; (vi) monitoring and
irrigation and drainage   cutthroat flume for discharge measurement: (iv)    evaluation; (vii) administrative framework; and
system, based on the  organizational activities; (v) hydraulic    (viii) on-farm water management practices.
experience of formation  performance of the distributaries and minor; (vi)
of 3 pilot FOs        physical condition of the distributaries/minor; (vii)
actual performance of the distributaries/minor;
(viii) performance of drainage system; baseline
data on waterlogging and salinity; methodology
for equitable distribution of water; (ix) salt and
water balance (October 1996 to December 1997)



31
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                 IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
Operation and
Maintenance
a) Operation and      To plan technical and    Support to Preparation for Plan for Operation and   Provided basis for post-completion O&M planning
Maintenance           financial and financial   Maintenance prepared (1994). Five Year Business
aspects of post-      Plan for Operation and Maintenance prepared
completion O&M        (December 1995). Proposal for O&M of LBOD
and other SCARPS (December 1994)
b) Private Sector     To discuss options for   Briefmg Paper on Options for Private Sector  Provided basis for planning 0 & M contracts
Participation in     involving private sector  Participation in O&M prepared (May 95);
Operation and         in carrying out O&M of Mirpurkhas Tile Drainage 1: Private Sector 
Maintenance           the LBOD drainage     Participation - Status report (October 95); Operation
facilities            and Maintenance Contracts for Drainage Works
(Status Report) (May 97), and Report on UK
Exchange Programme - Applying Performance
Contracts to Pakistan Conditions (August 97).
c) Nara Canal         To design and prepare   Draft Final Report completed (April 1998)  Provided detailed institutional plan for post
Command IDF Pilot    the Nara Canal AWB                                                  completion O&M.
Project
Beneficiary
Participation & Social
impacts
a) Beneficiary        To set out strategies for  Working Paper prepared (February 97)    Identified the issues and possible strategy to
Participation         implementation of a                                                contract out O&M of minor works to the
pilot for farmer                                                   beneficiaries.
participation in
operation and
maintenance activities



32
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
b) Communication      To formulate a strategy  Report on farmers perceptions of LBOD -   Helped preparation of project communication
with Beneficiaries    for communicating with  information needs and communication strategies    strategy and Drainage Advisory Service.
the beneficiaries.    prepared (November 91). Workshop Report on
Dissemination of Information about LBOD
Project prepared (June 92). Communication
Strategy prepared (January 96).
c) Participation of   To identify the role of,   Paper on Participation of Women prepared (April  Identified the gender strategies within LBOD
Women                 and advantage to,     97). Exploratory study on rural women and
women in agro-        LBOD completed (May - 97)
economic activities as a
result of LBOD
d) NGOs               To identify the role of   Report on cooperation and partnership with NGOs  Identified strategy for partnership and cooperation
NGOs.                 prepared (November 96)                       with NGOs
e) Child Labor        To identify the project's  Completed (1998)                        Confirmed the benign impact of the project on
impact on child labor                                              child labor
f) Social Gender      To contribute to a    Four reports prepared; SOC/I Gender Relations  Contributed to greater awareness of social gender
Research Studies      greater understanding of  within the Family/Household (February 98); SOC/3  issues.
issues related to LBOD    Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices within LBOD
Stage I and the National  (expected June 98); SOC/4 Exploration of Land
Drainage Programme    Ownership, Control and Transfers (expected May
98), and SOC/5 Relations within and between
Different Social Groups (expected June 98).



33
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                           STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
g) Drainage Advisory    Strengthening DAS in    Final Report on Communication Strategy expected   Provides complete documentation of DAS
Service (DAS)         its role of developing  June 1998, covering:                        achievements and experience, including a Resource
farmer participation.  Communication Strategy;                      Pack of information materials (videos, leaflets and
Information Material Production;             brochure in Urdu) for future reference/use.
Farmer Consultation Processes;
Strengthening Farmer Initiatives;
Gender and Participation;
Emerging Partnerships;
Community Mobilisation for NDP, and
Strengthening and Training.
Farmers' perceptions of  To assess the extent to   Completed (November 91)                Management information provided to 1iMO and
LBOD: information     which the farmers knew                                              OFWM
needs and             about the LBOD project
communication         and at formulating a
strategies            strategy for
communicating with
the beneficiaries.
A Report of Workshop   To report on the      Completed (March 92)                         Verification of grower yield estimates used as key
on Dissemination of   proceedings of the                                                  indicators of project impact.
Information About     workshop.
LBOD Project
Project Beneficiaries  To describe the On-   Completed. (April 1993)                      The fmdings in this report are relevant to policy
and On-Farm Water     farm water crop                                                     makers and project management.
Management Results of  management practices
Participatory         on an unlined
Evaluation of An      watercourse and how
Unlined Watercourse    such practices influence
farmers' socio-
economic conditions.
Assistance to SCARPs   To develop a program    Study completed (July 94)                   Strengthened monitoring activity of SMO by
Monitoring            for improvement of the                                              recommending short-term and medium-term
Organization (SMO-    SMO-South                                                           actions.
South)



34
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                         STATUS                                 IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
Training Plan on      To improve            Plan prepared in June 95                    Identified training needs and training plan
Construction          effectiveness of O&M
Supervision           (defined at MTR)
Management &
Operation and
Maintenance
Watercourse Design    To investigate        Study completed (April 96)        *         Provided important findings to project
Study                 variations between                                                management and other concerned stakeholders
designed and                                                      that there were over/under discharges compared to
sanctioned discharges                                             design
on watercourses
improved under LBOD
Precast Segmental     To determine the      Study completed (1995)                      Provided important findings to project
Watercourse Lining and  possibility of                                                  management and other concerned stakeholders
Precast Parabolic    introducing segmental                                              that replacement of brick lining with prefabricated
Segmental Lining     watercourse lining in                                              structures was not feasible in Sindh
Sindh and to verify its
cost
Farners Contribution    To examine the      Study completed (November 91)               Provided important findings to project
of Unskilled Labor for   problem of unpaid                                              management.
the Renovation of    labor supply and its
Watercourse in the    impact on the
LBOD                  renovation of the
watercourse and; to
make recommendations
to overcome the
problem of free labor
contribution



35
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                 IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
An investigation of   - To determine the    Various progress, special and annual reports of the  Provided constructive inputs to project
Small Farmers'        cropping intensities,  M&E consultants teams have been produced the    management.
Responses to Programs  land use, cropping   inception of the project till closing date; and will
of Watercourse        patterns and yield of  continue under NDP.
Improvement.          major crops;
- To investigate socio-
economic indicators of
the selected villages in
the area associated with
the management of
w.,atr. an-d Agn
business;
- To suggest means
and ways to improve
the knowledge and
attitude of growers
towards management of
water and agri-business
Results of Participatory  To describe the social   Study completed (April 93)            Provided constructive inputs to policy makers and
Evaluation of an      and institutional                                                  project management.
Unlined Watercourse.   processes that are
involved in lining a
watercourse, and ; to
assess farmers'
contributions to
watercourse lining and
O&M



36
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                 IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
Cost Benefit of       To evaluate the cost  Study completed.                             Provided constructive inputs to project
Irrigation from Private   benefits of irrigation by                                      management.
Tubewells Compared to  pumping out water for
that from Watercourses.  crop cultivation through
tubewells and the canal
irrigation
Study on Very Slow    To determine the causes  Study completed (September 89)            Provided information to project management
Response of Small     of the very slow
Farmers to Precision  response of small
Land Leveling         farmers to precision
land leveling
Changes in Land Use in  To examine the data  Completed (May - 91)                        Opened up discussion on the implications for
the LBOD Project Area  collected during the                                              drainage investment
to 1992: Implications   first three years of the
for Drainage Policy   survey program to test
the anticipated changes
in farming practices in
Sindh against observed
pattern
The Patterns of Land  To estimate the size of   Completed (November 91)                  Suggested need to implement existing legislation
Tenure and the        land holdings,                                                     and to redistribute the gains accruing to the large
Distribution of Land  percentage of owner                                                land owners.
Ownership in the      cultivators, share
LBOD Area.            tenants and lease
holders



37
STUDY              PURPOSE AS                           STATUS                                  IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
Crop Cutting Yield    To assess increases in    Completed (March 92 and August 94)        Developed verification of grower yield estimates
Measurements of       agricultural products.                                              as key indicators of project impact.
Wheat and Cotton      To provide an
Crops in LBOD Area.   appropriate
measurement of yields
Desegregation of Farm   To estimate the farm  Completed (June 92)                         Provided information on distribution of project
Size Categories in the    size ownership and                                              benefits.
LBOD Area.            percentage share
tenancy
Extension             To identify key        Completed (November 91)                      Suggested recommendations to the project
Recommendations for   recommendations                                                     management.
Cotton, Wheat and     appropriate to small
Sugarcane for the On-   farmers and capable of
Farm Component of     extension by the
LBOD.                 OFWM staff for cotton,
wheat and sugarcane.
Operation and         To make a provisional   Completed (February 96)                     Provided empirical data on willingness to pay.
Maintenance and Cost   assessment of the                                                  Provided constructive inputs to GOS, IMO and
Recovery Study with    ability and willingness                                            LBOD financiers.
Special Reference to  of growers to contribute
the Farner            to the O&M costs of
Participation in      drainage
Drainage Activities
Cotton Sown on Ridges  To study yield        Completed (Kharif 95)                        Caused the change in farmers' cultivation method.
vs. Flat Beds         differences of cotton
sown on ridges versus
on flat beds



38
STUDY               PURPOSE AS                          STATUS                                   IMPACT OF STUDY
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL /
REDEFINED
LBOD Stage 2          To identify potential  Completed (March 96)                          Provided preliminary information on the next
Identification Report    coverage of the LBOD                                              phase of the LBOD project
Stage 2 Project



39
Table 8A: Project Costs
(All figur,es in US$ Millions)
Item                Appraisal Estimnate      Actual at Closing        Revised Projected
Completion
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total
Cost    Cost    Cost   Cost    Cost    Cost   Cost    Cost         Cost
1. Outfall Drain System
Core Program             5.8      4.5   10.3    8.6  -  8.4   17.0        8.6       8.4     17.0
KPOD & DPOD             11.7    13.2   24.9    3.9        5.0    8.9      3.9       5.0      8.9
Tidal Link              11.8    23.8   35.6   14.3    17.8   32.1    26.2          20.9     47.1
2. Sub Area Drainage
Components
Surface Drainage        24.5     17.0   41.5   77.9    85.6  163.5    78.1         86.0    164.1
Drainage Tubewells      19.7    38.8   58.5   11.0    23.9   34.9    15.6          33.8     49.4
Scavenger Wells          9.8    24.2   34.0    5.5        9.4   14.9      5.5'      9.4     14.9
Interceptor Drains      13.9    20.8   34.7    0.1       J 1.9.  .12.0    0.5      28.5     29.0
Tile Drains             12.6    26.7   39.3   11.3    14.0   25.3    14.5          17.9     32.4
3. Irrigation/OFWM Works
Nara & Jamrao Canal     50.8    40.3   91.1  103.3    37.2  140.5   132.8          47.8    180.6
Remodeling
Chotiari Reservoir      21.6     14.6   36.2   16.9    14.5   31.4    46.8         40.2     87.0
OFWM                    24.4      4.9   29.3   12.5       1.3   13.8    12.5        1.3     13.8
4. Electrification            29.5    48.9   78.4   14.9    14.1   29.0    15.9          15.3     31.2
5. Maintenance                14.4    20.9   35.3    0.8    18.4   19.2         0.8      18.4     19.2
Depot/Equipment
(includes Workshop)
6. Technical Assistance &      1.3    11.9   13.2   10.2    21.4   31.6    10.8          23.0     33.8
Training
7. Administration,            46.3      5.7   52.0   50.4       0.7   51.1    55.5        7.7     63.2
Overheads, Engineering
& Camps
8. Monitoring & Evaluation     2.0      2.4    4.4    2.9       1.6    4.5      5.0       1.7      6.7
9. Land Acquisition           17.0      0.0   17.0   60.9       0.0   60.9    60.9        0.0     60.9
10. Building & Assets                                  5.7      0.0    5.7      5.7      0.0       5.7
11. O&M of Drains                                      2.8      0.0    2.8      2.8      0.0       2.8
12. R&M of Vehicle                                     0.9      0.0    0.9      0.9      0.0       0.9
13. Interest During                                  145.1      0.0  145.1  152.4'       0.0    152.4
Construction
TOTAL                        317.1   318.6  635.7  559.9   285.2  845.1   655.7    365.3  1,021.0
1. This is a conservative estimate which assumes that comrpleted works will be commissioned within the year of completion.



40
Table 8B: Project Financing
(All figures in US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate            Actual               Revised Projected
______   _____ _  ___ ___  __ ____  _ _____C om pletion
Source         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost    Cost
IDA                      50.1    99.9   150.0    57.7    82.8   140.5    58.2    126.9   185.1
ADB                      35.1    86.9   122.0    57.3   112.1   169.4    82.6    127.3   209.9
DFID                      4.2    31.4    35.6      4.8    27.8    32.6      5.2      30.4    35.6
SFD                      13.5    38.5    52.0    10.8    32.3    43.1    16.0        47.8    63.8
IsDB                      0.0     0.0      0.0     1.0      7.7     8.7     1.1       8.9      10
OPEC                      0.0    10.0    10.0      0.0     8.8      8.8       0       10       10
CIDA                      9.5    28.0    37.5      0.0    11.9    11.9        0      11.9    11.9
SDC                       8.0     2.0    10.0    10.0      0.0    10.0    15.5         0     15.5
M&E Trust Fund                                     2.8      1.8     4.6     3.2       2.1     5.3
(DFID, CIDA, SDC)
GOP & GOS               196.7    21.9   218.6   415.5      0.0   415.5   473.9        0.0   473.9
TOTAL:            317.1   318.6   635.7   559.9   285.2   845.1   655.7    365.3  1,021.0
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of     Net Present Value (NPV) (Rs.
Return (ERR)                 million)
Base Case estimated in SAR                        13.6          Rs. 2.2 billion (@i,10%)
Base Case estimated in Mid-Tern Review            12.5          Rs. 1.45 billion (1984 prices
@10%); Rs. 1.9 billion (1993
prices, @10%)
Base Case estimated at Project Completion         14.6          Rs. 3.3 billion (1997 prices,
@12%)
1. Source: SAR; Mid-Term Review (LBOD Consultants, Final Report, May 1995); PC-I(IMO, WAPDA, June 1996)



41
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Section    Covenant  Present   Original      Revised           Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
DCA          3.02(a)&(c)  05        CD       07/01/1985               WAPDA to appoint internationally selected    LBOD Consultants appointed.
WAPDA PA   2.02(a)&(b)                                                engineering and other consultants to assist in
canying out Spinal Outfall Drain, Drainage
and Irnigation Components of the project.
DCA          3.02(b)&(d)  05        CD       01/01/1987               GOSindh to appoint local engineering and  Research and Development
Sindh PA    2.02                                                      accounting consultants to assist in carrying    Engineers appointed in 1988.
out the On-Farm Water Management        Khalid Majid Hussain Rahmnan,
component of the proiect.              (Chartered Accountants)
appointed in 1993.
DCA          3.05(a), (b),  05      C                                 GOP to establish a Project Steering     GOSindh established a PSC,
& (c)                                                    Committee (PSC) to oversee project      chaired by ACS (Development). It
implementation; PSC to meet quarterly  was effective in coordinating
policy and financial inputs.
DCA          3.06(a) &(b)  05       C                                 GOP to establish an Integrated Management  IMO was operational under a
Organization (IMO) headed by a Chief    WAPDA Chief Engineer. IPD's
Engineer, to provide detailed management    works were coordinated by their
and coordination of project inplementation    Chief Engineer. M&E activities
activities .                            were coordinated by Directorate
of Economic Coordination.
DCA          3.07(a) &   05         C                                 GOP to establish Project Offices headed by a  WAPDA and GOSindh appointed
(b)                                                      Project Director, responsible for day-to-day   Project Directors for each major
implementation, for various parts of the  project component.
project.
WAPDA PA  2.08           05         C        04/01/1985               WAPDA to appoint and place the key staff to  Fulfilled.
IMO during the first year of project
implementation.
DCA          3.12         10        C                                 GOP to take action to acquire all land  Land was acquired by GOP &
required for carrying out the project.  GOS.



42
Agreement     Section    Covenant  Present   Original    Revised             Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
DCA         4.04         13        NC       01/01/1990               GOP and GOSindh to ensure that the on-  GOSindh delayed Rohri Canal
Sindh PA    3.09                                                     going Rohri Canal remodeling progresses at   Remodeling to match LBOD's
a rate such that benefits of the remodeling    late schedule as additional water
are available in the Rohri Canal command    from Rohri could add to water-
area falling within the project area, and  logging and salinity.
provide funds and other resources required
for this purpose.
DCA         3.11         10        NYD                               The Borrower and GOS would cause the   Additional water from Nara and
Sindh PA    2.15                                                    additional water supplies resulting from the   Jamrao canals not yet available.
remodeling of the Nara and Jamrao Canals    Construction of Chotiari
and the construction of the Chotiari   Reservoir not yet completed.
Reservoir to be fully utilized within the
Project sub-areas and within adjoining areas,
including those falling under the proposed
Makhi-Faresh irrigation project.
DCA         4.01(c)      01        CP                                GOP, WAPDA and GOSindh to have         Accounts and Audit reports were
WAPDA PA  3.02                                                      accounts audited and provide IDA with a  submitted but frequently late and
Sindh PA    3.02                                                    copy of the audit report within nine months   of variable quality. No unaudited
of the close of the fiscal year. GOP, WAPDA  accounts were submitted. This
and GOSindh to provide unaudited accounts   was not insisted upon in view of
to IDA within six months of the close of the  the limited utility and focus on
fiscal year.                          obtaining audited financial
__ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ ___  statements  of satisfactory  quality.
WAPDA PA  2.09           09        C        09/30/1985               WAPDA to provide a detailed monitoring  WAPDA's SMO did physical
and reporting program for the project and to   monitoring with the assistance of
thereafter implement this program.    ISRIP and NIO.
WAPDA's Monitoring & Evaluation       SDSC/ITAD/Wye provided socio-
Organization to monitor the phy sical  economic monitoring and
parameters of the Project and execute a  evaluation under direction of
Memorandum of Understanding based on an  P&D, GOSindh.
agreed work program for this purpose.



43
Agreement      Section    Covenant  Present   Original      Revised            Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
.________             Date        Date
Sindh PA    2.14 (b), (c)  09       C        02/01/1986               GOSindh to enter into a contract with an  SDSC/ITAD/Wye carried out
independent local institution for carrying out  socio-economic impact evaluation
the impact evaluation. GOSindh to ensure  of the Project. ITAD/Wye
that the local institution obtains the  assisted SDSC. WAPDA's
assistance of a suitable internationally  monitoring and evaluation cell
selected institution in carrying out the impact  will be responsible for further
evaluation and in preparing a project   monitoring to be continued under
completion report and enters into a sub-  NDP financing.
contract for expert services to be provided by
the internationally selected institution.
WAPDA PA   2.10           10        C        01/01/1991               WAPDA to prepare an Operation and       Final Plan for Operation and
Mainternance Malnual.                   Maintenance (POM) to he
integrated into Future Operation
Plan.
WAPDA PA   2.11 (a)        0        C                                 WAPDA to progressively transfer to      Arrangements were changed.
Sindh PA    2.11 (a)                                                  GOSindh and GOSindh to progressively    WAPDA's OMD now responsible
Sindh PA    2.11 (b)                                                  assume full responsibility for O&M of the    for LBOD's O&M. OMD is
Spinal Drain and Chotiari Reservoir about    adequately staffed. OMD is
one year after completion of such facilities;   carrying out O&M of Spinal
and drainage facilities one year after  Drain through contracts awarded
completion in each project sub-area.    to private sector. Future
GOSindh to assign adequate numbers of its   arrangements will feature
operation and maintenance staff to the  Performance Contracts for O&M.
project for at least one year prior to assuming  Nara Canal AWB and FOs will
responsibility for Operation and        progressively assume
Maintenance.                            responsibility for O&M
Sindh PA    2. 1 0 (a)    10        C                                 GOSindh to cause farmers to form Water  Fulfilled.
Users Associations (WUAs) at the
Watercourse level, as a condition for making
financial assistance available to farmers.



44
Agreement      Section    Covenant  Present   Original     Revised            Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Sindh PA    2.10 (b),    10, 02     CP                               Water Users Associations to assist concerned  Cost recovery of overdue amounts
3.05                                                     departments and agencies of GOSindh by  from farmers was slow.
providing their portion of cash and labor; and  Arrangements were changed to
in assessing the needs under, and formulating  upfront cost sharing which is
work plans for, the on-farm water      more effective.
management part of the project. GOSindh to
recover from beneficiaries at least 25% of the
cost of materials provided to them for
renovation of watercourses.
Sindh PA    2.13         10         C                                GOSindh to ensure that Water Users      Ongoing. However, WUAs
Associations operate and maintain the  presently have little incentive to
watercourses renovated and field drains  work together after remodeling is
constructed under the project.         completed. FOs being established
under the new institutional
arrangements are better positioned
to carry out this function.
Sindh PA    3.08         10         CD       07/01/1986              GOSindh to carry out a phased program for   GOSindh introduced a pilot
expanding the functions of Water Users  project (led by IIMI) under the
Associations to cover all aspects of farm  OFWM component to establish
drainage, including the construction,  FOs to carry out increased
operation and maintenance of drainage  functions. The SIDA Act
facilities; and to this end, amend the  provides the legal framework for
Ordinance or adopt other measures as   the operation and functioning of
necessary.                             FOs.
Sindh PA    3.04         11         CP                               GOSindh to review annually the levels of  WAPDA's OMD submitted
funding required for operation and     funding requirements to GOP,
maintenance of irrigation, surface and sub-    GOS and IDA. Both GOP and
surface drainage and flood control facilities   GOS have not paid their full
and provide IDA a summary of the levels of   proportionate share of O&M over
funding by February 1 of each year.   the last two years of LBOD.



45
Agreement        Section     Covenant  Present    Original         Revised              Description of Covenant                        Comments
Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date          Date
Sindh PA      3.06           02          CP        07/01/1988                  GOSindh to review with IDA the level of      Despite GOSindh's increase in
water charges or other appropriate financial    Abiana, (75% over recent years)
arrangements to ensure that all operation and   cost recovery levels remain low.
maintenance costs of irrigation facilities in  New institutional arrangements
Sindh Province are being recovered.          been established, which tackle the
fundamental issues relating to
financial sustainability in a more
comprehensive manner.
Sindh PA      3.07 (a), (b)   02         NYD                                   GOSindh to collect drainage charges from     GOSindh has indicated that it will
beneficiaries to recover O&M costs.          introduce a Drainage Cess after a
GOSindh to review with IDA the benefits      sub-component is completed and
actually accruing to tuie bereficiaries against   farmers start deriving berefivc.
projected benefits and the proposed levels of   One component (Nawabshah) is
such drainage charges.                       completed, and M&E data shows
that benefits have just started
accruing to beneficiaries. New
institutional arrangements been
established, which tackle the
fundamental issues relating to
financial sustainability in a more
comprehensive manner.
Status:                                  Covenant Class:
C       - Complied with                  1  Accounts/Audit
CD      - Compliance after delay         2   Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
NC      - Not Complied with              3   Flow and utilization of project funds
SOON   - Compliance expected in          4   Counterpart funding
reasonably short time                    5   Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
CP      - Complied with partially        6   Environmental covenants
NYD    - Not yet due                     7   Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
I Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



46
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                 Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
No deviations from applicable Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                    Actual'
Stage of Project Cycle      Weeks       US$000        Weeks       US$000        Weeks       US$000
Preparation to Appraisal       -           -            -            -             173.6        303.7
Appraisal                      -            -           -                           88.3        191.8
Negotiations through           -            -            -           -              11.7         28.6
Board Approval                                                    I_
Supervision                    -           -            -            -             704.1       1,886.9
Completion                     -            -             36.2         93.6         22.5         49.6
TOTAL                          -            -           -            -            1,000.2      2,460.6
Note: Estimates for planned and revised staff weeks and amounts were only introduced in FY95 and therefore planned original
and revised staff weeks cannot be computed.
1. Figures represents only BB.



47
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating4
Stage of        Month/Year  Number  Days           Specialized    Implemen-   Develop-       Types of
Project Cycle                    of       in       Staff Skills     tation       ment       Problemse
Persons  Field'   Represented3       Status    Objectives
Preparation     May 1982
through
Appraisal
November-
December
1982
January-         4         8    DC, AGR, ECN,
February                        IE
1983
May 1983          6       11    DC, AGR, ECN,
__________               ~~~SC, DE, Ul_      _ _  __    _  _ _  _
July-August       I       13    AGR
1983                        _
November-         6        6    DC, AGR, ECN,
December                        IE, EN, UI
1983
Appraisal       January-          8       28    AGR, IE (4),          -            -
February                        ECN, PS, CE,
1984                         _
Supervision    October-          2        13    AGR, DC               2            1           ID
November
1985
April 1986        5       11    ECN(3), IE, CE,       1            I         ID, PM
___ __   DC
November          4       12    AGR, IE, ECN,         2            1          ID, PM
1986                            CE
November          2       12    AGR, IE               2            1          ID, FC
1987                       .
April 1988        2        8    AGR, IE               2            1            PP
February         2        10   IE(2)                  2            1         MP, PP
1989
November          2        9    ECN, IE               3            2          ID, FC
1989                                                              .
May 1990          1       109  IE                     3            2            ID
November          1       1:2   IE                    3            2         ID, MP
1990                                            _
September         1       13   IE                     -            -
1991
November-         3       1:3   IE, PO, AO            3            2          ID, FC
December
1991                                            __
April 1992       2         -    FA, IE                3            2           FC
June 1992        2        10   IE(2)                  2            2
December         4        11    FA, IE(3)             2            2         RP, CQ
1992
June 1993        6        19    FA, IE(2), ANT,       2            2         DC, CQ
RP, LT



48
Performance Rating4
Stage of         Month/Year   Number   Days           Specialized     Implemen-   Develop-         Types of
Project Cycle                      of        in       Staff Skills       tation        ment       Problems5
Persons   Field2    Represented3        Status     Objectives
January-           7        20    FA(2), ANT,             2            2
February                          IE(4)
1994           _ _  _ _                                                         _  _ _ _ _ _
September          9        11    FA(2), IE(4),           S            S           RP, FC
1994                              DS, PS
January 1995       3        16    FA(2), IE               S            S          OM, PM
March 1996         3        17    IE(2), DA               S            S          RP, OM
November-          6        22    FA, EN, IE (2),         S            S           OM, FC
December                           WE, RS
1996                                                  _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _   _
July-August       11        36    FA(2), FM, PS,          S            S          FC, OM
1997                               SI, RS, CS, NS,
IE, SA, PA
Completion       January 1998       5        3      FA(2), FM, IE,         S            S             OM
PA_ _                 _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _ _ _  _   _
March 1998         6         1    FA(2), FM, PS,          S            S             OM
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  I__ _ _ _   I_ _I   P A     ,   IE          _  _  _  _     _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
1.  Data is not available.
2.  Often combined with other related Missions. (days included)
3. AGR: Agriculturist                  DS : Dam Specialist                   PA   Projects Analyst
ANT:Anthropologist                 ECN: Economist                        PO   Project Officer
AO  Admin. Officer                 EN   Environment Specialist           PS   Procurement Specialist
CE  Civil Engineer                 FA   Financial Analyst                RP  Reg. Planner
CS   Communication Specialist      FM   Financial Management             RS  Resettlement Specialist
DA  Disbursement Analyst                 Specialist                      SA   Staff Assistant
DC  Division Chief                 IE  Irrigation Engineer               SC  Soil Chemist
DE: Drainage Engineer              LT  Land Tenure                       SI : Sector Investment Specialist
NS  NGO Specialist                   UI   Unidentified
WE: Water Resource Engineer
4.  Performance Ratings based on IBRD and IDA - Supervision Form 590
1= No significant problems          2= Moderate problems
3= Major problems; but appropriate actions being taken to address these problems
4= Major problems; not being addressed appropriately.
Rating methodology was changed in 1994.
HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory.
5.  Types of Problems
CQ Construction Quality           OM Operation and Maintenance
DC Donor Coordination                 (including Funding)
EA Environmental Aspects          PM Project Management
FC Financial Covenants            PP Procurement Progress
ID  Implementation Delays         RP Resettlement Plan/Progress
6. Number of individual Supervision Missions were carried out by various specialists; i.e., Dam Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Resettlement Specialist, NGO Specialist, etc.



49                              Appendix A
March 25, 1998
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE -1PROJECT(CR.1532-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(FUTURE OPERATION PLAN)
Appendix A: AIDE MEMOIRE
The IDA Mission discussed (on March 21, 1998 in Lahore) the "Future Operation Plan"
prepared by the Borrower with the representatives of Government of Sindh, WAPDA and LBOD
Consultants. It was agreed that the Implementing Agencies would revise it to include the
following information.
1.    Financing Plan: Five Year Financing Plan by component and which aggregate individual
implementation plans. The plan should clearly analyze the following items over a 5 year
planning period:
O&M Costs
* Abiana/Drainage Cess Cost Recovery
* Institutional Arrangements for Collection of Abiana
By each component
> When?
=> Who?
> How Much?
- Method of Handover
=, By each component
> Share of responsibility
=, Date of Handover
2.    Plan for O&M Performance Contracts: Details would include the following:
* Number of staff required for training
3  Responsibility for approval
*  Operating Procedures (where appropriate)
3.    Spare Parts and Technology Issues:
*  Evaluation of the various technologies introduced in the project
*  Brief description of the contents, training programs for, and location of Standard
Operating Procedure (SOP) Manuals
4.    Operating  Plan: By major cornponent. The OP would describe how the investment
component is intended to be operated,
5.    Beneficiary Participation Plan:
Role of FOs, and a more complete description of the role of IIMI and DAS in the
next 3 years under NDP to complete the transition to FOs/beneficiary participation.
6.    The "Plan for Operation and Maintenance" would be prepared by LBOD Consultants on
behalf of GOS and WAPDA.
as opposed to SOP.



50                              Appendix A
7.    GOS, WAPDA and LBOD Consultants/Pakistan Drainage Consultants would constitute a
"POM" team to prepare the POM. They would complete the work in next 2-3 months and copy
their report to IDA.



51                             Appendix A
January 13, 1998
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN PROJECT (CR. 1532-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
DISCUSSION RECORD
INTRODUCTION
1.    This "Discussion Record" reflects discussions held at meetings in Karachi on January 12
and 13, 1998, concerning the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report of the Left
Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) project. This records the views of the World Bank, the Government
of Sindh (GOS) and Implementing Agencies on the project's implementation and sustainability.
The Mission reviewed a draft of the Operational Plan (OP) and Borrower's Report (BR) for the
Project. The Mission held detailed discussions on the outline of the Draft ICR with GOS and
Implementing Agencies. The following sections of this "Discussion Record" closely resembles
the expected content of the ICR.
A. STATEMENTi'EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
(i) Statement of Objectives
1.    The original objectives stated in the SAR were to: a) provide surface drainage for about
516,000 ha of CCA; b) provide sub-surface drainage for about 392,000 ha of CCA; c) transport
excess water and salt out of the LBOD area, thus reversing deterioration of the land resource base
due to water-logging and salinity; d') increase productivity of about 500,000 ha of CCA by
rehabilitating and upgrading irrigation canals and structures; and e) increase agricultural
production through increased cropping intensities, reducing abandoned land, improved yields,
and reducing water-logging and salinity.
2.    During implementation, there was a significant change in the focus, shifting to achieving
these targets in the context of a broader framework with the following strategic objectives:
a) Drainage Strategy: lay the foundations for Pakistan's long-term drainage strategy of
discharging saline drainage effluent from the Indus Basin to the Arabian Sea, by
remodeling and extending the LBOD Spinal Drains and Tidal Link, which will form the
first phase of the permanent outfall drain connected to the sea. This drain could eventually
become an inter-provincial structure.
b) Institutional Arrangements: lay the foundations for the long-term financial sustainability
of Pakistan's irrigation and drainage system. This would be achieved by developing and
testing new institutional arrangements for management of the irrigation and drainage
system.
c) Policy Improvements: provide the basis for policy improvements in Pakistan's irrigation
and drainage sector designed to enhance sustainability, including accentuating beneficiary
participation, incorporating social and environmental dimensions, and enhancing private
sector participation.



52                             Appendix A
d) Technical Improvements: improve the technical foundations for irrigation and drainage
in Pakistan by providing demonstration effect and experience in appropriate new
technologies.(e.g. interceptor drains, scavenger wells, tile drains.)
3.    LBOD was implemented as a national project, using a sectoral approach with focus on
sector issues and policies, commensurate with the project's size and strategic importance. The
project provided a start for a national dialogue and policy on drainage.
4.    LBOD was implemented, in many respects, using a program approach, with significant
flexibility and responsiveness to changing conditions and circumstances.
(ii) Evaluation of Objectives
5.    The original objectives were clear and realistic.  However, these objectives were
narrowly focused, with significant emphasis on area-specific physical improvements and
relatively less emphasis on long-term sector and project sustainability issues. [Strategic and
national objectives of the main trunk drain system appear to have received less importance than
warranted.]
6.    The redefined objectives/emphasis were extremely responsive to changing circumstances
(e.g.: incorporation of social and environmental dimensions, beneficiary consultation and
participation); and contributed significantly to the evolution and development of Pakistan's new
irrigation and drainage strategy.  They assisted in laying the foundations for long-term
sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system in Pakistan. Examples of this are the pilot
project for farmer-managed irrigation and drainage and the studies for, and initiation of, the Nara
Canal Area Water Board.
7.    Complexity: LBOD was a complex project with special characteristics. These included
the following:
a) Varied Nature of Physical Improvements:  Drainage works, irrigation works, on-farm
water management all formed part of the project.
b) Number of Technologies: Tidal Link, surface drains, tubewells, tile drains, interceptor
drains, scavenger wells, deep tubewells, etc.
c) Large Number of Implementing Agencies: WAPDA, IPD, OFWM Directorate, P&DD.
In addition, coordination and monitoring by P&DD (GOS), MW&P (GOP) and Planning
Commission (GOP).
d) Large Number of Donors: Eight donor agencies with different institutional priorities and
funding mechanisms.
e) Large Number of Stakeholders: Attention of large numbers of NGOs, farmer groups and
the media.
8.    Project Demands: LBOD was much more demanding than the average project given
the following particular circumstances.
a) The complexity of the project for the various reasons outlined above.
b) The changes introduced mid-course to improve sustainability. The project was designed in
an era of development thinking dominated by an engineering and economic driven
approach. However, it was implemented in a setting of new development thinking where



53                              Appendix A
significant emphasis 'is placed on beneficiary involvement and social and environmental
dimensions.
c)  The relative unfamiliarity and lack of skills of the implementing agencies in the new
development agenda (which emphasized social and environmental aspects, beneficiary
participation and consultation).
9.    Risks:  The Project presented a larger risk than was perhaps recognized at appraisal,
considering the low emphasis on post-completion O&M and sustainability relative to the large
investments projected. Significant measures were introduced during implementation to mitigate
this risk and enhance sustainability.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.   Ratings:
Sector Policies: Substantial
Institutional Development: Substantial
Financial Objectives: Partial
Physical Objectives: Partial
Macroeconomic Policies: Not Applicable
11.   Sector Policies: The strategic importance of LBOD, its redefined emphasis/objectives,
and its implementation as a national project using a sector approach, led to significant
advancement of sector policy development particularly on the aspects listed below.
a) Development of new institutional arrangements within the public sector to manage the
irrigation and drainage system. Consolidation of revenue and expenditures; providing the
required institutional incentives including autonomy, accountability and transparency.
b) Direct farmer management of irrigation and drainage, notably IIMI-assisted pilot scheme for
farmer managed irrigated agriculture.
c) Shift in focus from increase in Abiana (water charges) to financial sustainability with
emphasis on cost reduction, minirmization of inefficiencies, and user charges linked to
services provided.
d) Formulation of a National Water Policy and dialogue on the National Surface Drainage
System (of which LBOD is perhaps the most important component.)
e) Incorporation of social and environmental dimensions in project pjanning and
implementation.
f) Emphasis on beneficiary participation, communication and consultation in planning and
implementation of projects.
g) Promotion of private sector participation in O&M (hitherto carried out by force account)
h) Increased capital cost recovery through change to up-front cost sharing transactions from cost
recovery arrangements.
i) Transfer of responsibilities for on-farm drainage to beneficiaries (tile drainage).



54                             Appendix A
12.   Institutional Development:  Substantial progress on institutional development was
achieved through:
a) experience gained with a wide range of drainage technologies
b) development of understanding and experience of the new development agenda including
social and environmental aspects and beneficiary consultation and communication
c) development of capacity in resettlement planning
d) development of capacity in environmental management (WAPDA Environmental Cell)
e) building of partnerships with stakeholders outside of direct implementing agencies (NGOs,
EPA, farmer groups, media, international centers of excellence)
f) promoting change in deep-rooted institutional thinking (e.g.: private sector involvement in
O&M through performance contracting)
g) non-engineering aspects of project management (e.g.: development of financial management
information system in WAPDA South, improvement of financial management and
accounting practices in OFWM)
h) training of staff in O&M, technical design and project management through secondment to
consultants, study tours, etc.
i) limited capacity building in M&E (SDSC)
13.   Financial Objectives:
The original financial objectives were to ensure full cost recovery of the O&M costs of
Sindh Province by July 1988. This was only partially achieved through three increases in Abiana
from 1984 to 1997. The new strategy for financial self-sustainability, which has been introduced
through policy dialogue, focuses on cost reduction, efficiency improvement, linking of water
charges to client services provided, enhancement of the revenue base, and increases in water
charges.
14.   Physical Objectives:
a) Strategically important works are completed and functioning, viz. Main Outfall System -
Spinal Drain and Tidal Link (although some technical problems remain to be resolved).
b) Surface Drainage system is fully completed and sub-surface drainage works are substantially
complete (Nawabshah 100%, Mirpurkhas 75%, Sanghar 64%).
c) Watercourse improvement programme targets were exceeded.
d) Irrigation works are partially completed (Jamrao system is completed, except for
commissioning of the new Twin Jamrao Canal). The remaining works, which are about 50%
complete, are the completion of remodeling of the Nara Canal system and the construction of
the Chotiari Reservoir. IDA noted that progress and commitment on the resettlement
arrangements for Chotiari are vital if IDA is to fund completion of this reservoir. The Bank
has informed the Borrower, GOS and WAPDA that its financing for the completion of
Chotiari Reservoir will be subject to substantial completion of the Chotiari Resettlement
Action Plan.
15.   The most recently computed ERR is 14.6% which is close to the SAR estimate. WAPDA
will supply all background data to IDA so that the ERR for the ICR can be recomputed.



55                              Appendix A
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   Factors outside Government Control
a) Security situation in the project area tntil 1992
b) Heavy rainfall and consequent inundation in 1988, 1992 and 1994
c) Withdrawal of one confinancier (CIDA), due to changed institutional priorities
d) Less than fully responsive NGO sector
17.    Factors subject to Government: Control
Positive aspects:
a) High importance attached and importance given to project by senior government officials.
Recognition of the strategic importance of LBOD.
b) Adequate co-ordination arrangements (functioning of the Project Steering Committee)
c) Adequate provision of counterpart funds for investment expenditures by GOS; and in some
years by GOP.
d) GOP/GOS's willingness and initiatives to change mid-course on policy and institutional
issues in order to promote project suslainability.
Adverse aspects:
a) Sector Policies: Unsatisfactory financing arrangements, including the negative impact of IDC
on counterpart funds availability.
b) Sector Policies: Absence of social and environmental dimensions and beneficiary
participation in project preparation guidelines.
c) Frequent changes in key project staff of GOS.
d) Mid-course policy changes did cause delays in project implementation.
18.   Factors subject to Implementingl Agencies Control
Positive aspects:
a) Willingness and initiatives to change mid-course on aspects critical to sustainability such as
beneficiary participation, communication and consultation.
Adverse aspects:
a) Reliance on an engineering-driven approach to project management to the detriment of other
aspects.
b) Lack of an adequate project and financial management information system, limited use of
modern management tools
c) Lack of readiness for implementation: Delays in preparation of detailed designs, delays in
appointment of consultants by more thian two years after Board approval
d) Major problems on technical designs (Nara Canal remodeling contracts, Chotiari Reservoir,
Tidal Link, Jamrao Canal Commissioning, Nara Canal Telecom)
e) Initial lack of recognition for the role of an independent engineer, distinct from the Employer
f) Inadequate attention initially to beneficiary participation, social and environmental
dimensions
g) Unsatisfactory procurement procedures - delays in awarding contracts, issuing of Variation
Orders, appointment of consultants and Panels of Experts, etc. (WAPDA)



56                                Appendix A
h) Lack of rigorous criteria for screening and selection of contractors, evaluation of bids, etc.,
resulting in poor contractor selection and performance in certain cases
i) Faulty design and execution of M&E program
19.    Cost Increases: A number of issues, some of which arise from, or are associated with,
the factors above, caused cost increases. A list is set out below.
a) The security situation resulted in less competitive bids.
b) Technical design issues resulted in delays, re-bids, etc.
c) There was a huge increase in the number of minor structures, drain crossings, etc. due to their
underestimation at appraisal and inadequate consultation with beneficiaries.
d) Certain costs were omitted in appraisal estimates e.g. IDC, overheads.  Others were
underestimated e.g. land acquisition costs.
Nevertheless, financing was not severely impacted because cost increase in rupee terms
was compensated by exchange rate appreciation of the SDR and donor-denominated currencies
vis-a-vis the Pakistan rupee.
20.    Implementation Delays: Several issues/events resulted in delays in implementation; the
end result was that the project was incomplete at the close of the credit. These are listed below.
a) Security situation
b) Heavy rainfall in some years
c) Policy initiatives:
* introduction of social and environmental dimensions midcourse rather than at
project design stage
* need for dialogue and the development of understanding with implementing
agencies on sustainability issues
* lack of familiarity of implementing agencies with social and environmental
dimensions
* linkage of policy initiatives with contract award for physical works
d)   Delays in decision-making  particularly  regarding  procurement (for contracts and
consultants); appointment of key staff, acquisition of land; resettlement issues
e) Unsatisfactory technical design forcing scheme redesign
f) Delays in releases of counterpart funds
g) Unsatisfactory sequencing of contracts in some cases - support and utility contracts (e.g.
electrical contracts) not sequenced ahead of tubewell contracts
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.    The most critical aspect for sustainability remains satisfactory arrangements for post-
completion O&M. These post-completion arrangements are being established for LBOD.
Encouraging developments are listed below.
a) Borrower commitment is established and a number of up-front actions have been taken to set
up the requisite institutional framework.
b) The Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority has been formed.
c) Studies are well underway for the Nara Canal AWB.



57                              Appendix A
d) Pilot Farmer Organizations have been set up.
e) WAPDA's OMD is operational and is providing a lead in project.
f) O&M Performance Contracts are being. pursued in an attempt to improve efficiency.
g) A funding source for O&M Performance Contracts is established through NDP.
h) The need for clear delineation of responsibilities and accountabilities of the various agencies
for O&M has been recognized and is being addressed.
i) A beneficiary involvement, consultation and communication program has been initiated and
will be continued.
j) Satisfactory technical plans for O&M have been prepared.
k) There will be a follow-on operation - NDP.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   Positive Aspects. The Bank has shown flexibility and adopted a progressive approach
to the project and some of the more positive aspects of this approach are as follows.
a) Taking a lead in institutional and policy reforms
b) Focusing adequate attention on environmental and social issues
c) Flexibility shown in restructuring to enhance sustainability
d) Effective leadership
e) Keeping donors together, JRM concept.
f) Effective mobilization of global knowledge through POEs, and IIMI
g) Significant management attention and support
h) Adequate resources provided for supervision including for locating a Field Monitor in
Hyderabad between 1993 and 1997.
i) Continuity of staff
j) Effective management of restructuring linked to closing date extension
23.    Negative Aspects. Shortcomings in the Bank's approach and performnance are set out
below:
a) Inclusion of too many donors and increasing complexity
b) Inadequate/faulty design and financing plan for M&E
c) Not ensuring adequate readiness for implementation
d) Inadequate attention to sustainability issues at appraisal
e) Design focused on physical and engineering aspects with low emphasis on social and
environmental dimensions
f) Inadequate supervision in initial years
F. BORROWVER PERFORMANCE
24.    Section C - Factors affecting project performance covers the positives and negatives of
borrower performance which will be included in this section of the ICR.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   Project outcome is expected to be satisfactory.



58                              Appendix A
H. FUTURE OPERATION
26.    The Borrower has submitted a draft plan for future operation (OP) to the Bank. After
reviewing the Borrowers draft OP, IDA recommended that the final version of the Plan should
cover the following aspects:
27.   Provide for each group of assets (e.g.: Spinal Drain, Tidal Link, Irrigation Canals,
Surface Drains, Tubewells, Tile Drains, Watercourses, etc.) the following information:
a) Brief description of the asset created by the project
b) Plan for completion (for incomplete items only)
c) Plan for Operation and Maintenance
*  Technical Aspects (summary and references to specific manuals)
*  Responsibility for O&M
*  Institutional Arrangements - organizational arrangements, participatory aspects,
managerial aspects. This should include any additional work to be done on
institutional arrangements such as finalization of arrangements between WAPDA and
GOS, formation of FOs, etc.
*  Method of carrying out O&M (including possible options if not finalized)
*  Estimated O&M Costs with description of these costs (broken down into capital costs
and recurrent costs such as supervision costs, contractor or works costs, fuel, power,
salaries, office costs, consultancy costs, etc.)
*  Financing plan, including options to be considered
*  Supporting requirements such as training of staff, insurance requirements, etc.
28.   IDA recommended that the Borrower update the existing POM of June 1994 (prepared
by LBOD Consultants) and integrate it with the revised OP to form a single document which
would represent the future Operational Plan for LBOD.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
29.    Discussions referred to the detailed list given in the Borrower's Report and the major
lessons are summarized hereunder:
a) Importance of stakeholder participation, communication and consultation.
b) Importance of Social and environmental dimensions in project planning and execution.
c) A flexible approach to project implementation. Over time there is inevitable change and
every factor cannot be anticipated at project design.
d) Projects cannot be implemented in isolation. There is need to build partnerships with a wide
range of stakeholders.
e) The most important issue that should guide future investments is sustainability of project
benefits. Actions should be taken to secure sustainability.
f) Implementation should be sequenced properly to ensure efficient completion of the project.



59                                      Appendix B
LBOD Stage I Project (Cr. 1532-PAK)
nial)eementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Borrower's Report
lltis section of the implementation completion report identifies thc main lessons learni hy CioP/GCS during
the implementation of LBOD in order to improve thc design of lItltirc projects.
1        Project Assessment
I.I      Introduction
The works on LBOD S(age-I project wa;s started in 1986 and continued till thc end of 1997 when the IDA
Credit (CR-1532-PAK) was terminated. The works remnaining incomplete have been transfered fir execution
under the National Drainage Programmc (NDP). Thou,gh the pritjSct remains incompicte. the World Bank
conditions lay down that an Implementation Completion Report includting Borrower's Report has to be
prepared on tie termination of the Credit Agreement. Accordingly this report has been prepared aLs required
by the World Bank. It may however, be pointied out that the contents of this repoirt reflect only the progress
made and thc experience gained during the period thc priject hac% been under imnplemntation.
1.2      Brief History
In 1974, GoP approved Phase I of the LBOD Stae-I project. and wonrk commenced on the construction of
the Spinal Drain and LBOD Branch drain system LBOD Stage-1. In 1980. a study was undertaken which
identified the LBOD component projects. established tficir prioritics and recominctd-cd ani ovcrail
implementation plan. By 1982, some 1)() miles of the Spinal Drain had been constructed with an outfall to
thc Dhoro Puran.
From 1982. the World Bank took an active interest in thle project wvhen a ground tnttliic miissicn
recommended that the project design should be hroadcned from its rocus at that time ont the construction of
the Spinal Drain, and reformulated as a multi-purpose drainagc project.
From October 1982. work commenced on the LBOD Stage I Project Preparation Report witli UNOP
financing. On publication in 1984, this document served as the principal basis for tde World Bank:s
appraisal of the project in 1983/1984. The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) w;as issued in June
1984, and, on Board approval, the loan agreement was signed in Janiuary 1985. Crcdit wa:s efrective froinm
September 1985. LBOD Consultants were mobilised in July 1986.
1.3      Project Scope and Design
LBOD is a complex pmject with a varied sprend of phiysical imiprovcmiients. a largm number of difTerent
purpose-designed drainage technologies. and a wide array of stakehilders, includingt four c.tecutin=
organisation, eight international donor agencies. a becncficiary ptptlation or somc two millin. andi a diverse
range of local interest groups including the civil adininistration. NGOs. and the media.
13.1 *   Size of Project, Scope and Source of the Investment Financing Arran-ements
Tlc scope of the Project and scapc of iuvc.sUnents as described in tlhc SAR and recent WAPDA ruporvt is as
shown in Tabic 1.1 and Table 1.2.



60                                  Appendix B
TABLE 1.1
Project Costs
Category                             Estimatetd Costs
Appraisal  Laxtcst        Addn.      Total
US$. m   1,1301)       LBOI)    Investment
(1984)    US$ ni        US$ ni     US$ Im
(31.12.97)    (2011)1)
Surface Drainage Works
Core programme                                 10.3          17.0        22.3           39.3
KPOD/DPOD                                     24.9            8.9                        8.9
Tidal Link                                     35.6          32. 1                      32. r
Sub Area Drainage (0.58 mha)                  441.5         163.5         0.6          164.1
SubTotal         112.3         221.5        22.9          244.4
Sub-Surface Drainage Works
Saline Tubewells (1667 nr)                     58.5          34.9        14   i
Scavenger Tubewels (357 nr)                   34.0          14.9        .0 |           14.9
Interceptor Drains (295 KM)                   34.7           12.1        16.9           29.0
Tile l)rains (24000 ha)                        39.3          25.3     .  7.1f           32.4
SubTotal         166.5          87.2 |      38.5          114.7
Irrigation Works
Nara & Jamrao                                 91.1|         140.5 |      40.1.        IO.6
Chotiari (0.7 MAF)                            36.2           31.4  f     37.1           68.5
SubTotal         127.3         171.9        77.2 f        249.1
_     _OFW_IV_                                 19.2           1 i2.6   _                 12.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ,,I '
Electrification                               66.0           28.0 |       3.2           31.2
Other (Consultancy. Administration   |        144.4         324.0                         4320
Equipments (M&E. Maintenance
department, Land Acquisation etc)
TOTAL                                        635.7          342.2    1 141.i           984.0
Pak Rs                             9202.9       24540.0      6499.01       31039.0



61
TABI.R 1.2
STATUS OF LOAN UTILIZATION Up To 31 DgCrMMBER 1997
SI.Nr      LofanA' Number                               jj       ~      *1emnl            ~       ~       rewy         -
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f
.~~~ ~61;..  ..J   ______               .       :a       o                                                     UIZIQ              Dlnq
I  IDA.Im-P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uC  -  -  ........W AP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)A.-.~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~     
'i .j   U~ ,,Irl:La.                                                                                  .
,,,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I za'ti
TARt.ll ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     S$ 1.232                          L9
I DA 1532-PAK'                                                         . ..S!-?            _                       sSI       .._
TRUS-1 FUND Ha: 2ig4.0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0-~~8                APDA       .      d  SI4.270099 -
; 4   ADSOB-7-PA K(S.F) ........................T                              31-A ug.97  ....  .  .                                                                 ___ 7_7.
S5  DB 3515                        I jslainh: ivctprneni Oani; (ipO)           31-DecsI 97     WAPDA        .           I              I                 636j             3637
6   CIDA GRANT                    Canadian Internaltonal Development           31-Dec-95       WAPDA                 Cdn$              141765             4.765        ,   Q
For Trust Funld,                                                 Cdi S              504 i.7060
Sub-Tutal.CIDA                                                                                     19.765            19.763;          0.000
7   SF0 6W355                      Saiwii wiuld Ir Devw1tpm.:1 tSFD)             I)sec97       WAPDA                  Sd.R           139.117            13.403           95.fl4
S   OPEC FUNiD 358-P              lOrgni'atki ofrPetraliu71iExpA-  Corp        31-Dec-97       WAii. U                               50.000             g3 3
I.S Vs          16.0oo,            8,383,A



62                                          Appendix B
1.3.2     Planning and Scheduling or lmpfementation
The project placed exceptional demands on the borrower and implemiienting agencics. particularly'as
signiricant strategic changes were introduced during implementalion to) reficct new development pihilosophies
and greater emphasis on O&M. The design of mid-course revisions Iti project linancing arrangcments
involved already scarce managerial time in the preparation of a nandicr of revised projcct documcnts (PC-()
and their passage through provincial and federal steering commiitces.
The project includes a large but easily divisible package or works invoilvinlg irrigatio;. drainage and rarilt-
level improvements. The SAR also provided for botli O&M and M&E as well as administration. Different
levels of review and feedback were planned via the Project Steering Committee (PSC) and donor missions
and a Mid-Termn Review (M1R). A separate elenient of review and feedback waLs added in 1992 through a
Reassessment Study. As a result of these planning reviews, the Project scope has been added to provide,
variously, additional focus on O&M, environmental impact assessinents. resettlement studics.
Given the project's size, the implementation process has required strict control. Project works werc planned
to permit phased commissioning starting in Nawabshh, followed by Sanghar and tinally Mirpurkhas. Some
contracts were delayed or prolonged resulting in disruption to the painned commissioning programme. The
overall implementation programme has been extended upto 2001. Planning for a longer pmrgramme might
have allowed greater emphasis to be put on completing and commissioning areaqs hefire letting contracts in
other areas. Introducing 'milestones' of commissioning certain are;as tparts of the sub-proJect areas) hefore
commencing works elsewhere may have served to focus attention withiin the implementing organisations on
early completion in such areas thereby ontaining project benelils earlier and peniiittinlg a more orderly
handover to GoS with a consequent reduction in financing costs.
1.3.3    Project Sustainability and O&M
At the outset of the project, the considerable resources required to enisure the sustainable operation and
maintenance of the project facilities were not fully appreciated. Mieasmures to mitigate tihis risk were
introduced through the project.
(a)      Service Provision
The Project was originally conceived as being ultimately owned and operated by GoS with beneficiaries
paying for improved drainage and irrigation. The importance of OYM to sustainabilitv is clear froinm the SAR
which provided for the following:
Heavy earthwork equipment and service workshops to he provided to the GoS [rrigation and
Power Department (IPD).
The Project O&M plan to be upgraded rrom the preparation, study to implementation level and to
be subject to periodic review.
'Te IMO to set up an O&M organisation tn operate the drainage works in the component areas
for I year and then transfer tlie works and (he organisation to the [PD.
WAPDA (Power) to take over and maintain all electrification works (in practicc the power meter
is taken as the interface with customers).
The GoS to progressively increase the rate of Cess and Ahiana until lie frull O&M cost (estimated
as Rs 670/ha 1984 prices) was recovered.
The scope and mechanism of the O&M services was subsequenily modified as follows:
Responsibility for workshops. grant aided equipmet titc Spinal Drain. interccptor Drains
(Nawabshah) and the LBOD Branch Drain system.was handed back to WAPDA O&M hv
Government of Sindh in early 1995. ECNEC while approving the 2nd revised PC-I of LBOD
Stage-I decided to revert back the responsibility of the O&M to Government of Sindh.
Accordingly all the compicted works of LBOD State-l will he handed over to GOS/SIDA.



f-.,                                                   63                                      Appendix B
*        Use of performance based contracts hbus hcen prererrd over building up a lhrgc in-house
'organisation.
*        The planned role of the bencriciaries has heen' changed (see below).
*        WAPDA (Power) havc provcd to neced assistance rrotii IhlO or WAPDA (Q&MNI) sincc tilcy
appear to lack stocks of replacement transformers etc and to lack sufficient staff and transport
resources.
(b)      Beneficiary Participation
The 1992 Reassessment and 1993 Mid Term Review Studies both reappraised the scope fir beneficiaries to
execute some O&M tasks, particularly watchin= and guarding and disposal channcl maintenance. The ains
were to both reduce the financial burdens required were such tasks to be executed by IPD and to achieve a
high'standard of maintenance by reliance on locai decision makinig (hy analogy with the O&M or'
watercourses).
An action research program to establishi three pilot water user federations (WUFs) within the LBOD Stage I
area commenced in late 1995 through the Department of Agricultural. Government on Sindh (GoS). The IvI
made responsible for (i) testing the viability of farmers' managing parts of the irrigation and drainage
systems, and (ii) making recommendations for policies on future extensions of this work. Since the work of
the Drainage Advisory Service (DAS) has provided liaison between WAPDA, and the range of ctnnmunities,
organizations and groups which are dircctly al"fected by, or involvcd with, the project.
1.3.4    Environnental Aspects
The project aimed to provide widespread environmental benefit through reduction in tile extent of
waterlogged and salinised lands. Provisions halve also been made to protect the naturail enviroiiinent. In the
Rann of Kutch measures were taken to prevent the main disposal line to the sea causing drving out of tihe
dhands which support large numbers of birds, fish. etc. Tihe experience so far indicatec thiat environmental
conditions have changed substantially. mainly due to the construction of Choiri weir and consequent change
in the levels and water quality in Cholri lake. This aspect requires proper environmenital monitoring with
reference to bench mark data to evaluate the inmpact.
1.4      Project Management
A Project Steering Committee (PSC) headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Develotprment) was
established to provide overall guidance an& coordinafion for the project during iniplcmintation.
An Integrated Manageiment Organisation (IMC) headed by a Chief Engineer was created within WAPDA in
the year 1985, with responsibilities for coordination of technical and project implementation matters for all
components of the project, including irrigation works and OFWM.
From June 1995. WAPDA adopted a financial management informiation system whichi has pmvidtd a
monthly record of disbursements and reimbursements. This has hcen supplemented by a regular financial
report giving the certified payments to contractors and a projected cost stream for each contract,
disaggregated into the amounts payable by each of the financing agencies.
1.4.1    Contract Works
The procurement process for equipment supply and constructiOln cnntracts under tile projcct has required
constant monitoring to try to avoid any slippages in the programimie.
The majority of construction contracts have been awarded undcr intcrnational competitive bidding procedures
following a prequalification process. Each stage of this process has involved thc. prcparation of a draft
documents. approval of the executing agency (WAPDA or IPD) and approval of the donor, followed by
advertisement. the submission of bids. evaluation and sequential approval of executing and financing
agencies. When the process worked smoothly it typically took one ycar up to award ol- a contract. In
vractice it was found that various actions served to delay the prmcess including: insufficient interest on the



Appendix B
64
part of contractors leading to an inadequate number of biqs; the receipt of bids significanily greater than the
Engineer's estimate.
Supply contracts, essentially for electrical equiptnent. werc advertiset internationally wiith hiddcrs heing
subject to a post qualification process.
One of the main difficulties in the early years or impleicienlation was round to hc m;ataining momentum on
a particular contract once it was underway. Impetus was 1reqtineill lroken due to extenmal factors such as
delays in processing contracts for equipmcnt supply or consirtrctiin.
1.4.2     Drainage Works Design Parameters
(a)       Drainage Works
For works concerned with the drainage infrastructure. some 76 scparatc majorcnntracts have been let: 35 for
surface and sub-surface drainage contracts and 41 for the supply alnd installation of e!ectricii components.
These include surface drains, disposal channels, tuhewell drillin g. TFile drain, interceptor drains pumping
equipment supply and instailation, grid station extensions and their associated equipment supply contracts,
I I kV electrical instailation and their associated equipmilent supply colitracts.
Tubewell and underground tile (or horizontal pipe) drainage facilities pump saliine effluent into u ne:twork of
open drains, which is discharged into the Spinal Drain. and frinlly tihc Arabian Sea. This extenided system.
constructed under more than 25 contracts. the design and implementation at a macrn level has proceeded
without significant problems. Having the Spinal Drain functional ahead of the other works has been an
important factor in this. Once the open drain network in a suh-lpro'icet are:t has been comilpleted. it has served
to relieve the area of standing water al'tcr rain, thus immediatei piroviding benefit. Thlis would inot
necessanly have been possible had the Spinal Drain been constructed in parallel to tihe other projct
activities.
(b)       Irrigation Works
There are 31 LBOD irrigation-related connracts. of whichl 20 cover minor items such xas colony cmnstmrction.
on-farm water management equipment. railway diversion works. etc. One contract fWVest Branchl he:nd
regulator) will continue under NDP, the remainder are complete. Five of the II major contracts were
completed under the LBOD Stage I project with a sixth just overshooting. Four contracts are in progress and
will continue under NDP funding. Tender for the Twin Canal commissioning is utslanding. None of these
contracts cover increasing the irrigation supply in the Rohri Canal command. Tne TOR lfr Nara Canial
Telecommunication are under revisions.
The drainage system design parameters vary across the Project area with the proposed level of irrigation
supplies and the depth to water. In sonic areas of deep watertahles. surface dmainacge alone has been
constructed, elsewhere the Project providcs both surfiacc and suh-surf.hct drainagce.
1.4.3     KPOD, DPOD and Tidal Link
Prior to project implementation, the Spinal Drain discharged into} the Dhom Puran. a lininer river clannel.
which nowed south across the Indian border into Shakoor dhand. Thiis was an acceable arram ngement whilst
the Spinal Drain carried surface water drainage. but once the haseflow became significanily saline from
evacuating ground water. a more direct disposal mute to the sca, wlily within Pakistan. was scen to be
necessary to avoid environmental datnage and. possibly, conflict with India. The lower section of the Dhoro
Puran was remodelled (as the DPOD) to take tlood flows and a lixcd weir without any mechanical elements
was constructed to keep nut the baseflow. Upstrcam of the weir the existing KPOD Was rmemodelled linking
the Spinal Drain to the coastal salt flats where thc drain merged ino Ilhc Tidal Link which crssced the flats
and dhands to discharge into the upper part of an activc sea creek n;amncd Slhall Sallando Creek.
Physical and mathematical hydraulic modelling was undertakeni prior to detailed design or the Ti-dal Link.
However. observations of the parent material during preiiminary investigations were restricted to surface
layers, whilst the subsequent site soil investigation was litnited in scope. Tllus thle Physical modelling was
based on a fixed geometry of the Tidal Link. save fror conventional sediment transpon of material (n the



Appendix B
drain floor. There was also the risk that the creeks to Ihe  south were mobile and could intersect the Tidal
Link mid way down.
Once opened to the sea in June 1995. thle Tidal Link channel suffrcd significant crosionl. Undcr tidal
conditions the bank stability proved marginal and the cycle or f'looding and draining of thlc berms promoted
gullies. In some areas the soils arc such fliat ilih hinks arc cflectively stable. though subilict it wave crmsion.
Other areas have substantial sloughing and the embankments halve lhdl to be set hack. It was recognised
during design that some channel adjustmcnt would occur on comimissioining. howcvcr ilie speed and sevcrity
of change was unexpected.
The operation of Tidal Link in the recent past 11as revealed serious prohlems. It is nec:ssary to examine the
problems seriously and ensure that the remedial works are carried out after thorough study of the probler'ns.
Construction of the Tidal Link has also raised fears froim people living in the area (particularly the Kotri
Drain Catchments) that their drainage may be impaired and that tlhcre is a risk ol' sea waltr damnaging their
lands. The change in the environmental constraction of the Choiri Lake area has also heen subjert to Int of
criticism.
1.4.4     Irrigation Works
(a)       Nara Canal
There was a series of substantial changes to the designs tor the Nara Canal. This inajor canal foilows an old
river course and includes a long section of active meanders. It is anticipated that the meander pattern will
change with the proposed increased discharge and there will also he hed retrogression. Originallv three ball
structures were designed to contain the erosion, including protecting the headw(orks where scour was severe.
The World Bank took independent expert opiriion and concluded thiat the uniqueness of the design posed
unacceptable risks given the capital outlay and economic returnis. A niew design w-a,s prepqared wvhicil is
contingent on dredging in perpetuity, thogtihli possibly at a lesser rate than initially perccivcd. IPD remainied
concerned that they will not be able to sustain thc dredging effort.
Physical modelling was instrumental in linalising designs of works on the major canals: had the Panel of
Experts not insisted on some of this, difliculties may hiave been expierienced in the prntoypes.
(b)       Jamrao Canal
The two-thirds increase in Jamrao Canal discharge was to he achieved by twinning thc upper reaches as the
west bank borders the Rohri Canal, command so there were few olfllakes: disruption 1t thc running canal was
avoided. Delays in the Nara Canai work.?mnca:nt that thiere was insullicient wateravailatbic ito conmnission tde
Twin Canal despite the delayed completion of the contract.. Cmmiissioning works were excised from the
contract which was then concluded.
(c)       Rohri and Nasrat Canals
The remodelling of the Rohri Canal has not occunted though bank strengthenint works lhave peniitted about
55 % of the increase assumed at project preparation. as measured at tihe headworks.
1.4.5     Chotiari Reservoir and Resettlement Action Plan
(a)       Reservoir
Chotiari Reservoir is seen as a strategic investmcnt. providing tlhe only surface storage facility in Sindh. It
serves both LBOD and Mahki Faresh projects. The reservoir will also usefully imtprove regulation of flows
in the system.
Subsequently an EIA was undertaken which identified some 5 30)0 acres of cultivated land within the
reservoir area. Thlere has been a general development of agriculture in the Nara valley prnbably including
into the reservoir area; a number of wildlire concerns were also raised and subsequently addressed. The
20 km 'Northern Bund' was provided around imost of the cultivated area and the plans made to shift the
remaining settlements to an area slightly further nornh. T7here is aua remaining naturnl drainage rront the area



66                                         Appendix B
surrounded by the Northern Bund and thic viability of thc farniite licr relies on pumpilln rcservoir s-eepngc
water and rainfall out of the area.
(b)       Resettlement Action Plan
At the time of preparing this report, hlic rcsettlemcnt action plan (RAP) remains al thc plInning stagc. T1hC
immediate focus of the Chotiari Resettlcment Agency (CRA). whiich primarily compriscs of civil
administration/ Revenue Department starr. has becn on land acquisition in thc initial phase which job 1has
almost been completed. The CRA is now bcing strengthened so thial ihc stafr skill mix is appropriatc for its
future work in coordinating line agencies in the management or rcscitlcment project at ilic site chosen in Pate
Pota and Chohar Shar.
1.4.6     OFNVi'W    Watercourses
The original objectives of the OFWMI component were to improve 920 watercourses hy lining and the
provision of control structures, to provide precision land levelling (PLL) to an are, (if 64.000 acres. and to
provide I acre demonstration plots on eachi of the 920 improved watercourses. In 199'. these targets were
revised to 1481 watercourses, PLL on 8U 000 acres, and 183 demonstration centres of 5 acres
were responsible for establishing water user associations (WUAs) in tile commands ol tIhIse wateruourses
selected for improvements. The supply of materials is obtained through a tender prices. the construction work
is undertaken.
rn November 1996, capital cost recovery from the beneficiaries was increased from .tO 15% prior to the
commencement of works. Since farmers were discouraged froni taking up the improvemenits, a reduction to
an advance downpayment of 10% of the engineering estimate has hecn suggestce.
1.4.7    Environmental Management and Mvlonitoring
During the latter stages of the project. the WAPDA Environmental Cell (South) was estahlished in
Hyderabad. An Environmental Management Cornmittee (EMC. estahlished in 199a. meets every quarter to
discuss the design and implementation of the LBOD environmental monitoring and management plan. The
EM[C comprises representatives from WAPDA. SIDA. GoS Agricultural Department. OFWVM. GoS P&D
Department. Chotiari Resettlement Agency. internaticnal NGOs ([UCN. WWF). provinciai NGOs (Dharti
Dost Sangat, SAFWCO, Badin Rural Development Society) antl academic bodies (University of Sindh.
Mehran University).
Material for an Environmentaf Management and Monitoring Plan has been assembied since 1995. and will be
complemented by recent wildlife and fisheries/water quaiity surveys at Chotiari Reservoir and the Tidali Link.
The surveys have been conducted by fic GoS Sindh Wildlife Department and the Zoological Survey
Department and Fisheries Department nf University of Sindh. These surveys will provide a source of scarce
and valuable information on the environment in Chotiari Reservoir and the Tidal Link. Since survey work at
the Tidal Link has been undertaken after the commcncement ol operation in June 1995. supplementary base-
line data will now have to be based on recall surveys.
1.4.8    Monitoring and Evaluation
Three separate but co-ordinated Monitoring and Evaltuation (M&E) activities have been carried iut during the
project's implementation: (a) daily monitoring of the phiysical and linancial implementation; (b) monitoring
of irrigation and drainage parameters; and (e) socio-economic impact evaluation.
Overall responsibility for the M&E infirmation system for LBOD hNs been vested in thc tntenrated
Management Organisation (IMO) and the Government of Sindh (GOS). IMO is responsibic for gathering
informnation on the daily implementation of thc pmject. with the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) taking the leading role. Monitoring of pliysical irriga-tion and drainage parameters is prtvided by
the Scarp Monitoring Organisation (SMO) of the (WAPDA). The socio-economic impact evaluation is
conducted by Sindh Development Studies Centre (SDSC). of Sinlh University. Tihe excLuting agency for
the socio-economic impact evaluation study was itic Planning and Development Department (P&D), GOS.
From 1995 this role has been assumed by the Dirmctor of Economic Co-ordination for LBOD, frntim P&D,
GOS. Since 1995/96, SMO has produced an annual rcport on their programme af work. which is cxceptional



6 7                          ~~~~~~~Appendix B
for the high standard of analysis and prcsentalion or daal on climic. groundwatcr levels. cic. A computerised
database has been established.
Physical monitoring now enables mceasurcmncint of the discharge and(1 salinity of drainage crilucnt. and thc
.monitoring of canal discharges. Records of grmundwatcr table are available for a period  l ofovcr 1( years.
Analysis indicates that water table fluctuatinns art: rapid and hi.g:hly allIceted by cxtrcmc r.inrall uvents,
though not by minor events. Sails monitoring throughout tcie project area has not becn coinclusivc. Tne initial
monitoring campaign was over ambitious and has resulted in the cncrumcnce of a nuore focussed stratecy.
1.4.9     Pilot Water User Federations (IIAII Study)
The study implementation proceeded as planned and has been compatible witb its  jic tivas and concepts.
This has been facilitated by three main enabling flactors: (i) The selection of appropriate pilot
distributaries/minor was made in consultation witlh thie concerned linc agencies. (ii) Thc care taken in
planning the study procsses. Tnis has included tfrmulation and training of multi-disciplinary Field teals,
and the inclusion of community based volunteers referred as a 'cnntact farmers". (iii) The apprnpriu.;eness of
methodologies adopted in the study. A four-step process for the oraunisation or water users has been
adopted: support mobilization; initial organisation; organisation constolidation: and arganizational action. A
series of activities, designed to bring extension servinces to the water users communitv, has helped to) build
their trust in thte field teams and also to keep their motivation atl a hi'h level.
The Government of Sindh has enacted a law to establish the Sioidh IrriAgation and Drainage Authoritv
(SIDA). This law provides for the SIDA to protmnle the formation or Farmers Organizations at the
distributary and minor canal levels. Consequently. the three pilot Water User Federations (WUFsj already
formed at the Bareji Distributary, Hermn Distributary and Ohorol Naro M'vinor in lthe districts, tirpurkhias.
Sanghar and Nawabshah, respectively, will need to be registered unider this law.
1.4.10    Training
Training, both in-country and overseas. llas been proivided througlaut the life af the Projct. Scholats'Zips
funded through ODA (now DFID) and aiministered by the British Cnuncil have enabled project snaff to
attend courses in the UK leading to postgraduate certificates. Master oif Science and PhD.
1.5       Project Impact
This section assesses the impact of the project from the perspectivc ni' GoPlGoS.
1.3.1     Direct Benefits
fmprovement in key agricultural indicato,rs is mwdest to date reflecting the fact that ollt prtijcct drainage and
main irrigation system improvenent works have yet t o he cooitrctcci flor the wholc prxject arca, while
operation and maintenance problems are pmeventing the full operation of those works that have heen
compieted. Observed improvement in economic and social conditions in the project arca can only he
attributed to the project if they can be related to achicvemcnt nl' thc planned physicnl effects ill trmns of
enhanced drainage and irrigation water supply. and increased agricultoral productivity. Tlie physical
monitoring programme demonstmrtes tfiat there has becn an incrnasc in depth to watertable in parts of the
project area since the surface drainage system and parts of tle tuihewell nal in 1995. However, a patten of
clear and sustained improvement across the whole project area. or evcn just Nawahshah conmpontent where
tubewells are operational, has yet to emerge.
LS.2     Indirect Benefits
The LBOD project is expected to increase general ecttiomic activity tirough multiplier cTects fromi both its
capital and recurrent expenditure and by the resultant expansioni or agriculture, and ttia lesser extent non-
agricultural production and rural incomes. Thle SAR (1984) anoicipated signiricant s:condary henefits from
the project: including the generation or additional employment opportunities in non-agricultural activities as
Well as alditional provincial and federal revenues.



68                                  AppDendix B
The number of units producing agricultual equipment has incwased in towns sureyed im the proect area,
suggesting a contmiuig trend towards increased mechanisation in the farnng system. Te ra   secony
impact study recorded evidence of stong demand for bricks and for brick built houses in the three year period
to 1996. Reductio in waterlogging and salini y is expected to increase the demand for brick buildings, and
also for other strurntres such as lined watercourses.
2       Performance of Implementing Agencies
2.1      Consultants
2.1.1    LBOD Consultants
In the early years of the Project, the responsibilities of the main engineering cousultanms LBOD
Consultants included implementation plarming, the preparation of all designs and the provision of
advice and assistance to the executing agencies on all aspects of the project except OFWM and sociO-
econc;ic monitoring. To assist with these responsiiLities WAPDA and IPD provided some 60
counterpart engineers, including Senior Engineers, Junior Engineers and Junior Geologists.
In general the Consultants staff on various posts in the field as well in designr office proved fairIy
good though some of the key staff were not uptro the markxs of level of competence expected of a
reputed international consultants. Field management in terms of control over execution of contrcts
and completion periods also showed much to be desired.
As regard design and planning aspects, those were generaIly acceptable standard but there has been
discernuble lapses in design and planning of some of the impormant components of the project such as
Chodari Reservoir, Tidal Link, DOD, Disposal Channels and Nara Remodelling works, resultanrly
casuing serious difficulties and higher costs to the project
Continuity of staff during the period of implementation particularly at the leve. of Project ianagers
was nor sadsfactory.
In 1991 WAPDA tansferred responsibility for constuction supervision to LBOD Consultants
necessitating a restructring of their operations. Some 300 WAPDA engineers were seconded to the
Consultants who assumed fUll administrative control for these smff. Field offices were established
within the existing WAPDA offices in Nawabshah, Sanghar, Mirpurkhas and Badin.
In respect of irrigation works, LBOD Consultants acted as advisers to IPD up to September 1994
when they also assumed responsibiIity for supervision of construction. Subsequent implementation
has proceeded relatively smoothly. It is considered that LBOD ConsuItants in the role of Engineer
have provided an increased awareness of contract procedures for administration of international
contacts.
21.2    RADE Consultants
As Consultants to OFWNf, RADE have been rssponsible for the review of watercourse improvement
designs, for confirmation of institional arrangements for water user associations and for
verification of physical works. RADE are considered to have carried out these tasks diligently.
24.3 SDSC
.The Sindh Development Studies Centr with their associates ITADI/Wye ColIege have
responsibilities for socio and agro-economic surveys under a contract admiistered in recent ye=rs by
DEC an behalf of the Planning and Development Departmet of GoS. In generaL the studies caried
out by SDSC have becn hamped by the slower than anticipated progrss ofthe project.



Appendix B
2.1.4     IMI                           69
The International Irrigation Management Institute was commissioned by the Department of
Agriculture in July 1995 to undertake an action research program for three pilot trials on water
users organizations in the LBOD project area. They have completed the initial stage of their study.
The water user Federations will be regfsterecl and start funtctiuoning as scon as letul framnework is
notified by the GoS.
2_2      Contractors
In total almost 90 contracts have been awarded under the project. These have varied in scale from
small packages of electrical equipment or site investigationi cotnlracts throu zh to major civil works
contracts.
Active and competent individuals and supportive managements are recognisable Features of Lhe
most successfhl of local contractors on the project. Through stuch means both Ramzan Sons
Limited and Kanaya Lal & Khan Partners have been able to resolve the significant logistical
problems of working efficiently at a large number of scattered locations and accordingly were abte
to successfully complete their works to schedule.
Overseas contractors who have mobilised significant resources and have successfuilly comnpleted
project works include China Harbour Engineering for the Tidal Link, Mle-Chem Matthews on the
CIDA funded Nawabshah interceptor drainTs, China Guanxi Corporation a nd Chiina Geo
Engineering on their respective tile drainage contracts in XMirpurkhas, Cosrc in for the DFID finded
primary workshops and IJA/IGA for work in Central San-har mentioned above. Capable
management teams were a feature of aill these successful contractors.
2.3     BorroNver and Executing Agency
2.3.1 WAPDA
The project was conceived as a engineering project to be implemented by Govermnent executing
agencies as was normal practice in the earfy 1980s. However during the course of implementation
increasing emphasis has been placed on non engineering aspects. The importance of related
environmental and social aspects is.now widely recognised within WAPDA antd the move to
increased participation in the development proce.ss of beneficiaries is broadly supported. WAPDA
has adapted to the changes through measurs such as creation of an Environmental Cell.
Issue facing IiO during implementation at later stage ha;s betn the availability oif local funds; at
times construction activity has slowed to match the availability of funds. A significant7 increuse in
costs to the Project has come about due to the Operation of interest during construction ([DC). DC
charges normally cease once a component is handed over to the operating agency.
23.2 IPD
Responsibility for irrigation development works within IPD lies with Chief Engineer
(Development). Operation and maintenance of irrigation works is carried out by a different branch
of IPD who report in the case of the Nara system to Chief Engineer Sukkur Barrage. Increased
dialogue between the two branches has usefully aided understanding of the systemi operated while
improving awareness of existing operational difficulties.
The transfer of rsponsibilities for supervision of construction to LBOD Consultants was
undertaken relatively late in the project. The conditions under which IPD staff were assigned to
-worc with the Consultants were markecdly different from those of WAPDA stufF. IPD staff received



;; !                                              70       -    .                    -  Appeudix B
no additional project allowance and all administrative fun:tions were retained within IPD. Not
surprisingly, the control and availability of staff of supervision activitics provedl less certain.
Overall however, the arrangement is seen as a success with the Ranto Canal alid the Nar, Falls
likely to be completed within the contract periods.
2.3.3 O.FWM
On farm water management under thie project was implemenited by a Directorate knowni as the
LBOD Water Management Component under the Director General, Agricultural Engineering and
Water Management based in H{yderabad. The Directorate htas proved efficient in meeting the
original and revised increased targets for physical works. Recovery of loans under the watercourse
improvement and land levelling programme however, remains patchy (check). Continuitv of staff at
a senior level has been good.
2.4      Financiers
2.4.1 IDA
Apart from their role as coordinating donor and administrator of the trust find for monitoring and
evaluation activities, IDA have maintained an active role throughout the project. respondina
promptly to queries and striving to lead the project throughl to successfiul completion. Review and
supervision missions have been held regularly throughout the project although travel to the project
area was sometimes prevented on security grounds. The conitinuity of staff dealing with tihe project
has generally been good.
2.4.2 ADB
ADB have acted constructively throughout the project, addressing queries promptly and regulariy
visiting the project through review and supervision missions. The continuity of staff dealing with
the project was good.
2.4.3    DFID (Former ODA)
DFID have been actively associated with the piroject throu-ghout its development. attendingr the
formal review missions but also regularly visiting the project to monitor progrss.
2.4.4    SFD
SFD have maintained an active role through out the project. They have re;uiarly attended
supervision missions to the project and have proved responsive to queries arising from the works.
Continuity of staff dealing with the project has been good.
.2.4.5 IDB
MDB have attended supervisory missions and have proved coolperative and responsive to project
queries.
Z4.6 OPEC
OPEC have proved responsive to situations arising during the work.
Z4.7 CIDA
Tne CIDA ariginaly intended to finance interceptor draiums and sub-surface (Tile) drainatge on the



! !  72                               Appendix B
*  Survey, mapping and land acquisioon processes should be completed before the
:- U                         commencement of any scheme so as to expedite land acquisition and compensation
"                       ~~~~~~~payments.
Contractual Arrangements
* rTe procurement process was long-windetd. This incrensed the opportunities for
participation but slowed down implementation. iMuch OF the construction work was quite
basic and this was reflected in the criteria used for qualification. rn addition, the bid
packaging was done to allow participation of [ocal contractors. The relatively small
contract packages possibly reduced competition. The acceptance of the lowest bid from
contracts which appeared technically weak (though qualified) contributed to some of the
poor performance observed.
*  The potential for letting contracts in large aggretated packages of works to attract randers
trnm major international contractors should be considered.
* For multi-package contracts, establish prequaliication procceCurs to emphasise skills in
management of multidisciplinaiy contracts rather tihahi specialised skills such as drilling
pump supply. etc-
Design
3 Outfall Drains: The design should be according to tcie aictuai hydraulic and Fie}d condicions
and throughly scr utinised before being adopted.
e  Discosal Channels The numbers of disposal channel crossings were largely deternined on
economic groundis. It would be better encourage greater commnlity p;irricipation during the
design process, and adopt more direct disposal channels. even at the expense of
constructing greater numbers of structures.
Tubewells: An institutional mechanism is required to provide incentives for efficient use of
additional freshwater suppiies from scavenger wells. Undertake measurement of tcli grdual
loss of scific drawdowri with operation, ivestigate measures co restore or maintain
specific capacity; determine the rate at pumped water quality changes. particularly when
improvemnents occur, and. cornpare GRP and thermoplawstic casinz and screen materials.
Tile Drains and Intercentor Drains can be constructed with gravel packs or fabrics. these
alternatives need to be monitored. Siting and sizing of lpump statiols could be modified to
result in smaller groups of beneficiaries anid probably improve the scope for direct
management. Reuse of effluent requires Further study in order that quality changes and
delivery mechanisms are better understood.
*  Control of pumping equipment is based on automatic operation With timeclocks. The
robusmess of electrical components to the electrical supply conditions in rural Sindh is an
aea of concern. The use of group control and monitoring should be considered in the
fiture.
Electric Feeders  Project feeders have to be closed during heavy rain. a measure intended
to release the full capacity of drains for the disposal of rainfall (rather than in combination
with saline effluent). Mechanisms for arranging this have to be impleniented. No
connection other than the Project concerned connectioni should be allowed.
Operation and Maintenance
c  The durtion of pumoine and oumed zi3mounts will need to be aItetIex lucally =oriding to



73                                 AppeindWBE-
observed water level changes and not design averages. Social studies are needed to s
whether beneficiaries would be willing to manage individual wells or Pr ups oF wells and
pay power costs directly.
Beneficary Participation
*  The lengthy implementation period and the postponement of benefits has caused a lo.sS of
confidence amongst LBOD beneficiaries.
e A grassroots participatory approach at every stag: of social organization should be
encouraged.
Integrated Extension Services
*  The SAR crop pr6jections were based on improvements in extension services. crdit
facilities, crop technology, together with timely provision of inputs. The project benefits
are vulnerable to lack of such improvements but within the implementation pro"ramme
there has been neither effective monitoring nor provision to assis; promote such
improvements.
-Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Training of SMO stafr: A limited amount of on tfie joib training of staff within SNMO has
been possible during LBOD Stage 1. If SLMfO art to apply the skills and ta-e adeuntage of
large volume data handling and processing made possible by compurerisation. then fifurher
training is vital. However, a prerequisite to this training is the s;afF should be adecute
qualified in relevant discription properly.
*Continuation of Monitorin: The most critical period for monitoring a?nd evaluation comes
when the project is commissioned and during its early years of operation. Due to the
phased nature of the completion and commissioning of the drainag- innLstructure. the
monitoring work needs to be carriecd out as and when the completed units become
o.peration.
3.2.   Recommendations for Future Projects
* Keep public, especially the beneficiaries and affiectee.s. well informed of project goals and
how these are to be instituted.
*  In planning project make sensible alllowance for delays due to natural canses and financial
constraints to give a realistic implernentation schedule.
;  Ensure that the design is in accordance with the hydraulic and field conditions.
*  Concentrate on providing the main arteries (Spinal Drain. main electric frcer. grid station
improvements. and main supply canals) well in advance of other componenis.
*  Fornalise risk assessment on each component of the project works to hi=hlight known
shortcomings. Risk assessments carried out pre- and post- design and fuilowing
commissioning are recommended.
-  Obtain topographic mapping with sufficient detail (iltcluding contour ifririatiout) to
provide the basis for fieldwork.



Appendix B
74
*  Use time-series analyses for the aes:gn of canals and drainage channcls, ptrmitting
simulation of all major discharges throughout system.
* Physical modelling is worthwhile for works on major channels, but tlhe modelling has to be
focussed.
* Undertake an EtA at the outset and periodically review critical areas for changes.



75                             Appendix C
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN STAGE -1 PROJECT (Cr. 1532 - PAK)
IMPLEMENTATIO:N COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix C: Economic Analysis
A. Completion and Costs
1.    The Borrower's Completion Report estimates that Rs 6,499 million (US$141.8 million)
will be spent to complete LBOD between II)A Credit closing at end 1997 and completion in end
1999. Of this amount (based on the Borrower's PC-1 (Second Revision). These amounts are
slated to be spent 33% in the first half of 1998, 50% from mid-1998 to mid-1999, and 17% in the
last half of 1999, 71% of it to finish Chotiari Reservoir and Nara Canal works. This completion
of LBOD is being financed under NDP Project. These expenditures will bring the total cost of
LBOD to Rs 31,039 million (US$984.0 million), of which 86% will have been expended up to
the closing of IDA's LBOD credit and 14% thereafter under the NDP Project. By contrast, this
ICR estimates total project cost of US$1L,021.0 million based on the Bank's projection of
remaining period costs. The difference is largely on account of higher estimates for rehabilitation
of the Tidal Link, IDC, administration and overheads by the Bank. The Borrower's expenditures
before IDA's LBOD Credit became effective in 1985 are, for purposes of rate-of-return analysis,
sunk costs. They have been excluded.
2.    The cost tables in the Borrower's latest PC-1 were compiled in February 1997; those in
the Borrower's Completion Report, early in 1998. Based on subsequent developments and
information, the ICR estimates that the Borrower's cost estimates are reasonable, but that
completion of the remaining LBOD works under NDP will take four years, not two, i.e. until
early 2002. Total cost estimates in the ICR are largely based on the Borrower's Completion
Report; but with post-LBOD-credit expenditures stretched out over four years instead of the two
estimated by the PC-I (Second Revision).
B. Project Agricultural Benefits
3.    Increased agricultural production in the LBOD irrigated perimeter accounted for 97.8%
of the project's benefits as projected by the Bank's 1984 SAR. The remaining 2.2% was
expected from non-crop damage reduction because the project would lower the watertable and
would evacuate some, but not all, of the water from major storms and floods.
4.    The key indicators of increased agricultural production were changes in land use
(cropping pattern and cropping intensity) and in crop yields. It was expected that, once project
facilities were commissioned for an areat, water tables would drop, soil salinity and sodicity
would drop, and more irrigation water would become available to farmers. As a consequence,
farmers were expected to (a) achieve higher yields, (b) reclaim abandoned land, increasing their
cropping intensity, and (c) shift from low-value, salt- and waterlogging-tolerant crops like rice to
higher-value crops like cotton. Results (a) and (c) would stem from improved drainage alone;
while outcome (b) would occur only if both drainage and irrigation-water availability increased --
because cropping in Sindh is constrained by the timely availability of fresh water. Farmers were
expected to realize the bulk of their gains in the first five years after the commissioning of their
area, progressing gradually to full development thereafter.



76                               Appendix C
5.     These key indicators were monitored by SDSC, which established a baseline in 1987/88
and has continually monitored sample watercourses, as well as control watercourses not affected
by the project. There has been a great deal of discussion regarding the design of SDSC's M&E
work program. The date of the baseline, three years after project initiation, is not a problem since
it is unlikely that agricultural benefits were flowing from project investrnents until well after
1987/88.1 The "purity" of the control watercourses has been extensively discussed; specifically
whether they are really fully unaffected by the project, since the reach of the Spinal Drain and
Main Drains on the Left Bank Indus is extremely wide. Moreover, SDSC has generally not
reported yields for crops other than wheat and cotton (the two principal crops), nor full input and
output physical and price information that would permit construction of crop and farm budgets.
6.     The drainage system of Nawabshah was commissioned in 1995, but those of Sanghar and
Mirpurkhas have not yet been commissioned. Because of maintenance problems and sabotage,
not all commissioned drainage systems are operating satisfactorily. Moreover, most of the
additional fresh water that will be delivered by the project when complete is not yet available.
There have been minor, local increases from scavenger tubewells but the major increases in canal
water deliveries await completion of Chotiari Reservoir and Nara Canal modifications.
Therefore, in early 1998, it is still too early to be able to get more than preliminary indications of
LBOD's agricultural benefits.
7.    In an effort to establish those indications, in late 1997, the socio-economic survey teams
of SDSC conducted a special survey of ten watercourses in Nawabshah where the drainage
system was working (as indicated by the tubewells operating at least 50% of the time). Results of
this survey were presented in December 1997 and summarized in Table 1. The interim results
show that while the percentage of: (a) abandoned land decreased in project and non-project
areas, the abandoned area decreased in the project area and in Nawabshah by a greater percentage
than in the control area; (b) cropped area increased in project and non-project areas, the increase
was more pronounced in the project area, and even more so in the completed Nawabshah area;
(c) cropping intensity increased in project and non-project areas, the increase was more
pronounced in the project area and in Nawabshah than in the control area; (d) farming intensity
increased in the project area and in Nawabshah, it actually decreased in the control areas; (e) land
planted to wheat decreased in the project area and Nawabshah, it increased in the control area; (f)
land planted to cotton (an indicator of reduced waterlogging and salinity) increased in project
area only marginally, it increased significantly in Nawabshah and in non-project areas. With
respect to yields, the results show that while yields for: (a) wheat and cotton increased in the
project area and in the control area, the increase in the control area was less pronounced than in
the project area or Nawabshah. Preliminary results on land holding and land tenure2 are
intriguing. They show that while: (a) the mean land holding (in acres) decreased in the project
area and in Nawabshah, it increased in the control area; and (b) the percentage of land cropped by
Haris (tenants) increased while that cropped by Zamindars (landlords) decreased.  These
preliminary results suggest a positive equity effect of drainage projects, and the opposite e"ect
from unchecked waterlogging and salinity.
8.     The inability to document conclusive farm  benefits, over 13 years after credit
effectiveness is not entirely surprising. Completion of works has been greatly delayed. Benefits
' In fact, the principal problem with LBOD M&E is that, given the major delays in implementation, even
with a late start, the M&E unit ended up running eight or more years of baselines.
2 only project area data is available for the latter.



77                              Appendix C
were never expected to build up quickly upon commissioning of the works. In the instance,
while drainage works have been completed and commissioned on the ten distributaries, irrigation
works that would increase fresh water supply and permnit cropping to expand have not.
9.    In the absence of conclusive farm benefit estimates from the socio-economic survey, the
ICR re-estimate of project benefits is forced back to projections based (a) on physical measures
of project impact (mainly changes in dept]h to watertable and in salinity), (b) on projections of
such future impact based on assumptions about rate of completion and success in operating and
maintaining the system, and (c) on reasonable assumptions of what farmers would do, and of the
results they would achieve under these conditions. The best such estimates of farm impact of the
project are those made in connection with the MTR, at which time the last actual farm-survey
information was that for 1990/91. This is still the best available estimate of LBOD's on-farm
benefits as per the SAR economic analysis. However, the MTR projections, read in conjunction
with the preliminary results presented above and in Table 1, provide an adequate basis to infer
that project impacts will indeed meet or exceed SAR projections when implementation is
completed and the proposed O&M regime is operational for a few years.
10.  It is commonly believed, and the ICR believes, that there are major LBOD benefits in
addition to those captured by the 1984 SAR projections. For reasons of economy, the LBOD
drainage system was not designed to handle major floods such as those of 1988, 1992, and 1994.
However, surface drains have had a major impact, not just in reducing the non-farm damage from
flooding and waterlogging as anticipated by the SAR, but also in reducing the time of farmland
submersion in floods. This effect was most noticeable in 1994 when more of LBOD's surface
drains were constructed. While farmers and local officials are agreed that this is a very major
benefit, SDSC's socio-economic survey has not estimated its magnitude.
C. Economic Rate of Return
Assumptions
11.   As stated above, in 1997, the Borrower revised and up-dated its economic analysis in
connection with issuing PC-1 (Second Revision). 1996 Rupees were used as the numeraire.
Foreign costs were converted into Rupees by trimester using the quarterly prevailing exchange
rates. Current Rupees were converted into 1996 Rupees using GDP deflators. 1996 prices and
World-Bank projected 2005 prices were used. The analysis assumed that works would be
completed by end-1999 (see para. 1). As a function of its revised assumptions about dates of
completion of works, the Borrower's analysis revised projections of on-farm benefits, using
substantially the same assumptions about i.armer behavior used in the 1984 SAR and in the 1994
MTR analyses. The most recent empirical data informing the crop and farm models was from
1990/91. The socio-economic survey found that the SAR's baseline needed significant revisions.
12.   Prevailing prices were used except where there is some compelling reason to believe that
they are distorted. In projecting benefits, World Bank commodity projections to 2005 have been
used for traded commodities, which accounts for most projected project output. Prices of non-
traded outputs (fruits, vegetables, and fodder) are based on 1995/96 market prices after harvest
adjusted, as with traded-commodity prices, for transport and marketing charges to arrive at farm-
gate prices.



78                                Appendix C
13.    The Borrower's re-estimated return analysis does not include the non-farm benefits from
flood abatement and watertable lowering counted at appraisal. Like the SAR, it did not count
benefits outside the three project commands3, nor did it count the major on-farm benefit of the
project's surface drains -- reducing the submergence times from floods (see para. 10). In
addition, it did not count the benefits to or from: (a) public health from the evacuation of stagnant
pools; (b) the expected substantial expansion of fishing activities in Chotiari Reservoir; (c) the
multiplier effects from the project's substantial employment generation impacts; (d) the
institutional reforms throughout Pakistan's irrigation and drainage which have been inspired by
LBOD; (e) rural infrastructure from improved drainage; (f) drainage and irrigation roads; or (g)
rural electrification benefits of the drainage infrastructure. These benefits are highly significant,
perhaps far exceeding the agronomic benefits of the project. It recognized, however, that a major
part of the benefits from Chotiari Reservoir and from remodeling Nara Canal will accrue outside
of Nawabshah, Sanghar, and Mirpurkhas commands. Therefore, in calculating returns, 57% of
the cost of Nara Canal works and 40% of the cost of Chotiari Reservoir have been counted.
Economic IRR as per SAR
14.    On the basis of the above assumptions regarding direct agricultural impacts, the
Borrower re-calculates the economic internal rate of return (ERR) as 14.64%. See the PC- 1
(Second Revision), pp. 106-117 for details. Project life was taken to be 40 years.
15.    The ICR accepts the methodology of the Borrower's re-estimate and its assumptions,
except that the most likely completion date is now early 2002, not end- 1999 as assumed by the
Borrower when the re-estimate was made. Adjusting the calculations for this further delay in
completion lowers the ERR to 13% because, while only a few costs are delayed, substantial direct
benefits are i.e. those accruing primarily from commissioning of Chotiari Reservoir.
16.    The Borrower's estimate of its opportunity cost of capital is 12 to 14% (see PC- I (Second
Revision), p. 108), which is reasonable for a capital-short country like Pakistan. The Bank's
estimate of the Cost of Capital for Pakistan is 12%. At this rate, the project is projected to give
satisfactory returns, provided that the analytical assumptions about its completion, operation and
maintenance prove justified.
17.    The re-estimated ERR of 13% is not significantly different from the 13.6% estimated at
appraisal in 1984 or the 12.5% estimated at MTR in 1994. Inclusion of other unquantifiable
benefits would probably increase return to between 15-20%. This is so despite very major delays
in realizing benefits, considerable cost over-runs and, more important, the fact that vast sums
have been spent over a decade before benefits started to flow. Farm benefits' assumptions have
not been significantly changed, but the real values of the incremental farm outputs, particularly of
cotton, are (and are projected to remain) considerably higher than they were expected to be at
appraisal.
3 Visual and anecdotal evidence suggests that project benefits/impact extend far beyond the three
component command areas. This may explain the apparent improvement of impact indicators in control
areas.



79                               Appendix C
Sensitivity Tests
18.    The Borrower has performed a number of sensitivity tests, of which two are particularly
instructive. Firstly, the ERR was recalcul(ated to see what would happen if the Chotiari Reservoir
and Nara Canal irrigation works were not completed. In that case, additional irrigation water
would not be available (except from scavenger tubewells); farmers would realize higher yields
and would switch to higher-value crops thanks to lower watertable and salt abatement, but they
would not be able to expand their cropping on reclaimed land. In that case, the ERR would be
11.48%, assuming end-1999 completion and still 11% assuming completion in early 2002. In
short, completion of the irrigation improvements appears to be worth doing, despite the greatly
inflated cost of Chotiari Reservoir on account of redesign to incorporate features that should in
the first place have been included in the original design and cost estimates.
19.    Secondly, the Borrower explored results if agricultural services were provided to
farmers, with the effect of accelerating adjustment to improved drainage and irrigation water
availability, hence accelerating benefits. In that case, the ERR would be 17.9%, assuming end-
1999 completion and 17% assuming completion in early 2002.
ICR Most Likely Estimate of Economic Returns
20.    Sticking close to the SAR methodology for comparative purposes, the most likely
outcome of LBOD is an economic return of 13%. However, this methodology misses many
significant sorts of benefits, two of which are discussed below The first is the benefit of reducing
the time farm land is flooded after major rains. This is the benefit foremost in the minds of area
farmers at present; it was manifest in 1994.
21.    The second is the effect outside the project area, in the rest of Pakistan, of the reforms
pioneered by LBOD as part of the MTR. Pakistan has the world's largest contiguous irrigation
system and depends heavily on it. Yet the system has been poorly operated and maintained in
recent decades; neither governments nor farmers would pay for adequate O&M. What O&M
took place was generally expensive relative to results. The institutions for getting the job done
were absent or not working. These problems came to a head in Government of Sindh's inability
to meet the massive O&M costs of LBOD, or to get irrigators to pay them. As a result, an
institutional and financial system has been devised to solve the problems. Its implementation has
been legislated and has begun. These changes not only improve the chances that LBOD will
generate the benefits it was meant to generate. They are likely to have a major impact on
improving irrigation O&M quality while reducing its cost throughout Pakistan.
22.    Like the flood-reduction benefits, these institutional and financial benefits are direct.
Therefore, taking into account the probabilities of future institutional and financial arrangements,
the most likely ERR from LBOD is probably substantially higher than 13%. In the absence of
conclusive data, however, the ICR is not prepared to say how much higher.



80                                    Appendix C
Table 1. Summary of Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation Results
1987/88        1996/97         1987/88         1996/97
% of Weighted CCA            Rabi (Winter/Dry) Season    Kharif (Summer/Rainy) Season
Abandoned Land
Project Area       33             21              33              21
Nawabshah         25             20              28               19
Control Area       46              33             42               31
Cropped Area
l _  __           Project Area       47             57              49               59
Nawabshah         51             69              53               64
Control Area       46              48              52              59
Cropping Intensity
Project Area       48             57              49               59
Nawabshah         51              69             53               64
Control Area       46              48              52              59
Farming Intensity
Project Area       72             77              73               79
Nawabshah         72              90             76               83
Control Area       85              72              90              86
Wheat
Project Area       70             64              n/a             n/a
Nawabshah         71              66             n/a              n/a
Control Area       73              79              n/a             n/a
Cotton
Project Area      n/a             n/a             58               62
Nawabshah         n/a            n/a             63               71
Control Area       n/a             n/a             61              68
Crop Yield Data (Tons/Ha)
Wheat
Project Area      1.6             2.1             n/a             n/a
Nawabshah         1.7            2.1             n/a              n/a
Control Area       1.4             1.9            n/a              n/a
Cotton
Project Area      n/a             n/a             0.6             1.5
Nawabshah         n/a            n/a             0.5              1.4
Control Area       n/a             n/a            0.7              1.5
Land Tenure (% Cropped by)
Project Area4
Hari       62       |      69              67      3       72
Zamindar        27       |      30              33      |       32
Mean Land Holding (Acres)                 (1987/88)                       (1996/97)
Project Area               42                              37
Nawabshah                 36                              31
Control Area               33                              38
Source: Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation Study, Implementation Completion Evaluation Study Report, (Sindh
Devclopment Studies Center, University of Sindh, Jamshoro, in association with ITAD Ltd and Wye College, UK,
December 1997)
4 The only data available is for project area



81                                    Appendix D
LEFT BANK OUTFALL DRAIN ISTAGE-1 PROJECT (CR. 1532-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix D: The Drainage Crisis
1.     The Need for Drainage:  An effeclive and efficient drainage system  is essential to
sustain-:environmentally-sound irrigated agriculture. The aquifer on which the IBIS is overlaid
averages 3000 feet deep and is completely unified. The Indus Basin has flat topography, porous
soils, and semi-arid climate with high evaporation. In such an environment, irrigation without
drainage leads inevitably to rising watertables and eventual salinity. Yet even under these
circumstances, it is possible, and economically rational, to postpone the provision of drainage
while expanding the irrigation network. This is what Pakistan chose to do.
2.      Magnitude of the Crisis: Waterlogging and salinity are the principal threats to the
sustainability of irrigated agriculture in Pakistan: 37.6 percent of the Gross Commanded Area
(GCA) is waterlogged1, of which 15 percent is severely waterlogged2. 14 percent of the surface
is saline3, of which 6 percent is severely saline4. The watertable in the Indus Plain was deeper
than 90 feet at the turn of the century. By 1961, it was shallower than 10 feet in 38 percent of
the area; by 1981 it was shallower than 10 feet in 45 percent of the area; and by 1989 it was
shallower than 5 feet in 15 percent of the area.. While the watertable is declining rapidly in most
Fresh Groundwater (FGW) areas (the watertable declined from 11.7 feet in 1988 to 23.3 feet in
1995; and is declining by up to 5 feet p.a. in some areas, and 2.1 feet p.a. in Punjab), it is still
increasing in some Saline Groundwater (SGW) areas5. Between 1978 and 1989, the area with
watertable shallower than 5 feet (pre-Monsoon) increased from 4.8 million acres to 5.9 million
acres. The area provided with drainage in which the watertable rose also increased from 0.925
million acres in 1988 to 1.3 million acres in 19916. Salinity is also increasing: in SGW areas,
salinity remains at the very high level of 3,900-4,000 parts per million (PPM); and in FGW areas,
salinity is estimated to have increased from 900 PPM in 1988 to 940 PPM in 1995. The twin
problems of waterlogging and salinity are most severe in Sindh Province (Lower Indus Plain),
where more than half of the waterlogged and salinity affected areas are located.  There, the
watertable is less than 8 feet deep in 37 percent of the areas, 56 percent of the area is moderately
saline, and 32,5 percent is severely so. The area requiring drainage in the near future, inclusive of
completed and ongoing project areas, is estirnated at 19.16 million acres, of which 5.84 million
acres are covered under ongoing projects, 2.22 million acres are in areas with completed projects
requiring further rehabilitation, and 11.1 million acres have no drainage.
I      Defined as area with watertable shallower than 10 feet below the surface. The critical threshold at which the
watertable begins to affect the productivity of agricultural land is about 8 feet below the surface.
2       Defined as area with watertable shallower than 5 feet below the surface. Irrigated agriculture is only
marginally viable at this level of watertable, especially when combined with excessive salinity.
3       Defined as having electrical conductivity of 8-15 ECe.
4       Defined as having electrical conductivity of above 15 ECe.
5       Smedema, quoted in Dina Umali in Irrigation Induced Salinity, The World Bank Technical Paper No. 215,
Table 3.7; and Masood Ahmad and Gary Kutcher in Irrigation Planning with Environmental Considerations, The
World Bank Technical Paper No. 166, Table 5.1, pp. 52-53.
6       More recent data is not available.



82                                 Appendix D
3.     Impact of Waterlogging and Salinity: The rise of groundwater tables to near the
surface in SGW areas, and the consequent soil salinization became, and continue to be, serious
environmental problems associated with irrigation in the Indus Basin. The impact of salinity on
agricultural productivity is severe: a 25 percent reduction in the production of Pakistan's major
crops is attributed by many experts and the Borrower to soil salinity alone7. In Sindh Province
where the problem is much more severe, the Borrower estimates that the impact may be closer to
40-60 percent in SGW areas. The critical threshold at which salinity begins to affect the
productivity of agricultural land varies by crop. Similarly, the impacts of waterlogging on yields
are startling. High groundwater tables inhibit root growth and therefore reduce crop yields. As the
depth to watertable decreases to within 5 feet, yields of all major crops begin to decline rapidly.
At 0 to 0.8 feet depth-to-watertable, yields are 2 percent for cotton, 9 percent for sugar, and 21
percent for wheat. In addition, there are serious environmental and poverty impacts associated
with waterlogging and salinity.
4.     The Current Disposal Strategy: 24 million of the 33 million tons of salt which are
brought into the basin annually are retained and recycled within it: (i) 2.2 million tons are stored
in evaporation ponds in Cholistan Desert; (ii) 2.6 million tons are stored in Pakistan's largest
inland freshwater lakes (Manchar and Hammal) on the Right Bank Indus; (iii) 0.7 million tons
are trapped in the Peshawar Valley; and (iv) 18.5 million tons are stored in the aquifer through
direct seepage from canals, watercourses, and drains. The rest is disposed into the Arabian Sea
via the Lower Indus River itself. This means that salinity levels increase rapidly as extraction of
irrigation supplies increases in the Lower Indus. But in addition to distributing river supplied
salt, additional salts are mobilized directly onto the surface (and retained) in FGW areas due to
tubewell irrigation.
5.     Drainage Options for Pakistan: Pakistan has three basic options for dealing with its
drainage problem. The first option is to dispose the drainage effluent outside the IBIS: The
second option is to minimize the drainage effluent by changing the chemistry of drain water,
either through dilution and re-use, or through concentration and separation of dissolved salts for
subsequent disposal. The third option is to prevent or reduce the volume of drainable surplus
through source control. The options are not mutually exclusive. Each of these options must meet
the criteria of completeness (the extent to which they can be implemented alone or they rely on
other options), effectiveness (the extent to which they solve the drainage problem), efficiency
(the extent to which an option is cost-effective), and acceptability (the extent to which an option
is acceptable for whatever reasons).
6.     Conclusion: There is a widespread consensus between Pakistan and its principal donors
that the lack of an effective drainage system for the IBIS is by far the principal threat to the
sustainability of agriculture in the Indus Basin, and that it demands urgent solutions. Not only
must the drainable surplus be reduced dramatically and permanently at source, but internal
drainage must be more adequate, and the IBIS must be provided with a drainage outlet to the
Arabian Sea.
7      Report No. 11884-PAK: Pakistan Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options; The World Bank, March 25,
1994.



IBRD 18245
) (>> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~68                                                                       70-                                 JUNE 19847
PAKISTAN                                                                          AFGHANISTAN                                          68N                          -                        7                                  JUNE 1984
~~z                    S        B~ALUC/fIS TAN                 x                                   L diBang
LEFT BANK  OUTFALL DRAIN7                                                                                                                                                                      -PNA
STAGE  I PROJECT                                                                    v PA<'K  AN/   28'                                                                   Sukko8
P A  K,  5 TAN).                                                                                
fn, ndiines Darn  armao lraT TeWordSnio O  safeR .xaooaot frr inn oonwmenncrn of                  "'                                    J   | _oukd~
n    -i 1sn        - of T  W      o Sddn Tnd .s   no T an  thon at- i_-*n
Cor mai-on The dn-,inoarsosf usd INf boMnur.s Thoyn on hF nap dO r                          - e                  IN DIA                             Lorkono                        oarrage\
rmbo h  Sof anh e W'io Sar and y   Innoossrrs or sospno ofr ou=ron oonY iadoom(                                                                                        a                                               /
68 /aTo S,hiAr                                     69_ 70                                                                                   _ (/                                                                            PROJECT   LOCATION
oo     ,POECTAEA  S/ / N  D                    PROJECT COMPONENTS
Mono                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~        ~ ~~~~~PROJ ECT  AREA  I  S    N                               ProIect Sab.re. Boondaries
PROJECT  COMPONENTS                                                                                            |                 /      Rescrooir Consrrction
I       \                                                              _       Protect Subore. Boundaries                         I
Dod.'....   Canal Remodelling
Drainoge Tobeclls                                                                                                           . -         O. tfall Drain Remodelling
o                                                                                                    Scovenger Tubea.lls                               \-                                                                                     Otfall Droin
NAWABSHAH                                                             r          Tle Droinage
'>"                                                                                                              WA ~~~~~~~~~ . eDa,oeHA                                 EXISTING
$ \ S oNowYcfflbshah                     /X// Reservoir Ccnstrociaon                                                      \          Sh-               abtfI Doc-
2,v    ~~~~~~~~....Canal Remodelihng                                                                                                  ,,,.Canals
%~~~~~~   O0~~~~~~~~~~n, ~~~~~~~Outfall Drain                                                                                                                                                 - Rive
Slnrd                                                                                                         26'         
Sronv *si      '        .                                                                                                                            Slr91icirs t a-- Otdol l  Dro in  ;26 ttD-"AcR  S ngiR  Left Bank CaLnhment Area   260
EXISTING,                    26                          ChA  .;                                                                         Selected Towns & Voilages
26b                                \            SI D Outfall Drain                                                                                o  Pojet A-e op                                                                               Barrages
S  Canal                                                 I                        ~                                                         TidalI Mod Plart
-/2+4 2   oi ~R-   & Banded Area                            7                                                                                     Seasonal Flooding/Salt Pans
0    Selected Ton  & Villags                                          Koa  -Barrage        MiUokae -                      kot       fD- 0450   Relatine Distance Measurean
K~~~~n~~~tnr  ~~~~~Mn1wr Bands                                                                                    0hlyergad          /     -0Pro,nrc,ia  Boun.daries
S   T nd                                         11111 1e" t_  Barrage                                   /                                                                                 .N  =  Internationa  Bwondaries
Adarn   R>,, ';)tD-450   ReoIf,e DI,t.nc. Mecisue--                                                                                                             b)        r
lofarcepfar drains,  an           ,ro orne                                                                           )                           20      40      (Ii MILES
4i 'eUR-                          K*,c h,i, vmfo, clwcnr,f,rafra  ord
Borrage     /rerila Dand -ana//log  -ill be                                                                                                                                                            AKN
HYDERABAD                                                     >000/A5             * criactf/rronog    fre                             A                  Thaii              Kadhon Pa 4 /, *0 009             C          K rIn
g   t   X                        '   i;    RttO-J50                       1 un/w = /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  000 f0 Otfo/ sD.                                                        o hoo  P.,,, Ooofo// t ,,,,>
Tondo Mohd                  Digni                              o       10      20     30                                              ttD-I-JlS95
)   \                    .,                                          ~~~~~~~~ ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI L ES  25- -2 4                  ,
250          Iow
25\                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I  N    D   I  A
rO r^Ot//Ta                         KhO i amond trko  6a9'                                                7p0                                                     6&8                                                   700



