UFFICIAL
~CUMENW      IT NUMBER 1532 PAK
Province Project Agreement
(Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
Dated             a                      , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUM4BER 1532 PAK
PROVINCE PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   30        , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATI     (hereinafter called the
Association)  and  PROVINCE  OF   SIND  (hereinafter  called  the
Province).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred forty-seven million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 147,600,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Province agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, except
that the term "Project" means Parts C, D (1) and (2), E (2), F
(2) and (3) (b) and G (ii) of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement for which the Province shall
be responsible.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Province declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, drainage


﻿- 2 -
and irrigation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be prc--
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Province in carrying
out Part C of the Project, the Province shall employ, or cause to
be employed, local engineering and accounting consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association and to be appointed not later than
January 1, 1987.
Section 2.03. The Province shall ensure that arrangements
for training to be provided to staff under Part F (3) (b) of the
Project will be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Province undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Province to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) The Province shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Province shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The Province shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the  Association's   accredited  representatives  to   visit  the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Province of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) The IProvince shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents
relevant to the Project.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Province shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Province and the Association of their respective obligations
under this Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.07. (a) The Province shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) The Province shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Province of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Province shall provide the staff and local
consultants (if and when necessary) required for project imple-
mentation on a timely basis.
Section 2.09. The Province shall cause at least two addi-
tional technical field teams to be fully trained and ready by
April 1, 1985, so as to ensure the prompt start of expanded
on-farm water management activities under Part C of the Project.
Section 2.10. (a) The Province shall, as a condition for
making financial assistance available to farmers for the purposes
of Part C (1) of the Project, cause such farmers to form Water
Users Associations at the watercourse level.
(b) The Water Users Associations referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section shall assist the concerned departments and
agencies of the Province:
(i)   by  providing their portion of cash and labor
required for Part C (1) of the Project; and
(ii)   in assessing the needs under, and formulating work
plans for, Part C (1) of the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) The Province shall progressively assume
full responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
drainage facilities constructed under Parts A and B (1) and (2),
and the irrigation water storage facilities constructed under
Part D (3), of the Project as follows:
(i)   with respect to such facilities constructed under
Parts A and D (3) of the Project, after about one
year of completion of each of such facilities; and
(ii)   with respect to such facilities constructed under
Parts B (1) and (2) of the Project, after about
one year of completion of all of such facilities
in each Project sub-area.


﻿- 5 -
(b) In order to facilitate the Province in assuming respon-
sibility for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Province shall
assign adequate numbers of its operation and maintenance staff to
the Project for at least one year prior to assuming such respon-
sibility.
(c) The Province shall, jointly with WAPDA, inspect the
drainage and irrigation water storage facilities constructed
under the Project both at completion of, and prior to assumption
by the Province of responsibility for, such facilities pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.12. The Province shall, with respect to the opera-
tion and maintenance and capital replacement requirements of the
drainage and irrigation storage facilities provided under the
Project: (a) acting in conjunction with WAPDA, establish an
independent technical team acceptable to the Association to moni-
tor and review such requirements; (b) cause such team to carry
out such monitoring and review at regular three-year intervals,
commencing not later than January 1, 1988; and (c) make adequate
and timely budgetary allocations to finance such requirements
insofar as related to the facilities transferred to the Province.
Section 2.13. The Province shall ensure that the Water Users
Associations referred to in Section 2.10 (a) of this Agreement
will operate and maintain the watercourses renovated, and the
field drains constructed, under Part C of the Project.
Section 2.14. (a) The Province shall, with respect to Part G
of the Project, not later than September 30, 1985, prepare and
furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Associa-
tion, for review and comment, and thereafter implement, or cause
to be implemented, a program for impact monitoring and evaluation
of the entire Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, including preparation of detailed terms of
reference and invitations for proposals from independent local
institutions to carry out the work.
(b) The Province shall, not later than February 1, 1986,
enter into a contract with an independent local institution
acceptable to the Association, for carrying out the impact evalu-
ation of the Project referred to in paragraph (a) above under
terms and conditions, and in accordance with terms of reference
and procedures, satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-6-
(c)   The Province shall ensure that the local institution
referred to in paragraph (b) above will (i) obtain the assistance
of a suitable internationally-selected institution in carrying
out the said impact evaluation of the Project and in preparing a
project completion report, and (ii) to this end, not later than
February 1, 1986, enter into a sub-contract with such interna-
tionally-selected institution for expert services to be provided
by such internationally-selected institution for a duration, and
in accordance with terms of reference and procedures, satisfac-
tory to the Association.
Section 2.15. The Province shall cause the additional water
supplies resulting from the remodelling of the Nara and Jamrao
Canals and the construction of the Chotiari Reservoir under Part
D of the Project to be fully utilized within the Project sub-
areas and adjoining areas, including those falling under the
proposed Makhi-Faresh irrigation project.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition in respect of activities related to the Project, in-
cluding, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) The Province shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. The Province shall: (a) have the accounts
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (b) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by


﻿-7-
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; (c) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tuires and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request; and (d) without limitation to the fore-
going, furnish to the Association, not later than six months
after the end of each such year, the unaudited accounts of the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Province shall at all times operate, main-
tain, renew and repair, or cause to be operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired, in accordance with appropriate drainage,
irrigation and water management practices, the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project.
Section 3.04. The Province shall review annually the levels
of funding required for operation and maintenance of irrigation,
surface and sub-surface drainage and flood control facilities and
shall furnish to the Association a summary of such levels of
funding, for review and comment, not later than February 1 in
each year.
Section 3.05. The Province shall recover from the benefi-
ciaries at least 25% of the cost of the materials provided to
them for the renovation of watercourses under Part C of the
Project.
Section 3.06. In order to facilitate the Province in meeting
its obligation assumed pursuant to the Command Water Management
Project (Credit 1487-PAK) to increase water charges periodically,
or make other appropriate financial arrangements, to cover an
increasing percentage of the operation and maintenance costs of
irrigation facilities located in the Province, so that by July 1,
1988, all of such costs are being recovered, the Province shall,
not later than February 1, 1986, review with the Association the
level of such water charges or other appropriate financial
arrangements and the proposed future measures required to be
taken in connection therewith.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.07. (a) The Province shall, with respect to the
drainage facilities provided under the Project:
(i) about one year after commencement of full opera-
tion of such facilities in each Project sub-area,
begin to collect drainage charges from the bene-
ficiaries at the rate of at least 25% of the
operation and maintenance costs of such facili-
ties; and
(ii) thereafter, at least once every two years increase
such drainage charges to cover an increasing per-
centage of the operation and maintenance costs of
such facilities, so that by July 1, 1995, at least
50% of such costs, and by July 1, 2005, all of
such costs are being recovered.
Provided, however, that the drainage charges to be recovered
pursuant to (i) and (ii) above shall keep pace and be commen-
surate with the benefits actually accruing to the beneficiaries.
(b)   The Province shall, at least three months prior to
the levy of such drainage charges pursuant to paragraph (a) (i)
of this Section and each subsequent increase in such drainage
charges pursuant to paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, review
with the Association the benefits actually accruing to the bene-
ficiaries against the projected benefits and the proposed levels
of such drainage charges.
Section 3.08. The Province shall: (a) carry out a phased
program for expanding the functions of Water Users Associations
to cover all aspects of farm drainage, including the construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of drainage facilities; and (b)
to this end, not later than July 1, 1986, amend the Ordinance or
adopt other measures as necessary.
Section 3.09. The Province shall ensure that the on-going
Rohri Canal remodelling progresses at a rate such that the bene-
fits of such remodelling are available in the Rohri Canal command
area falling within the Project area not later than January 1,
1990 or such other date as the Association may agree, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly and adequately, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this
purpose.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Province thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Province of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address-hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Province:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi
Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Province may be taken or executed by
its Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Planning and Devel-
opment Department or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF SIND
Byt
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of   <R
198
FOR SECRETARY


