Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2254
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 67.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 20, 2012
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2012)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
HRKl.00 = US$0.1735
US$1.00 = HRK 5.7649
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         Annual Development Plan                  MoF          Ministry of Finance
CARDS       Community Assistance for                 MoSES       Ministry of Science, Education and
Reconstruction, Development and                      Sports
Stability                                MSTD        Ministry of Sea, Tourism and
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                          Development
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability         MTEF        Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
Assessment                               NCB         National Competitive Bidding
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment           NCC         National Curriculum Council
Report                                   NCEEE       National Center for the External
CPD         Continuous Professional Development                  Evaluation of Education
EC          European Commission                      NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
EMIS        Education Management Information         OECD        Organization for Economic
System                                               Cooperation and Development
EMP         Environmental Management Plan            PAL         Programmatic Adjustment Loan
ESDP        Education Sector Development Project     PISA        Programme for International Student
ESFA        Education Secor Fiduciary Assessment                 Assessment
ETTA        Education and Teacher Training           PPL         Public Procurement Law
Agency                                   QER         Quality Enhancement Review
EU          European Union                           SAO          State Audit Office
ICB         International Competitive Bidding        SBD          Standard Bidding Documents
IMF         International Monetary Fund              SIL          Specific Investment Loan
MEPPPC      Ministry of Environmental Protection,    SWAp         Sector-Wide Approach
Physical Planning and Construction       VET         Vocational Education and Training
MIC         Middle Income Country                    VETIS       VET Information System
MIS         Management Information System
Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director: Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager: Alberto Rodriguez
Project Team Leader: Ivan Drabek
ICR Primary Author: Suzana de Campos Abbott


﻿CROATIA
Education Sector Development Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design. ................  ..... 9
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes   ...............    ..... 13
3. Assessment of Outcomes         ........................................... 21
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.     ....................    ..... 26
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance    ................     ........ 27
6. Lessons Learned           .....................................     ......... 30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                       ................................. 32
Annex 2. Outputs by Component           ...............................  ..... 33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis   ............................. 39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................. 42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.       ..........    ............. 43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....     ..... 44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders   .   .......... 61
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents       ..........................   ..... 62
Annex 10. Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010.     ..................63
MAP


﻿
﻿A. Basic Information
Education Sector
Country:             Croatia             Project Name:        Development Program
Project
Project ID:          P086671              L/C/TF Number(s):   IBRD-73320
ICR Date:            02/23/2012          ICR Type: Core       Core ICR
GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:  SIL                 Borrower:            C   RTIA
CROATIA
Original Total
Omitnaltal        USD 85.OOM          Disbursed Amount:    USD 89.55M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 85.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Science, Education and Sports
Education and Teacher Training Agency
Vocational Education and Training Agency
National Center for the External Evaluation of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date       Date(s)
Concept Review:     10/21/2004   Effectiveness:      03/15/2006      03/15/2006
03/08/2007
Appraisal:         01/14/2005    Restructuring(s):                   06/15/2009
02/15/2011
Approval:          09/15/2005    Mid-term Review:    09/15/2008       10/03/2008
Closing:            03/31/2010       09/30/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory
1


﻿C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Q  lit  t       Moderately                    t
Quality at Entry:        at    yGovernment:                   Moderately Satisfactory
Unsatisfactoryement
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory     Implementing         Moderately Satisfactory
--Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank         Moderately          Overall Borrower     Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:         Unsatisfactory      Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicators      QAG Assessments           Rating
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry   None
No                                    Nn
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any  Yes              Quality of         None
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                       15                15
Primary education                                      40                40
Scondary education                                     45               45
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                  33               33
Education for the knowledge economy                      67              67
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou        Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:     Peter C. Harrold              Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:       Alberto Rodriguez             Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:  Ivan Drabek                   Rosita Maria Van Meel
ICR Team Leader:      Ivan Drabek
ICR Primary Author:   Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott
Ivan Drabek
2


﻿F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improved student learning and system performance.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
approval       Target      Completion or
documents)      Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Performance of students on PISA benchmarked, with Croatian performance
stable or just improving relative to EU averages.
Croatia's 2006 Scores                              Croatia's 2009
Scores
Reading: 477                                        re
Mathematics: 467                                   Meais: 46
Value         Science: 493                                        .
.                           2006 PISA or                 Science: 486
quantitative or
Qualitative)  EU's 2006 scores     higher
EU's 2009 scores
Reading: 483                                       Reading: 486
Mathematics: 491                                   Mathematics: 491
Science: 497                                       Science: 497
Date achieved  11/30/2006          09/30/2011                   11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Net enrollment ratio increases as a result of quality and access improvements
Pre-school:
Value         Pre-school: 43.0%    Pre-school: 55%  58%         Pre-school: 55.6%
quantitative or Primary: 96.5%     Primary: 98%     Primary: 94% Primary: 91.9%
Qualitative)  Secondary: 79.2%      Secondary: 85%  Secondary:  Secondary: 81.4%
81%
Date achieved 03/01/2005           09/30/2011       03/08/2007  09/30/2011
Comments      Partially achieved.
(incl. %     Targets revised in 2007 as the baseline values and targets had been calculated
achievement)  based on incomplete population data and using unclear methodology.
Indicator 3 : ICompletion rate increases as a result of quality and access improvements
Value                                               Primary: 96%
e     Primary: 91%          Primary: 93%    PPrimary: 97.5%
quantitative or Peomary: 91%       Primary: 73%     Secondary:  Secondary: 89.7%
Qualitative)  Secondary: 72.5%      Secondary: 75%  88.5%
Date achieved 03/01/2005           09/30/2011       03/08/2007  09/30/2011
Comments Achieved.
(incl. %      Targets revised in 2007, as the baseline values and targets had been calculated
achievement) ased on incomplete population data and using unclear methodology.
3


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target               Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator      Baseline Value      Values (from     Revised     cmplet
approval                   Completion or
documents)                  Target Years
Indicator 1: % of primary and secondary schools with 80% of staff attending continuous
upgraded professional development.
95% of
primary school
teachers w/
minimum 15
Value                                               hours
(quantitative  None                65-70%           70% of      N/A
or Qualitative)                                     secondary
school
teachers w/
minimum 15
hours.
[Date achieved 103/01/2005          09/30/2011      03/08/2007  09/30/2011
Comments       ot achieved.
(incl. %      Reliable data on teacher attendance could not be collected.
achievement)  Target changed in March 2007.
Indicator 2:  1% of faculties engaging in internal pedagogical development activities.
Value
Valueindicator
(quantitative  None                50%              dior        N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2005            09/30/2011      03/08/2007  03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %      Indicator dropped in March 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : 1% of primary schools using new curriculum.
100% primary
schools using new
Croatian National
Educational
Value                                                           Standards.
National curriculum
(quantitative  o                                                framework for
preschool, primary
and secondary
education
completed and
implemented.
Date achieved 03/01/2005           09/30/2011                   09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %     Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4: Education Management Information System operational.
4


﻿Value
(quantitative  Not operational      Fully operational            Fully operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2005            09/30/2011                   09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5: Education system increasingly benchmarking itself against EU and global
performance.
24 EU and
Vqual    e   No                    Monitoring in   OECD         Benchmarking done
(quantitative  N
or Qualitative)                     place           indicators   for EU indicators
benchmarked
Date achieved 03/01/2005            09/30/2011      03/08/2007   09/30/2011
Comments      Achieved.
(inc. %
ac.      t   Indicator target was detailed in March 2007 to facilitate monitoring.
achievement)
Indicator 6: Number of students included in national evaluation and matura.
34,127 students.
Matura is
All          mandatory for all
Value                                               gymnasium    Gymnasium
and VET students and
(quantitative  0                    43,400 students  adVT        suet n
(rQuaitative                                      students take voluntary for four
the matura   year VET students
exam         wanting to enroll
into tertiary
education.
[Date achieved 103/01/2005          09/30/2011      03/08/2007   09/30/2011
Comments      Achieved.
(incl. %      Indicator target definition changed in March 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 7: Education sector's fiduciary systems upgraded to address issues identified in
Education Sector Fiduciary Assessment (ESFA).
Value
ValueIndicator
(quantitative  None                 N/A              dior        N/A
or Qualitative)                                     dropped
[Date achieved 103/01/2005          09/30/2011      03/08/2007   09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %      Indicator dropped in March 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 8:  % of primary and secondary school principals completed new school leadership
F             training.
New
Value                                               leadership   New leadership
(quantitative  10%                  80%             training for  training established
or Qualitative)                                     principals   and implemented
implemented
Date achieved 03/01/2005            09/30/2011      03/08/2007   09/30/2011
5


﻿Comments      Achieved.
(ic. %       Indicator target definition changed in March 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :  Percentage of primary pupils in single shift.
Value                                               Indicator
(quantitative  17.5%                40%             replaced     48.18%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2005            09/30/2011      03/08/2007   09/30/2011
Comments      Achieved.
(incl. %      In March 2007, this indicator was replaced in the list of intermediate indicators
achievement)  with indicator 11 below but kept for monitoring purposes.
Indicator 10 : % of secondary pupils in single shift.
Value                                               Indicator
(quantitative  12%                  30%             dropped      35.15%
or Qualitative)                                     dropped
[Date achieved 103/01/2005          09/30/2011      03/08/2007  109/30/2011
Comments      Achieved.
(incl. %      In March 2007, this indicator was dropped from list of intermediate indicators
achievement)  but kept for monitoring purposes.
Indicator 11: % of primary pupils in three shifts.
Value
(quantitative  8.89%                                7%           1.92%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 103/08/2007                           09/30/2011  109/30/2011
Comments      Achieved.
(incl. %      Indicator added in March 2007 to replace indicator 9 above.
achievement)
Indicator 12 : IShare of VET students in total secondary education decreased.
Value
(quantitative  70%                                  67.6%        68.4%
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 03/08/2007           _09/30/2011                09/30/2011
Comments      Not achieved.
(incl. %
ac.      t   Indicator added in March 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Number of VET programs reduced in order to adapt to labor market needs.
Value
(quantitative  300                                  190          197
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/08/2007                            09/30/2011   09/30/2011
Comments      Partially achieved.
Baseline data for 2005-2006 school year; actual completion data for 2009-2010
aie.    t   school year.
Indicator added in March 2007.
6


﻿G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
No.     Ate                 DO                      IP             Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    12/29/2005        Satisfactory                                         0.00
2    12/08/2006   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory          5.31
3    02/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory          5.31
4    01/05/2008   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory         17.53
5    05/08/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 17.53
6    10/30/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 26.78
7    06/30/2009         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 37.87
8    12/28/2009   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory         48.76
9    06/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory         59.23
10    05/02/2011   Moderately Satisfactory I   Satisfactory                80.27
Mderately
11    02/07/2012                               Satisfactory                91.53
H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at   Amount
.   Board     Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                      Restructuring         Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)      POve                     Restructurin       Key Changes Made
PDO Change     DO     IP      in USD
millions
03/08/2007                  MS     MS          5.31  lAdjust indicators.
First Extension of Closing Date
06/15/2009        N          S      S         37.87   from March 31, 2010 to March
31, 2011.
Second Extension of Closing
02/15/2011        N         MS     MS         80.27   Date from March 31, 2011 -
September 30, 2011.
7


﻿1. Disbursement Profile
Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
100-
75-
5!050
i
25-
0-
b%                           m             <      c       2      2            r       r
C-.                         C.            C,      C5     C5     C, 0C
0q     0q     0q     0m     0q     0q     0q     0m      I


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. At the time of Appraisal of the Education Sector Development Project (the Project) in
January 2005, Croatia was moving well past the challenges presented by national
independence and economic transition, and focusing efforts on European Union (EU)
accession and the accompanying structural reform agenda. In June 2004, the European
Commission had granted Croatia candidate status for EU membership. EU accession and the
related requirement around the acquis communautaire were expected to be the focus of much
national attention. Still, Croatia was facing major structural challenges to improve its
competitiveness and investment climate, to strengthen governance, and to ensure broader
participation in growth.
2. The development of education in Croatia was to occur against the backdrop of fiscal
consolidation over the medium term. Public expenditures still accounted for a little less than
50 percent of GDP, which was very high compared to EU accession and candidate country
averages. The Government had gradually reduced the fiscal deficit from 8.1 percent of GDP
in 1999 to 4.5 percent of GDP in 2004, and the Government's 2005 program sought an
additional one percent cut in the deficit through additional consolidation. Real GDP growth
had been positive, but declining, external debt rising rapidly to 88.1 percent of GDP, and the
current account balance improving.  The Government was working closely with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank under a Programmatic Adjustment
Loan (PAL) to support further fiscal adjustment and reduce external vulnerability.
3. As Croatia advanced on the path to EU accession, there was strong consensus between
education authorities and key stakeholders that the system required significant changes to be
able to respond to current and future needs. The Government had approved its Education
Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 in June 2005. The Plan addressed the following issues:
(a) schools had been operating with curricula that remained to a large extent the same since
the early 1990s and, as a result, there was a significant gap between what young employees
knew and were able to do, and what was expected by increasingly competitive economies; (b)
participation in compulsory education was high, but the duration was less than in other
European systems; (c) although Croatian students benefited from quite generous student
teacher ratios at all levels of education, the prevalence of multi-shift schools presented a real
challenge; (d) vocational education and training was ill-equipped to prepare young people for
existing and future challenges; (e) tertiary education needed substantial improvement; (f)
national minorities constituted approximately 17,000 students, representing three percent of
the total number of students attending schools, but there was a lack of data regarding their
education status and situation; (g) the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports (MoSES)
needed to strengthen substantially its capacity to develop and implement sector policies; (h)
education policy was usually developed by the central administration, but implemented
largely at the local levels, especially in schools; (i) investments in education required an
analysis of the structure of expenditures in order to identify potential efficiency gains; and (j)
demographic developments were resulting in falling birth rates and migration was causing a
decline in total population that translated into dropping school enrollments.
4. The rationale for the Bank's involvement was strong. The Bank had been an active partner to
the Government in the development of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-20 10 in
the context of project preparation, and was seen, together with the EU and the OECD, as
9


﻿bringing international and regional knowledge and best practices that would benefit such a
broad sector reform. Especially relevant would be the Bank's experience with education
reform in other countries in ECA that were more advanced in their process of EU accession.
The Project was fully in line with the 2005-2008 Country Assistance Strategy for Croatia, in
particular to its higher-level objective of contributing to wider participation in the economic
growth by improving the targeting, sustainability, quality and efficiency of education services.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
5. The PDO was to improve student learning and system performance. The medium-term goal
was that teachers and students would use a wider range of appropriate methods in teaching
and learning, and that system management (including policy development, implementation,
monitoring and fiduciary oversight) would be strengthened. The Project was to be monitored
through an established set of indicators that were presented in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD).    Progress against those indicators was to be reviewed by all key
stakeholders by June 30 of each year through an independent evaluation report, thus
informing the dialogue on each Annual Development Plan (ADP). The Key Outcome
Indicators included:
> Performance of students on PISA benchmarked, with Croatian performance stable or just
improving relative to EU averages;
> Net enrollment ratio increases as a result of quality and access improvements; and
> Completion rates at all levels of education increase as a result of quality and access
improvements.
6. In addition, the Project's Results Framework included a set of Intermediate Results Indicators
for each of the ESDP's four priorities that were to be supported by the Project (Annex 2).
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
7. The Project's Development Objectives were not revised.    However, in 2007, it was
recognized that there were issues with the baseline data for two out of three outcome
indicators that had been calculated based on incomplete population data and using unclear
methodology. Accordingly, the end of the Project projections for those indicators also
presented similar problems. These two indicators -increase in net enrollment and completion
rates- were subsequently recalculated using a more precise methodology, and based on the
official data reported by Croatia's Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), as were outcome
projections. Furthermore, during implementation, it became clear that some of the Project's
intermediate indicators did not fully reflect the Project's scope, while others were unclear or
not measurable. Therefore, project monitoring indicators were revised in March 2007
through a formal exchange of letters between the Borrower and the Bank.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
8. The PAD did not specify the Project's main beneficiaries explicitly. Its structure as a sector-
wide approach (SWAp) that would support implementation of important aspects of the
Government's ESDP, encompassing a broad sector reform program, meant that in reality the
Project did not target a specific set or group of beneficiaries, but rather would benefit the
country, its government and its school-age population at the very broadest level. Specifically,
10


﻿along with reforms in other areas, the Project was seen as instrumental as a first step in
addressing the challenges, at the country level, needed to improve Croatia's competitiveness
and labor productivity in the longer term, both seen as fundamental as Croatia moved forward
with EU accession. On a sector level, the Project's main beneficiaries were to be the sector
institutions, the MoSES and others at the national, regional and school level that would be
strengthened through technical assistance and training, as well as through the adoption of new
instruments to improve their management practices. This would allow them to take on the
continued challenge of continuous improvement in educational outcomes, even after
completion of the Project. Finally, at the individual level, while not identified specifically in
advance, the main beneficiaries were expected to be students at all levels, in all streams, that
would benefit from the Project's interventions aimed at improving the quality, relevance, and
effectiveness of the education.
1.5 Original Components
9. The Project supported the implementation of the pre-defined priority areas in the
Government's Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 under a SWAp financed by a
Specific Investment Loan (SIL) in the amount of Euro 67.8 million. The Project was to
finance a share of the MoSES' annual education development expenditures as were to be
articulated in Annual Development Plans (ADPs) that were to be completed by October 1 of
each year. The ADPs were to specify the activity plan, required investment needs, agreed
schedule, budget and procurement plan for the following year, and to inform the education
sector's budget submission to Government and Parliament. The Bank's financing for the
Project was to be restricted to the expenditures specified in the ADPs and included in the
approved budget line items for education. Disbursements were to be made in two advances
as specified in each year's ADP, beginning in 2006.
10. Because of the Project's design as a SWAp, the Project included a set of four priority areas,
with the understanding that activities to be financed basically derived from among pre-
defined activities in the Government's ESDP and MoSES' ADPs.
> Priority One - Enriching Classroom Practices. The Government's ESDP had an
ambitious aim to renew curriculum in all schools and to shift the focus of teaching
towards active learning, problem-solving and understanding. The ESDP would support
this transformation by implementing the National Education Standards that were under
preparation by MoSES in school curricula, developing teachers' professional knowledge
and skills, and promoting school-level improvement by creating professional learning
communities for teachers in schools. Related activities were to include training of school
curriculum specialists, in-service training for teachers, new teaching and learning
facilities including computers and software, upgrading regional teacher training centers,
new curriculum materials for teachers, and grants to schools.
> Priority Two - Improving Monitoring and Evaluation. The ESDP aimed to establish a
standardized, externally administrated school leaving examination, Matura. Beginning in
2009, Matura was to become compulsory for all (four-year) secondary school students.
The Project was to support the design and establishment of this examination and related
logistics, including incremental recurrent costs required for start up of this new institution,
as well as the development of educational evaluation practices within the education
system. It was also to support developing policies, activities and structures, e.g., an
Education Management Information System (EMIS) and national student assessment
system, which aimed at improving the capacities of the education system to collect,
11


﻿analyze, assess and disseminate information related to the system's inputs, processes and
performance, including students' achievements.
> Priority Three - Strengthening Management and Leadership. The ESDP was to
support efforts to improve management, e.g., policy development, planning and fiduciary
capacities at the central level, administration and coordination capacities at the regional
level and educational leadership at the school level. The development and refinement of
the national steering system of education was to be connected to the implementation of
the Project. The Project was also to support the establishment of a system, including
facilities for leadership training for school principals, regional and local education
authorities and MoSES staff.
> Priority Four - Supporting Local Development and Innovations. The Project aimed to
reduce the number of schools that operated in multiple shifts by supporting local
initiatives and infrastructure investments and by promoting opportunities for schools to
provide more optional and non-formal activities.
1.6 Revised Components
11. The priorities supported by the Project were not revised. Early in implementation, the
Government clarified that it desired the Project to also support Vocational Education and
Training (VET) and Early Childhood Education (ECD).
1.7 Other significant changes
12. Change in financing percentage. The Bank agreed to increase the Loan's financing share
from the original 50 percent to 80 percent in 2009, and eventually to 100 percent in February
2010 to contain the impact of counterpart funding constraints that the Government was facing
(Section 2.2). Project's design allowed for this flexibility since the Loan Agreement provided
for Bank disbursements against "Transfers for ADPs" and the percentage of expenditures to
be financed was defined as "Such amount of Eligible Program Expenditures as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank for the respective ADP."
13. First closing extension. In June 2009, the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date by one
year to March 31, 2011 to provide time to: (a) complete key education reform activities
scheduled for 2010, including introduction of the State Matura and the implementation of the
National Curriculum; (b) complete the works on construction and extension of schools with
financing from the Loan; and (c) avoid a gap in financing between the Loan and proposed
additional financing that was then being considered.
14. Second closing extension. In February 2011, the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date by
an additional six months, to September 30, 2011, to provide time to complete the civil works
and procurement of school furniture and equipment contracts from the ADP.
12


﻿2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
15. Background Analysis, Government Commitment and Rationale for the Bank's intervention.
The Project was the first Bank program of lending support to Croatia's education sector. The
CAS dialogue that outlined the scope, content and sequencing of Bank assistance to Croatia
for 2004-2008 resulted in a program that would focus on how best to support the country in
preparing for EU accession. The Bank worked with the Government to identify approaches
that would maximize: (i) Government ownership of sector programs and agendas to be
supported, including education; (ii) work on entire sectors, rather than separate project
activities and contracts; (iii) rely on Government systems for fiduciary aspects of the
programs, rather than stand-alone project implementation units; (iv) flexibility to adjust the
program priorities year by year, rather than rigid project blueprints over five years or more;
and (v) supervision on the substance of the Government's policy agenda, rather than on
contracting and implementing separate activities.
16. The Government that had come into office was extremely committed to education reform:
the public and political willingness to take bigger steps in reforming the education system
was seen as very positive. The new team in MoSES sought a strong partnership with the
Bank, especially in putting together its own sector development strategy and plan.  In
response, the Bank worked closely with the Government in the development of the Education
Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, which was developed and formulated by pre-appraisal,
and subsequently approved after internal cross-ministerial discussions. The Government also
sought Bank assistance in learning lessons of relevant experience as input to the design of its
reform and the Project. The Bank mobilized a US$776,150 PHRD Grant to support the
Government's preparation. Jointly, MoSES and the Bank organized conferences with wide
participation among educational experts at all levels on current trends in reforming and
restructuring secondary education, with special emphasis on European experiences, and on
primary education to discuss curriculum reforms.
17. The Project's content drew directly from the Bank's direct engagement with the education
authorities and counterparts in Croatia, on the education practices and priorities in EU
countries, and on international experience in education. The Bank's support for project
preparation proceeded in parallel with its support to the Government in formulating,
consulting, and securing approval for the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010.
The experiences of other countries that had successfully completed the EU accession process
clearly showed the importance of structural reforms in education to strengthen
competitiveness and labor force effectiveness. The technical design of the Education Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010 was based on contemporary research and knowledge of large-
scale education reforms that aimed at qualitative and quantitative changes in education. The
selected approach that addressed almost the entirety of the education sector, while extremely
ambitious, was considered to be on par with good practices in reforming education systems.
Sustainable education leadership and changes in the ways the system worked were considered
to require improvements to the entire system, as provided in the Education Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010.
18. Assessment of Project Objectives, Results Framework and Design. The Project's objectives
and especially its expected outcomes were extremely ambitious. Furthermore, its Results
Framework, especially with respect to the selected outcome indicators (Performance on PISA
13


﻿testing and Net Enrollment) presented problems. First, it was ambitious to expect notable
progress in learning outcomes in two to three years through a project that supported broad
sector reform across several areas including, inter alia, curriculum reform, teacher training,
improved monitoring, moving towards single shifts, introducing external assessments, all of
which were to be implemented in an institutional environment that was to be strengthened in
parallel with introducing those reforms. It was not reasonable to expect relative progress in
PISA scores from 2006 to 2009 based on activities that were being introduced under the
Project. Further, the indicator (and target) was designed as a relative indicator, comparing
Croatia's performance to that of other EU countries. Finally, the indicator had a timing
problem; the 2009 PISA scores only became available in December 2010. Since PISA testing
was not carried out in intervening years, there was no forewarning that the Project was off
track in meeting the expected target for learning outcomes. The Primary Net Enrollment
indicator was also unsuitable for this project. First, Croatia already had high primary
enrollment ratios at about 97 percent, so any impact of the Project would likely be marginal.
Second, reaching the last five percent of children out of school generally requires alternative
strategies (often demand-sided) that were outside of the scope of the Project. Finally, there
were issues with the data itself because of the methodology used to calculate the rates, and
problems with population projections. In fact, during implementation the Government and
Bank agreed to revise targets based on more reliable estimates (Section 2.3).
19. The Project's design as a SWAp reflected lessons learned from the Bank's experience with
middle-income countries in ECA. A SWAp seemed best suited to address Croatia's needs
flexibly because assistance was to promote systemic change rather than project level change.
Furthermore, the partnership approach, generally characteristic of mature SWAps, was
already working well as the Bank was partnering successfully with the MoSES on sector
issues at the policy and strategic level. A SWAp design would allow the Government to
coordinate Bank assistance with that of other external partners. The EU was investing
significant resources to assist Croatia to adjust its procedures, structure and policies to those
required in the acquis communautaire, that included successive Community Assistance for
Reconstruction, Development and Stability (CARDS) projects that were being implemented
between 2003 and 2007 for a total of EUR 7.6 million to continue development of secondary
vocational education and training and adult learning. Investments in the social sector,
including education, were expected to increase considerably thereafter. It was agreed that in
addition to a regular exchange of information and ad hoc meetings, EU representatives would
be invited to the Project's review meetings and the Bank team to the EU coordination
meetings, within the framework of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-20 10.
20. A relatively simple disbursement approach was sought to reduce the administrative burden on
the Government, while allowing them to focus, in partnership with the Bank, on the bigger
picture: overall implementation of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010,
policy changes and priorities, and progress in capacity-building. Each year's ADP would set
expenditures in accordance with an assessment of progress against output targets,
development milestones, and institutional performance benchmarks, as well as on projected
sector requirements.
21. Despite the advantages of a sector-wide SWAp, the Project's design was unquestionably
ambitious, especially since implementation of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-
2010 would require planning, implementation and monitoring capacities that needed to be
strengthened in MoSES. Most importantly, implementation would require new roles and
responsibilities, including: (i) preparing annual work plans; (ii) working more effectively
with decentralized entities; (iii) monitoring the program which would entail activating the
14


﻿Strategic Development and Monitoring Department in the MoSES; (iv) introducing a new
nation-wide education management information system; and (v) coordinating the different
activities between departments and with other agencies in the education system. To address
these, the Project's design incorporated a strong program of technical assistance and training,
based on the analysis of identified capacity gaps.
22. Stakeholder Involvement and Participatory Processes. The desire for education reform in
Croatia was strong, clearly representing one of the major areas of consolidated public
concurrence. The CAS consultation workshops held during the summer of 2004 confirmed
this, in that participants highlighted education reform as the most important reform for
Croatia. The Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 was sent to key stakeholders
for their comments, and a rapid stakeholder analysis/social assessment was completed during
preparation. A desk review of national surveys was conducted, and stakeholder focus groups
and consultations were held during preparation. All of these confirmed broad consensus for
reform. Conferences and workshops throughout implementation were planned to continue
this consultative process.
23. Assessment of Risks. The Project was not seen to be without risks. While the Project's
overall risk rating was considered Moderate, three risks identified early on were rated
Substantial: (a) weak capacities to implement the ADPs; (b) education sector development
priorities inadequately funded; and (c) weak fiduciary systems at both country level and
sector level. Throughout preparation, the Project's design was adjusted to address these risks,
especially since they were considered acceptable in view of the expected high returns. The
following measures were designed to mitigate identified risks: (a) providing technical
support to the MoSES in preparing during appraisal a detailed Annual Work Plan and Budget
for 2005 that focused primarily on building capacities and strengthening institutions that
would plan and implement the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010; (b) including
a Fiduciary Improvement Action Plan (FIAP) to remedy FM/PR weaknesses identified by the
Education Sector Fiduciary Assessment, including capacity building measures to take place
in 2005 and 2006; (c) encouraging and helping the MoSES to establish more sustainable
program management and delegate beyond its top management, more specifically to its
Strategic Development and Monitoring Department; and (iv) shifting the Bank's role in
supervision from control to preventive assistance and implementation support.
2.2 Implementation
24. The Euro 67.8 million Loan (US$85.0 million equivalent) for the Project was approved by
the Bank's Board on September 15, 2005, signed on October 17, 2005, and declared effective
on March 15, 2006, following ratification by Parliament. Throughout implementation, the
Project was never considered "at risk" either for Implementation Performance or
Development Objectives ratings. Several factors impacted or influenced its implementation,
as described below.
25. Government Commitment. Despite some difficulties in implementing such an ambitious
reform (described below), the Government's commitment to the Education Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project was in the satisfactory range throughout
implementation. Although there was a slow start due to implementation capacity issues and
delays in the selection of schools for rehabilitation, coupled with insufficient progress in the
continuous professional development of teachers, MoSES moved forward with its program
and continued to move the reform to a next phase by learning from best practice. Equally
important, throughout implementation MoSES maintained a constant process of building
15


﻿continued support for the reform through sessions involving various stakeholders. At various
stages during implementation, workshops and conferences, often organized jointly by the
MoSES and the Bank, were held on topics such as tertiary education, professional
development for teachers and leadership training. The MoSES sought input on funding of
higher education, tuition fees and student loan schemes, and the status of the teaching
profession in other countries. Through implementation support, the Bank met with staff of
MoSES' Higher Education and Financing Directorates to discuss aspects of new higher
education legislation, in particular with regard to higher education financing and governance.
26. Project Design. As had been expected, the Project's design as a SWAp provided an
appropriate vehicle through which the Bank could provide the type of implementation
support and policy advice that the MoSES requested. It allowed the Bank to work with the
MoSES more as a partner and policy advisor and less as a reviewer, appraiser and supervisor
of a limited set of acquisitions and outputs. Implementation support was focused on the goals,
issues, progress and results of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-20 10, and indeed
even beyond it as mentioned above. In fact, early on the MoSES clarified that the Project
should also address pre-school education and vocational education and training under Priority
One, as provided in the ESDP, and provided indicators by which progress in each of these
areas would be measured.
27. From the start, the Government and the Bank had agreed on a strategy for delivering this type
of implementation support effectively. This strategy included defining: (a) the main
objectives of each annual review of the ESDP, and decisions that would need to be taken; (b)
the documents, such as the ADPs and Budgets, Annual Evaluation Reports and Procurement
Plans that would support the reviews, together with their terms-of-reference or an outline of
their contents and structure, and agreed dates for submission; (c) expected periodic site visits
by the Bank team, and (d) institutions and staff that would be invited to participate, including
other international partners. This strategy worked effectively, although there were justified
adjustments and/or slippages along the way to accommodate exogenous factors. For example,
while the Project's design did not contemplate a Mid-Term Review, per se, the Bank had
agreed with the Government to conduct a more thorough review of implementation in early
2008. However, because of the elections in November 2007 and successive changes affecting
the Project, it was agreed that this more detailed review would be more productive if it were
delayed toward the end of 2008.
28. Despite the advantages that the SWAp instrument provided, the reality is that the Project did
not function as a "pure" SWAp in several ways. First, the Project was defined as a subset of
the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 (it did not cover tertiary education), with
monitoring indicators limited to those areas it supported (as opposed to those of the entire
program), although the Bank did provide technical advice on the entirety of the program (e.g.,
higher education). Also, early in implementation MoSES learned, based on discussions with
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), that in accordance with provisions in the State Budget Law
foreign financing needed to be budgeted separately. Furthermore, the provisions of the
Operational Manual with respect to procurement applied only to the activities co-financed by
the Bank. Monitoring and evaluation of the subset of activities financed by the Project,
however, covered all of the agreed project-supported subset of activities under the Education
Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, regardless of source of funding.
29. Counterpart Funding and the Possibility of Additional Financing. Despite the priority that
the Government assigned to the Project, delays in the confirmation of budgets impacted by
the Government's electoral timetable, and then budget cuts in response to the global financial
16


﻿crisis impacted counterpart funding starting in 2008. First, a draft of the 2008 ADP was
prepared on the basis of a tentative budget, since the final budget would only become
available with a slight delay in early 2008 after elections in end-2007. This resulted in a
delay in finalizing the 2008 ADP. Then, after a period of significant budget increases, a
Government budget restructuring in July 2008 led to a reduction in the 2008 ESDP budget,
which was translated into a relatively minor reduction in loan disbursements. However, as a
result of the global financial crisis, a significant reduction of about US$13.5 million
equivalent was recorded in 2009 in the allocated budget for the activities co-financed by the
Bank (of which US$7.9 million equivalent referred to the loan funds). Simultaneously, the
co-financing ratio of jointly financed activities between the Bank and the budget funds
changed from 50:50 in 2006-2008 to about 90:10 in 2009 and 92:8 in 2010, which resulted in
the reduced total available budget for developmental activities under the Project. Finally, the
impact of declining budgets together with previous agreements between the Government and
unions is that expenditures for salaries in 2010 represented approximately 84 percent of the
education budget compared to 73 percent in 2003.
30. Although the ESDP aimed and eventually succeeded in reducing the number of schools
operating in triple shifts, it did not eliminate all of them. Shortly before the global financial
crisis and these budget cuts, MoSES had decided to eliminate all three-shift schools
throughout the country, and began discussions on the possibility of Additional Financing
(AF) to the Loan to support this. Several activities in preparation for the AF were discussed
and were being prepared. With the pressure on the education budget, however, and the need
to complete as many ongoing activities as possible by completion, the Bank agreed to
increase the funding ratio for jointly financed activities under the ESDP (Section 1.7). This
revised financing was reflected in revised 2009 and 2010 ADPs. Loan disbursements picked
up significantly, but given budget realities and evolving Government priorities in the crisis,
discussions on AF were put on hold, and works on some schools that were ready for
tendering were not carried out with Bank funding.
31. School Construction under Priority Four. Implementation of school construction aimed at
reducing multi-shift schools was affected by several factors. First, there were delays in the
selection of schools--despite the fact that nearly 40 percent of Bank financing under the 2007
ADP was to be allocated to school construction, the decisions on school selection were only
made in mid-2007, resulting in a slow start for this activity, and related disbursement lags.
Secondly, although the Ministry and the city of Zagreb signed in 2005 an agreement
according to which the city would eliminate all three-shift schools by 2010 through
investments funded by the decentralized funds for education and own funds, there were
delays in the implementation of the agreement (despite some progress in reducing the number
of three-shift schools in Zagreb, the problem of multiple shift schools had not been addressed
sufficiently due to insufficient fiscal capacity following budget reductions and a further
increase of the school population in the city). Construction under the Project proceeded
smoothly in end-2007 and 2008. However, counterpart funding constraints, together with
MoSES' decision to eliminate all triple-shift schools and corresponding discussions with the
Bank regarding possible AF described above, led to considerable uncertainties regarding
school construction under Priority Four. Starting in 2008, the Bank's increased its financing
ratio and processed two closing date extensions (Section 1.7).
32. Institutional Capacity and Staffing. Implementation and coordination of the Education
Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project was fully integrated into MoSES'
structure and relied on newly created or recently restructured independent public agencies
under the auspices of MoSES. These agencies included the National Center for External
17


﻿Evaluation in Education (NCEEE) established in 2004, the Vocational Education and
Training (VET) Agency established in 2005, and the Education and Teacher Training Agency
(ETTA) restructured in 2006.   MoSES' Department of Strategic Development and
Monitoring, a new department envisaged in the Ministry's organization structure but never
formally established, was staffed by loan negotiations and charged with overall responsibility
for the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and integrating the program in the
activities of the MoSES and other implementing agencies. A senior ministry official was
appointed ESDP Strategy Advisor, to strengthen the MoSES' implementation and policy
coordination capacity. In 2008, the State Secretary for Primary Education took over as
Project Director with the objective to coordinate the policy aspects of the Project; however
over time her role became marginal. The Project was managed by the State Secretary for
Finance, who had a full authority for the school construction program, but at the same time
did not have authority over the education policy aspects of the Project. These implementation
arrangements remained relatively stable although there were some additional staffing changes
over the Project's life, including changes in the ESDP Strategy Advisor, who stopped being
involved in the project, and a change in the Minister of MoSES in 2009. Despite the
mentioned changes, by and large, the staffing transitions were smooth throughout the project
implementation.
33. Rather, the main challenges that impacted implementation surrounded the need to strengthen
the institutional and managerial capacities throughout the system, as supported under Priority
Three of the Project. The ADP Evaluation Reports across the period of implementation
consistently outlined the issue that insufficient coordination of reform efforts appeared to be a
key structural inefficiency that stemmed from insufficient management capacity, and that
policy analysis and planning, effective coordination between the various stakeholders in the
system, clear mandates of government bodies as well as the accountability for results still
remained a challenge for improved system efficiency. This was a risk that had been
identified during preparation, especially since the MoSES and these new institutions had to
develop their capacities at the same time as they were challenged with implementing the new
activities under the ESDP.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
34. M&E Design. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was a central and integral feature of the
Project, not only in the design of the system that would be used to monitor its progress
towards expected outcomes and intermediate outcomes, but also in terms of strengthening the
sector's capacity to monitor educational results more broadly. The MoSES was responsible
for overall monitoring of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project.
Progress was to be monitored based on an Annual Development Plan Evaluation Report that
would be prepared each June. Key Indicators included a set of sector-wide indicators
partially based on the system under development in the EU, as well as on project-specific
activities. This was expected to allow the Government to benchmark the development of the
education system with the situation in the EU, while at the same time monitor progress under
the Project. The Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project were to be
monitored and evaluated using the Government's existing systems supported by the Bank's
technical advice and assistance under the Loan.
35. M&E Implementation and Utilization. The Project's M&E design allowed for effective
monitoring. Throughout implementation, twice yearly review meetings were carried out.
The review meetings in the Fall, counted upon the Evaluation Reports for the previous years'
ADPs, and focused on discussing and endorsing the ADP, Budget and Procurement Plan for
18


﻿the forthcoming year. The Spring review meetings focused on reviewing progress made
during the previous budget year and the updated results framework. The Annual
Development Plan Evaluation Reports were of consistently high quality.
36. There are three issues that affected M&E implementation. First, some of the baseline data
were calculated based on incomplete data on baseline enrollment and completion rates.
These were subsequently recalculated using a more precise methodology, including official
population estimates produced by Croatia's Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS). Due to this,
targets for some of the indicators needed revision to be consistent with the recalculated
baseline. Furthermore, during early implementation it became clear that some of the
Project's intermediate indicators did not fully reflect the Project's scope, while others were
unclear or not measurable. Therefore project monitoring indicators were revised in 2007.
37. Second, throughout implementation, and despite repeated references in Evaluation Reports,
ETTA was not able to put in place a system of reliable data collection on teacher training
attendance to keep pace with the improvements introduced in the area of Continuous
Professional Development (CPD) of teachers. In 2010, ETTA finally introduced a system of
on-line registration for teacher training that tracks attendance, but the information before
2010 had not been systematically collected, and the on-line system is not yet integrated with
the Government's MIS.
38. Third, the Government's new education MIS, e-Matica, was introduced at the beginning of
the 2006/07 school year and has been continuously upgraded since then. The e-Matica
system is a central database integrating all relevant information regarding primary and
secondary education: school facilities, employees, students and program. The VET Agency
introduced its own MIS, VETIS, which has additional modules that are fully compatible with
e-Matica. Finally, under the Project and with the benefit of e-Matica, the Government
successfully adopted the list of 29 indicators and five European benchmarks for education
system evaluation, permitting the MoSES to monitor and benchmark the development of
Croatia's education system against educational standards set in EU member countries. This
is very relevant since harmonization of the Croatian education system with EU standards, in
line with the country's preparations for EU accession, requires the ability to meet the EU
educational objectives and benchmarks.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
39. During preparation, fiduciary risks were considered high. The findings of the Education
Sector Fiduciary Assessment identified weaknesses in the management of education
expenditures, both on the financial management and procurement processes. Despite these
risks, the Bank agreed that the sector's existing financial management and procurement
systems could be used, subject to the implementation of agreed improvements aimed at
strengthening capacity. These arrangements worked well, despite minor modifications with
respect to the pooling of funds within a SWAp structure. While expenditures under the full
program were subject to the external audit, and the ADPs addressed the entirety of activities
under the four Priorities irrespective of source of finance, the budget tables were
disaggregated among those expenditures that would be co-financed by the Bank (for which
Bank procurement procedures and Croatian procurement legislation would apply) and those
that would be financed entirely by MoSES budget (for which only Croatian procurement
legislation would apply).
19


﻿40. Financial Management. Transactions under the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-
2010 and the Project were processed through the Treasury system that was the Government's
primary tool to monitor budget execution. The financial management systems of the
institutions participating under the Project were not considered as robust as the Treasury
system, since it was not possible to produce comprehensive education sector financial
statements that included the results of the various education sector institutions both at central
and decentralized levels of government. It was agreed that the State Audit Office would
perform the audits for the Project, and the audit scope would include the transactions relating
to the execution of the Project as reflected in the Treasury system for each participating
implementing institution. At the same time, the MoSES agreed that its Department for
Finance would include staff responsible for coordinating ESDP and project financial
management issues across all participating implementing institutions, while all participating
implementing institutions would nominate counterparts to the Finance Department to provide
all necessary financial management and procurement information required for preparation of
progress reports.
41. The Bank conducted yearly reviews of the Project's financial management arrangements.
These reviews produced ratings of Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory, almost throughout
implementation. Despite minor delays in the submission of audit reports or financial
management reports, financial management did not surface as an issue, and the MoSES'
capacity in this area was strengthened during implementation. Audit reports presented
unqualified opinions throughout. This was the first World Bank project in Croatia that used
the SAO as an auditor. The SAO audited the Project as part of the overall annual audit of the
Ministry and the Project's audit reports were included in the Ministry's audit reports as a
separate chapter.
42. Procurement.   There were no major issues with respect to procurement throughout
implementation as it was carried out by the Department for Capital Investment with the
support of ESDP Assistant Coordinator.   One challenge during the initial years of
implementation was that of developing harmonized bidding documents, and harmonized
procedures, including for the selection of consultants to contribute to the MoSES's plans to
improve procurement function and also to attempt to apply harmonized procedures to all
contracts included in the ADP irrespective of the source of financing starting. On January 1,
2009, a new Public Procurement Law came into force in Croatia, which required a revision of
the bidding documents used under the Project as well as revision of the Operational Manual
to reflect the changes of procurement procedures. This was addressed without delays.
43. Safeguards. The Project was classified as Category B due to the construction of schools and
educational facilities. An EMP was designed and included in the Project's Operational
Manual. In October 2008, the Bank carried out a post-review of the application of
environmental safeguards and attention to mitigation measures in schools being constructed
or rehabilitated. The review found that the practices in the interviewed schools and those that
were visited showed no significant gaps in the implementation of mitigation measures as
defined in the EMP and by good construction practice. Two of the five school reconstruction
sites where works have continued beyond the Closing Date were visited in September 2011 to
ensure that environmental protection measures and good engineering practices would be
properly implemented beyond the Closing Date. The practices seen on the sites were
commendable and no significant gaps in the implementation of the mitigation measures
defined in the EMP were recorded.
20


﻿2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
44. The incoming Government is in the process of preparing a follow-on Government education
program, and the Bank stands ready to provide a program of technical and advisory, if not
lending, support, should it be requested. While the Government's fiscal situation may likely
restrain previously high budgetary allocations to education, several aspects bode well for
continued operation of the activities and reforms carried out under the Project. First, the
Project supported an integral and important part of the Government's Education Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010, and, as such, the Project's outputs are very much
institutionalized in the MoSES and other implementing agencies' routine ongoing programs.
The implementation of the Project, and the rolling out of the outputs it supported, was carried
out directly by staff of the MoSES and the implementing agencies, with technical support as
required. This not only served to ensure institutional ownership of the reforms, but also
capacity within those institutions to sustain those activities in the future. Finally, the Project
supported efforts to establish, develop and benchmark education indicators that are now being
used routinely to monitor education sector performance. (See also Section 4, Risk to
Development Outcome.)
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
45. Education reform was at the time of approval and still is today very much at the center of
Croatia's development priorities. The Bank's CPS FY09-12 has as its central goal that of
supporting the completion of Croatia's EU accession process, the rapid convergence of its
income level with that of EU member states in a fiscally, socially and environmentally
sustainable fashion. The Bank Group's program aims to support four areas, including
improving the quality and efficiency in the social sectors. Within this pillar, one of the
objectives is to enhance the education system to support a knowledge-based economy. EU
membership negotiations for Chapter 26-Education and Culture-were opened and closed
in one day because of the high degree of harmonization between the Croatian education
system and those of other EU countries. Nonetheless, there is a need to further increase
enrollment and completion rates in secondary and higher education, and shift focus from
narrow vocational programs towards cultivating skills that are relevant to a dynamic economy
and fast-changing labor markets. The CPS envisaged additional financing or a new lending
operation to continue such support, including a significant increase in single-shift schools.
46. The crisis severely affected the Croatian economy, with GDP contracting over 7 percent from
the crisis outbreak to end-20 10. To support recovery and mitigate social impact of the crisis,
the Government adopted an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in April 2010. As per this
program, growth is unlikely to reach pre-crisis levels in the medium term and is estimated to
stay below three percent. Attaining higher and sustainable growth rates in the long run will
require concerted efforts to reorient the economy towards exports and productivity-based
growth which would require structural changes in many areas, including public finances,
social sectors, education, and innovation, which the ERP proposes to address over the
medium term. The program aims at inter alia, increasing the contribution of labor to growth
by addressing skill mismatches through education reforms and advancing the flexibility of the
labor market. The Bank is supporting the ERP through a programmatic series of two single-
21


﻿tranche Development Policy Loans, the first of which was approved by the Bank's Board on
May 5, 2011.'
47. The Project's development objectives were clear, and important for supporting Croatia's EU
accession process. The Project's objectives were ambitious, especially since the Project took
on at once almost all of the important aspects of education from a total institutional
transformation of the MoSES to a complete reform of the curriculum. Yet, throughout
preparation and implementation, there was broad Governmental and popular support for the
priority issues that the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-20 10 and the Project would
address, and the Government was eager to see quick results.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
48. The Project's Results Framework presented three outcome indicators 2 and several
intermediate outcome indicators by which its results would be measured.
49. The Project made notable progress towards accomplishing and even surpassing most of its
intermediate outcome indicators, including: (a) developing and introducing new educational
standards in the primary schools and developing a new curriculum framework for pre-school,
primary and secondary education; (b) establishing the National Centre for External
Evaluation of Education responsible for developing and administering preparatory testing; (c)
introducing Matura, a secondary school exit test, in 2010, and repeating it in 2011; (d)
developing and introducing a fully functional e-Matica EMIS; (e) benchmarking Croatia's
education system against EU indicators, and participating routinely in international
assessments; (f) increasing significantly the percentage of school principals that have
completed leadership training; (g) reducing the share of VET students in the secondary
education; (h) reducing significantly the share of primary students attending triple shift
schools; and (i) increasing sharply the percentage of primary students and secondary students
attending single shift schools.
50. Unfortunately, due to weaknesses in the Project's Results Framework and some of the
outcome indicators selected to measure progress towards its PDO (Section 2.1), the
impressive results towards intermediate outcomes need to be balanced against as the shortfall
in achieving the expected outcomes (as originally defined), especially learning outcomes, as
further discussed below. Progress towards achievement of intermediate outcome indicators,
and activities financed by Priority Area that contributed to the achievement of the PDO is
described in Annex 2.
51. Outcome Indicator 1. Performance of students on PISA benchmarked, with Croatian
performance stable or just improving relative to EU averages. According to 2009 PISA
results, Croatia's performance declined marginally in both absolute and relative terms, thus
this indicator was not achieved.
1 Croatia, Economic Recovery Development Policy Loan, Report No. 58226-HR dated April 4, 2011.
2 The Project's Results Framework in Annex 3 of the PAD presented two outcome indicators; however the
Arrangements for Results Monitoring, also in Annex 3 presented the three outcome indicators that were
monitored, and reported in this Section.
22


﻿52. As part of the development of a system of external evaluation, and in view of the need to
benchmark educational outcomes against internationally recognized criteria, the ESDP
financed Croatia's participation in the Programme for International Student Assessment
(PISA). Croatia joined the PISA Consortium and administered the assessment for the first
time in 2006. At the time, a total of 5,242 15-year old students from 9 primary and 159
secondary schools (representing 93 percent of students registered) took the PISA tests in
reading, mathematics and science literacy. Croatia participated in PISA for the second time
in 2009, following a successful field trial in 2008. This time, 5,029 students from 159
secondary schools (representing 92 percent of students registered) participated. The target for
this development indicator in the PAD was that the performance of students in Croatia in
2009 would be stable or just improving relative to EU averages. The outcome of both of
these assessments is presented in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Performance of Croatian Students on PISA Reading,
Mathematics and Science
Subject                2006 PISA                          2009 PISA
Croatia   EU Average    Ranking    Croatia   EU Average    Ranking
Scale                  among       Scale                  among
EU                                 EU
countries                          countries
Reading         477         483         18/26      476         486         21/26
Mathematics     467         491        21/26       460         491         24/26
Science         493         497         16/26      486         497        22/26
53. At the same time, there are early indications, using proxy indicators, that the Project may be
producing an impact on learning outcomes. The results from the 2011 Matura show some
promising results: (i) the average score for higher-level mathematics exam increased from
50.87 to 55.12 (percentage of correct answers) between 2010 and 2011; (ii) the average score
for higher-level Croatian language exam increased from 70.7 to 71.7 between 2010 and 2011;
and (iii) although the exam-passing thresholds have been increased by 5-8%  in 2011
comparing to 2010, this has not been followed by an increase in the pupils who have not
passed the Matura. While these proxy indicators may capture positive systemic changes
supported by the Project, given that the Matura has only been applied two times, it is not yet
indicative of stability over time.
54. Outcome Indicator 2. Net enrollment ratio increases as a result of quality and access
improvements. This outcome indicator was partially achieved.
55. As shown in Table 2, there was a steady increase in net enrollment at the preschool level,
surpassing the Project's target, and secondary level, although remaining below the Project's
target. During the same period, primary net enrollment remained relatively stable, well
below the Project's target. Enrollment in secondary was most likely impacted positively by
MoSES' campaign, "Secondary Education for All" and by the inception of the National
Program for Introducing Compulsory Secondary Education, both launched in 2008. These
programs were designed to promote enrollment in secondary education, with measures such
as introducing free textbooks, free transportation, and accommodation for students in
boarding houses.
23


﻿Table 2: Net Enrollment Rates among Different Levels (in %)
Level of Education           2005      2006     2007     2008      2009      2010
Preschool (Kindergarten)
Target in PAD         43.0                                  55.0
Revised Target                           56.0     57.0      58.0
Actual                51.9     54.0      55.0     55.6      56.1      55.6
Primary
Target in PAD         96.5                                  98.0
Revised Target                           93.0     93.5      94.0
Actual                92.6      92.7     92.4     91.8      92.1      91.9
Secondary
Target in PAD         79.2                                  85.0
Revised Target                           80.0     80.5      81.0
Actual                80.5      80.6     80.6     81.0      81.3      81.4
56. Outcome Indicator 3. Completion rates at all levels of education increase as a result of
quality and access improvements. The Project exceeded this indicator on completion rates
for both primary and secondary levels, as shown in Table 3.
Table 3: Completion Rates among Different Levels (in %)
Level of Education           2005      2006     2007     2008      2009      2010
Primary
Target in PAD            91.0                                  93.0
Revised Target                              95.5      95.8      96.0
Actual                99.3      98.5     98.4     97.8      97.8      97.5
Secondary
Target in PAD             72.5                                  75.0
Revised Target                              87.5      88.0      88.5
Actual                87.8      87.5     89.5     90.1      89.9      89.7
3.3 Efficiency
57. An ex-post economic analysis has not been prepared for this ICR. In fact, the PAD did not
present a full economic analysis of the Project, stating that the social benefits of education,
specifically the synergies between education and the promotion of a good investment climate,
constituted a primary rationale for the public funding of education in Croatia. Further,
improving the investment climate was to go hand in hand with enhancing human capital, a
skilled workforce was seen as essential for firms to adopt new and more productive
technologies, and skill constraints were a common problem for firms, especially those
planning to innovate and expand. All of these factors justified the Project in terms of its
expected economic returns.
58. In discussing the sector's expenditures, the PAD highlighted that recurrent expenditures
constituted the lion's share of total MoSES expenditures in 2005 (93.9 percent), of which
employee salaries and benefits alone amounted to 75.6 percent of total planned expenditures.
This underlined the ESDP's focus on boosting the capital investment budget share within
MoSES. After successive years of increasing budgets for education, the international
financial crisis forced budget cuts that affected, inter alia, the education sector. As mentioned
in Section 2.2, the impact of these declining budgets together with previous agreements
between the Government and unions has been an increase in the relative share of salaries
within the sector's overall budget.
24


﻿59. Several activities supported by the Project could not, on face value, be considered as being
efficiency-enhancing in the short term, i.e., elimination of three-shift schools, although a
thorough longer term economic analysis would hopefully show that the economic returns of
improving learning outcomes and producing highly skilled workers as required by the labor
force would be high. Other activities, especially the systemic and institutional improvements
that supported improved planning, monitoring, and financing based on improved information
and evaluation of results, and better coordination among the various institutions in the
education system is, nevertheless, expected to lead to increased efficiency in the education
system.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
60. The Project's Overall Outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory because, despite
remarkable achievements, it had significant shortcomings in the achievement of its objectives.
61. The Project accomplished notable reforms as reflected in the progress towards its
intermediate outcomes. The fact that these reforms were implemented by institutions, which
were then being established, strengthened, and/or reorganized makes these accomplishments
noteworthy. Moreover, the Project was and continues to be extremely relevant to Croatia,
especially as its accession to EU nears and that in the long run, it should lead to greater
efficiency in education.
62. Unfortunately, in terms of overall outcomes (increasing net enrollment rates and improving
learning outcomes), the Project's results as measured by its outcome indicators fell short of
target. This may be due to several factors. First, as mentioned earlier, outcome results were
overly optimistic in terms of envisaging stable or improving educational results over a
relatively short period, and problems in the definition of outcome indicators only exacerbated
this. Second, those results were susceptible to exogenous factors, such as lack of familiarity
of Croatian students with an environment of evaluation. Further, while measuring Croatia's
student performance against other countries is a good indicator of the relative quality of its
education system, it can be problematic to peg an outcome indicator against a moving target
which is subject to a multitude of factors completely outside the Government's control.
Finally, the very instruments that could be expected to produce improved educational
outcomes were only being developed and introduced under the Project. Delays in part due to
the complexity of the activities and in part due to restrictions with counterpart funding,
further affected the critical path in which multiple activities needed to converge to produce
results. It is, however, expected that these reforms and instruments positioned Croatia to
meet those targets in the future, thereby accomplishing the objectives of its Education Sector
Development Plan 2005-20 10 and of the Project.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
63. The Project did not have a specific poverty objective.
25


﻿(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
64. The Project was designed to support not only specific educational activities, but also a
transformation in the institutional capacity to plan, monitor and deliver education services
effectively and efficiently. It supported not only the strengthening of the MoSES, but also
that of newly established institutions (the VET Agency, NCEEE) that are now in place and
fulfilling their mandates. The Project's impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development are described in detail in Section 3.2 and in Annex 2.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible
65. The Risk to Development Outcome of the Project is rated Negligible.
66. The Project supported key priorities in the Government's Education Sector Development Plan
2005-2010, which was the centerpiece of its education reform strategy over the 2005-2010
period. Although a new strategy is not yet in place, MoSES envisages a new sector strategy
that will expand upon the results obtained from the ESDP in order to continue focusing sector
reform efforts on key, next-step issues on the country's path towards EU accession.
Stakeholder support for the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project
has mostly been positive.
67. Several of the Project's design aspects bode well for sustainability. First, the Project (and the
Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 more broadly) were implemented by the
executing agencies directly, namely MoSES, VET Agency, ETTA and NCEEE. Therefore,
the core activities and procedures developed under the Project have now been mainstreamed
into these agencies, as opposed to concentrated in a few staff of a Project Implementation
Unit.  Also, the flexible financing approach embedded in the ADPs and subsequent
evaluations further supports sustainability, as sector programs are financed within each year's
budget framework. Many of the reforms under the Education Sector Development Plan
2005-2010 and the Project are embodied in national Acts, or by-laws, such as the Act on
Primary and Secondary Education, the Act on Vocational Education and Training, the
Matura by-law, etc. The Project's many accomplishments such as the Matura, the e-Matica,
the benchmarking of educational indicators with those of the EU, among others, have now
been institutionalized, and there is slim likelihood that these will be reversed.
68. The main challenge will be not on sustaining the Project's results, but rather on sustaining the
process of reform towards the next level in a fiscally constrained environment. Fiscal
pressures will particularly require that attention be paid to avoiding inefficient investments in
allocating funds for building schools and school premises, to make further progress on
eliminating initially three-shift schools, and later tackling issues of two-shift schools. In
addition to the decreasing numbers of school-aged children and youth, there is likely to be a
26


﻿significant shift in enrollment and student numbers in different secondary levels and fields of
secondary education.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
69. Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
70. The Bank responded immediately to the Government's request for support of its planned
education reform in a manner that was very timely, technically sound and responsive to the
client's needs. The Bank moved very quickly to capitalize on the existing momentum for
reform, helping the country establish a medium-term vision for pursuing the objective of
building an education system that would lead Croatia successfully through its accession in the
EU. Preparation was very hands-on, intensive and expedited, all the while supporting the
Government in designing its Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 in tandem with
preparation of the Project. The Bank brought lessons of experience from other countries in
the region to bear, and designed an instrument that was responsive to the Government's needs.
Preparation successfully addressed not only the technical aspects but the important fiduciary
capacity aspects that could come to impact implementation, as well. The Project's risk
assessment not only identified relevant risks comprehensively and incorporated, to the extent
possible, design measures to mitigate those risks and ensure that they would in the end not
impact implementation adversely (e.g., the fiduciary risk). Preparation was also very detailed,
in the sense that not only did project design respond to the client's needs, but the very
implementation support strategy, tools such as the ADPs and evaluation reports that would be
used to monitor and evaluate progress were defined in advance. This advance preparation
provided both the Government and the Bank with a very structured framework with which to
review progress, and allowed periodic interactions to focus not only on routine issues, but on
the broader picture as well.
71. Unfortunately, the selection of ambitious outcome indicators set the Project up for less than
satisfactory development outcomes.  The Project, as designed, was ambitious, but in
retrospect it is clear that it was well within the Government's capacity to implement with
technical support as needed. Nevertheless, the Project's Results Framework, especially the
definition of expected outcome indicators, was flawed in terms of the results that it could
produce, and how and when they would be achieved and could be measured. As defined, the
Project was largely successful towards its intermediate outcomes, but even this impressive
progress was not sufficient to achieve expected outcomes as defined. For that reason the
Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is considered Moderated Unsatisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
72. Bank Performance for Quality of Supervision is rated Satisfactory. Unlike a traditional SIL,
for which there is normally a clear dividing line between preparation and implementation, the
Project's structure as a SWAp made the distinction between these two phases ambiguous
because activities were agreed upon yearly. With the supervision and monitoring strategy
27


﻿agreed up front, the Bank's supervision was able to play more of a partner role to the client
than that of controlling or strictly supervising actions and outputs. The Bank's supervision
was timely, carried out routinely as designed, and highly responsive to requests for input,
feedback and learning from other countries' experiences. The Bank's project team routinely
addressed the Project's fiduciary and safeguard aspects, and the very nature of the agreed
monitoring and evaluation arrangements, based on ADPs and Annual Evaluation Reports not
only provided a framework for determining implementation issues and priorities, but made
the Bank's support during implementation very driven towards development impacts. The
staffing of the supervision team in country provided the Government with just-in-time
advisory support from the Bank.
73. The Bank team took initiative to revise the Project's Result Framework in early 2007 to
correct the baselines and, accordingly, the targets for two outcome indicators, and to expand
and revise the results indicators to bring them in line with the real situation and the Project's
objectives. At the time, the Bank's team was advised that such changes did not require Board
approval and proceeded to carry out the restructuring through a formal exchange of letters
with the Government. In hindsight, the correct procedure in 2007 would have been to submit
this restructuring to Board approval. Nonetheless, regardless of whether the Project is
assessed according to the original or revised indicators, the ICR team concluded that the
overall outcome rating would have been the same, and commends the team for ensuring that
the Result Framework was used as a monitoring tool during implementation.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
74. In accordance with the "Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICR and IEG Evaluations" and
the ratings for Ensuring Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision and the Project's
Outcome Rating, the Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. At the
same time, the ICR team recognizes that this rating undervalues the Bank's role in project
design and implementation, noting that the Bank's team: (i) worked closely with the
Government to design a Project that incorporated international lessons, was timely,
technically sound and responsive to the client's needs; (ii) appropriately assessed and
mitigated risks at the design and implementation stages; (iii) despite shortcomings already
discussed in the Project's Results Framework, ensured that monitoring tools were well
designed and used appropriately throughout implementation; and (iv) provided timely hands-
implementation support to the client, including basing most team members in the country
and/or region.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
75. The Government's Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.   For this purpose,
Government is taken to mean the Ministry of Finance, and the MoSES. The Government was
very clear on the type of support it desired from the Bank, and worked in partnership to put
together the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 in coordination with preparation
of the Project as soon as it came to office. Stakeholder involvement was a central feature not
only of preparation of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, but remained so
throughout its implementation. The Government maintained its ownership and commitment
to the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project throughout
28


﻿implementation, preparing and securing approval for key pieces of legislation and
establishment and/or restructuring of institutions, both required to ensure the program's
sustainability. Key staff was appointed before implementation began. The Government
secured funding from alternative sources, e.g. the EU, to support key aspects of the Education
Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, and in general coordinated this funding effectively. By
design, the MoSES coordinated the implementation of the Education Sector Development
Plan 2005-2010 not only implementing several project priorities, but also coordinating the
activities implemented by other agencies, and utilizing the monitoring information in Annual
Evaluations as a basis for preparing subsequent ADPs with activities and resources.
76. On the less positive side, the Project faced delays in the initial years due to implementation
capacity issues; the selection of schools for rehabilitation took almost two years. Delays were
also recorded in the continuous professional development of teachers, and the MoSES was
not able to move the agenda forward. Additional shortcoming in the Government's
performance was the result of counterpart funding constraints, which were mostly due to the
impact of the international financial crisis on Croatia's overall budget. In the end, the Project
had to be extended to compensate for these delays.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
77. There were several implementing agencies involved with the Project, and as a whole the
Implementing Agencies Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The MoSES was
responsible for its overall coordination and management (see above), the VET Agency (for
VET), the ETTA (for teacher training), NCEEE (for evaluation of student achievement), in
addition to the school founders (municipalities and counties) were jointly with MoSES
responsible for construction of schools. As could be expected, the performance of each of
these agencies varied, although in general these agencies remained unfaltering in their
commitment to the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project's
objectives, carried out their programs in coordination with MoSES, providing inputs as
needed for developing ADPs and Annual Evaluations, maintained appropriate staffing and
complied with fiduciary requirements. The majority of these agencies have internalized in
their routine activities the outputs and intermediate outcomes they achieved under the Project.
The most significant shortcoming was the implementation of teacher training activities, and
especially the establishment of a system through which teacher training could be monitored,
under the responsibility of ETTA.  Despite remarks in practically all of the Annual
Evaluations raising concerns that these activities were lagging, ETTA was not able by project
completion to have in place a system that records both past and present teacher-training
activities.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
78. Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based the ratings for
Government Performance and Implementing Agencies Performance, and the overall outcome
rating of the Project.
29


﻿6. Lessons Learned
79. The Project, its design, implementation and outcome, including the Bank's support in each of
these areas offers several lessons that are relevant to future support of similar programs.
80. There were several benefits to designing the operation as a SWAp, as explained below:
a. The operation's design as a SWAp was a very effective one, although in reality it did not
function as a SWAp in the pooling of funds, or its fiduciary aspects. What it did provide,
that proved to be very effective, was a clear framework for annual reviews, based on
yearly evaluations, within the framework of an agreed government program (the
Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010) that had been prepared by the
Government with support by the Bank where and when requested. There was a general
consensus throughout preparation and implementation on the priorities in the program,
and a desire to work jointly, in partnership, to make it work.
b. Within the framework of an agreed program, it was possible to avoid "over preparation"
of the Project, focusing only on putting in place the fundamentals of a clear, succinct
framework for implementation of the program, and hence for the Bank to respond in a
timely manner to the Government's request for financial assistance to support it. The
flexibility that the Bank applied in incorporating fiduciary actions in the Project's early
implementation was also positive, and although the Project's fiduciary risks had been
rated substantial, none of these materialized.
c. Another aspect of the SWAp design that was very positive for an operation that supports
a major reform was the fact that it was implemented by the staff of the MoSES and of the
implementing agencies, as opposed to through a Project Implementation Unit or even a
Project Coordination Unit that would cease to exist upon completion. The MoSES has
developed the capacity to continue the process of preparing yearly plans, carrying out
yearly evaluations, and basing resource allocation on progress towards plans. The
implementing agencies have developed stronger capacity to pursue their objectives, based
on experience they and their staff gained first-hand during implementation.
81. Particular care should be devoted to defining the expected outcomes of Projects that
support major reforms. This was mentioned in several places in this Report, but it is worth
reiterating. It is highly unlikely that a Project that supports curriculum reform, teacher
training, education MIS development, external assessment, etc., each of which is to be
implemented under the Project (and possibly subject to delays), by institutions that are to be
strengthened, can produce notable results on learning outcomes in four years.
82. Also, in defining indicators, especially in the short term, the use of relative indicators
(e.g., Croatia's performance relative to other EU countries) should probably be avoided,
since a country's relative position may be impacted by the improving (or possibly
deteriorating) performance of other countries in the group. Finally, in selecting indicators, it
is best to select those that will provide a yearly gauge of progress as opposed to those with
infrequent data (e.g., PISA results).
83. A functioning MIS is critical for monitoring outcomes, especially for a Project and
program designed as a SWAp per the framework described above. Fortunately, the
Government was able to develop and implement the MIS in a timely fashion, and this
30


﻿allowed implementation by the Government and the Bank's implementation support to be
very results driven.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A
31


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) IBRD Loan (in EURO Million)
Actual/Latest      Percentage of
Category*            Appraisal Estimate     Etmt                pria
Estimate          Appraisal
Transfers for Annual Development      67.8               66.28              97.8
Plan (ADP)
Total Loan Amount         67.8              66.28              97.8
Physical Contingencies                0.00               0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00               0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00               0.00               0.00
Total IBRD Required        67.8               66.28              97.8
*The Project was not costed by component as the transfers to priority areas were determined annually
through the Annual Development Plans (ADP). ADPs specified the activity plan, required investment
needs, agreed schedule, budget and procurement plan for each year.
(b) Final Project Cost by Priority Area (in EURO Million)
Priority                     Government      Bank         Total
1. Enriching Classroom Practices                      97.19        10.47       107.66
2. Improving Monitoring and Evaluation                14.44         6.89        21.33
3. Strengthening Management                            4.26         0.01        4.27
4. Supporting Local Development                        8.13        48.91        57.04
TOTAL                                                124.02        66.28       190.30
(c) Financing
Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Source of Funds           (EURO millions)      Estimate        Appraisal
(EURO millions)
Borrower*                                  N/A             124.02           N/A
International Bank for Reconstruction      67.8            66.28            97.76
Given the SWAp nature of the Project, where it was financing a share of Borrower's annual education
development expenditures as articulated in its Annual Development Plans (ADP), an estimate of the
Borrower's contribution was not available at appraisal.
32


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Progress towards achievement of intermediate outcome indicators, and activities financed by
Priority Area that contributed to the achievement of the PDO were as described below:
Priority One: Enriching Classroom Practices
The Government's Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project envisaged a
set of programs aimed at enriching classroom practices and creating learning schools. At the
center of this was a comprehensive curriculum reform from preschool through secondary levels
aimed at improving the quality of teaching and learning. The extensive reforms at the various
educational levels were also seen to require changes in the system of teacher training. These
were supported by additional activities aimed at improving the learning environment, as
described below.
Curriculum Reform. Curriculum reform began with the implementation of Croatian National
Education Standard (CNES), developed in 2005 with the objective of reducing the redundant fact-
based educational programs and restructuring the teaching methods from a focus on factual
knowledge to more relevant problem-solving and project-oriented classroom activities. CNES
provided a basis for the design of a new teaching plan and program that was introduced in
primary schools during the 2006/2007 school year, thus allowing these schools to modernize their
teaching methods while the new framework was being developed under the coordination of the
National Curriculum Council (NCC). The National Curriculum Framework drafted by NCC was
submitted to a three-month public debate at the end of 2008 that was coordinated by a newly
established Directorate for National Curriculum within the MoSES. A final version of the
National Curriculum Framework, incorporating comments and suggestions received during the
public consultations, was drafted in early 2010 and adopted formally by the Government in July
2010. Teaching plans and subject curricula based on the developed competencies are being
prepared.
Curriculum reform was also extended to vocational education and training (VET) programs that
were under the responsibility of the VET Agency, an entity that had been established only in
2005 with the responsibility for the development of VET education. The main focus of
curriculum reform for VET was the reduction in the number of VET programs in line with labor
market demands. The number of VET programs was reduced from 300 in 2005 to 197 in 2010.
Currently, in line with the Government's expectations, VET programs enroll approximately 68
percent of secondary school students, down from approximately 71 percent in 2005. Since 2008,
two important policies have been adopted to further the Government's objective of making VET
programs responsive to labor market needs. The Strategy of the Development of VET System in
the Republic of Croatia 2008-2013, adopted in July 2008, sets out principles for development of
VET during the period with clearly defined outcome indicators. The strategy is based on the
development of competency-based qualifications, the creation of a system of lifelong learning for
VET, and the development of quality assurance mechanisms. The Strategy became the basis for a
new Act on Vocational Education and Training adopted in February 2009. The Act provided the
legal basis for the establishment of a permanent National VET Council whose purpose is to
represent key stakeholders in the sector and coordinate the operation of Sector Councils charged
with harmonizing VET programs with labor market demands. The Minister of MoSES appointed
the representatives of these Councils in 2009. The Sector Councils began developing a
programming methodology for VET programs that will comprise a package of three documents
33


﻿for each vocation: standards of a vocation, standards of a qualification and competency-based
curriculum. Programs for each vocational sector were drafted in 2009.
Continuous Professional Development of Teachers. The comprehensive reforms envisaged
under the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, involving systemic, system-wide
changes, called for strategic changes in teacher training as a priority for the improvement of
learning in schools. The Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 focused especially on
in-service teacher training, since there was a demand for qualified teachers in the areas of
mathematics, physics, chemistry and foreign languages.  Many of the teachers currently
employed do not possess university qualifications, and the pre-service training of teachers is
considered weak and not able to prepare teachers for the demands of competency-based education.
During the period of implementation, the Government adopted two important policies aimed at
transforming teacher training, both pre-service and in-service, continuous professional
development (CPD).
The Act on Primary and Secondary Education adopted in 2008 sets out mandatory requirements
of a teacher training program, including clear outlines, purposes and goals in terms of
competencies, training methods and methods of evaluation and certification. These provisions
establish a solid basis for improvements in design and delivery of more coherent teacher training
with competency-based outcomes. The Act requires a 60 ECTS3 university education for subject
teachers to reach qualification standards. Since Croatian universities do not offer programs that
fulfill this requirement, the MoSES adopted Qualification Standards for Teachers in December
2010, and requested that universities design relevant programs that met these new mandatory
requirements for pre-service teacher training.
While these programs are being developed, the Government has focused on in-service training
programs to compensate for the lack of adequately trained teachers entering the system. In
response, the Education and Teacher Training Agency (ETTA), the agency responsible for
continuous professional development of teachers in preschool, primary, general secondary, and
general subject (mathematics, Croatian and foreign language) teachers in VET schools, developed
and adopted in 2009 a Strategy for Continuous Professional Development of Teachers 2009-2013
aimed at transforming their practice of in-service teacher training. This Strategy provides for the
improvement of various elements of the teacher training system, introducing a competency-based
professional development for all teachers as its main priority. Its goal is to create a model of
professional development that will promote equally development of teachers' subject knowledge,
didactical competencies and generic competencies. It also introduces an accreditation system for
teacher training programs, and two-year cycles as a basis for the organization of training events.
The Act on Primary and Secondary Education provides the framework for a system of teacher
licensing under the responsibility of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education
(NCEEE), and a by-law regulating the continuous professional development of teachers has been
drafted. However, the actual introduction of a licensing system has been set back by delays in
establishing a system of reliable data collection on teacher attendance in in-service training. In
2010, ETTA introduced a system of online registration for in-service teacher training that tracks
attendance in different programs. However, the system is still not integrated with the MoSES' e-
3 European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System, the credit system for higher education used in the
European Higher Education Area involving countries engaged in the Bologna Process that aims, inter alia,
at the establishment of a system of credits as a proper means of promoting the most widespread student
mobility.
34


﻿Matica as a central database, and information on training before 2010 has not been entered into
ETTA's online system.
In-service training for preschool, primary and general secondary education teachers provided by
ETTA is organized at state, regional and county levels, although under the Project priority has
been given to decentralizing training as much as possible. County-level trainings are organized
through county-level subject councils. ETTA has developed a network of about 1,400 leaders,
and each council consists or approximately 50 subject teachers from the area working under the
coordination of a leader. During implementation, teacher training was organized mostly as a set
of seminars, lectures and workshops on a variety of topics related to specific subject pedagogy
and general themes related to national educational priorities and school practice. Programs were
created mainly in response to needs expressed by teachers, proposals made by teacher training
professionals and educational policy priorities. However, it is not possible to report reliable data
on teacher attendance of CPD n view of the delays in putting in place a system for tracking
attendance.
The VET Agency, in cooperation with county subject councils, designed and provided training of
VET subject teachers for each of the 13 VET sectors continuously since 2006. Training, guided
by the needs of teachers as well as the labor market, was structured on a modular principle,
around thematic areas and specific themes within a two-year cycle. With the introduction of the
VET Agency's VETIS database, the registration process and data on training attendance have
been managed online.
Development of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). The Education Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010 assigned special emphasis to the introduction of ICT as a means of
improving teaching and learning. The Project supported funding for teacher training in ICT and
the delivery of hardware and software to primary and secondary schools. A program for
certifying teachers for the European Computer Driving License (ECDL) was introduced, focusing
on initial ECD training that was provided by ETTA to about 21,500 teachers, of which 500 have
become certified EDCL Mentors. About 825 schools received computer labs, together with 320
"smart boards". All primary and secondary schools were provided with Internet access, and
secondary schools began receiving interactive software packages for physics, mathematics,
chemistry, biology and English language course. All educational resources are also available on
the Internet through the 60 Internet services such as the national portal for distance learning and
the web portal for primary and secondary schools. Access to a variety of digital learning
resources has been provided to potential users through the ability to download educational
software packages free of charge. These web portals allow for recording visits to online
resources that permits monitoring and analysis of the use of these new technologies.
Equipping of Schools. In the first two years after the CNES was introduced, all primary schools
received didactic supplies and cabinet equipment. Thereafter, the Project funded equipment for
science labs and audio-visual equipment to schools throughout the country. The transformation
of VET education through new programs also required a renewal of equipment that was provided
to about 50 VET schools.
Priority Two: Improving Monitoring and Evaluation
The Government's ability to monitor and evaluate the education sector's performance was a
major objective of the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010. It was an objective,
without which it would be impossible to evaluate progress in other areas, and make difficult the
commitment to harmonize its educational system with EU standards. This was undoubtedly the
35


﻿Priority supported by the Project for which the most important results were obtained. Indeed, it is
remarkable that achievements such as the development and introduction and of a comprehensive
MIS, and the development and adoption of a system of external evaluation, including an
institutional framework for its administration, were achieved so successfully during a relatively
short implementation period.
Education Management Information System. A comprehensive database was a prerequisite for
the MoSES to effectively and efficiently plan, manage and monitor the education system. The
Project supported the development of this comprehensive and integrated information system, e-
Matica. E-Matica was introduced at the beginning of the 2006/2007 school year and has been
continuously upgraded since then. The system provides an integrated system for standardized
data collection. By-laws regulate schools' accountability regarding the collection and use of data,
and use of the system became the mandatory system of data collection for primary and secondary
education in 2008. The E-Matica system integrates all relevant information regarding primary
and secondary education: school facilities, employees, students and programs, and provides for
comprehensive management serving MoSES and other government agencies such as NCEEE and
ETTA. At present, e-Matica provides data on students to NCEEE for purposes of administering
external examinations (see below). As mentioned above, ETTA has developed an on-line system
for teacher training, although it is not yet linked to e-Matica. Since its introduction the system
has been continuously upgraded. In 2009, new modules were introduced that allow printing
school certificates with stored data at the end of the school year, and managing the choice of
textbooks, their ordering and delivery. Then, in 2010, e-Matica was upgraded to allow data to be
recorded for managing students' applications to tertiarty educational institutions based on
performance on the Matura examination. The VET Agency also designed an information
management system for vocational education, VETIS. VETIS stores data on vocational schools
(facilities, equipment and premises), data on students and data on teachers. Data stored on VETIS
are fully integrated with e-Matica.
Benchmarking against EU and Global Performance. Croatia's preparation for EU accession
required the harmonization of its educational system with EU standards and the meeting of
educational objectives and benchmarks. In addition to participating for the first time in the 2006
PISA and benchmarking its performance against other participating countries, during
implementation the MoSES adopted a list of 29 indicators and five European benchmarks for
education system evaluation, thereby allowing the MoSES to monitor and benchmark the
development of Croatia's education system against standards in EU member countries. Indicators
on Croatia's education indicators are reported in the following documents: (a) European
Commission's Progress Towards the Lisbon Objectives, Indicators and Benchmarks, 2010; (b)
Education at a Glance, 2010, OECD; and (c) EUROSTAT's Statistical Book, Youth in Europe,
Edition 2009.
External Evaluation of Education. The Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the
Project aimed to create a system of external evaluation to replace previous evaluations that were
exclusively carried out in schools. This system was seen as a prerequisite for the monitoring and
improvement of education quality. External evaluation was seen in addition to support education
development and to improve the quality of teaching and learning. Institutional capacity for the
delivery of assessment services did not exist, so the Government in 2005 established the National
Centre for the External Evaluation of Education (NCEEE). NCEEE is fully established, staff and
has become the institution responsible for evaluation of Croatia's education system, including test
development, implementation of national exams and development of a system of self-evaluation.
36


﻿Throughout the Project's implementation, several rounds of national exams were carried out. In
the Spring of 2006, for the first time NCEEE administered national exams to a target population
of first year secondary school students in Croatian, Mathematics and Foreign Language. In 2007,
these exams were expanded to the entire population of first year secondary students in 366
schools. Also in 2007, NCEEE introduced for the first time national exams (in Croatian and
Mathematics) for about 10,000 eighth grade students in primary schools as a means of
introducing formative assessment in primary. The following year, exams were repeated for the
entire population of fourth and eighth grade students and administered in all third year secondary
(grammar) schools and third grade VET schools on an optional basis, with testing adjusted
depending on the secondary stream. Fourth grade students took exams in Croatian, Mathematics,
foreign language and "nature and society". In addition they took a test with problem solving
tasks integrating knowledge from Croatian language, Mathematics, and "nature and society".
External evaluation of eighth-grade students included the entire population of 46,196 students, of
which 98.8 percent registered for the participation.
NCEEE also developed, provided training for teachers, exam coordinators, principals and test
evaluators, ran a trial and introduced Matura, the national secondary school exit exam following
the adoption of a respective by-law. From March to May 2009, 12,673 (100 percent) of
secondary (grammar) school students and 20,755 (95 percent) of VET students registered for the
trail Matura in Croatian, Mathematics and Foreign Language. The participation rate in the trial
Matura exam's three compulsory subjects exceeded 95 percent. The trial Matura also provided
for exams for 15 elective subjects and participation rates were over 90 percent for most of the
subjects. In 2010, the Matura exam was successfully introduced for all secondary grammar
students and for four-year VET students (on an optional basis). In all, 27,479 students from 370
schools participated, including 12,267 secondary grammar school students and 15,212 VET
students.  Matura was again repeated in 2011, with 34,127 students from   371 schools
participating, of which 12,313 secondary grammar school students, 18,382 VET students and
3,432 other pupils (citizens of other countries who want enroll into the Croatian higher education
system and adult education graduates).
Self-Evaluation. The Act on Primary and Secondary Education introduced mandatory self-
evaluation in primary and secondary schools that would be coordinated by several stakeholders.
NCEEE, VET Agency and ETTA are all responsible for self-evaluation. Self-evaluation was
seen as a complementary process to external evaluation that would allow for schools to reflect on
their performance, strengths and weaknesses, student achievements and areas for improving.
Starting in 2006, NCEEE introduced gradually a piloting of the process of self-evaluation after
which all of the schools that had participated shared experiences in a conference organized by
NCEEE. Self-evaluation became mandatory for primary schools in 2008, with the first self-
evaluations questionnaires administer as part of the external exams for fourth and eighth grade
students in 2008. Reports on results at the national level and at the school level were sent to
schools in 2009, to provide feedback as input to the subsequent year's self-evaluation process.
Priority Three: Strengthening Management and Leadership
Continuous Professional Development of School Principals.       The Education   Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project considered that strengthening the management and
leadership capacities of school principals was required to benefit fully from the program's
reforms. The lack of capacities and competencies was considered to be a potential road block in
the ESDP's systemic changes, including, for example, introduction of the new framework
curriculum. In response, the Act of Primary and Secondary Education incorporated several
provisions with respect to the professional development of school principals. It requires all
37


﻿school principals to complete university education at the Bachelor of Arts level by 2012. At the
primary level, it is estimated that 43 percent of school principals do not have this degree. The Act
also defines a program of compulsory training for school principals, including clearly outlined
objectives in terms of competencies, training methods and methods of evaluation and certification.
The development and introduction of professional, outcome-based training for managerial staff
began with a two-year pilot project launched by ETTA in 2007 in cooperation with the Dutch
School of Educational Management and the British Council. The program included training
modules in strategic management and leadership skills, human resources management,
organizational diagnostics, financial management and quality improvement. A total of 20 school
principals and four advisors from ETTA received this training, and now serve as certified trainers,
following a cascade training approach. Since 2009, this program that includes ten modules has
been provided continuously to all elementary and secondary school principals serving their first
mandate.
This Priority included an indicator measuring progress in upgrading issues identified in the ESFA.
Progress towards this indicator was not tracked as a matter of routine, as the MoSES addressed
the identified issues in the first years of implementation. As described in Section 2.4 there were
no issues with financial management during implementation, and through the Bank's yearly
fiduciary supervision the issues identified in the ESFA were addressed satisfactorily.
Priority Four: Supporting Local Development and Innovations
The Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 and the Project were designed to support
investments in school facilities throughout Croatia to address the problem of multi-shift schools.
At the time of preparation, the majority of schools in Croatia operated in two shifts, while 52
schools (mostly primary schools in Zagreb and Split) were still operating in three shifts. The lack
of adequate school facilities was seen as hindering the improvement needed to transform schools
into effective learning environments. Based on a needs assessment prepared in cooperation with
local (county) authorities, the MoSES prepared a list of priorities related to constructing new
schools of reconstructing existing ones. The list included 60 primary and 13 secondary schools to
be constructed under the Project. In all, the Project financed the construction of 40 primary and 8
secondary schools. Additional works are still ongoing in five schools that have received
continued funding by local and central government budgets until the construction completion.
With this, the Government made progress towards its objective of increasing the number of
students in single shift schools, although additional efforts will be required to eliminate entirely
multi-shift schools. There was a notable increase in the number of primary students in single-
shift schools, from 12.3 percent of primary students in 2006 to 48.2 percent in 2011. There was
also a significant progress towards this objective at the secondary level: while only 18.2 percent
of secondary students attended single-shift schools in 2006, this figure had almost doubled in
percentage terms to 35.2 percent in 2011. The progress in decreasing the number of primary
students attending triple-shift schools was also significant, as the number reduced from almost 8.9
percent in 2006 to 1.9 percent in 2011.
38


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic and financial analysis were not prepared for this ICR.
39


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                          Title                Unit           specialty
Specialty
Lending
Rosita Van Meel             Team Leader (as of July 2005)     ECSHD Team Leader
Philip Goldman              Team Leader (April 2005 - June 2005) ECSHD Team Leader
Pasi Sahlberg               Team Leader (until April 2005)    ECSHD Team Leader
Inguna Dobraja              Senior Social Protection Specialist  ECSHD Social Protection
Ernesto Cuadra              Lead Education Specialist         ECSHD Education
Ivan Drabek                 Operations Analyst                ECSHD Operations
Zorica Lesic                Operations Analyst                ECSHD Operations
Marilou Abiera              Program Assistant                 ECSHD Program Assistant
Ivanka Perkovic             Team Assistant                    ECCHR Team Assistant
Ivica Zec                   Public Information Assistant      ECCHR Public Information
IKarin Shepardson           Sr. Operations Officer            ECSSD Operations
Dina Abu-Ghaida             Sr. Economist                    HDNED Economist
Irina Kichigina             Sr. Counsel                       LEGEC Lawyer
Michael Gascoyne            Sr. Financial Management Specialist  ECSPS Financial Management
Ranjan Ganguli              Consultant                        ECSPS Financial Management
Andrina Ambrose             Sr. Finance Officer                LOA    Disbursement
[Nicholay Chistyakov        Sr. Finance Officer                LOA    Dsibursement
Supervision/ICR
Ivan Drabek                 Sr. Operations Officer            ECSH3 Team Leader
[Nina Arnhold               Sr. Education Specialist          ECSH2 Team Leader
Antonia G. Viyachka         Procurement Specialist            ECSO2 Procurement
Bogdanka Krtinic            Team Assistant                    ECCHR Team Assistant
Lamija Marijanovic          Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3 Financial Management
Anneliese Viorela Voinea    Financial Management Analyst      ECSO3 Financial Management
[Natasa Vetma               Senior Operations Officer         ECSS3 Environment
Sujani Eli                 Program Assistant                  ECSHD Program Assistant
Carmen Laurente             Sr. Program Assistant             ECSHD Program Assistant
[Marilou Abiera             Program Assistant                 ECSHD Program Assistant
Keiko Miwa                  Country Manager                   EACLF Country Manager
Iwona Warzecha              Sr. Financial Management Specialist  ECSO3 Financial Management
Maria Vannari               Sr. Procurement Specialist        OPCPR Procurement
[Nicholas Chistyakov        Sr. Finance Officer               CTRLN Financial Management
40


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                 26.02              140,339.17
FY05                                 82.35              422,091.60
Total:         108.37             562,430.77
Supervision/ICR
FY06                                 45.72              167,079.15
FY07                                 52.69              180,053.26
FY08                                 34.69              109,834.67
FY09                                 30.45               98,694.98
FY10                                 20.66              107,939.53
FY11                                 13.28               37,028.08
FY12                                  3.88               12,831.58
Total:         201.37             713,461.25
41


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A
42


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A
43


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Introduction
This report is structured around a list of indicators set for monitoring the achievements in the
transformation of pre-tertiary education in Croatia as envisaged by Educational Sector
Development Plan 2005-2010. The principal outcome indicators that were monitored are student
performance on PISA international assessments, enrollment rates in pre-school, primary and
secondary education as well as completion rates in primary and secondary education. In addition,
a set of indicators was used for monitoring the progress in four priority areas.
Priority 1: Creating Learning Schools
The first priority primarily focuses on the overall improvements in teaching and learning
in Croatian schools; widening participation in pre-school education; equipping
kindergartens, primary and secondary schools; curriculum development in pre-school,
primary and secondary education; professional development of   teachers, school
principals and professional staff; development of the national IT infrastructure and
development of the system for the collection and management of education information.
Priority 2: Improving Monitoring and Evaluation
This priority is primarily focused on the development of a system of external evaluation
of primary and secondary education and of self-evaluation in primary and secondary
schooling.
Priority 3: Strengthening Management and Leadership
Focus is on improvement of the managerial resources and capacity building both at the
level of schools, local educational authorities and in MoSES.
Priority 4: Supporting Regional Development and Innovations
Focus is on the planning and implementation of capital investments into primary and
secondary schools in Croatia with the aim of reducing and finally eliminating schools that
operate in three shifts.
Indicator 1 - Participation and Performance in the Program for International
Student Assessment (PISA)
ESDP recognized the need of benchmarking educational outcomes against internationally
recognized criteria. This was seen as a necessary tool in the improvement of overall system
effectiveness. As part of the development of external evaluation system in Croatia, the ESDP has
set the objective of participation in OECD PISA project which has been carried out by the
National centre for external evaluation of education in the Republic of Croatia.
Croatia joined the PISA Consortium and administered the international assessment procedure for
the first time in 2006. A sample of 5,242 15-year old students from 9 primary and 159 secondary
schools took PISA tests in the domains of reading, mathematical and science literacy. The
participation rate with respect to the total number of students registered was 93%.
The results of PISA assessment for scientific literacy rank Croatia as 26th out of 57 countries
taking part in PISA. Croatian students' average score was two points below the OECD average
44


﻿range, a somewhat surprising result given the fact that school curricula in Croatia were not
substantially re-conceptualized in line with the learning principles embedded in PISA tasks. This
result placed Croatia as 16 out of 26 EU countries. On the other hand, proficiency of Croatian
students in mathematical and reading literacy assessment proved to be lower. The data for
mathematical literacy placed Croatia at a below-average ranking of 36 out of 57 OECD countries.
In comparison to EU member states Croatian students ranked 21 out of 26, revealing relatively
poor mathematical literacy skills compared to the majority of other European countries taking
part in PISA. The result in reading literacy was 6 points below the average EU range, ranking
Croatia as 18fh out of 26 EU countries.
Croatia participated in PISA for the second time in 2009 cycle. A field trial for the 2009 PISA
assessment was successfully performed in 2008. Data collection for the main study was carried
out in the spring of 2009 in 159 Croatian schools. In sum, 5.029 students took part in the testing,
and participation rate of the sampled students was 92%. Table 1 presents the performance of
Croatian students in reading, mathematical and scientific literacy relative to the EU countries.
Table 1. The performance of Croatian students on 2009 PISA reading, mathematics and
science scales relative to the performance of students in EU countries
Overall reading                         Mathematics                           Science
scale       Ranking                    scale     Ranking                  scale     Ranking
Finland             536           1     Finland           541          1     Finland          554        1
Netherlands         508           2     Netherlands        526         2     Estonia          528        2
Belgium             506           3     Belgium            515         3     Netherlands      522        3
Estonia             501           4     Germany           513         4     Germany           520        4
Poland              500           5     Estonia            512         5     United Kingdom   514        5
Sweden              497           6     Denmark            503         6     Slovenia         512        6
Germany             497           7     Slovenia          501          7     Poland           508        7
Ireland             496           8     France            497          8     Ireland          508        8
France              496           9     Slovak Republic   497          9     Belgium          507        9
Denmark             495          10     Austria           496         10     Hungary          503        10
United Kingdom      494          11     Poland            495         11    Czech Republic    500        11
Hungary             494          12     Sweden            494         12     Denmark          499        12
Portugal            489          13     Czech Republic    493         13     France           498        13
Italy               486          14     United Kingdom    492         14     Sweden           495        14
Latvia              484          15     Hungary           490         15    Austria           494        15
Slovenia            483          16     Luxembourg        489         16    Latvia            494        16
Greece              483          17     Ireland           487         17     Portugal         493        17
Spain               481          18     Portugal          487         18     Lithuania        491        18
Czech Republic      478          19     Spain              483        19     Slovak Republic  490        19
Slovak Republic     477          20    Italy               483        20    Italy             489        20
Croatia             476          21     Latvia            482         21     Spain            488        21
Luxembourg          472          22     Lithuania         477         22    Croatia           486        22
Austria             470          23     Greece             466        23     Luxembourg       484        23
Lithuania           468          24     Croatia           460         24     Greece           470        24
Bulgaria            429          25     Bulgaria          428         25     Bulgaria         439        25
Romania             424          26     Romania           427         26     Romania          428        26
Croatia             476                                   460                                 486
97,9%                                  93,7%                              97,8%
Source: OECD PISA 2009 database.
45


﻿Performance of Croatian students is below EU average, with rankings ranging between 21th and
24th out of 26 countries. The 2009 PISA results placed Croatia in the bottom quarter of EU
countries in all three domains. In comparison to 2006 results, Croatia's rankings declined in all
three measured competences: from 18 to 21 in reading literacy, from 21 to 24 in mathematical
literacy and from 16 to 22 in scientific literacy. The analysis of the results, which have been
achieved by the students, have been used for the development of the National curriculum
framework.
Indicator 2 - Enrollment in Pre - School Education
Pre-school education is the first educational cycle in Croatia, with the important role of preparing
children for the beginning of primary school education. Given the importance of early education
for children's later educational performance, ESDP set out the increase of the enrollment rate in
pre-school programs as developmental goal, particularly for pre-schoolers from socially and
economically disadvantaged backgrounds and those from less developed areas.
In order to improve access to early education, the focus has been on providing the necessary
infrastructural prerequisites and resources for pre-school programs, particularly in regions where
pre-school education has not been adequately provided. In addition to that, special emphasis has
been put on the provision of one-year preparatory programs for all children prior to enrollment in
primary schools, for which target values were set by the ESDP.
The objectives set out in the ESDP were to increase enrollment rates in all kindergarten programs
from the baseline value of 43% in 2005 to 60% in 2010. Next, the objective was to improve the
participation of children in one-year preparatory programs before school from 96% to 98% in
2010. The figures reported in ESDP regarding baseline net enrollment ratios for 2005 for all pre-
school programs have been subsequently re-calculated using more precise methodology in the
Project Monitoring Indicators Report. According to this data, net enrolment ratio into
kindergarten programs for the school year 2004/2005 was 51.9% and not 43% as it has been
stated in Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010. Table 2 presents progress in enrollment
rates for all pre-school kindergarten programs and for one-year preparatory program for the
period between 2005 and 2010.
Table 2. Developmental objectives and achievements for enrollment in
kindergarten programs (2005 - 2009)
2005       2006        2007       2008        2009
Target values   43%        43.8%       56.0%      57%         58%
Achievements    51.9%      54%         55.0%      55.66%      56.08%
In line with the ESDP objective for this priority, there has been a steady increase in the net
enrollment ratio into pre-school programs from 52% to 56% in 2009. The reliable indicator for
2010, based on Crostat population data, is not yet available. Preliminary data however for the
school year 2009/2010 indicate a participation rate of 58,85%  in all pre-school programs, thus
almost reaching a target value of 60% as set by ESDP.
The participation rate of 90% is attained in one-year programs for 6-year olds who are preparing
for primary school. According to recalculated data, the net enrollment rate in one-year
preparatory programs in 2004/05 was 94.4% and it was continuously increasing during the project
period (Table 3). Progress in overall participation rates in pre-school education, particularly in
46


﻿one-year preparatory programs is even more important given the fact that pre-school education in
Croatia is not compulsory.
Table 3. Developmental objectives and achievements for enrollment in
one-year preparatory programs ( 2005 - 2009)
2005        2006       2007        2008        2009
Target values   96%        96.2%       96.4%       96.8%       97%
Achievements    94.4%      98.4%       99.4%       97.5%       96.2%
Available data for school year 2009 show that 96.2% 6-year-old pre-schoolers were enrolled in
one-year preparatory programs, approximately reaching the developmental objective set in the
PMI Report. This objective was reached by continuous introduction of new kindergartens and
preparatory programs during the project period. Table 4 presents the number of newly opened
kindergarten and pre-school programs per year.
Table 4. The number of newly opened kindergarten and preschool
programs (2005-2009)
Year                2006   2007        2008         2009
Number of programs  15     29          30           26
Number of children  716    1450        1600         1350
enrolled
During the period 2006 - 2009, 100 new kindergarten or preparatory programs for primary school
have been introduced outside urban areas, enrolling over 5.000 children. Decisions regarding the
introduction of new preschool programs were made based on the following priorities: regions
under special state care, municipalities that do not already have a preschool program and less
developed areas with limited local government funds. Specific priorities for investment were
agreed with local government units who were in charge of providing adequate premises in their
ownership for opening preschool programs. MoSES was funding the equipment for premises
selected by the local government. Local government units were also responsible for financing
salaries of preschool teachers and support staff.
Indicator 3 - Student Participation and Completion Rates for Primary and
Secondary Education
Participation rates of students in primary and secondary education have been set by the ESDP as
an indicator of improved access to education and therefore of the overall educational system
performance. Target values of net enrollment and completion of preschool, primary and
secondary education were set in ESDP and have been monitored throughout the project period.
Initial target values set in ESDP were calculated based on incomplete data on baseline enrollment
and completion rates. They were subsequently modified using the more precise methodology.
Project Monitoring Indicators Reports therefore set out recalculated data throughout the Project
period. Both enrollment and completion rates have been calculated each year based on the data
reported by the Central Bureau of Statistics. The method of calculation was slightly changed in
2008, with primary and secondary school population parameters calculated on the basis of
population census estimate provided by the Central Bureau of Statistics. Tables 5 and 6 show the
developmental objectives set by Annual Development Plans and enrollment rates in primary and
secondary education throughout the project period.
47


﻿Table 5. Developmental objectives and achievements in enrollment rates for
primary education (2005 - 2009)
2005        2006        2007        2008        2009
Target values   92%         92.5%       93%%       93.5%        94%
Achievements    92.6%       92.7%       92.4%       91.8%%      92.1%
Developmental objectives for the enrollment rates in 2005 - 2010 period envisaged a slight
increase in enrollment rate in primary schools by 2%, while actual enrollment rates remained
about 92% during the monitored period. Minor departures in enrollment rate compared to the
target values for the last two years is are probably due to different methodologies used in data
calculation at the times the targets for primary schools were set and data calculated. Namely the
data is being collected for the children aged 7 to 14 and a child can enter the first grade even
earlier as well as finish its primary education after being aged 15.
Table 6. Developmental objectives and achievements in enrollment rates for
secondary education (2005 - 2009)
2005        2006        2007         2008        2009
Target values   79%         79.5%       80.0%        80.5%       81%
Achievements    80.5%       80.6%%      80.6%%       81%         81.3%
As for the secondary education, target values for enrollment in secondary schools were reached
throughout the project period. Enrollment in secondary schools was additionally fostered by the
MoSES campaign entitled 'Secondary education for all' and through the launch of the National
Program for Introducing Compulsory Secondary Education, both started in 2007. The overall
purpose of this campaign was to promote enrollment in secondary schools with the support of
measures such as the introduction of free textbooks, free transport to school and free
accommodation in boarding houses for secondary students. Due to the lack of financial resources
the national program was implemented only by the middle of the year 2009.
Although the enrollment rates in primary and secondary schools are high, it should be noted that
they are not precise indicators of the performance of Croatian pre-tertiary education. Croatia
traditionally has wide access to primary education with enrollment rates well over 90%. Besides
that, secondary education is still not compulsory in Croatia, and enrollment rates are high, at
around 80%. Variations in percentages observed throughout the project period are mostly due to
the unreliable population estimates that are used in calculations of the number of children
enrolled in primary school. Completion rates for primary and secondary education are presented
in Tables 7 and 8.
Table 7. Developmental objectives and achievements in completion rates for
primary education (2005 - 2009)
2005        2006         2007        2008        2009
Target values  91%         95%         95.5%       95.8%        96%
Achievements   99.3%       98.5%       98.4%        97.8%       97.8%
Table 8. Developmental objectives and achievements in completion rates
for secondary education (2005 - 2009)
2005         2006         2007        2008         2009
Target values  86%         87%          87.5%        88%          88.5%
Achievements   87.8%        87.5%       89.5%        90.1%        89.9%
48


﻿Data on completion rates indicate that developmental objectives set by Annual Development
Plans were completely achieved both for primary and secondary education throughout the
monitored period. In the year 2010 approximately 8% more students completed primary school
and about 1.5% more students completed secondary education in comparison to the initially set
objectives.
Priority one: Creating learning schools
Curriculum  Development.    ESDP envisaged a comprehensive curriculum  reform  from
preschool to the end of secondary school as one of crucial reform interventions aimed at
improving the quality of teaching and learning in schools. Curriculum reform started with the
implementation of Croatian National Education Standard (CNES). CNES was developed in 2005
with the principal aim to reduce the redundant fact-based educational programs and modernize
teaching methods. Subsequent to evaluation, CNES served as a basis for the design of the new
teaching plans and programs introduced in Croatian elementary schools in the school year
2006/2007.
Strategy for development of the National Curriculum Framework was adopted in 2007 and the
National Curriculum Council (NCC) was set up. The National Curriculum Framework for
preschool, general obligatory and secondary education (NCF) was drafted. National Curriculum
Framework was published in spring of 2010 and finally adopted in July 2011 by the decision of
the minister. Education and Teacher Training Agency, VETAE Agency and the National Centre
for External Evaluation of Education have organised the professional development of the
employees of educational institutions in the field of the curriculum approach. The proposal of the
action plan for the further development and implementation of NCF has been drafted.
Transformation of Vocational Education. Since the inception of ESDP, the main focus of the
transformation in vocational education and training (VET) has been the reduction of the number
of VET programs from around 300 in 2005 towards the set target value of 190 programs. A
process of restructuring and development of VET and adult education is in the scope of the
VETAE Agency, established in 2005 as the executive body responsible for the development of
VET education in the country. The activities of VETAE Agency were mainly focused on
restructuring existing VET programs and their substantial reduction in line with labour market
demands. Reduction of the programs that were not aligned with the demands of the labor market
was completed in the first two years of the ESDP implementation, resulting in 192 VET programs
in 2007. However, in response to the labour market demands, the number of VET programs
increased to 200 in 2008/2009 and was subsequently reduced to 197 in 2010.
The share of VET students in the overall number of secondary school students, planned to be
reduced since the inception of ESDP, has remained relatively stable until 2009 (Table 9.). In 2010,
it was reduced by 2% (the objective was 67% and the real share of VET students is 68.45%).
Table 9. Target values and actual shares of VET students in total secondary school
population (2005 - 2010)
2005    2006        2007        2008        2009
Target values    71%      70.8%      69%         68.2%       67.6%
Actual share of  71.02%   70.51%     70.16%      70.82%      70.43%
VET students
49


﻿Transformation of VET education since 2008 has been marked by the adoption of two key
documents that provide a framework for further development of the system.
Strategy of the development of VET system in the Republic of Croatia 2008-2013, adopted by the
government in July 2008, sets out the main principles of the development of VET for the
following five-year period, with clearly outlined outcome indicators. Strategic goals are focused
on the development of competence-based qualifications, continuous alignment of education with
the labour market demands, the creation of a lifelong learning system in VET as well as the
mobility, definition of the role of the teacher in the system focused on the learning outcomes, and
the development of quality assurance mechanisms. The Strategy was used as a basis for drafting
the second key document for VET, the new Act on Vocational Education and Training, adopted
in February 2009. The Act envisaged the establishment of the permanent National VET Council
intended to take care of the development of VET. The Council suggests sector councils,
harmonises the work of all bodies responsible for VET, gives the initiative for new or
reassessment of the existing curriculum, suggests measures and activities and strategies for the
development of VET. In line with the legal provision, National VET Council and 13 Sector
Councils were appointed by the Minister in 2009. These documents envisage the development of
a new methodology for the development of "teaching program" which consists of three key
documents for each vocation - standards of a vocation, standards of a qualification and
competence-based curriculum and vocational competence-based curriculum.
Since 2007, VETAE Agency has been implementing VETIS - an information management system
for vocational education. VETIS stores three large bodies of data: data on vocational schools
(facilities, equipment and premises), data on teachers and students. In order to improve data
management in the education sector, data stored in VETIS system should be based on data taken
over from e-Matica.
Continuous Professional Development of Teachers. The scope of comprehensive reform
interventions that ESDP introduces at various levels of the educational system requires strategic
changes across the entire existing teacher training system. The provision of quality teacher
training, with special emphasis on an integrated system of pre-service training and continuous
professional development for all teachers, has therefore been recognized as a priority area of
improvement towards creating learning schools. ESDP particularly envisaged a transformation of
in-service training offered to the existing teacher workforce as a priority in the light of
requirements put forth by recent systemic changes. The improvements in this area are particularly
important in light of the fact that there is a demand for qualified teachers in the system,
particularly for mathematics, physics, chemistry and foreign languages. Schools still employ
teachers of these subjects who lack necessary university qualifications. Furthermore, the existing
system of pre-service teacher training is recognized as a weak point, insufficiently preparing
teachers for the challenges of competence-based education. The Act on Primary and Secondary
Education adopted in 2008 requires a 60 ECTS university education for subject teachers to reach
qualification standard. However, university programs still have not offered programs to fulfil this
requirement. MoSES has thus adopted a Qualifications standard for teachers in December 2010
and demanded that universities design teacher education programs aligned with these mandatory
requirements. The continuous supply of teachers who were inadequately trained during pre-
service education thus requires that additional efforts be made in the in-service training system in
order to compensate for this systemic weakness.
In-service teacher training has mainly been organized by two agencies. Education and Teacher
Training Agency (ETTA) with its 105 expert advisors is responsible for continuous professional
development of the majority of teachers in the preschool, primary education and general
50


﻿secondary education, expert associates and principals in the system. They also provide in-service
training for teachers in VET schools who teach general subjects such as mathematics, Croatian
and foreign language etc.
The in-service training for preschool, primary and general secondary education teachers that is
provided by the ETTA is organized at state, regional and county-level. During the project period
efforts have been focused to decentralize the teacher training provisions, so now most of them are
offered at regional and county level.
ETTA has got a growing network of associates and advisors from the academic society,
practitioners from educational institutions and civil society who provide the expert and practical
expertise in the field of education with the special stress on the strengthening of human resources
of educational workers in preschool institutions, elementary and secondary schools and
dormitories.
A network of county-level subject councils, the best elementary- and secondary-level teachers,
expert associates and principals of elementary and secondary schools and dormitories (927
county-level leaders of elementary school subject councils and 502 county-level leaders of
general secondary school subject councils and councils of dormitory teachers) is especially
valuable. Every county-level subject council consists of approximately 50 elementary- or
secondary-level teachers, expert associates and principals who organise professional trainings for
the workers in elementary and secondary schools and dormitories at county and cross-county
level.
Throughout the project period teacher trainings have been organized mainly as a set of seminars,
lectures and workshops on a variety of topics related to specific subject pedagogy and general
themes related to nation-wide educational priorities and school practice. Training provisions have
been primarily created in response to expressed needs of educational workers, proposals made by
teacher training professionals and in line with current educational policy priorities. As a result,
trainings varied substantially for each target group. Furthermore, trainings are offered by various
civil society organizations, but the quality of such trainings is not adequately monitored.
During the project period two important steps aimed at transforming in-service teacher training in
line with the reform requirements were undertaken. Firstly, the 2008 Act on Primary and
Secondary Education set out mandatory elements of a teacher training program, including clearly
outlined purpose and goals in terms of teacher competences, training methods and methods of
evaluation and certification. These requirements provided a solid basis for improvements in
design and provision of more coherent teacher training with competence-based outcomes.
Secondly, recognizing the need to transform their current practice in the area of teacher training,
ETTA created a Strategy for continuous professional development of teachers 2009-2013,
adopted in 2009. This Strategy envisages improvements in various elements of the teacher
training system, introducing a competence-based professional development available to all the
teachers in the system as their main priority. The main strategic goal is to create a model of
professional development that would equally promote development of teachers' subject
knowledge, didactic and generic competences. Strategy also proposes the introduction of
accreditation system for the teacher training offerings. Furthermore, the Strategy introduces two-
year cycles as a basis for the organization of training offerings.
The adoption of the Act on Primary and Secondary Education provided the legislative framework
for the regulation of mandatory requirements for in-service teacher training and the introduction
of teacher licensing for all educational workers. However, the creation of a system of reliable data
51


﻿collection on teacher training attendance did not follow other changes in this field until 2010.
Since 1 January 2011 ETTA introduced a system of online registration for teacher trainings
organised by the expert advisors of ETTA and county-level leaders. The application for the on-
line registration for teacher trainings ensures that the educational workers register on time. It also
makes possible to make reports about the attendance to professional trainings in accordance with
criteria and objectives set in the Evaluation of the yearly developmental plan for 2008 for ESDP
financed by the World Bank.
Detailed list of professional trainings organised by ETTA is published on the Internet page
www.ettaedu.eu which contains all relevant data on participants of the professional trainings
organised by ETTA and county-level leaders who organise the trainings at county and cross-
county levels.
By the creation of the tracking system for the professional trainings in the application
www.ettaedu.eu the basis for the integration of data on professional trainings has been created in
accordance with the criteria which will be required by Eurydice - Network on education systems
and policies in Europe as well as with the existing e-Matica as a central database on educational
system.
The lack of case-based tracking of continuous professional development of teachers hindered the
introduction of a licensing system for teachers. According to the Act on Primary and Secondary
Education NCEE has a mandate to license teachers. A by-law regulating the continuous
professional development of teachers has been drafted. However, consensus between different
stakeholders regarding this issue has still not been reached.
Training of vocational subject teachers is provided by the VETAE Agency in cooperation with
county subject councils. Since 2006, trainings have continuously been designed for each of the 13
VET sectors. Training seminars were structured on a modular principle, around thematic areas
and specific themes within a two-year cycle. The design of the modules was guided by the needs
of teachers as well as needs of the labour market. Since the introduction of a system for data
management in VET education, the registration process and data on training attendance of VET
teachers have been continuously managed through VETIS database. However, due to the lack of
adequate training during pre-service education, the quality of VET teachers within the system
remains fairly low.
Equipping Primary and Secondary Schools. More innovative pedagogy which has been
promoted in both primary and secondary education required adequate didactics and school
equipment. The first delivery of equipment and didactics funded by the World Bank loan was
directed to 50 schools that were experimentally implementing CNES. In the first two years after
the CNES was introduced all Croatian elementary schools received sets of didactics and cabinet
equipment. Equipping of elementary schools continued during 2008 with the equipment for
science labs and audio-visual equipment that was delivered to 262 elementary schools in less
developed parts of the Republic of Croatia. In 2009, sets of equipment were delivered to 248
primary schools with the largest number of students across the county, including equipment for
school libraries, audio-visual equipment and school furniture, equipment for science subjects,
geography, history, arts, music, technical education and health education. Further on, 45
secondary grammar schools were equipped with science laboratories during 2007. The equipment
was distributed equally among schools in all counties.
Transformation of VET education, with new programs replacing outdated ones, also required a
renewal of equipment. During 2006 new equipment was supplied to 7 schools for 4-year
52


﻿vocational programs and to 4 schools for three-year programs. The supply of equipment for the
newly introduced vocational programs continued in 2007, with new equipment delivered to 34
schools for 4-year vocational programs, to 4 schools for 3-year programs and to 1 art school.
ICT Development. A special emphasis in Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 was
put on the introduction of ICT as one of the major tools for the improvement of teaching and
learning in Croatian schools. In the period 2005-2010 funding was provided for teacher training
and for ICT equipment and software in primary and secondary schools.
In 2005 the project of certifying school staff for the European Computer Driving Licence through
modules was launched, so ICT training was mainly focused on the provision of the initial ECDL4
training for the majority of teachers in the system. In the five-year period the overall number of
teachers who received initial ECDL training has increased to approximately 21,500, out of which
500 are certified ECDL Mentors. ICT training was provided by the ETTA as well as one of the
programs of continuous professional development of primary and secondary teachers.
In 2006 schools started receiving ICT equipment for computer labs and interactive software.
From 2006 to 2009 825 schools received computer labs. Furthermore, 320 "smart boards" were
delivered to schools in the same period. Regarding communication technology, all primary and
secondary schools were provided with Internet access through Carnet service. From 2007
secondary schools started receiving interactive software packages for physics, mathematics,
chemistry, biology and English language courses. All educational resources are also available on
the Internet through the 60 internet services such as national portal for distance learning, Nikola
Tesla5 and the web-portal for primary and secondary schools, www.skole.hr. Open access to a
variety of digital learning resources is provided to all potential users within the system via
download centre that enables free download of educational software packages. Web-portals are
equipped with tracking devices that record visits to available online resources for learning, which
enables monitoring and analysis of the extent to which schools use the newly available software.
Priority two: Improving monitoring and evaluation
Development of a System of External Evaluation of Education. At the moment of drafting the
Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, the Croatian educational system lacked a model
of external assessment of student learning outcomes. Up to 2006, the evaluation of students'
performance and achievements in Croatia has been exclusively carried out in schools. The
establishment of a transparent and accountable assessment procedure was thus recognized in
Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 as a key prerequisite for monitoring and
improvement of the quality of education. The need to introduce external assessment has been
particularly recognized in order to enable a summative assessment of students' performance at the
end of secondary education. Therefore, the Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 has
set the goal of developing an external evaluation system to ensure proper assessment of students'
achievement, to support educational development and to improve the quality of teaching and
learning. One necessary precondition for establishing such a system is the development of
institutional capacity for implementing assessment services. In order to provide the institutional
framework for developing a comprehensive assessment system, National Centre for the External
Evaluation ofEducation (NCEEE) was established in 2005. Since then the NCEEE has developed
into a governmental institution in charge of evaluation of the education system in Croatia, which
4 European Computer Driving Licence, more information available at http://www.ecdl.hr/
https://1ms.carnet.hr/logonscreen.asp
53


﻿includes test development, implementation of national exams and development of self-evaluation
system.
The process of external evaluation of student achievements started with national exams
administered in secondary schools for the first time in spring 2006. First-grade students in
secondary grammar schools (gymnasia) were the first to take the national exams, and they were
tested in their mother tongue, mathematics and their first foreign language. Among the first-grade
target population, 99% of registered students took part in the exams. In May 2007, NCEEE
administered national exams to the entire population of first-grade students in 366 secondary
schools. In 2007, national exams were administered for the first time in primary schools, that
way introducing formative assessment in primary schools. About 10,000 students were randomly
selected to a sample representing eight-grade elementary school population. They took exams in
Croatian language and mathematics. The process of introducing external evaluation system
continued in 2008 with the exams administered in all third-grade grammar schools and in third-
grade vocational schools to students who opted to participate in national exams. Secondary
grammar school students took mandatory exams in their mother language, foreign language and
mathematics as well as in one optional subject. They could choose between basic and advanced
level exams for each subject. Vocational school students who opted to participate in national
exams took tests only in mandatory subjects, predominantly taking the basic level tests which are
aligned with VET school programs.
The external evaluation in 2008 included the whole population of fourth- and eighth-grade
students. 98,72% fourth-grade students took part in external evaluation. They were tested in
Croatian language, mathematics, foreign language and science. 98,79% eighth-grade students
took part in external evaluation. The students were by random choice put in groups and in that
way half of the students were tested in foreign language, biology, chemistry, physics, chemistry
and science. The other half was tested in Croatian language, history, geography and combined
test of history and geography knowledge.
The introduction of the school-leaving exam - matura, which was scheduled for launch in
secondary grammar schools in 2009 and in secondary VET schools in 2010, was postponed in
2009 due to delays in the process of adopting the by-law on matura. The introduction of matura
was therefore re-scheduled for 2010, while the administration of trial matura, initially scheduled
for 2008, took place in 2009. External evaluation in 2009 was therefore primarily focused on
successful implementing the trial matura, carried out in the period March - May 2009. In total,
12,673 (100%) secondary grammar school students and 20,760 (95%) vocational school students
registered for the trial matura in three compulsory subjects - Croatian language as mother tongue,
mathematics and foreign languages. The participation rate of students in trial matura for all three
compulsory subjects exceeded 90% both for basic and advanced level testing. Trial matura was
also organized for 15 elective subjects, with participation rates over 90% for the majority of
subjects. Finally, matura exam was successfully introduced in 2010 for all secondary grammar
school students and optionally for 4-year vocational school students.
During 2010 NCEEE started the introduction of experimental external evaluation of preschool
institutions with the aim of ensuring the data for checking the changes in quality of the work in
preschool institutions. Table 10 below displays summative data on participation rates in external
exams for the 2006 - 2010 period.
54


﻿Table 10. Developmental objectives and achievements in the introduction of external
assessment (2005 - 2010)
2006            2007           2008            2009           2010
Objectives        All first-grade  National      Plan: Trial     Plan: matura   Matura for all
secondary       exams for all  matura for all  for all        secondary
grammar         first-grade    3rd grade       secondary      school
school students  secondary     secondary       school         students and
grammar        school         students and    optionally for
school and     students and    optionally for  VET students
VET students   optionally for  VET students
Sample of 8th  3rd grade VET  - postponed
grade primary  students -      New plan:
school         rescheduled     Trial matura
students       National       for all 3rd
exams for 4th   grade
and 8th grade   secondary
primary school  school
students        students and
optionally for
3rd grade VET
students
Achievements      13.231          59.474         119.271         368 schools    370 schools
35.187         27.479
students        students
12.673          12.267
secondary       secondary
grammar         grammar
school         school
students        students
20.755 VET      15.212 VET
students        students
Participation   Participation
rate: 95% of    rate: 77% of
registered      registered
students        students
Preparatory activities for the introduction of national exams included a series of training seminars
provided for various participants in the process. The training of expert groups for test
development as well as for teachers who served as test evaluators. In 2010 was organized a
training program for 250 teachers responsible for test development. NCEEE has organised a
series of training programs for secondary schools, principals, exam coordinators and for fourth-
grade students in order to make them more familiar with the system of external evaluation and
matura. Training seminars were organized on a regular basis for both county-level and school-
level exam coordinators. Seminars were also provided to 360 secondary school principals and 800
elementary school principals. Working groups responsible for test development in each of the
subjects participated in a series of seminars organized in cooperation with international expert
institutions. Trainings were also provided for teachers who served as test evaluators in mother
tongue, mathematics and foreign languages as well as in each of the elective subjects. In
cooperation with ETTA, county-level councils for mathematics, the Croatian language and
foreign languages organized trainings for secondary level teachers of these subjects in order to
make them familiar with the structure and objectives of the exam.
55


﻿Self-Evaluation. As outlined in Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, self-evaluation
represents a complementary process to external evaluation, providing an opportunity for the
school to regularly reflect on its performance, its strengths and weaknesses, the achievements of
its students and ways to improve. The Act on Primary and Secondary Education provided the
legislative framework for the introduction of mandatory self-evaluation in primary and secondary
schools that could be coordinated by the various stakeholders in the system. After the
introduction of external exams in secondary grammar schools in 2006, a pilot project of school
self-evaluation was implemented in secondary grammar schools in which 76 schools took part.
Following the administration of the first national exams in 2007, vocational schools also joined
the self-evaluation project, so during school year 2008/2009 81 secondary school participated in
the process. The project became a process that continued during school year 2009/2010, with 64
new schools or all together 136 secondary grammar and vocational schools implementing the
self-evaluation procedure. Schools that took part in the project shared their experiences at a
conference entitled Introduction of external evaluation and school self-evaluation in Croatian
educational system, which was organized by NCEEE in September 2009. Self-evaluation became
mandatory for primary schools in 2008 so that NCEEE based on the experience in secondary
schools started the activities in 850 primary schools. The first self-evaluation questionnaires were
administered in primary schools as part of external exams for fourth and eighth-grade students
during 2008. In 2009, the feedback reports on results at national level and at school level were
sent to schools and served as a basis for the continuation of the process in the next school year
which also continued in 2010.
Act on Primary and Secondary Education made the self-evaluation mandatory for schools.
NCEEE, based on the Act on NCEEE, has to provide support for the schools in the process of
self-evaluation. VETAE, based on the Act on Vocational Education, takes part in the process of
self-evaluation of secondary vocational schools.
According to the Act on Primary and Secondary Education and Act on Vocational Education,
NCEEE is not the only institution accountable for the process. Self-evaluation could be also
provided by the VETAE Agency and ETTA. During 2008, a project of self-evaluation was
implemented by ETTA in elementary schools. In total, 19 elementary schools completed a
comprehensive process of self-evaluation with support of the project team. During 2010 VETAE
developed a handbook on self-evaluation and implemented the self-evaluation system in 20
vocational schools. During school year 2011/2012 the self-evaluation system will be implemented
in all vocational schools as a part of quality assurance system in vocational schools. For that
purpose VETAE has developed IT tool "E-quality" (web tool for management of quality system,
self-evaluation reports, statistics and benchmarking).
Information System for the Management of Education. Systemic changes in education
envisaged by Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 required the establishment of the
comprehensive information database as the key prerequisite for the effective management of the
education system and for the monitoring of system performance. ESDP explicitly recognized the
priority of developing management strategies for the efficient educational system, including
supervision, management and inspection - to guarantee compliance to education legislation and
standards. ESDP therefore set the objective of establishing the Education Management
Information System by 2008. Further on, ESDP envisaged that education sector monitoring and
policy development would be promoted, collection of educational statistics data would be
improved and that education system indicators would be introduced to monitor the performance
of the entire education system as well as all activities at the school level.
56


﻿In order to meet these objectives, a coherent methodology for data collection had to be created
that would enable the development of a comprehensive system for the management of data on
Croatian education. The project of creating an integrated system for standardized data collection,
called e-Matica, was launched in 2005. e-Matica now represents a central database integrating all
relevant information regarding primary and secondary education: school facilities, employees,
students and programs. This data should serve as a basis for comprehensive management system
of primary and secondary education, designed to serve the MoSES and other relevant government
agencies such as NCEEE and ETTA. These agencies have access to the system and were offered
to create customized applications within the system that would comply with their specific data
requirements. For instance, e-Matica provides data on students to NCEEE for the purpose of
administering external exams.
e-Matica was introduced at the beginning of school year 2006/2007 and has since then been
continuously upgraded. With the introduction of the by-law that regulates schools' accountability
regarding the collection and use of data, e-Matica became the mandatory method of data
collection in primary and secondary education, and its standardized part became fully functional
in 2008. In 2009, e-Matica was upgraded with two modules. The first new module enables
printing student certificates with data stored in e-Matica at the end of the school year. The second
module enables managing the choice of textbooks, their ordering and delivery. In 2010, e-Matica
was further upgraded to allow data feed in the system for managing students' applications to
tertiary educational institutions based on their performance on Matura exams.
Monitoring System Indicators. Harmonization of Croatian educational system with EU
standards, in line with Croatia's preparations for the accession to EU, requires the ability to meet
EU educational objectives and benchmarks. ESDP has set the objective of adopting the proposed
list of 29 indicators and five European benchmarks for education system evaluation, enabling
MoSES to monitor and benchmark the development of the Croatian education system against
educational standards set in EU member countries. In the period 2006-2009 all the proposed
indicators were introduced and are regularly benchmarked and monitored. The monitoring of
system indicators has thus reached the developmental objective set by ESDP.
Priority three: Strengthening management and leadership
Continuous Professional Development of School Principals. In the period 2005 - 2010
particular attention under this priority was dedicated to strengthening educational management at
the school level. School principals have been recognized as a key target group whose
management and leadership capacities had to be strengthened in order to enable necessary
reforms. The existing qualification structure of school principals is inadequate, particularly in
primary education where 43% of school principals do not have tertiary education qualifications.
This clearly points to the lack of professional capacities and competences to face the challenges
of the current systemic changes such as the introduction of the new framework curriculum. New
educational legislation, adopted in 2008, therefore introduced mandatory professional
development for school principals. The Act on Primary and Secondary Education requires all
school principals in the system to complete university education at B.A. level by 2012. Although
some school principals are resisting the mandatory requirements, in 2010 the number of
principals with university education at B.A. level in elementary schools has increased and the
number of school principals without university education at B.A. level has decreased to 30%.
The Act also sets out compulsory elements of training programs for school principals. These
elements include clearly outlined objectives in terms of competences, training methods and
57


﻿methods of evaluation and certification. This framework provided a basis for improvements in
design and provision of outcome-based training for school principals. The introduction of
professional, outcome-based training of managerial staff in schools started with a two-year pilot
project that was launched in autumn 2007 through cooperation of ETTA with the Dutch School of
Educational Management and the British Council. An expert group of 20 school principals and 4
ETTA advisors have completed an extensive training in educational management skills. The
program included training modules in strategic management and leadership skills, human
resources management, organizational diagnostics, financial management and quality
improvement. The group of initial 24 participants completed their training in 2009 and they now
continue to serve as certified trainers, providing systematic training in school management and
quality improvement provided by ETTA. From 2009 on, this program of 10 training modules has
been continuously provided to all elementary and secondary school principals who are serving
their first mandate.
Priority Four: Supporting regional development and innovations
At the moment of drafting the ESDP, a majority of schools operated in two shifts, while a small
percentage of primary schools, mainly located in two major cities - Zagreb and Split, still
operated in three shifts. The lack of adequate school facilities throughout the country thus
hindered substantial improvements necessary for the envisaged transformation of schools into
true learning communities. Investments in school facilities throughout the country were therefore
envisaged as a main prerequisite for the transformation of schools into learning communities
providing quality education for all students.
In line with this, the ESDP set the objective of reconstructing school infrastructure in order to
reduce and finally eliminate multiple shifts in schools. The reduction of multiple shifts would
provide opportunities for schools to offer a wider range of optional and non-formal educational
services. The ESDP set indicator values for reducing the number of three-shift schools, while
progress in single-shift schooling has been continuously monitored. The indicator for monitoring
infrastructural developments throughout the project period was the percentage of primary school
students who are attending class in schools which operate in three shifts. The target rates and the
actual percentages of students operating in three shifts for 2006-2010 periods are presented in
Table 11.
Table 11. Target values and actual percentages of students attending
three-shift schools
2005        2006       2007        2008       2009
Target values             8%         8%          8%         7%
Achievements              8.9%       9.3%        9%         7.6%
As shown in Table 11, the percentage of students in three-shift schools continuously decreased
throughout the project period. In 2011 only 2.29% elementary schools operated in three shifts
which meant that 1,9% students attended these schools. The data presented in Annual PMI
Reports also monitored the percentage of primary and secondary school students attending single-
shift schools.
58


﻿Table 12. Percentages of primary and secondary school
students attending one-shift schools
2006        2007       2008        2009
Primary      12.3%       13.3%       17%        26%
schools
Secondary    18.2%       18.4%      25.6%       28.9%
schools
Table 12 indicate a notable increase in the percentage of primary school students who attend
classes in a single-shift school. In the period from the inception of ESDP, this percentage
increased from 12.3% to 48.1% of primary school pupils attending 39.2% one-shift elementary
schools. The marked progress is observed for secondary schools as well, where this percentage
increased from 18.2% in 2006 to 35.2% in 2010.
As a result of continuous investments in school infrastructure over the previous four year period,
more than one quarter of primary and more than one third secondary school students in Croatia
now attend schools operating in one shift.
In preparation for infrastructural investments a list of priorities related to reconstruction of
existing schools or construction of new schools was made in 2007, based on a needs assessment
survey in collaboration with local authorities. The priority list contained 60 primary and 13
secondary schools to be built or reconstructed with joint investment from the World Bank loan
and matching funds from the Croatian government. In 2007 public tenders were successfully
completed and contracts were signed for 13 priority projects from the list. Following that, the
building or reconstruction of 10 primary and 3 secondary schools has started. At the same time,
preparatory actions started for the building of 3 primary schools. In 2008, an additional 7 annexes
to investments contracted in 2007 were added. Furthermore, public tenders were successfully
completed for 2 secondary and 4 primary schools, while the construction of 1 secondary and 5
primary school was finished in 2008. As part of the school reconstruction project, contracts for
the delivery of equipment in 1 secondary school and 7 primary schools were also closed in 2008.
The investments in school infrastructure according to the priority list continued in 2009, with
successfully completed tenders for 2 secondary schools and for 16 elementary schools.
Construction works on two primary schools contracted in 2009 were completed in the same year.
Furthermore, construction works on 8 primary schools contracted in 2007 and 2008 as well as for
3 secondary schools contracted in 2007 were completed in 2009. Equipment for 7 schools with
completed construction works was contracted during 2009 as well.
Summary of the main points in the Project
The Project Educational Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 was a big incentive for a whole
range of changes in the Croatian educational system. We have started to think in a more systemic
and effective way about the quality of education as well as comparability at the national and
international level. A systemic tracking of learning outcomes has also been introduced. National
framework curriculum, which is the basis for further development, has been developed, the ways
of professional trainings for the educational workers have been better developed, external
evaluation and self-evaluation of learning outcomes, teaching and educational work is being done.
At the same time, better conditions have been created for students, elementary- and secondary-
level teachers and a better way of tracking of all data on education has been introduced.
Especially valuable is the realistic possibility of the Project sustainability.
59


﻿Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
Advanced copies of this document were provided for comments to the Ministry of Finance and
the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The Ministry of Finance informed the Bank on
March 19, 2012 that they had no comments.
60


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A
61


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document, Croatia Education Sector Development Project,
Report No. 29914-HR, August 2005.
Government of Croatia. Borrower's Draft Completion Report, Ministry of Science,
Education and Sports, February 2012.
World Bank. Implementation Status Reports, Aide-Memoires, 2006 - 2011.
Project Annual Development Plans, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Annual Development Plan Evaluation Reports, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010, Ministry of Science, Education and
Sports, Republic of Croatia.
62


﻿Annex 10. Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010
The Government's Education Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 addressed the following
issues:
> Schools had been operating with curricula that remained to a large extent the same since
the early 1990s, and as a result, there was a significant gap between what young
employees knew and were able to do, and what was expected by increasingly competitive
economies. A new national curriculum that stressed knowledge and skills as dynamic
transferable processes to be learned in schools was needed in order to develop the attitude
of lifelong learning among young people. Renewed teaching and learning materials,
upgraded educational facilities in schools, and a national system for in-service training
and professional development of teachers were also needed.
> Participation in compulsory education was high, but the duration was less than in other
European systems. The education system provided widely accessible publicly financed
education services from pre-school to tertiary and adult education. Pre-tertiary education
was provided through eight-year primary schools (ages 6 to 14), four-year academic or
vocational secondary schools, two-year basic vocational school and secondary level art
schools. Participation in primary and secondary education was high with estimated gross
enrollment rates of 96 percent and 82 percent, respectively. Approximately 78 percent of
pupils who successfully completed primary education continued further studies at the
secondary level. Pre-school was provided in municipally administrated pre-school
institutions to close to half (44%) of pre-school children aged three to six, which was
leaving Croatia behind most EU countries with an average participation rate of almost 60
percent. The eight-year compulsory primary education cycle consisted of a 34-week
school year with relatively short school days. This, together with an already low school
life expectancy (about 25 percent lower in Croatia than in the OECD countries), put
Croatian youth at a disadvantage compared to their peers in Europe.
> Although Croatian students benefited from quite generous student teacher ratios at all
levels of education, the prevalence of multi-shift schools presented a real challenge. The
Ministry of Science, Education and Sports (MoSES) estimated that 68.3 percent of
primary and 76.6 percent of secondary schools operated in two shifts and 6 percent of
primary schools in three shifts, so the school network was ill prepared to provide high
quality learning opportunities to all students. Teachers were also negatively affected by
multiple shifts, as they did not have space for continuous school-based professional
development activities.
> Vocational education and training was ill-equipped to prepare young people for existing
and future challenges, since it suffered from many years of underinvestment that resulted
in ill-adjusted programs, materials and equipment as well as a negative selection of
teachers. Programs were considered out of tune with the needs of the labor market and
society at large, and many young people ended up in programs that they had not chosen.
Vocational and technical programs were seen as a second-best choice, with the
consequent risk that ill-motivated students dropped out of education in an early phase.
Most programs trained for very narrow specializations.
63


﻿Tertiary education needed substantial improvement. There were a total of 102 tertiary
education institutions, offering a wide variety of tertiary education programs. Of these,
there were only 5 universities and 7 polytechnics. Tertiary education institutions were
autonomous, but subject to rigid financing and staffing mechanisms at the center, and
little quality control. Faculties in the universities were more independent that their host
institutions as a consequence of separate budgeting procedures. This made it extremely
difficult for rectors and university managers to introduce improvements in teaching and
research. MoSES estimated that up to 70 percent of students who enrolled in universities
never graduated and those that did spent more than seven years to complete study
programs of four or five year duration. The introduction of a Council for Quality
Assurance in Higher Education was expected to help improve the situation at the
institutional and program levels, over time.
> National minorities included Serbian, Italian, Roma, Czech, Hungarian, Slovak,
Ukrainian and Jewish populations, and constituted approximately 17,000 students,
representing 3 percent of the total number of students attending schools. A significant
obstacle for the design of targeted education intervention to address the needs of national
minorities was the lack of data regarding their education status and situation. Despite the
effort by the national Government to offer education in the national language of different
minorities through three different educational models targeted to the linguistic needs of
different ethnic groups, the main issues affecting the provision of education for some
minorities was the low quality of education received by children in schools and early
tracking.
> The MoSES needed to strengthen substantially its capacity to develop and implement
sector policies. The education management information system was very weak, and not
supportive of policy development or monitoring of the education system's performance.
The sector utilized several parallel information systems that did not take advantage of
modern information technology. The country's education evaluation policies had not
been clearly articulated, and education evaluations were very rare; there was no reliable
information about school performance or student achievement.
> Education policy was usually developed by the central administration, but implemented
largely at the local levels, especially in schools. While the regional education authorities
had access to some facilities supported by MoSES to plan and implement improvements
financed by annual budgets, more dynamic mechanisms that would encourage and
support regional and local innovations in education or development initiatives of
education infrastructure were needed.
> Investments in education required a hard look at the existing structure of expenditures in
order to identify potential efficiency gains. While public expenditures for education were
just over five percent of GDP, roughly on balance with the average of the EU-25 (but
below the OECD's 6.2 percent, including private), much of those expenditures focus on
recurrent costs such as salaries. Under financing of education in the 1990s and poor
expenditure management had left a deficit in the system in terms of greater need for
investments in infrastructure and quality improvement. The sector's capacity to adapt to
changing needs was weak due to the lack of robust efficiency control measures, the need
for more equity and transparency in budgetary allocation, and the unbalanced structure of
its budget in terms of categories of expenditures and sources of funding.
64


﻿Demographic developments were following those experienced in many other Eastern
European countries; falling birth rates and migration was causing a decline in total
population that translated into dropping school enrollments. According to forecasts at the
time, by 2020 Croatia was to expect about one quarter fewer students in pre-tertiary
schools than in 2000.
65


﻿|BRD 33394R1
CROATIA
This matp w  produced by
Wo      e 8no. Desog Unie      o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                  MAIN ROADS
wolors, denominations and
o  '"th- n"tio° nsho"       o   COUNTY (UPANIJA) CAPITALS                 RAILROADS
on this mp do not inply, on
the part of The World Bank    ®    NATIONAL CAPITAL                     -------- COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) BOUNDARIES
Group, any judgment on the
®ega° staton te°ri°ory,           RIVERS                               - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
nr ony' endørsernent nr
acceptance of such
boundaries.
14°E              15°E             16°E           ---"17°E            18°E              9°E
AUSTRIA                                        TO
To     MEMT
7- »                              fMEDlMURSKA.
r                                           r                  Kaps,a
Vcfrazdin                    HUNGARY
To          -VA AZDINSKA  KORVNICKO-
Ljubjanaopivnica KRIZEVACKA
KRAPINSKO-              Durd c                       To
46°N                                        ZARS                              T                                    N46'N
SLOVENIA                                     ýBeoer'P$T
ToGE0oa                                                PecsE       ob
.                    ~ubj.n.        RVirovitica                                            " r
BJýELOVARSKO
ZAÅGREBACKA  GRAD   Grad BILOGORSKA     VIROVITICKO   OSJECKQ-
TO     TO            To                                    Daruvar    PODRÅVSKA     BARANJSKA      Sobor
Tries.  Trieste  f   Lubljana-
à looe                        POZESKO-SLÀVUNSKANc
ISTA RSK      R ieka                     Nlina                           P6zega            ukovr.
SISACKO-MOSLACKA       BRODSK-        Slav           Vinkv  b
Porc            PRIMORSKO-    K      A A                             POSASKA         rd       UKVARSKO       NoiSad
GORAN'SKA                                                                       SRIJEMSKA
Bihac   o     ra           k-tuana                             -A5°N
Doboj  T    TO
Karcol                                             TouJs                        oN     N  G   O
Otocac            TDbj                                           ul
\Ra,6    LCKOBiha
NSE-NK ENJjSK
Lo  Gos UdbinaSE RBIA
Gracrc BOSNIA                            AND
To
Za        ZDRSA        Gao                  H ERZE GOVINA                        .
44°N                       Dugi                  ýKnn Dinara                                                     4°
Vódice
SIBENSKO-                    U-i Lvn
Adriatic                KNINSKA    T g
liSp|T.
Sea                                                     20     40 Mil
ITALY Yr20
Mostar
43°N                                                        Plo     Metkovic        .              43°N
Ko-ula  eljescý
DU/BROVACKO-                       MONTENEGRO
liit            TO -
SNERETVANSKA                                                            .Trebine
Dubr n|
CROATIAt
0 20 4060 Kilometers
42°N                                                              0       20     40 Miles
14°E               15°E'               16°E               17°E               18°E               19°E
JULY 2006


