Documen L of
The WorlcL Bank                     L EC
FOR OFFICIAL IUSE ONLY
Report No. 3743b-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
May 18, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                    Sol (S/)
US$1.00                                          S/ 430 (July 1981)
S/ 426.6 (Calendar 1981)
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW              =     kilowatt
MSW             =     megawatt = 1,000 kW
GW             =      gigawatt = 1,000,000 kW
kWh            =      kilowatt hour
GWh            =      gigawatt hours - 1,000,000 kWh
kV             =      kilovolt
kVA             =     kilovolt-ampere
MVA            =      megavolt-ampere
MVAR            =     megavolt-ampere reactive
m               =     meter  = 3.28 feet
km              =     kilometer = 0.621 mile
keal           =      kilocalories - 1,000 calories
ton            =      metric ton = 1,000 kg = 2,200 pounds
TOE            =      metric ton of oil equivalent - 107 kcal
kTOE           =      thousand metric tons of oil equivalent
MTOE            =     million metric tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEFOCAP        =      Centro de Formacion y Capacitacion de ELECTROPERU
CENTROMIN      =      Compania Minera del Centro del Peru
COFIDE         =      Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
DGE            =      Direccion General de Electricidad
ELECTROLIMA    =      Electricidad de Lima (Empresa Electricas Asociadas)
ELECTROPERU    =      Electricidad del Peru
ETEMHI         =      Escuela Tecnica de Mecanica Hidraulica
HIDRANDINA     =      Compania Hidroelectrica Andina
INGEMMET       =      Instituto de Geologia, Minerales y Metalurgia
ITINTEC        =      Instituto de Investigacion Tecnologica Industrial y
de Normas Tecnicas
KFW            -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederufbau
MEM            =      Ministerio de Energia y Minas
SEDAPAL        =      Servicio de Agua Potable y Acueductos de Lima
UNDP           =      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE SECTOR                                                            1
Energy Balance and Resource Base                                      1
-  Oil                                                                2
-  Coal                                                               3
-  Geothermal                                                         4
-  Nuclear Energy                                                     4
-  Biomass Resources                                                  4
Sector Organization                                                   5
The Electric Power Subsector                                          6
-  Organization                                                       6
-  Subsector Reorganization                                           7
-  Subsector Facilities                                               7
-  Rural and Low-income Electrification                               8
-  Subsector Finance                                                  9
II. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES                                   12
Background                                                           12
Electrolima                                                          12
-  Organization and Management                                       12
-  Staff and Training Programs                                       13
-  Information Systems, Accounting and B:Llling                      13
-  Audits                                                            14
-  Performance Indicators and Reporting                              14
-  Risk Management                                                   14
Electroperu                                                          15
-  Organizatiorn and Management                                      15
-  Staff and Training Programs                                       16
-  Information Systems, Accounting and Billing                       17
-  Audits                                                            18
-  Performance Indicators and Reporting                              18
-  Risk Management                                                   19
Hidrandina                                                           19
III.THE MARKET AND THE MEANS TO MEET IT                                  20
Central-north System                                                 20
Electrolima System                                                   21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Peru during August and September 1981. The mission comprised
Messrs. J. E. Graves, H. Garcia and C. XSarren.
This document has a restricted distribution and may te used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents con't.
Page No.
IV. PROGRAM AND PROJECT                                                   23
The Program                                                          23
The Project                                                          24
-  Project Components                                                24
-  Brief Description of Components                                   25
Project Cost and Financing                                           27
Project Implementation                                               29
Procurement and Disbursement                                         30
Environmental Aspects                                                32
Project Risks                                                        32
V.  FINANCE                                                               33
History                                                              33
Financial Requirements                                               34
Financial Forecasts                                                  36
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                                     40
Long Run Incremental Cost of Energy                                  41
Rate of Return                                                       41
Tariff Structure                                                     43
Yuracmayo Dam                                                         44
VII.AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                 45
ANNEXES AND MAPS
ANNEXES
2.1    Electrolima Organization Chart                                     47
2.2    Electrolima's Performance Indicators                               48
2.3    Electroperu Organization Chart                                     49
2.4    Electroperu's Performance Indicators                               50
2.5    Hidrandina's Performance Indicators                                51
3.1    Forecast Demand in the North-central
Interconnected System: 1981-1990                                  52
3.2    Central-north System 1981-1987 Power and Energy
Balances                                                          53
3.3    Electrolima - Historical Sales, Generation
Requirement and Peak Demand Statistics                            55
3.4    Electrolima - Forecast Sales, Generation
Requirement and Peak Demand                                       56
3.5    Electrolima 1981-1987 Power and Energy Balances                    57



-iii 
Table of Contents con't.
Page No.
4.1    Central-north System Generation and
Transmission Expansion Program                                    58
4.2   -Electrolima's 1982-1986 Distribution                               59
Expansion Program
4.3    Mantaro Transfer Scheme Brief Description                          61
4.4    Project Implementation Schedule                                    63
4.5    Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule                               66
4.6    Procurement Schedule                                               67
5.1    Electroperu, Electrolima and Hidrandina
Consolidated Sources and Applications of Funds                    68
5.2    Electroperu, Electrolima and Hidrandina Key
Financial Indicators                                              69
5.3    Electroperu Sources and Applications of Funds,
Income Statements and Balance Sheets 1980-1987                    70
5.4    Electrolima Sources and Applications of Funds,
Income Statements and Balance Sheets 1980-1987                    74
5.5    Hidrandina Sources and Applications of Funds,
Income Statements and Balance Sheets 1980-1987                    77
6.1    Long Run Incremental Cost of Fnergy in the Central-north           80
System
Table 1: North-central System Generation and Transmission
Expansion Program Costs and Iacremental Demand Met   82
Table 2: Long Run Incremental Cost of Energy as a Function
of the Discount Rate                                    83
6.2    Rate of Return Analysis                                            84
6.3    Electrolima's Tariffs                                              85
7      Documents and Data Available in the PrDject File                   86
Map No. 16094R Central-north Interconnacted System
Map No. 16096R Metropolitan Lima/Electrolima Distribution
Expansion 1982-1986 Program
Map No. 16095R Mantaro Transfer Project Plans
Map No. 13425R2 Mantaro Transfer Projezt Sectional View






CHAPTER I
THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Balance and Resource Base
1.01     Peru's energy resource base is diverse.  Though oil currently provides
about 70% of the country's commercial energy requirements and 52% of total
energy requirements, there is a large undeveloped hydroelectric potential and
significant unutilized reserves of low-grade coal. The Peru's 1980 gross energy
balance was as follows:_/
Energy Source             % Share          Energy use                         % Share
Oil and products:
domestic production       75.6           Residential, Comm. & Public          31.2
imports                    0.4           Tranisportation                      17.0
exports                  (24.4)          Industrial and Mining                18.9
domestic supply           51.6           Agriculture,livestock & fisheries  5.0
Non--energy uses                      2.5
Firewood                    22.5             Total final uses                   74.6
Hydroenergy                 15.6           Energy sector own consumption         5.1
Tranisformation, storage and
Plan and animal fuel         4.2           distribution losses                  18.4
Statistical adjustment                1.9
Coal and coke:
domestic production        0.3
imports                    0.9
Inventory variation and
unutilized                (3.2)
Gross internal supply: % 100.0             Gross internal use:                 100.0
million TOE2/            13.27                       million TOE 2/   13.27
1/ Source: Ministry of Energy & Mines draft; 1980 consolidated energy balance,
January 1982.
2/ 1 TOE = 107 kcalories. Peruvian crudes range between 10.2 x 106 kcal/ton
and 10.9 x 106 kcal/ton.  Hydroenergy is converted at an equivalent thermal
generation rate of 286.7 TOE/GWh, assuming an average 30% hypothetical
thermal plant efficiency.



- 2 -
1.02      Known (proven and probable) oil reserves total about one billion
barrels (140 million tonnes of oil equivalent-MTOE), or 15 years supply at
the 1979 level of production, and estimates of undiscovered reserves range
from two to twenty billion barrels. There is no reliable estimate of coal
reserves but they are almost completely unutilized due to insufficient
mining development and, until recently, the low price of petroleum. Gas
reserves are estimated at only one to two trillion cubic feet (28-56
MTOE). A 1979 survey of Peru's hydroelectric potential enumerated 100
technically feasible hydroelectric projects with a combined average ouitput
of about 60 GW, or 390,000 GWh/yr (5,591 MTOE over 50 years3/), of which
only 1654 MW are presently being used. About 85% of this potential is in
the Atlantic watershed. Warm and boiling springs exist in many parts of
the country but the size of the geothermal resource is unknown (see para.
1.06). In rural areas wood is the single most important primary energy
source, accounting for 75% of supply, while in urban areas kerosene is used
by 58% of the population and wood by 19%. The primary energy potential of
Peru's forests is an order of magnitude greater than total national primary
energy consumption.
1.03      From the above it can be seen that the most significant primary
sources of energy, in terms of magnitude of potential, are hydraulic power
and firewood; this contrasts to the current heavy dependence on oil. Until
recently, the Pacific watershed hydro potential and the northern oil
reserves were sufficient to satisfy urban demand in the developed coastal
regions. New developments will involve tapping the hydroelectric, oil and
biomass resources of the Atlantic watershed, far from the demand centers,
with consequent increases in the cost of delivering energy to consumers.
Demand for "commercial" forms of energy is likely to grow rapidly as the
strong current of migration from rural to urban areas continues.
Oil
1.04      From the early 1960s until 1976 Peru was dependent on imported
oil to meet its needs; in the three years since then, oil output has
increased threefold to 207 thousand barrels per day in 1980, 37% of which
was exported. If this is to be avoided, new oil reserves must be
discovered and developed, production of existing fields must be maintained
and domestic petroleum prices must be increased to discourage wasteful
consumption. To spur exploration efforts, the Government is promoting
investment by foreign companies, under production sharing arrangements with
PETROPERU -- the Government-owned oil company -- as the major source of
financing for petroleum exploration and development. To attract foreign
companies, the Government put into effect a reinvestment tax credit and
eliminated restrictions on their participation in secondary recovery
projects. On this basis, existing private operations (Occidental and
3/ 286.7 TOE/GWh thermal equivalent assuming a 30% efficiency.



- 3 -
Belco) have increased their investment proErams. Exploration contracts for
northern and southern jungle areas have beEn signed with Shell and Superior
Oil and discussions are underway with a number of other firms. PETROPERU
would restrict its operations to two jungle blocks and the company is being
strengthened so it can more effectively exyloit these traditional areas.
Its administration, staff and operations are being upgraded with support
from-the Bank's $32.5 million Petroleum Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 1806-PE of
1980). This support would be continued under a petroleum production
enhancement project to be presented later this year.
1.05      The Government has been periodically raising domestic petroleum
prices. In 1981, prices were raised 10 percent in real terms. After the
latest round of increases, in January 1982, gasoline prices reached about
US$0.99 and US$1.21 per gallon for 84 and 95 octane gasoline, respectively.
There is, however, cross-subsidization of prices, particularly for kerosene
and diesel, and current average retail prices for petroleum products are
about 65 percent of international prices. The Government's objectrive is
to continue its program of regular price increases to reduce cross-subsidi-
zation and to increase average petroleum prices by 25% in real terms in
1982.
Coal
1.06      According to official statistics, the last year that coal was
mined in Peru was 1973, when about 12,200 tonnes were produced in La
Libertad Province.  The main reasons for the cessation of coal production
were the rising costs of mining and competition from subsidized oil
production. Eighteen of Peru's 24 departments are said to have deposits of
coal; these deposits range from lignite to anthracite. No reliable
estimate of the size of coal reserves exists, and there has been no attempt
to classify them according to standard procedures. Four coal fields appear
to hold potential as possible sources of fuel for producing energy and as
sources of coking coal; these are the Alto Chicama and Santa Valley fields
in northern Peru and the Jatunhuasi and Oyon-Gazuna fields of central
Peru.  The field that has received most attention is Alto Chicama, covering
an area of 750 km2 at a distance of 135 km east of Trujillo. Proven and
probable reserves at Alto Chicama total about 60 million metric tons and
possible reserves, 210 million metric tons. Electroperu has carried out
studies on the use of Alto Chicama coal to fire a 480 MW power plant,
requiring about 1.7 million tonnes/year of coal. The cost of developing
the mine and the power plant has been estimated at about US$720 million
(1978 prices), of which US$460 million would be for the power plant. The
current state of knowledge of the Alto Chicama coal reserves, however, is
insufficient for firm plans for such a plant to be made. Further
geological studies are required to determine the technical and economic
feasibility of developing a mine and the question of the environmental
effects of the power plant, and hence its location, also need more
investigation. While Mineroperu has not put a high priority on a survey of
the country's coal reserves (its current priorities are to concentrate on
mineral reserves that have a direct impact on foreign-exchange earnings),
an IDB financed engineering project is expected to improve the country's
definition of the coal resources. Given Peru's abundant hydraulic (para.
1.02) and promising geothermal resources (see para. 1.06) and in view of
limited human and financial resources to carry out studies, the country's
decision not to assign top priority to coal-resource surveys appears
reasonable.



-4-
Geothermal
1.07      A 1978-79 study by the U.S. Department of Energy in collaboration
with Peruvian agencies on Peru's energy situation (see para. 3.05)
mentioned that, based on surface indications such as hot springs, there are
apparent geothermal resources in many areas of the country . A further
study financed by OLADE and performed by Italian consultants identified,
based on geological studies only, six areas in southern Peru which appear
promising; this was confirmed by a New Zealand consulting firm -- using
bilaiteral assistance from the New Zealand government -- which has also
noted the possiblity of geothermal development in Cajamarca in the north.
Furtlher investigations are desirable, involving geophysical and geochemical
inveStigations, in order to select the most promising areas and to identify
drilling sites. The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), through its
Instituto de Geologia, Minerales y Metalurgia (INGEMMET) is responsible
for developing this resource but has not yet formulated a plan of action.
The ]3ank should follow progress in this field with a view to providing
assistance in a future lending operation, if needed.
Nuclear Energy
1.08      The Peruvian Institute of Nuclear Energy (IPEN) is conducting
research on nuclear energy using a zero power (10 watts) research reactor
provided by Argentina under an agreement for nuclear cooperation and using
U.S. supplied enriched uranium. In addition, Argentina is providing an
entire research center at Huangaral, including a 10 MW research reactor and
other facilities.  Uranium has been detected in a number of different
places in Peru, but none of the occurrences has been of sufficient grade or
size to warrant physical exploration. There are currently no firm plans
for the construction of a nuclear power plant, given the large unexploited
hydro potential.
Biomass Resources
1.09      Most of the energy needs of the rural population are met by
biomass, with firewood being the dominant resource utilized; dung, bagasse
and other vegetable matter are also used in certain areas. Although 60% of
Peru's land surface is covered by natural and cultivated forests and the
annual gross primary potential available from this resource has been
estimated to be an order of magnitude greater than the gross primary energy
currently consumed in Peru, 99% of the forest is located in the thinly
popu:Lated Selva (Amazon) region4/. Despite this fact, biomass accounted
for :30% of total gross energy supply in 1976 and for 70% of all residential
and commercial energy consumption. Most biomass fuel is used in the
domestic sector for cooking; even in the colder regions there is little use
of b:Lomass for heating, except as a by-product of cooking. Depletion of
4/ Joint Peru/United States Report on Peru/United States Cooperative
Energy Assessment, U.S. Department of Energy August 1979, Vol. 1,
p.B1-16.



wood resources in the Sierra is a problem in some rural areas and the time
spent collecting fuel is increasing.  Cottage industries such as drink
mills (chicha), bakeries and brick producl:ion also use wood as an energy
source. Charcoal is used for cooking, particularly in restaurants.
Because of past deforestation in the Sier::a region, charcoal production has
been prohibited by law but some production still takes place. Estimated
firewood, charcoal and dung consumption in 1976 was as follows:5/
Gross 1012 kcal          % share
Firewood: residential                22.4                  76%
small industry              3.6                 12%
charcoal                    1.1                  4%
dung                        2.4                  8%
Total                29.6                100%
1.10      The Government has not adopted ;ny formal policy on the
development and use of renewable energy technologies. The Ministry of
Industry, through its autonomous agency ICINTEC is conducting a certain
amount of research into wind turbines for water pumping, solar distillation
and drying, solar water heaters and cooke:es, biogas digestors and
mini-hydro plants, with most of its effori: focussed on the latter
technology. The mining sector provides the greatest opportunity for the
use of renewable energy, specifically solar energy. As a result of a
recent law, requiring all mining companies to provide domestic hot water
for their worker, mining companies are al-eady testing solar water heaters.
Sector Organization
1.11      The Ministry of Energy and Mines  (MEM) is assigned the
responsiblity for coordinating all energy planning activities and for
pricing in the energy sector, with operational responsibility divided among
various semi-independent bodies. Petroperu, the parastatal oil company, is
responsible for all phases of production and distribution of petroleum and
petroleum products. Two other oil compan:es are currently active in
exploration and production in Peru, Occidental Petroleum and Belco, both
US-based companies. In the electric-power subsector the two most important
operating entities are Electroperu and Electrolima (see Chapter 2 for
description).
1.12      In recent years MEM has received large technical assistance in
the energy planning field; including preparation of an energy balance study
(1976, UNDP and continued since then by MEiM), an assessment of resources
(1979, US government), a survey of hydroe:ectric potential, the development
of a power sector masterplan and several other sector studies (1979/80,
German Government and Bank loan 1215-PE). MEM thus has sufficient
5/ "Balance Nacional de Energia", Ministerio de Energia y Minas, Peru,
and UNDP, Lima, December 1978.



knowledge of the country's energy situation, to develop a comprehensive
resource development program which would attempt to minimize the
consumption of oil through conservation measures and its substitution by
hydroelectric power and coal where possible. Development of the power
subsector would be aided by the expected passage of the General Electricity
Law (see para.1.16) while the creation of a National Energy Council is
being considered to coordinate and give form to sector policies.
The Electric Power Subsector
Organization
1.13     Within its role of coordinating energy sector planning, MEM is
responsible for policy formulation and authorization of investments in the
electricity subsector, and for tariff setting through the Ministry's
Direccion General de Electricidad (DGE). Prior to 1972, the
pub'Lic-service portion of the subsector was composed of distinct private,
municipal and state entities serving concession zones or regions; no
national sector planning or coordination existed and captive plants serving
large mining and industrial installations, -- which accounted for about 40
percent of total electricity generation -- were generally not
interconnected with public-service systems. The Electricity Law of
September 1972 made the State the principal authority in the sector by
reserving for it the responsibility for public-service electricity supply,
creating a central State-owned enterprise (Electroperu), providing for
State participation in existing private utilities (by far the largest of
which was the predecessor company to Electrolima) and providing for
interconnection of power systems.
1.14     DGE.  Through most of the 1970s, DGE did not exert the leadership
it might have mainly because it experienced excessive high-level personnel
turnover. A general electricity law, drafted in 1974, was never enacted.
The Master Plan (see para. 4.02) was not completed until late 1980, more
than 18 months behind schedule. A tariff-structure study, also partially
financed by loan 1215-PE, was contracted in mid-1981, four years behind
schedule. Tariff levels have remained low, so that utilities' rates of
return and self-financing capability have been below reasonable levels,
jeopardizing their expansion plans (see Chapter 5).
1.15     Electroperu.  The 1972 Electricity Law gives Electroperu
responsibility for planning, design, construction and operation of all new
generating facilities larger than 10 MW and for the development and
construction of the transmission network. Despite the law's provisions,
Electroperu has not assumed many of the responsibilities assigned to it.
Major investment decisions have been imposed by the government, and large
projects have been carried out on a turnkey basis. DGE was the only active
Peruvian participant in the subsector master plan, financed in part by Loan
1215-PE, until late 1980, when participation by Electroperu and Electrolima
began. Electroperu, formed from four weak State entities, has had
difficulty in attracting and retaining highly qualified and motivated
personnel and therefore has not performed as the 1972 law provided for, as
is discussed in Chapter 2.



-7-
Subsector Reorganization.
1.16     Subsector organization studies were carried out in 1979 anO_1980,
financed by the Bank under Loan 1215-PE and by the IDB, respectively. With
the input from these studies, the Governmenit has presented to Congress a
draft General Electricity Law which provides for sector reorganization,
leaving to Electroperu responsibility for 'i) national power-system
planning, (ii) execution of large (500 MW and up) generation and
transmission projects (through provision for other companies to undertake
large projects under certain conditions is made), (iii) execution and
operation of inter-regional interconnections and (iv) acting as a holding
company for the public-sector shares of all sector entities. Under the
bill, Electroperu would share responsibilit:y for public-service electricity
supply with an undefined number of regional utilities; the regional
companies would serve as distribution companies, either directly or through
municipal or other local distribution systems. The intention is to have
the formerly private concessionaires expandl their operations from the
cities they now serve to the surrounding regions. The first steps in this
regionalization process have already been caken by MEM and several
utilities are beginning to prepare themselves for their expanded roles.
The bill also provides for the establishment of captive plants and separate
generation companies to supply electric power to the public-service system.
1.17     A main advantage of the bill is that it would create a framework
in which responsiblity for sector development at the distribution level
would be decentralized and regional utilities will be able to play a
greater role than they have in the past, whi1e leaving to DGE
responsibility for subsector policy determLnation. However, the bill
leaves some aspects of sector organization, such as the identity of the new
regions and the utilities that will be responsible for them, undefined. It
would be a major impediment to sector deveLopment if the current situation
of rather undefined allocation of responsibilities continues for an
extended period of time. For this reason, the Government has agreed to
discuss with the Bank and establish, by December 31, 1983: (i) the identity
of the regions and the responsible regionaL utilities; and (ii) a timetable
for accomplishing an acceptable reorganiza:ion of the sector, in
particular, the transfer of plant and personnel from Electroperu to the
designated regional utilities.
Subsector Facilities
1.18     Despite its hydraulic potential, aational electric-energy
production remained at a fairly constant 71/30 hydro-thermal ratio
throughout the 1970s. The central-north interconnected system, which
comprises 80-90% of the public-service system is, however, largely hydro,
as shown in Annex 3.2. As the system is extended to now-isolated regions
and mining complexes where thermal generation now predominates, the
hydro-electric component will increase, assuming new hydro developments are
commissioned in time.
1.19     The Central-north system (see map No.16094R), was established in
early 1981 by means of a 220 kV transmissian line connecting Chimbote and
Trujillo with Lima. The installed capacity of its generating components
are:



Installed Capacity - MW
Hydro         Thermal    Total    Percent
Electroperu:
Mantaro                           798
Canon del Pato                    150
Chimbote gas turbines and
Chiclayo diesel                                   119
Total Electroperu                 948              119     1,067         54
Electrolima:
Huinco                            258
Matucana                           120
Callahuanca                        68
Gas turbines                                      152
Total Electrolima                 446             152        598         30
Hlidrandina:
Moyopampa                           63
Huampani                           31
Cahua                              40
Total Hidrandina                  134              -          134          7
Autoproducers
Several thermal plants                            193
Total Autoproducers                               193         193         9
Total Central-north               1,528             464       1,992         100
Percent of total                     77              23         100
As shown on the map, the central-north system will be extended as far north as
Piura during this decade, incorporating the hydro installations of Peru's
largest mining company, Centromin, in 1982 and various cities in the northern
coastal zone by 1987.
1.20     The only large systems remaining outside the central-north system after
1990 would be the southwest (Arequipa and Tacna), and southeast (Cuzco) -- both
principally hydro -- and those of the two eastern cities, Iquitos and Pucallpa,
which depend on thermal generation.
Rural and low-income electrification
1.21     Rural Electrification (RE). Until the late 1970s, rural electrification
did not have a high priority in Peruvian power planning.  Depending on methods
of estimating, somewhere between 3 and 10% of the rural population has access to
public-service electricity.  The Government declared RE to be a major priority
for the sector in 1978, and MEM has concentrated effort on developing small
hydro systems as the principal solution to the RE requirement because: hydraulic
resources are available in much of the country; topography (mountainous or
jungle) make grid interconnection unfeasible; the poor road network increases
the cost and decreases the reliability of supplying fuel to isolated diesel
plants. A small hydro program was begun in 1979; ten plants, mostly completion
of works once begun but long abandoned, have been completed. Under Electroperu,
work is now underway at 40 small hydro locations, and USAID has provided a US$9
million loan for construction of 28 small plants.



-9-
:1.22     Electroperu's previous organization impeded rational RE expansion
because separate departments were in charge of small hydro, grid extension and
diesel plant installation.  Coordination among these departments was poor.
Electroperu's new management established in January 1982, a single department
with responsibility for all distribution planning activities (Gerencia de
Coordinacion Empresarial y Electrificacion Pr-ovincial, Distrital y Rural), thus
eliminating much of the overlap that existed previously. The department is now
concentrating on developing a project executing capability and establishing
priorities for all distribution and RE projects. Systematization of RE
planning is now highly desirable because of :he inflow of large amounts of
money from the increased energy tax (see para. i.27), which are to be allocated
for projects in rural areas.
1.23      Pueblos Jovenes (PJ). Migration of rural population to Peru's cities
began in the 1950s and has continued unabated; in 1981, about 23% of Lima's
population (and 27% of the population of 45 cities surveyed by the government)
lived in areas denominated PJ, some of which have evolved from squatter
settlements into standard urban districts. ]'J electrification began in 1956 in
Lima; the percentage of PJ population with electricity is generally close to
that for the city as a whole, as indicated in the 45-city survey.
Percent of population with electricity
Pueblos Jovenes               Whole City
Lima                                       68                          78
Arequipa                                   65                          69
Trujillo                                   83                          75
Chimbote                                   44                          64
Chiclayo                                   24                          50
Aggregate 45 cities                        56                          68
A component of Loan 1215-PE assisted in financing Electrolima's expansion to
PJ, and the proposed loan would include financing for further installations in
IPJ as part of Electrolima's distribution expansion program.
Subsector Finance
1.24     Based on the net-income-to-equity ratio traditionally used in Peru to
measure financial performance of electric utilities, the subsector's results
have been unsatisfactory. In the five-year period 1975-79, the return on
equity of all sector entities except one small distribution company did not
exceed 4 percent per annum. For 1980, the subsector's net income was
marginal. This contrasts with an 11-1/2 percent return on equity permitted by
the 1955 electric industry law, which served as the standard until 1972 and,
although it has not been replaced, has not been followed since then.
1.25      The draft General Electricity Law establishes new criteria for
setting tariffs, criteria closer to worldwide practice. Specifically, the bill
provides that rates would be set to produce a 12% return on rate base



- 10 -
after deducting all operating and maintenance, administrative and general
expenses.  Such expenses include taxes and provisions for depreciation and
a number of other funds, viz expansion, electric-system development,
inter-company generation, operation of the tariff commission, and a
compensating fund for returns lower than 12% (see following paras. for
description of these funds). Rate base is defined as tangible and
intangible plant (including interest charged to construction),
installations paid for by third parties and working capital - two months'
billings and inventories - less accumulated depreciation on all assets
except working capital; the rate base is to be revalued quarterly. These
provisions are satisfactory. Since the bill has not been passed,
agreements related to the proposed loan provide that the companies will
apply for, and the government will grant, tariffs to be set in accordance
with the above provisions beginning in 1985, with steadily increasing rates
of return (identified in a side letter as 4%, 7% and 10% respectively for
1982, 1983 and 1984) for the intervening years. As shown in Chapter V,
this would result in a satisfactory financial situation.
1.26     The bill provides that the tariff commission - Comision de Tarifas
Electricas - is to be composed of seven members:  the representative of the
President, who is to have a four-year term and is to preside over the
commission and six -representatives with two-year terms. These would
represent: (i) the Ministry of Economy and Finance, (ii) the Ministry of
Energy and Mines, (iii) the Ministry of Industry, (iv) Electroperu, (v) the
regional utilities, and (vi) the College of Mechanical and Electrical
Engineers. Besides fixing tariffs, the commission is to regulate the
"Fondo de Compensacion de Generacion", a device to be used to limit tariff
differentials between companies.
1.27      Besides the rate of return in the bill, other means of increasing
the tariff-based contribution to expansion have already been eilacted or are
provided for in the bill. The most important of these is an energy-tax
increase from 5 to 25% on all electricity sales to the final consumer,
which was put into effect in mid-1981   (Decreto Ley 163).  The incre:.ental
20%, which if considered as a revenue, would increase the rate of retura by
four to five percentage points, is to be assigned to Electroperu for
investment in system expansion. There is a feeling that much of this
incremental tax will be spent on village and rural electrification outside
of the main load centers, but there is no specific program or allocation of
funds for such works (para. 1.21). Consequently, Electroperu's financial
forecasts in Chapter 5 show only half the incremental energy tax being
devoted to the normal expansion program, on the assumption that the other
half will be spent on expansion outside of the presently-defined expansion
program. To permit satisfactory financial planning at Electroperu, it and
the Government have agreed to present to IBRD by December 31, 1983 an
investment program for works outside the main systems which would be funded
by the incremental tax and to allow IBRD to comment on that plan. In
addition, Electroperu and the Government have agreed to present to the Bank
for review and discussion, on an annual basis beginning November 30, 1983,
the sectoral investment and financing plan for the ensuing years.



- 11 -
1.28       Other financing devices included in the draft General
Electricity Law are the expansion fund and electric development fund (Fondo
de Ampliaciones and Fondo de Desarrollo Electrico). Both "funds" would be
financed by provisions which would be treated as operating expenses (para.
1.24); the expansion fund provision would be determined by the tariff
commission and would be no greater than 10% of the utility's investment in
distribution works for the year. The electric development fund would be
spent on so-called social electrification (presumably, works with a low
rate of return) after review by DGE. Provisions for this fund would be
limited to 5% of each utility's revenues from sales to the final consumer.
The operation of the other so-called funds - inter-company generation (a
surrogate for tariff-equalization), compensation for rates of return lower
than 12%, assigned quotas for operation of the tariff commission - would be
defined in the regulations once the draft law is passed.



- 12 -
CHAPTER II
THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
Background
2.01      The borrower and main beneficiary of the loan would be Electrolima, a
state-controlled public utility concessionaire with responsibility for generation,
transmission and distribution in metropolitan Lima and likely to be the first of the
regional utilities under the proposed Electricity Law (para. 1.16).  In spite of
Electroperu's leadership role in the sector, Electrolima has been selected by the
Government as the borrower because: (i) it would receive the largest amount of the
loan (80%) and (ii) the Government desires that each of the enterprises within the
subsector maintain its own creditworthiness and capacity to finance its own programs
from domestic and foreign sources.  The second beneficiary would be Electroperu, the
State-owned power company, which is responsible for planning, design, construction
and operation of generating and transmission facilities, and which is expected to be
a holding company for regional generation and distribution entities under the
proposed Electricity Law (para. 1.16). The third beneficiary would be Hidrandina,
which is mainly owned by Electroperu and is concessionaire for generation on part of
the Rimac River and on the Pativilca River. Electrolima would retain part of the
loan for its part of the project (see para. 4.14) and would relend to the other
utilities their part of the loan.
Electrolima
Organization and Management
2.02      Electrolima, formerly a privately-owned company known as Empresas
Electricas Asociadas, has been controlled since 1973 by the Government. 88% of the
shares belong to the Government, 4% to Electroperu and the remaining 8% to private
investors. Electrolima's Board of Directors is composed of 10 members, of which
seven are nominated by Electroperu, two by the Electrolima workers and one by COFIDE.
2.03      Electrolima is well organized and managed (Annex 2.1 shows the organization
chart). The Board and the Executive President take care of policy matters and
supervise public relations and internal audit. The General Manager controls five
operating units (planning and construction manager, operations manager, commercial
manager, administrative managers and personnel manager), two support units (data
processing and general secretary) and three advisory committees (technical,
low-income electrification and labor). Some of the managers were the older
generation from the Swiss-controlled Empresas Electricas Asociadas and introduced an
efficient style in Electrolima's management that still subsists. Now, most of the
executive positions are filled by Peruvians and intermediate positions are held by
well qualified young Peruvian professionals. Several years of inactivity in the
construction of generation works have eroded its project and supervisory capacity in
this fieald, which Electrolima is now trying to recover to face the supervision of the
works under its responsibility (Yuracmayo dam, Matucana reinforcement, Transandean



- 13 -
Tuniel expansion and possibly Salto Bajo scheme). The Bank would assist Electrolima
in training intermediate level professionals wit:hin the training component considered
in the proposed loan (para. 2.07).
2.04      The Bank has made five loans to Electrolima - or its predecessor -:
260-PE(1960); 365-PE(1963); 464-PE(1966); 511-P3(1967) and 1215-PE(1976);totaling
US$102.5m. In general the Borrower's performance has been satisfactory. For loan
511-PE, which financed the construction of the M4atucana hydro power plant, the
project performance audit report concluded that completion of the project was
achieved with minor delay and that its rate of return was higher than expected.
Execution of loan 1215-PE, still underway, suffered delays due to the deterioration
of Peru's economy during the period 1975-1978 and consequent reduction of demand for
expansion, and due to bureaucratic procurement procedures (see paragraph 4.24).
However, the present project progress is satisfactory and the project is expected to
be completed by mid-1982.
Staff and Training Programs
2.05      Electrolima's total permanent staff as of December 1980 consisted of 2993
employees of whom 83 were directors and managers, 438 were intermediate chiefs and
technical employees, 673 were administrative employees, and 1799 were skilled and
unskilled workers. The number of employees is reasonable compared with the size of
the utility; it has increased only by 15% since 1975. Professionals are capable of
performing all activities related to the proposed loan. Bank experience regarding
the technical capability of the professional staff during the execution of the
previous Fifth Power Project was favorable. Electrolima's workers are also well
skilled and capable of executing the project's distribution works.
2.06      Electrolima has proven experience in training personnel.  During 1980,
average of 1.2 training activities per employee was achieved, covering all staff
levels.  More than half of the training activities are given internally in its own
tra!ining center which also accepts 25% of trainees from other utilities. A total of
49 fellowships for professional training outsic.e the country were also used in 1980.
2.07      Electrolima's training center requires substantial renewal and modern
equipment to continue performing its role. Technical assistance is also needed to
update teaching materials, methodology and to 1:rain instructors. US$2.5 million
is included in the proposed loan to finance thhs project component for which details
have been prepared by Electrolima under the Bank's guidance. The program will
include a fellowship program for professionals and medium-level managers.
Information Systems, Inventory Control and Accounting and Billing
2.08      Electrolima's internal information systems are good and it was one of the
first utilities in the region to computerize it:s data processing operations:
operational and financial reports are issued promptly and accurately.  Managerial
information is available for a close follow-up of the utility's performance through
an adequate accounting system. Taking advantage of the high concentration of its
clients, Electrolima has mounted a well-organized computerized billing procedure and
makes use of commercial banks in collecting bills. Nevertheless, Electrolima feels
that it could make wider use of its modern data processing unit and contracted a
consultant who will study a reorganization of the data processing system in order to
include inventory management, operating results analysis, and other themes. Under



- 14 -
loan 1215-PE consultants were contracted to do a study of the company's procurement
and inventory control procedures. The first stage of the study was successfully
completed and made a series of recommendations for improvements in these two fields.
The proposed loan includes financing of consultant services for the implementation of
a second stage aimed at implementing these recommendations (para. 4.08(a)).
Audits
2.09      Electrolima's internal audit office reports to the Executive President and
performs satisfactorily. Since 1980, external auditors with less than the necessary
degree of experience have been appointed from a short-list by the Contraloria General
de la Republica without consultation with the Bank. As this procedure violates Loan
1215-PE covenants, it has been agreed in principle with the Contraloria and
Electrolima that the short-list of candidates for auditors would be issued in
consultation with the Bank and that terms of reference stating the minimum
requirements to be met by the candidates would be drawn up. Electrolima submitted to
the Bank, before loan negotiations, acceptable terms of reference for performing the
1982 audit; these terms of reference were designed to limit the choice of firms to be
selected by the Contraloria General to those with requisite experience. Electrolima
has agreed to follow this procedure in subsequent years. Electrolima has also agreed
to submit its audited financial statements with the auditors' report within six
months of the close of its fiscal year.
Performance Indicators and Reporting
2.10      Electrolima's performance indicators are good, reflecting the utility's
efficiency. As the evolution of performance indicators defined for the Fifth Power
Project has been favorable, a similar set of indicators has been defined for the
proposed loan and is included in Annex 2.2. Electrolima has indicated its acceptance
of these performance indicators.
2.11      Electrolima has a well organized operating results control, which is timely
and accurate. The reports cover production and commercialization, but a system for
monitoring quality of service to the final users has not been adequately
implemented. Electrolima expects to improve its quality control during project
execution. Reports related to development plans in a prefeasibility stage are
prepared by the Planning and Engineering unit. Reports on feasibility studies and
engineering design for the distribution works are also prepared by Electrolima but
for generation and transmission works, Electrolima makes use of consultants.
Risk Management
2.12      Electrolima has insurance policies from local companies covering main
assets such as generating plants, transmission systems and buildings. Policies cover
main risks als fire, explosion and hostile acts but do not cover earthquake.
Electrolima has no insurance on: (i) hydraulic structures exposed to floods because
the risk is not covered in Peru, and (ii) the distribution system because of



- 15 -
the extension and complexity of the works and the low risk of losing an important
part of the network at one time (except in the case of an earthquake, which is an
uninsurable risk in Peru). As policies cover nain assets and main risks, insurance
policies are acceptable.
Electroperu
Organization and Management
2.13      Electroperu was created by Decree Lau No. 19521 of September 5, 1972,
merging four existing State-owned utilities. Electroperu's organizational structure
has four functional groups: high direction (Board of Directors), executive direction
(Executive President and General Manager), support units (advisors, coordinators,
public relations, secretary, internal auditing and others) and operating units
(specialized and regional units). Of the ten-Ean Board of Directors, the executive
president and four directors are nominated by the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
one by the Ministry of Agriculture and one by the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and
Integration. The employees elect the remaining two directors.
2.14      At the time this project was appraised Electroperu's executive organization
was complex and confused. It did not clearly cefine the division of
responsibilities between the Executive Presidernt and the General Manager.
Furthermore, up to November 1981, the General M[anager supervised a total of 20
working groups which were: (i) three advisory groups (legal, financial and general),
(ii) seven support managers (planning, design, accounting, finance, administration,
personnel and training), and (iii) ten operaticinal managers (seven special regional
projects executing agencies, the production and. transport unit, the engineering unit
and the Electrical Research Institute). The high level of centralization in decision
making, the physical communication difficulties between different parts of the
country and the bureaucracy contribute to the tLtility's overall deficient
organization. The utility began a deep reorganization late in 1981 but a definitive
organization scheme was not available at the time this report was prepared. (Annex
2.3 shows the organization as it is now foreseen.).
2.15      Electroperu's management performance has traditionally been poor.  With few
exceptions, its management personnel have not been capable of running a large
utility. Due to the utlity's bad image, experienced professionals declined to work
for it and, up to 1981, insufficient salaries had been offered to candidates.
2.16      The Government, concerned with Electroperu's organization/management
problems is attempting, with support from the Bank and the Interamercan Development
Bank (IDB), to improve the situation within the framework of the planned
reorganization of the electric power subsector (para. 1.16). The following steps
have been taken in this regard:
(a)  Legislative Decree No. 41 of March 4, 1981 gives to Electro-
peru increased autonomy by transform:ng it into a corporation and
subjecting it to a large extent to the laws that govern private
corporations. At the same time, salary limitations have been
lifted, thus permitting better incenl:ives for high-level
staffing.
(b)  The Government recently nominated an experienced professional as
general manager and changed the three divisional managers by
nominating highly qualified professionals.



- 16 -
(c)  General reorganization of the functional structure is in
progress.
(d)  Contracts for five professionals to serve as advisors to
Electroperu's key managers and provide on-the-job training are
being financed under an IDB loan.
(e)  The Bank, under Loan 2018-PE, will finance training and support
for Electroperu's planning unit.
As the utility's reorganization is beginning to be applied, improvements depend on
the capability of the new nominated executives and the staff response to the
changes. The Bank should maintain a close follow up on the process.
2.17      Improvements in Electroperu's organization and management situation are
necessary for efficient and timely project execution because the Government has
decided that the Mantaro Transfer Project will be carried out by a special executing
agency cresated within Electroperu. A prestigious professional have been nominated as
head of the unit, all the staff of the late Mantaro Transfer Commission has been
transferred to Electroperu and an organizational strucure and a program for
completing the staff has been prepared for the unit.  In addition to that, the
Ministry of Energy and Mines prepared a legal document satisfactory to the Bank -
which was signed by all institutions related to the Mantaro Transfer scheme
(Electroperu, Electrolima and Sedapal, the Lima water supply company) - outlining the
general conditions for project execution. To ensure that the Mantaro project is
carried ou1t in a timely manner the Bank, prior to loan disbursements against the
funds assigned to these studies, should obtain detailed information on this process
such as:
(a)  the definition of the organizational structure for the management of the
engineering studies of the Mantaro Transfer Project and its relationship
with the rest of Electroperu's organization; and
(b)  an acceptable timetable for implementing that structure and staffing the
unit.
Staff and Training Programs
2.18      Electroperu's total permanent staff as of December 1980 consisted of 5,350
employees of whom 41 were directors and managers, 694 were professionals, 351 were
technicians, 3,159 were administrative employees and 1,105 were skilled and
non-skilled workers. The high number of administrative employees as explained by
Electroperu, is due to the size of the utility and its geographical organization but
bureaucracy and weak management certainly contribute. The proportion of
professioiials (12%) is somewhat high, but only 12% of the professionals, that is 82,
work in E:Lectroperu's planning and engineering areas. It is expected that, under the
new management, organization and personnel problems will be addressed in order to
achieve a more efficient utility.
2.19      Training activities have been neglected in recent years.  Even though the
global figure for 1980 is about one training activity (of any kind except basic
education) per employee every 2.2 years, there are significant deficiencies:



- 17 -
(a)  There is a lack of training in some crucial fields like plant
operation and maintenance, distribution network maintenance and
testing of measurement equipment.
(b)  The personnel training office has very few competent staff and
little support. Due to lack of instructors, it resorts to
Electrolima's training facilities wh"ch are in Lima. This
arrangement does not solve training problems elsewhere and does
not cover training fields not handledl by Electrolima.
(c) Fellowships for training of professionals outside the country are
almost non-existent.
As training activities are needed to prepare ELectroperu for its holding company role
in the sector, and to prepare personnel for the future regional distribution
utilities, a training program is included in tLe proposed project. An amount of US$3
million is being included to finance foreign ecpenditures of the program, which has
been prepared by Electroperu's training center (CEFOCAP) with the Bank's assistance.
Information Systems, Accounting and Billing
2.20      Theoretically, the administration of Electroperu's financial resources is
distributed as follows:
(a)  the Finance Manager is in charge of the utility's financial po-
licy, the credit management, the investment control and the
financial forecasts;
(b)  the Accounting Manager is in charge of accounting,assets
control,budget control and payments.
Actually, there is neither a clear definition of the functions of each manager nor a
uniform application of accounting procedures. There is no managerial information
system to monitor the utility's operations. Furthermore, the recording and
processing of data, coming from the regional offices, lack uniformity and are
delayed.
2.21      Accounting records are kept first in each of the 40 local offices,
reviewed and consolidated in each of the six regional offices, then sent to Lima
where the information is reviewed and consolidated again together with corresponding
information from the seven special projects offices. The process is time-consuming
and its results worthless, because: (i) the procedures applied are not standard; (ii)
the system does not provide analytical information; (iii) data gathering lacks
simultaneity; and (iv) Electroperu has no data processing equipment. Electroperu's
administration has not given the necessary attention to this problem because 80% of
sales are to 40 large consumers whose bills are prepared by hand. It is expected
that the new financial manager will address these issues.   Electroperu has agreed to
complete, by the end of 1985, the following tasks:
(a) define clearly the responsibilities related to the financial and accounting
units;
(b) develop standard accounting procedures and handbooks;



- 18 -
(c)  prepare data processing equipment specifications to meet the needs of the
f-inance and accounting units; and
(d)  reorganize the accounting and internal audit system in an acceptable
manner.
Audits
2.22      E2lectroperu's internal audit office reports to the Board of Directors.
Scarcity of experienced personnel and lack of standard procedures limit its
performance. Independent external audits recently performed have shown weakness in
the internal audits, specifically regarding assets control, inventory movement,
accounts due, supplier accounting and personnel record keeping.
2.23      External auditing is performed by an independent auditor nominated from a
short-list by the "Contraloria General de la Republica". This procedure may not
result in the selection of an auditing firm with the necessary degree of experience
to examine the accounts of an enterprise with the size and complexity of
Electroperu. Therefore, Electroperu has confirmed that it will follow a procedure
similar to that of Electrolima (see para. 2.09) which would permit selecting an
acceptable auditor; it also has agreed to submit its audited financial statements
with the auditors' report within six months of the end of its fiscal year.
Plerformance Indicators and Reporting
2.24      Even though a slight improvement in Electroperu's performance indicators
took place during the last years, they are still poor as compared with a number of
other Latin American utilities1/. The number of clients per employee increased from
47 in 1976 to 60 in 1980 and the energy sold per employee increased from 0.40 GWh in
1976 to 0.56 GWh in 1980. The slight improvement is due to: (i) the number of
employees has not increased substantially (from 5249 in 1976 to 5600 in 1980), and
(ii) the Mantaro hydro plant increased its energy production by 50% in the same
period. It is expected that performance indicators will improve as a result of the
reorganization mentioned in paragraph 2.16. A group of performance indicators is
suggested in Annex 2.4 in order to monitor Electroperu's performance. In particular,
it is recommended that the personnel limitation policy should be continued, to
improve efficiency. Electroperu has indicated its acceptance of those performance
indicators.
2.25      Reports are prepared in several units inside Electroperu, but mainly in the
planning and operating areas and in the public relations office. Reports refer to
expansion and investment plans, operational programs, operating results, annual
reports and others. There is a lack of uniformity in operating results reporting,
which is partially covered by MEM statistical summaries. Nevertherless, absence of
an operation results control unit is noted as well as systems to monitor quality of
supply. The Bank should encourage the solution of this problem with the new
administration, and follow-up closely in order to determine if assistance in this
field is needed that could be included in future loans.
Even though Latin American utilities used for comparison purposes do not
necessarily have the same organization and functions, performance figures give
an idea of their efficiency (numbers of clients per employee, for example are
over 120).



- 19 -
Risk Management
2.26      The insurance management is split among three departments for assets, for
goods under procurement and vehicles, and for personnel. Asset insurance is limited
to generating plants and substations. A provision for a self-insurance system is
being included in the financial forecast to insure transmission lines. In addition,
Electroperu is hiring a consultant to prepare a wider, general insurance policy
report which is expected by mid-1982. Current practices are acceptable, and any
significant changes would be reviewed by the Bank.
Hidrandina
2.27      Hidrandina is a small company formed in 1947 by Empresas Electricas
Asociadas, the private company predecessor of hlectrolima, to generate electricity
and sell it in bulk. At the present, Electroperu owns 93% of the shares, the
remaining 7% belong to private investors. Four of the six members of Hidrandina's
Board of Directors are nominated by Electroperu and the remaining two by Hidrandina's
workers. The company has three hydroelectric plants: the 40 MW plant at Cahua
serving three customers in the Pativilca concession, and the 63 MW Moyopampa and the
32 MW Huampani plants in the Rimac concession. These last two plants sell all their
production to Electrolima.                         )
2.28      Hidrandina has built up a workshop (Taller Moyopampa) that specializes in
the maintenance of hydraulic machinery used in the production of electric power which
may be considered a model due to the quality oi- work performed in it. The workshop
takes care of work as specialized as reconstruction oS -Pelton wheels and injectors
for Hidrandina and other Peruvian utilities. En 1980, a training school (Escuela
Tecnica de Mecanica Hidraulica, ETEMHI) was created with an aim to transfer the
experience and knowledge of the Moyopampa workshop to the sector. 25 hydraulic
mechanic apprentices are being prepared and the school plans, in the near future, to
extend its activities to training workers from other utilities and to including other
specialities as operating hydraulic mechanics. For this purpose they will receive
Swiss technical assistance.
2.29      Hidrandina's staff as of December 1930 consisted of 203 employees, of which
13 were professionals, 60 were administrative officers and 130 were skilled workers.
108 of these employees work in the Moyopampa workshop and training school. Being a
small, well-organized, well-managed utility, HLdrandina has an outstanding
performance record. The increase in personnel from 1973 to 1980 was only 12
employees. In the same period the utilization factors of the hydro plants has been
optimum with only some water spillage due to lack of demand. A special set of
performance indicators has been designed for Hidrandina and is presented in Annex
2.5; Hidrandina has indicated its acceptance oE these indicators to monitor its
performance during the project execution period.
2.30      Hidrandina's internal information systems, including accounting, are good.
External auditing is performed by an independent auditor nominated by the Contraloria
General de la Republica. Hidrandina has confirmed that it will follow a procedure
similar to that of Electrolima (para. 2.09) in auditor selection and has agreed to
submit its audited financial statements with the auditor's report within six months
of the end of its fiscal year.



- 20 -
CHAPTER III
THE MARKET AND THE MEANS TO MEET IT
3.01     In 1980 total production of electricity in Peru was 9805 GWh, or 551
kWh/inhabitant, from a total installed generating plant capacity of 3191 MW.
Comparative statistics show that the 1979 level of per capita electricity
production of 535 kWh was one-third of the way up the scale for Latin America
and the Caribbean, which stretched from 57 kWh for Haiti to 1315 kWh for
Uruguay. The percentage of the population receiving electricity service in
1980 was estimated to be 36X, ranging from a high value of 67% in the
department of Lima (including metropolitan Lima) and a low value of 6% in the
departments of Cajamarca and Amazonas. There is still substantial room for
expansion of service on a national scale. The major load center is the Lima
metropolitan area, served by Electrolima, and in 1980 39% of all electricity
produced in Peru was consumed in Lima, which has 27% of the country's
population. It was estimated in 1979 that 78% of households in Lima had
electricity, including 68% of households in squatter settlements (Pueblos
Jovenes).
Central-north System
3.02     For the purpose of developing a long-term generation and transmission
development plan for the Central-north system MEM contracted consultants,
financed by Loan 1215-PE, to prepare a national forecast of the demand for
electricity. This study was completed in 1979. Currently (February 1982) MEM
has updated the study using its own personnel. This revision provides an
acceptable forecast on which to base future expansion of generating facilities
in the system. The forecast, presented in Annex 3.1, is the sum of individual
fore(casts for 1540 cities, towns and villages, and also for existing and
future major industrial loads. These load centers were then classified into
those that are likely to be interconnected in the short term, and those that,
by virtue of their distance from the networks, are not. For the larger cities
and towns trends in the number of electricity subscribers per population and
kWh consumption per subscriber were estimated which, when applied to official
population projections yielded estimates of future kWh demand for each load
center. A similar procedure was used for the analysis of demand in small
towns (population less than 20,000), while large industrial loads were
forecast on a case by case basis. For the Lima load center, in particular,
the probable effect of real increases in the price of electricity (Chapter 5)
in reducing sales growth were taken into consideration when preparing the
forecast.
3.03     The average growth rate of the 22 load centers that will form the
interconnected North-central system by 1990, in the 1981-1990 period, is
estimated at 9.4%. The Lima load center, by virtue of its being a more mature
market, has an estimated average rate of 7.4% in the same period. Higher
growtWh rates are expected during the earlier years of the period. Successive
integration of load centers into the Central-north system is assumed as
follows:



- 21 -
Trujillo, Chimbote, Huallanca, Paramonga                1981
Mantaro                                                 1982
Huancavelica                                            1983
Centromin (Pachachaca, La Oroya, Cerro de Pasco)   1984
Chiclayo, Pacasmayo                                     1985
Huanuco                                                 1986
Cajamarca                                               1987
Talara, Piura, Bayovar                                  1988
Tumes                                                   1990
The resulting forecast is summarized below:
Actual   ----Forecast----
Central-north System         1980       1985       1990
Energy demand (GWh)         5,060      10,529    16,890
Power demand (MW)           1,270       1,952      3,054
System load factor            56%         62%        63%
3.04     The current long term generation expansion program of the sector was
developed on the basis of an earlier load forecast about 2% below the February
1982 MEM forecast described above. Sensitivity analyses of this long term
plan were carried out with demand growth rates one percentage point above and
one percentage point below those given abcive for the period 1981-1990. These
analyses show that if demand is higher thEn forecast, the amount of steam
plant required in the system by 1986 will be higher than the 143 MW required
for the basic load forecast. Conversely, lower growth would lead to a reduced
requirement for thermal plant. Other tharL this change, the generation program
in 1982-1987 is rather insensitive to changes in demand growth. In the years
beyond 1987, however, the sequence and timing of hydroelectric plants changes
considerably with changes in the load forecast and no definite plan for this
period exists. The recent IBRD loan to E]ectroperu (Loan 2018-PE, August 19,
1981) for a power engineering project includes the financing of technical
assistance for planning and, also, a feasibility study of the thermal plant
that will be required in the late 1980s. Under this loan Electroperu has
agreed to update the generation and transmission plan every six months and
present it to the Bank for discussion.
3.05     The power and energy balances associated with the most recent
demand forecast are shown in Annex 3.2 for the period 1981-1987.  The system
reserve capacity (MW) varies from a low of 7% of peak demand in 1985
to a high of 20% in 1987 after entry into operation of the 300 MW first stage
of the Sheque hydro plant. The energy balance shown is based upon average
hydraulic conditions and shows a surplus of between 14% and 32% of demand.1/
An analysis of critical (dry) month condit:ions indicates that, in the 1982-87
period, thermal generation requirements in the critical month may vary between
0% of demand, in 1983 and 1984, to 7% in >986, giving rise to the need for
additional thermal plant mentioned in para. 3.04.
Electrolima System
3.06     During 1979 Electrolima commissioned a study of market forecasting
techniques with the objective of developing a single forecasting method to
1/   The balance does not include the energy associated with thermal
generation required to meet system peak demand.



- 22 -
replace the three independent forecasts being used at that time by the
planning, operations and commercial departments respectively of the company.
This study was financed under Loan 1215-PE as one of a series of studies
designed to improve Electrolima's distribution expansion planning. The
forecast disaggregates total demand into the various groups used for tariff
purposes; residential, industrial, commercial and public lighting. Energy
demand for each group is related to variables such as population growth, the
passage of time, household expenditure and gross domestic product by applying
multiple regression analysis to historical data for 1967-78. A load factor
trend is then assumed for the derivation of peak demand.
3.07     Though the accuracy of this forecast has been reasonable during 1979
and 1980 2/, when actual sales grew by 4.9%   and 7.8% respectively, compared
to the 4.0% and 5.6% forecast, Electrolima has not yet implemented a unified
approach to demand forecasting. This is partly a result of reservations
Electrolima management has with regards to adopting a forecasting procedure
which requires as inputs forecasts of economic variables which have been
difficult to predict with any accuracy in the past. During the recession of
the late 1970s the GDP growth rate fell from levels around 6% per year in
1970-74 to -1.2% and -1.8% in 1977 and 1978 respectively. Despite these
difficulties, the techniques explored in this study could serve as a basis to
consolidate and upgrade Electrolima's load forecasting procedures.
Electrolima has agreed to draw up a plan of activities for improving
forecaLsting methods by December 31, 1982 and to submit a load forecast report
to the Bank at the end of each year for comment.
3.08     The market forecast developed by MEM for Electrolima's concession
area (para. 3.02) was used as the basis for preparing the distribution
component of the proposed project. Annex 3.3 shows historical sales,
generation requirement (sales plus losses) and peak demand statistics for
Electrolima's system during 1970-1981, while Annex 3.4 gives the details of
the forecast. In developing this forecast, sales to the Cajamarquilla zinc
refinery operated by Mineroperu and commissioned in May of 1981 have been
treated separately. This load, estimated at 450 GWh/year by 1985 with a peak
demand of 52 MW, is Electrolima's single largest customer and should represent
10% of Electrolima's sales in 1982, the first full year of operation. Other
sales in Electrolima's system are forecast to increase, on average, by 7.1%
per year during 1981-87, below the 8% average experienced during 1970-76 prior
to the 1977/79 recession (Annex 3.4). The forecast is summarized below:
---Actual            -      Forecast     ------       1982-87
Average
growth (%
1980    1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  per year)
Total Electrolima
Sales (GWh)       3392.7  3817.7 4254  4531  4827  5148  5484  5841          7.3%
Electrolima Peak
Demand (MW)        694      782    831   881  933    991  1056  1126         6.3%
2/   In 1980 forecast sales were 2.9% below actual sales, while
forecast peak demand was 3.0% below actual.



- 23 -
CHAPTER IV
PROGRAM AND ]'ROJECT
The Program
4.01      The main objectives of the Peruvian Electric Development Program are:
(a) to coordinate Peru's power development with the general economic
development policy designed by the Government;
(b) to develop the least-cost generatingi and transmission system needed to
provide the required power and energy with adequate reliability;
(c)  to increase participation of hydroeLectric potential in power production;
and
(d) to increase electricity availability to the population, particularly in
rural areas.
4.02      The main efforts in power developmenit are dedicated to the Central-north
system, by far the largest system in the counl:ry, to which all the project components
belong. A Master Plan for electricity supply for the Central-north system was
recently prepared by DGE, with the assistance of consultants. The plan provided:
(a) a suitable, easy-to-update demand forecast and generation expansion
planning methodology;
(b)  an inventory of the most promising hydro projects;
(c)  a definitive medium-term (1982-1987) plan and a reference long-term
(1988-2004) plan for generation expansion, and
(d) a medium-term plan for transmission expansion.
4.03      The 1982-1987 generation and transm:Lssion plan for the Central-north System
includes the construction of new hydro plants and the expansion of existing hydro
p:Lants totalling an additional capacity of about 820 MW, and the construction or
upgrading of about 1,000 km of high voltage lLnes to complete an 850 km long
interconnected system, from Marcona to TrujilLo (see map no. 16094). Annex 4.1
presents the 1982-1987 generation and transmission program. Responsibility for the
operation of the Central-north interconnected system has been assigned to
E:Lectroperu, which will need to install a Load Dispatch Center. This is now being
studied by Electroperu with the assistance of consultants. This center will be
coordinated with Electrolima's dispatch center- now being installed. Additionally, an
interutility commission has been created by MlM to prepare monthly energy interchange
pLans in the Central-north system.
4.04      Since hydro project preparation and execution have been seriously delayed
in the last several years as a result of lack of planning, the Master Plan exercise
showed that, in spite of its large hydro potential, Peru will need to install thermal
p:Lants in the period 1982-1987. Two gas turb:nes with total capacity of 110 MW have
been already committed for service in 1982, and a 150-200 MW steam plant may be
needed by 1986.



- 24 -
4.05      Several steps are under way to accelerate studies of hydroelectric projects
in order to minimize the need for new thermal capacity. Under the Bank's Loan
2018-PE, studies for nine projects located in the Pacific watershed and two in the
Atlantic watershed are to be prepared. Technical assistance from IDB and from the
German Government will be used to help prepare feasibility studies for other
promising hydro projects in the Atlantic watershed. Additionally, the proposed loan,
focusing on the short-term solutions, should help to develop remaining hydraulic
resources in the vicinity of Lima.
4.06      E.lectrolima is responsible for the subtransmission and distribution network
in metropolitan Lima, by far the largest urban population center in the country.
Distribution planning objectives are: to provide the users with adequate capacity in
the amount and location needed; to ensure a high service reliability to customers;
and to expand service in low-income urban areas. The distribution expansion program
included in the proposed loan covers the 1982-1986 period, in which an increase of
44% in electricity consumption is expected. The project has been prepared by
Electrolima's own technical staff under MEM's standards for distribution works. The
general design criterion is to include both underground cables and overhead lines.
Underground cables have a higher capital cost but have been preferred by Electrolima
in the past: due to the special environmental conditions (dust and salty, humid air)
and as a measure to reduce unauthorized connections. Investment in conducting
overhead liLnes is less expensive but lines require frequent maintenance. A design
with a higher proportion of overhead lines than in the previous project (Loan
1215-PE) has been included in the present project with the aim of gaining experience
with overhead lines maintenance. Nevertheless, grids in the more crowded part of the
city will continue to be undergrounded for aesthetic and load density reasons.
The Project:
Project Components
4.07      Power VI would have several components to be carried out by Electrolima,
Electroperu, and Hidrandina.
P'art A Electrolima's component, is:
(a)   Electrolima's 1982-1986 distribution program: implementation.
(b)   Yuracmayo dam: construction.
(c)   Huinco hydro plant expansion: feasibility study and final design.
(d)   Salto Bajo scheme: feasibility study.
(e)   Transandean tunnel expansion: final design.
(f)   Training program.
Part B, Electroperu's component, is:
(a)   Mantaro Transfer Scheme: final design.
(b)   Training program.
(c)   Financing assistance.
P'art C, Hidrandina's component, is:
Mayush hydro project: final design.



- 25 -
Brief Description of Components
4.08      Part A, Electrolima's Component
(a)   Electrolima's 1982-1986 Distribution Program consists of expanding
the Lima distribution network to meet expected demand increases for
the period. Main works are: construction or expansion of 19 60/10 kV
substations with a total of about 390 MVA of additional transformer
capacity, construction of about 700 circuit - km of 60 and 10 kV
cables and lines, acquisition and installation of about 1700
additional 10,000/220 V transformers and the corresponding control
and protection equipment, acquisition and installation of 75 MVAR of
capacitors for reactive compensation, installation of 400 circuit -
km of urban lines at 220 V and thLe corresponding street lighting,
connection to 130,000 new clients, completion of the communications
system and auxiliary services. Annex 4.2 presents more details on
this project component.
(b)   Yuracmayo Dam, a project located in the upper Rimac basin, will
regulate the water used by Matucana, an existing 120 MW plant, thus
increasing its production by 88 GWh/year of dry-season energy.
Electrolima expects to complete the engineering studies and bidding
documents for Yuracmayo dam (financed by Loan 2018-PE) by end 1982.
The dam, an earth dam, will be 44 m high and form a 40 million cubic
meter lake. As the project engineering is still underway, there is
neither a definitive design nor a final cost estimate for this
component, though feasibility studies show no major technical
problems and preliminary cost esi:imates show it to be economically
attractive and leave enough room for a cost increase without
jeopardizing the economic feasibLlity of the work (see para. 6.13).
Nevertheless, as the final geologric explorations--which may vary the
estimated cost of foundation and impermeabilization works--have not
been yet been completed, disbursement of the loan for this project
component should be contingent up?on completion of the dam's
definitive studies.
(c)   Huinco Hydro Plant Expansion consists of the addition of a fifth 60MW
unit (present installed capacity is 240 MW) which would be located in
a cavern adjacent to the existing underground powerhouse. The
expansion would permit better use of the water diverted by the
Mantaro Transfer Scheme by increasing energy production through
greater availability and also gaining some 35 MW of power output.
Power VI would include the feasi':ility study and, if justified,
bidding documents preparation.
(d)   Salto Bajo Scheme is a generic name for the use of the hydro
potential existing downstream fr3m Huinco. Increased water flow from
the Mantaro River diversion would make this project economically
viable. Alternatives to be considered are expanding existing plants
(Callahuanca, Moyopampa and Huampani) and developing one or more new
plants. The proposed feasibility study would select the most
economic development alternative and produce a feasibility study to
be included in the central-north system generation expansion studies.
(e)   The Transandean Tunnel Expansion Study, which also includes
modifications of the Marcapomacocha canal, is actually a part of the



- 26 -
Mantaro Transfer Scheme (described under para. 4.09 (a)).
Electrolima has been entrusted with the execution of this part of the
Mantaro Transfer Scheme because it has a better knowledge of the
existing facilities (as constructor and owner) and because decisions
on out-of-service situations required by the tunnel modifications
project (and construction) will affect generation at Electrolima's
existing hydro plants. The studies to be carried out under this
project would be at the same level as the Mantaro Transfer Scheme:
that is, final design and bidding documents preparation and
construction design.
(f)   Training Program, which has been defined with the Bank's assistance.
will contribute to improve and complete Electrolima's training center
through equipment acquisition and technical assistance (see para.
2.07). The program will include new equipment for the training
center, upgrading of instructors, technical assistance and a fellow-
ship program for professionals and medium-level managers. In addi--
tion, consultant services will be sought for the implementation of
procedures to improve Electrolima's procurement and inventory control
procedures.
4.09      Part B, Electroperu's Component
(a)   Mantaro Transfer Scheme, which has been shown to be the combined
least-cost solution for electric power supply to the central-north
grid and water supply in Lima, includes several civil and
electromechanical works whose objective is to increase the water
discharge in the Rimac basin by diverting water from the Mantaro
basin. The works include the construction of a hydraulic circuit
with two pumping stations, two dams, a diversion dam, a canal, the
raising of an existing lake's level and the enlargement of an
existing canal and tunnel (see maps for details). The water
diverted (16 cubic meters per second) will be used to increase energy
production in the existing hydro plants, to develop a new 300 MW
hydro plant (Sheque) in the Pacific watershed1/ and to supply
additional drinking water to Lima. The proposed loan would help tco
finance final design and bidding documents preparation of the
diversion scheme. Among the various civil works related to the
Mantaro Transfer Scheme, the modification of the existing Transandean
tunnel and the Marcapomacocha canal will not be included under
Electroperu's component. As explained in paragraph 4.08(e), these
modifications will be studied by Electrolima. A brief description of
the Mantaro Transfer Scheme is presented in Annex 4.3.
(b)   Training Program, which has been defined with the Bank's assistance,
will contribute to improve Electroperu's training capability. The
program will include the acquisition of training equipment for
CEFOCAP; technical assistance for improving manpower planning,
defining training needs, instructor training, the preparation of
programs and teaching aids and evaluation; and a fellowship program
for professionals and managers at various levels.
1/ Sheque would be expanded to a final capacity of 600 MW.



- 27 -
(c)   Financing Assistance, which consists of the services of investment
bankers and other financial advisers to provide: (i) advice to
Electroperu management on devisingl a financing plan, including
restructuring of existing debt, for the project-execution period; and
(ii) assistance in obtaining finanicing.
4.10      Part C, Hidrandina's Component
Mayush Hydro Project Study. This hydro project, with an installed capacity
of up to 130 MW and 930 GWh of mean annual production, would complement the
existing 40 MW plant at Cahua on the Pai:ivilca River. The feasibility
study is currently being financed under Loan 2018-PE. The appraisal
mission analyzed the possibility of speeding up the Mayush engineering
studies because the construction of this plant could reduce the size or
eliminate a thermal plant which Electroperu would otherwise be forced to
install by 1987 (para. 4.04). (Due to i:he lack of well-defined hydro
projects, Peru's Master Plan includes the construction of a 150 MW
oil-fired or coal-fired thermo plant by 1986. As the feasibility study for
this plant has not yet been completed, t:he plant may be delayed to 1987.)
The proposed loan would finance preparation of final design and bidding
documents for Mayush, provided the feasibility study shows it is
technically and economically feasible within the framework of the
Central-north system expansion study.
Project Cost and Financing
4.1u      Project cost is estimated at US$257 million, of which US$93 million is the
direct and indirect foreign-exchange component. Costs have been estimated as
follows: the cost of Electrolima's distribution program - which is detailed in Annex
4.2 - based on recent prices for material, equipment and construction costs of the
current distribution expansion program; Yuracmayo dam construction, on the
consultant's progress report; consultant services for Electrolima's studies (Huinco,
Salto Bajo and Transandean Tunnel Expansion and fc,r the financing assistance for
Electroperu) based on actual prices charged by consultants for similar works, that
is, about US$11,000 per staff-month; Electrolima training, by Electrolima in
consultation with the Bank; the cost of engineering services for the Mantaro Transfer
Scheme, based on a negotiated contract with Binnie and Partners (United Kingdom),
resulting in an average rate of US$9600 per staff--month; Electroperu training, by
Electroperu in consultation with the Bank; and Hicrandina component by Hidrandina
staff in consultation with the Bank.
4.12      The following table summarizes the project cost composition.  To make it
independent of the exchange rate policy of the cou.ntry, the cost estimates are
expressed only in US$ equivalent.  Foreign cost represents the direct and indirect
foreign exchange cost. Local costs include tax ar.d duties over imported goods which
are estimated at 10% of the total project cost.



- 28 -
US$ Millions
Local           Foreign           Total
PART A, ELECTROLIMA COMPONENT
1. 1982-1986 Distribution Program and
Consultant Services                       89.3             40.0             129.3
2. Yuracmayo Dam Construction and
consultant services                       16.1              7.4              23.5
3. Huinco Expansion Study                       1.2               1.0              2.2
4. Salto iBajo Study                            1.0               2.0              3.0
5. Transandean Tunnel Expansion Study           0.3               1.1              1.4
6. Training Program                             2.1               3.6              5.7
Subtotal A                         110.0              55.1            165.1
PART B, ELECTROPERU COMPONENT
1. Mantaro Transfer Project Studies             4.4               5.0              9.4
2. Training Program                             3.0               3.0              6.0
3. Technical Assistance:Financial Planning   -                    1.0              1.0
Subtotal B                            7.4              9.0             16.4
PART C, HIDRANDINA COMPONENT
1. Mayush Hydro Project Study                   1.0               2.5              3.5
Subtotal C                            1.0              2.5              3.5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          118.4              66.6            185.0
Physical Contingency                           13.3               7.9             21.2
Price Contingency                              32.2              16.9             49.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           163.9              91.4            255.3
Front-end fee                                   - _1.2                             1.2
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                      163.9              92.6            256.5
4.13      Costs reflect the prevailing prices of April 1982.  Owner's supervisory and
administrative expenses for construction works (Electrolima's distribution program
and Yuracmayo dam) were estimated by Electrolima and resulted in 11% of the direct
cost, which is reasonable. Physical contingencies were calculated by the Bank at a
rate of 10% for Electrolima's distribution program and 15% for the other components
which have a higher uncertainty. Price contingencies were applied to base costs plus
physical contingencies and were estimated on the execution schedule of each project
component using the following annual escalation-rates: 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984,
7.0% for 1985, and 6% for 1986 to 1988. The use of the international inflation rate
for local costs reflects the assumption that Peruvian exchange rate policy will
recognize the difference between local and worldwide inflation.
4.14      The proposed US81.2 million loan would finance:
(a)  the direct and indirect foreign cost component of the Electrolima
Distribution Program 1982-1986, estimated as: (i) the c.i.f. cost of
equipment and materials except for US$11.4 million in major equipment
(transformers, capacitors and communications sytem) for which supplier
credits would be sought, and (ii) 30% of the civil works;
(b) the estimated direct and indirect foreign cost component of the civil works
as well as consultant services for the Yuracmayo Dam;



- 29 -
(c) the consultant services (i) for the Hluinco Expansion Study, for the Salto
Bajo Study, for the Transandean Tunnel Expansion Study under Electrolima's
part of the Project; (ii) for the Mantaro Transfer Project Studies and for
the Techincal Assistance under Electroperu's part of the Project; and (iii)
for the Mayush Hydro Project Study uider Hidrandina's part of the Project;
(d) the foreign cost component of teachiag materials, technical assistance and
fellowships for both Electrolima and Electroperu Training Programs;
(e) the front end fee of US$1.2 million.
From the US$81.2 million loan, Electrolima would retain US$65.3 million and
would relend US$12.3 million to Electroperu and US$3.6 million to Hidrandina under
the same terms as those of the Bank loan. The Bank loan would be made on standard
Bank terms, with 17 years maturity, 4 years grace period and the interest rate
prevailing at the time of loan approval.2! Tha local cost of the project, about
US$163.9 million, would be financed from each of the involved agencies' internal cash
generation (Electrolima: US$151.9 million, Eleztroperu: US$10.5 million, Hidrandina:
US$1.5 million). The Government has agreed to provide any additional funds necessary
to carry out the project.
Project Implementation
4.15      The various project components would be carried out under different
schemes, according to their complexity and the capability of the beneficiary, as
explained in the following paragraphs. Annex 4.4 presents a detailed implementation
schedule for all components.
4.16      Electrolima's distribution program will be carried out by its own staff,
which will prepare bidding documents for acquisition of equipment and materials as
well as supervise construction. Consultants will be hired to assist in implementing
improvements in procurement and inventory control procedures (para. 4.08(a)).
Electrolima's technical staff has demonstrated its high standards of professionalism
in the execution of the Fifth Power Project, expected to be completed in 1982.
Installation of the reactive compensation equi3ment and 60 kV lines and substations
will be performed by local contractors, engaged through local competitive bidding
acceptable to the Bank; Peru has an ample number of qualified contractors for this
type of work, which would not be appropriate for international bidding because of the
large number of small contracts.  Electrolimats own personnel will do the network
reinforcements and connections to clients. Installation of part of the special
equipment for auxiliary services will be done by suppliers under Electrolima staff
supervision.
4.17      The civil works for the construction of the Yuracmayo dam will be performed
by a contractor to be selected through ICB under the supervision of consultants
selected through procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.18      Consultants for studies under Electrolima's component (Huinco, Salto Bajo
and the Transandean Tunnel Expansion) will be :3elected under standard procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Electrolima's staff is fully capable of handling
21 Assumed to be 11.6% for financial forecast purposes.



- 30 -
the preparation of the corresponding terms of reference and the supervision of
consultants. For the Transandean Tunnel Expansion in particular, Electrolima is
contracting a consortium formed by Binnie and Partners (United Kingdom) and Motlima
(Peru). Because of the previous involvement of the consultants in the feasibility
study, their continuation in the study was considered acceptable by the Bank.
4.19      Electrolima's training component will be carried out by Electrolima's
training center which prepared, with the Bank's assistance, an operating plan for the
period 1983-1986. Electrolima is currently improving and expanding its training
center, which will be moved from the present location in downtown Lima to the new
administrative building under construction in Lima's outskirts.  Consultants to be
hired to provide technical assistance would be contracted in accordance with Bank
Bank guidelines.
4.20      The studies for the Mantaro Transfer Scheme will be carried out by the
executing agency recently created within Electroperu for this purpose (para. 2.17).
Except for the general manager, most of the executing agency's initial staff come
from the Mantaro Transfer Commission, which oversaw preparation of the feasibility
study. A contract for construction design and bidding documents preparation for thle
project has been recently signed with Binnie and Partners. The terms of reference,
selection of consultants and contract have been considered satisfactory by the Bank.
4.21      Electroperu prepared terms of reference and issued invitations to present
proposals for the Financing Assistance with Bank approval.  This component would be
carried out under the Financial Manager's supervision. Electroperu's training
component will be carried out by Electroperu's personnel training office (CEFOCAP)
during the period 1982-1984. With Bank's assistance, CEFOCAP prepared a three-year
operating plan showing the activities to be developed by CEFOCAP, their cost and
financing, and CEFOCAP staffing requirements.
4.22      Studies for Mayush hydro project (Hidrandina's component) will be performed
by power engineering consultants selected under standard procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Hidrandina, with the assistance of an individual consultant,
prepared terms of reference for the component which has been considered satisfactory
by the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.23      Most contracts for the supply of materials and equipment to be financed
with funds from the proposed loan would be procured through international competitjive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. A 15%
margin of preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is less, would be
applied to bids of manufacturers of equipment and materials from Peru or other
Cartagena Agreement countries.  Competitive bidding in accordance with other
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, such as limited international tendering, would
be appropriate for a few contracts (such as expansion of existing communication
equipment, special workshop and laboratory equipment computer software and teaching
materials), each not exceeding US$150,000 and estimated not to exceed US$1,500,000 in
total. Contracts for Yuracmayo dam civil works to be financed by the loan would be
awarded through international competitive bidding, within the Bank guidelines,
including, for this component, prequalification of contractors. Contracts for
construction of civil works and installation of equipment for the Distribution
Expansion Program would be procured under local competitive bidding acceptable to



- 31 -
the Bank.  Contracts for consultant services to be financed by the loan would be
awarded under Bank guidelines for the use of ccnsultants (August 1981).
4.24      Electrolima's internal procurement pTocedures have caused delays in the
procurement process in the last power loan to Peru (1215-PE), for it is a three-stage
process:-technical evaluation, administrative review and the Board of Directors'
approval. In order to avoid such delays in the proposed loan, the project includes
the execution of the second stage - implementation - of the studies of procurement
practices and inventory control financed under loan 1215-PE (para. 2.08). The
consultant services are expected to provide an internal procurement procedure,
acceptable to the Bank, which will define the specific responsibilities of the
different technical and administrative groups in the procurement process, and a time
schedule to be followed by the working groups in bid evaluations. The Bank should
follow up the attainment of these objectives thLrough its review of the corresponding
terms of reference and studies.
4.25      The loan would be disbursed over a six-year period as shown in Annex 4.5.
As Electrolima's distribution expansion component accounts for most of the project
cost (74%), the disbursement schedule was estimiated using a standard profile based on
28 power distribution loans from the Latin America and Caribbean Region. A
correction to the standard profile was introduced in the first year to consider
retroactive financing -(para. 4.26) and front end fee capitalization and in the last
year, in which standard profiles reflect the effect of loans with abnormally long
delays. The loan would be disbursed against fully documented withdrawal applications
to cover:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods and 100% of ex-factory cost
of local expenditures of goods for the Distribution Program (Annex 4.6
shows the procurement packages and procurement schedule for this
component);
(b) 30% of the total cost of the contrac':s for civil works construction and
equipment installation of the Yuracmayo dam, and for the civil works and
equipment installation related to the Electrolima Distribution Expansion
Program, this 30% representing the estimated direct plus indirect foreign
exchange cost of the equipment to be purchased for the works and the goods
to be provided by the contractors (construction materials, machinery,
equipment);
(c) 100% of total foreign expenditures of consultant services for foreign
consultants or 90% of the local expeliditures for consultant services for
local consultants (Mantaro Transfer Project studies, Huinco Expansion
study, Salto Bajo study, Transandean Tunnel Expansion study, Mayush Hydro
Project study and the training program);
(d) 100 % of foreign expenditures for imported goods and fellowships of the
training components.
4.26      Retroactive financing for up to US$1.0 million is proposed for payment of
consultants' fees incurred after September 30, 1981 to cover advanced expenditures
related to the Mantaro Transfer Project studies, and the Transandean Tunnel Expansion
study.



- 32 -
EnvirorLmental Aspects
4.27      Electrolima has taken adequate care of the environmental effects in
designing its distribution network. Electrolima intends to minimize the visual
impact of the overhead lines which have been designed to minimize the project cost.
4.28      Even though no special environmental effects are expected from the
construction of Yuracmayo Dam because of its location in a desert zone in the
mountains (4200 meters above sea level) a chapter on the general ecological changes
that may arise from the construction - under terms of reference approved by the Bank
- has been included in the feasibility study. This study, together with the
technical and economic feasibility study (para 4.08(b)), should be satisfactory to
the Batik.
4.29      As described below, steps will be taken to eliminate the following three
potential environmental risks presented by the Mantaro Transfer Scheme:
(EL) the diverted water which will be used for water supply to Lima, is polluted
by mining exploitation effluents;
(b)  the water level in a small lake in the upper plateau, Lake Junin, will be
raised 1.7 m, which could produce ecologic changes; and
(c)  because of impounding, relocation of some 115 families settled around Lake
Junin is foreseen.
These problems have been adequately addressed. The engineering studies will define a
water treatment program in order to ensure that the water quality will be improved to
the point at which it can be used for drinking. A water quality monitoring system is
projected which will provide an alert system to avoid accidental pollution reaching
the water supply treatment plant. The Mantaro Transfer's feasibility study
determined that raising the water level of Lake Junin will not significantly damage
the ecology of the lake and its surroundings. A relocation plan, as well as measures
to maintain the existing agricultural production in the area, will be defined during
the engineering design stage.
Project Risks
4.30      The project faces no special physical risks.  Nevertheless, as the
Yuracmayo dam will be located in a seismic region, the engineering design will
include a seismological analysis and the dam will be designed accordingly.  Standard
covenants on dam safety are included in the proposed loan agreement including the
engagement by Electrolima of a Board of Consultants to review the design and,
periodically, construction of the dam.
4.31      Sector organization, institutional arrangements for the execution of the
Mantaro Transfer Scheme, Electroperu7s organization and management, and the
sector's financial situation could, however, negatively affect the project execution
and result in delays. These problems are discussed in paragraphs 2.14 to 2.17 and
Chapter V.
4.32      Construction schedules for the major components of the project
(Electrolima's components) were based on recent experience by Electrolima, and,
consequently, no delays are expected in the execution of the project. However, as
the project has ten components, its timely completion requires adequate coordination
of all activities involved and the opportune preparation of engineering design for
construction works. Close follow-up by the Bank is recommended in order to detect
and correct any possible cause for slippage.



- 33 -
CHAPTER V
FINANCE
History
5.01      Until 1970, utilities in Peru maintained steady profitability and
a strong financial position. The Electric Industry Law (No. 12378 of 1955)
provided for tariff levels to be set so that utilities (most of which,
including Electrolima, were privately ownied), would earn between 8-1/2% and
11-1/2% p.a. They generally earned close to the permitted 11-1/2% return
on equity, paid out their earnings in divridends, and sold new issues of
stock to private investors, foreign and Local, when necessary.
5.02      Peru's use of a return-on-equity test had certain advantages over
the more common return-on-rate-base procedure: in effect, it permitted
construction work in progress, or at least the portion thereof financed by
equity, to be included in the earnings base; and it offered more protection
to the equity investor from interest-rate vicissitudes. Its use is less
effective for public-sector utilities, holwever, because the opportunity
cost of equity capital is not determined by the market.
5.03      Tariff-setting stopped working well in the early 1970s.  While
Law 12378 was not repealed, scant attention was paid to it. The
Electricity Law of 1972 (para. 1.11) provided only vague guidelines on what
the utilities' return was intended to provide, leaving definition of the
rate of return to DGE, but it remained undefined. High turnover at DGE
(para. 1.13), much higher inflation than had been the case in the 1960s and
political pressure to keep the rates of the recently-nationalized utilities
low all combined to produce unsatisfactory operating results. In 1975-78,
the return on equity of all sector entities, except one small distribution
company, did not exceed 4% p.a. In 1979-80, the three beneficiaries'
returns on net revalued assets and equity (including revaluation surplus)
were as below:
1979      1980
Return on net revalued assets:
Electroperu                                        4.4%     0.6%
Electrolima                                        8.8      5.6
Hidrandina                                         3.0     -0.2
Return on equity:
Electroperu                                        3.8      0.2
Electrolima                                        3.3      0.1
Hidrandina                                         4.8     -0.7
In periods of high inflation, frequent tariff increases are necessary to
enable utilities to maintain profitability. Tariff increases of 7.5% per
month were authorized in the last four nonths of 1981 to bring the
beneficiaries' return on rate base to marginally positive levels(between 2
and 3.5%), which is a first step towards, achievement of the rate-of-return



- 34 -
targets recommended in para. 1125.  In addition, a 5.8% tariff increase was
put into effect in January 1982 and quarterly increases are planned for the
rest of the year.
5.04      Loan Agreement provisions for Loan 1215-PE included a
contrib1ution-to-expansion covenant: that tariffs for Electrolima would be
set so as to pay for at least 30% in 1976, and 45% p.a. in subsequent
years, of its average three-year expansion program from net internal cash
generation. Despite low rates of return, Electrolima has been in
substantial compliance with this covenant during three of the five years of
the project-execution period, as shown below. The percentage contribution
shown is before deducting transfers to the tariff compensation fund, which
was not in effect at the time of appraisal; such transfers provided
financial support to Electroperu's expansion program.
Contribution-to-expansion
percentage
1976                                              39%
1977                                              54
1978                                              17
1979                                               20
1980                                               44
Electrolima has been able to accomplish this because its investment program
(which included only subtransmission and distribution works) was stretched
out, as low growth in demand limited expansion requirements. The tariff-
setting provisions (para. 1.25) related to the proposed loan would
supersede those of Loan 1215-PE.
5.05      Despite all the factors which have limited financial operating
performance, all three utilities had strong balance sheets at the end of
1980, as shown in their debt-equity ratios:
Electroperu                  17/83
Electrolima                  27/74
Hidrandina                    4/96
While Electroperu's investment program has been large, most of the major
works which have been undertaken and are now its assets (the largest of
which is Mantaro hydro plant) have not required its own funds; instead, the
government has assumed responsibility for debt service on all related
debt. The other two companies have not engaged in large construction
programs for more than ten years.
Financial Requirements
5.06      The most striking aspect of the electric-power sub-sector's
financial situation is its requirements for funds. As detailed in Annex
5.1 and shown in the summary sources and applications of funds in para.
5.08, the three utilities' construction program for the project-execution
period is almost US$2,500 mn (all amounts in this chapter are in Dec. 1980
prices unless otherwise noted). This excludes the unformulated expansion
of rural electrification and small hydro-plant installations (para. 1.08).



- 35 -
This programmed expenditure is more than 50% higher than the net fixed
assets of the utilities at the beginning of the period.
5.07     The principal reason for this high expenditure level is to
compensate for underinvestment in the 1970s. At the same time, it must be
borne in mind that, unlike the past, the government intends to reduce its
budgetary support to the sector's construction program.
5.08      The combined Electroperu/Electrolima/Hidrandina financing plan
for 1982-86, excluding rural works to be financed by the energy tax (para.
1.27), is shown in Annex 5.1 and summarized below:
Sources                                       Dec.1980
US$ millions    %
Gross internal cash generation                    1462          52
Debt service and dividends                         556          20
Net internal cash generation                       906          32
Incremental energy tax applicable
to normal expansion program (50%)               275          10
Total tariff-based                                1181          42
Borrowings                                        1076          39
Customer contributions for cons3truction            44           2
Equity investment by governmen:                    488          17
Total Sources                                  2789         100
Uses
Construction program                             2497           90
Other                                              292          10
Total Uses                                     2789          100
5.09      The intention of sector author:!ties is to limit external
borrowing to international and bilateral financing agencies, which offer
terms more appropriate for utilities thani commercial banks or similar
financing sources. This financing plan, which is summarized above,
requires a degree of internally-generated funds at the high end of the
range which IBRD generally seeks for electric utilities1/. This goal,
which is expressed in rate-of-return terris in para. 1.25 is ambitious,
particularly in view of Peru's recent history of limiting price increases
for public services, including electricil:y. Because it is the stated goal
of the government, IBRD has supported it by including it in agreements
related to the proposed loan. However, :Lt must be recognized that
1/ The tariff-based internal financing of 42% estimated here is
conservative in that it excludes that half of the energy tax revenues
destined to finance rural electrification projects. Likewise, the
investment program excludes these intvestments.



- 36 -
achievement of a 12% rate of return with the new energy tax means a real
tariff-level increase of about 53% over the April 1982 level of 4.27 US
cents/kWh excluding tax (Dec. 1980 prices) in Lima (see Annex 6.2).
5.10      It must be borne in mind, however, that about 80% of the proposed
borrowings has yet to be contracted. Offers for bilateral financing for
large projects have been discussed informally, but the sources must be
found for smaller projects and "routine" additions to plant. It is
believed that prospects of a relatively high rate of return will help the
subsector obtain funds.
5.11      In addition, current financial projections show an unnecessarily
high contribution-to-expansion ratio beginning in 1986, when the rate base
(and consequently, income) are increased substantially by commissioning of
the portion of the Mantaro Transfer scheme applicable to the electric-power
sector and the Sheque hydroplant (para. 4.08). At the same time,
currently-estimated construction expenditures decrease. Considerations of
tariff and financial rate-of-return levels would be merited at that time,
taking account of the long-run marginal costs of electricity and the
medium-term funds requirement. If these circumstances eventuate, a lower
rate of return would be warranted.
Financial forecasts
5.12      The financial forecasts were made assuming achievement of the
stipulated rate of return and dedication of half the incremental energy tax
to the presently-postulated expansion program. Based on these assumptions,
the individual beneficiary companies will remain in a strong financial
situat-ion, as detailed below for each, and summarized in the key indicators
(Annex 5.2).
5.13      Electroperu.  (Annex 5.3). Despite a very low debt/equity
ratio(estimated 21/79 at year-end 1981), Electroperu's debt-service
coverage is not high (1.4) and contribution-to-expansion (5%) very low in
1981 because of its marginal earnings (less than 1 percent on rate base).
Despite a very heavy borrowing program ($170-230 mn drawdowns p.a. in
1983-85), its debt/equity ratio is to increase to only 27/73 by the end of
1985, as its equity gets built up by a combination of retention of
earnings, government contributions (in the form of assumption of debt for
speciified projects - para. 5.07), and retention of the energy tax. Its
debt-service coverage ratio is expected to be disproportionately high in
1982-84 because interest on its new debt is charged to construction (and
hence excluded from the test). By 1985, when that interest is charged to
operations and the grace period on the related indebtedness begins to
terminate, debt-service coverage declines to more normal levels - 2.1 to
2.2 times.
5.14      Estimates of the company's most important indicator, the
contribution-to-expansion ratio, increase from 19% to 46% of construction
expenditures including interest during construction during 1982-85 before
jumping up in 1986.



- 37 -
5.15      It is worth noting that while Electroperu's stipulated return on
rate base is at the high end of the range generally used for electric
utilities, its return on equity is much l.ower, ranging from about 4 to
about 8% during the project-execution period. The cause of this phenomenon
is the company's very large investment in construction work in progress.
This indicates that, should passage of the draft General Electricity Law be
delayed, use of the tariff-setting provisions detailed in para. 1.25 would
not result in higher tariffs than application of the return-on-equity
provisions of Law 12378 (para. 5.01).
5.16      Electrolima. (Annex 5.4) Electrolima's prospects are quite
different from Electroperu's: stability as opposed to dynamic expansion.
Until 1986, when it will need new financ:ing to pay for expansion of its
Huinco hydro plant and the initial construction of the Salto Bajo scheme,
little new borrowing other than the proposed loan is foreseen, and its
debt/equity and debt-service coverge ratios are expected to remain at very
conservative levels. In these projects, equity investments of US$80 mn by
Electroperu have been assumed to cover ELectrolima's financing needs in
1986-87.
5.17      As would be expected for a distribution company, Electrolima's
projected contribution-to-expansion ratio is extremely high until the end
of the project-execution period, when investments in generation expansion
are planned.
5.18      Because Electrolima's construction work in progress is
comparatively small in relation to its rate base, there is not a marked
difference between return on equity and return on rate base during the
project-execution period.  In no case does the application of a 12% return
on rate base result in a return on equity higher than that permitted by Law
12378 - 11.5% p.a.
5.19      Hidrandina (Annex 5.5).  Assuming that Hidrandina's construction
program is executed on schedule, the company will change from a small
company to a medium-sized bulk-supply utility. Its balance sheet
projections reflect this conversion process: virtually debt-free in 1981
(because the long-term debt obligations which financed its existing
hydroplants have been paid off), Hidrandina's debt/equity ratio would
increase to more than 70/30 by the end of the project-execution period,
reflecting new borrowings for its prospective projects, the largest of
which is Mayush.
5.20      In the latter part of the project-execution period, Hidrandina's
debt-service coverage and contribution-to-expansion ratios are forecast to
drop to unacceptably low levels. There are two causes for this: heavy
project costs and dividend payout. For purposes of these projections,
standard terms for local-cost loans fron Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo (COFIDE) - 1.5 years of grace and six of repayment - have been
assumed. These terms are much too short for a hydroplant with a
construction period of four years and a useful life of at least 25. Like
Electrolima, Hidrandina pays out all its earnings as dividends in the
subsequent year. While Hidrandina's maragement will undoubtedly wish to



- 38 -
continue this policy as long as the company has private shareholders, it
will increase the company's financing needs; commitments from Electroperu
to invest equity capital into Hidrandina will probably be required and have
been assumed in these forecasts.
5.21      As Hidrandina's construction program increases, its return on
equity declines under the return-on-rate-base assumption used throughout
the forecasts. Like the other companies, its return on equity would not
exceedi that permitted by Law 12378.
5.22      All three companies.  The consolidated sources and applications
of funds statement (Annex 5.1) for the three beneficiary companies is
heavily influenced by the largest of the three, Electroperu. The annual
contribution-to-expansion for the three companies (excluding the energy
tax) would increase from a low 22% in 1982 to a high 57% in 1986.  The
expected contribution ratio for the entire project-execution period (32%
and 42%, respectively, excluding and including the energy tax) is
satisfactory.
5.23      Debt-service coverage is expected to be highly satisfactory under
the recommended rate-of-return covenant (para. 1.25), being at least 2.0
during the project-execution period. To permit IBRD review of each
company's situation and financing plans should its debt-service coverage
deteriorate, each company has agreed not to incur new long-term debt
without Bank permission if its net revenues, using the standard definition
for such purposes (except for Electroperu), for the previous twelve-month
period do not exceed 1.5 times its maximum future debt-service requirements
for any succeeding year. For Electroperu, "net revenues" exclude dividends
received from its subsidiary companies because they are not operating
revenues; in addition, IBRD has confirmed that it would not object to
Electroperu contracting loans during 1982-83 for the Mantaro transfer
scheme and Sheque hydroplant plus US$300 mn (current terms) for other
projects.
5.24      To avoid Electrolima's placing undue reliance on short-term debt
(which it had previously used to finance construction when long-term
finance was unavailable), provisions of the 1215-PE Project Agreement
require IBRD approval of Electrolima's incurrence of short-term
indebtedness in excess of one-sixth of its operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and other non-cash
provisions) during the preceding twelve-month period. Similar provisions
are included in proposed agreements with all three beneficiaries.
5.25      Other provisions of the 1215-PE Project Agreement restrict
Electrolima's dividend payments to 8-1/2% of the par value of the shares.
Because Electroperu's financing needs far exceed those of Electrolima and
because present estimates show that Electrolima's contribution to expansion
during the project-execution period would be adequate with full payout of
earnings, this provision has been dropped.
5.26      Electroperu's situation with respect to payment of dividends is
different from that of the other beneficiaries in that it does not now have
private shareholders. At the same time, it receives and retains dividends
on all shares of the operating utilities it holds, even if it holds them as
nominee for the government.  Because the financing of Electroperu's large



- 39 -
investment program depends in part on its retention of earnings, the
government, which is presently Electroperu's sole owner, has agreed to
reinvest all dividends which it receives from Electroperu promptly back
into the company.
5.27      In view of the magnitude of the sector's investment program,
ag.eement has been reached that before ar.y government-controlled agency
undertakes commitments to any capital expenditure which would cost more
than US$50 mn (current terms) the governmtent would furnish a satisfactory
report showing the economic justificatior. and financing plan for the
proposed project, except for projects which are in the Master Plan, are
covered by a 1982 law authorizing placement of loans, and for which
feasibility studies have been completed.



- 40
CHAPTER VI
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.01      The project consists of nine distinct components (para. 4.07) which
can be arranged in four groups as follows (costs given in July 1981 prices,
including physical contingencies):
(a) Electrolima's 1982-86 distribution expansion program (US$143.6
million);
(b) Electrolima's and Electroperu's training programs and technical
assistance (US$13.2 million);
(c) Yuracmayo dam construction (US$27.0 million)
(di) Studies of the Mantaro Transfer, trans-Andean tunnel expansion,
Huinco hydro plant expansion, Salto Bajo hydro plant and the Mayush
hydro plant (US$22.4 million).
The economic analysis presented here deals with these project components in an
aggregate manner in that a rate of return on the whole investment program,
including generation and transmission investment in the Central-north system,
is estimated. Thus items (c) and (d) and Electroperu's training program and
technical assistance form part of the cost of expanding generating capacity in
the Central-north system 1/, while the distribution investment and
Electrolima training programs form part of the cost of expanding distribution
network capacity.
6.02      The Mantaro Transfer and several hydro projects to be studied under
the fourth project component form part of the least cost generation expansion
program. This program was developed in the context of the power system
planning exercise carried out by MEM (paras. 4.02-4.04), the feasibility study
for the Mantaro Transfer scheme and Sheque hydroelectric project (para 4.08
and Annex 4.3) and a study of the joint optimization of water and electricity
supply for Lima (November, 1979). In addition to these studies, other studies
of the water supply situation in Lima have been carried out to determine the
extent to which future demand for water may be met through existing supplies
in the Rimac and Chillon river basins and underground resources, without
recourse to the Mantaro Transfer scheme. The conclusions from the above
studies, relevant to the economic evaluation of the projects listed in item
(d) above, may be summarized as follows:
(a) The likely date by which the water resources of the Rimac and
Chillon river basins will be fully used up is 1990;
1/   Excluding that part of the training program costs which relates to
activities outside the Central-north system.



- 41-
(b) The Mantaro Transfer scheme is th, least cost alternative for
meeting the growth in water demand beyond the year 1990; in
addition, the Transfer scheme in conjunction with the Sheque
hydroelectric plant is also the laast cost scheme for meeting
electricity demand growth in the Central-north system. In other
words, the cost of this joint water and power supply development is
less than the cost of the next best separate alternative
developments. The optimal date for commissioning of the first stage
of Sheque is 1987, one year before the entry into operation of the
Mantaro Transfer.
(c) The least cost electricity generation development program includes
the projects listed in para. 6.01 (d) (Annexes 3.2 and 4.1).
Long Run Incremental Cost of Energy
6.03      Electrolima's 1982-86 distribution investment program consists of a
set of facilities designed to transport energy and power from the high voltage
transmission network to the final customers. A minimum estimate of the
benefits of electricity sales may be made by using the price paid by
customers.2/ This measure, however, is a measure of the benefits provided by
the entire generation, transmission and distribution system; as a result,the
rate of return for the entire investment program, including generation and
transmission, must be made. Here this has been done by calculating the long
run marginal cost of energy entering Electrolima's transmission and
distribution network from the Central North interconnected system.
6.04      The long run marginal cost of energy at the transmission level,
based on the least cost development plan fcr the North-central system in the
period 1982-2004 was calculated as the ratio between the present value of the
increase in total system costs (investment, operating and maintenance) over
their 1981 level and the present value of the energy produced by this program,
the latter being taken as the incremental production over the 1981 level.
This calculation is shown in detail in Annex 6.1. At the estimated 12%
opportunity cost of capital in Peru, the lcng run marginal cost of energy at
the 220 kV level is 3.6 UScents/kWh (December 1980 prices). Preliminary
results from the marginal cost tariff study now underway indicate that, at
least in the medium term, the marginal cost of energy may be greater than the
above estimate.
Rate of Return
6.05      As the benefits attributable to investment in Electrolima's
distribution network can not be distinguishLed from those arising out of
investment in generation and transmission facilities, an internal economic
rate of return on the combined Central-north system generation and
transmission expansion program, and Electrclima's distribution expansion
program, is calculated here. The economic analysis of Electrolima's 1982-1986
2/   A minimum because electricity prices are regulated and one does not know
if, in fact, the customer would be willing to pay more.



- 42 -
distribution program takes a time slice approach. That is, the distribution
investments in the 1982-1986 time period enable a certain increment in
electricity demand to be met in the company's zone of service. It is assumed
that the increment in demand met by this investment is that occurring during
1983-1987 on the assumption that there is an average one year interval between
the start of construction and commissioning of works. In practise this
interval will be different for the various items of the distribution program.
6.06      Annex 6.2 presents the cost and benefit streams used in the economic
analysis. Prices of 25 US$/bbl for Bunker C oil and 37 US$/bbl for diesel oil,
the international prices in December 1980, were used in the generation
expansion study that formed the basis for the estimate of the long run
incremental cost of energy in the Central-north system.  These prices were
escalated 3% per year in real terms. The expansion program is insensitive to
small changes in the fuel price escalation rate.
6.07      As presented in Annex 6.2 the internal rate of return is calculated
using the following cost streams:
(a)  distribution system investment in 1982-86;
(b)  distribution system operating and maintenance costs, sales costs and
billing costs;
(c)  the cost of the energy input to the distribution system, required to
meet the incremental sales attributable to the distribution
investment program, evaluated at the same discount rate as the rate
of return (see Annex 6.1).
The benefit stream is the incremental sales valued at Electrolima's forecast
tariff (see Annex 5.4), including the 25% tax on electricity sales
(para. 1L.26), which forms part of the price paid by the consumer.  Expressed
in December 1980 UScents the benefits are valued as follows:
UScents/kWh
1983                        5.91
1984                        7.00
1985                        7.69
1986                        7.81
1987-2011                   8.20
6.08      On the basis of this estimate of benefits, the rate of return on the
expansion program is 16.6%, above the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Peru.  A sensitivity analysis of this rate of return shows the following:



- 43 -
Rate of Return
Base Case                                              16.6%
Benefits:                             up 15%           19.4%
down 15%           13.8%
All Costs:                            up 15%           14.1%
down 15%           19.8%
Distribution Investment Cost:         up 15%           16.1%
down 15%           17.1%
Benefits valued at April 1982
tariff level (see Annex 6.2)                           10.0%
It should be noted that these rates of return refer to the investment program
for the Central-north system as a whole, and not just Electrolima's
distribution investment program. This has been done by ensuring that the
incremental cost of energy supplied to the Electrolima network has been
evaluated as the same discount rate as the rate of return. The rate of return
is most sensitive to changes in benefits and total costs, and least sensitive
to changes in distribution investment costs. Of total costs, the cost of
energy generation and transmission is the largest single component (63%).
6.09      The 10% rate of return, below the opportunity cost of capital,
that results from using current tariffs to value benefits is an indication
that the level of these tariffs (including the 25% tax) is below that of
marginal costs.
Tariff Structure
6.10      Electrolima's December 1981 tariff structure, expressed in current
US$, is shown in Annex 6.3. A comparison cf tariffs for low voltage supply
shows that, with the exception of electricity used for agricultural water
pumping, which is priced at 0.9 UScents/kWh, residential users pay the lowest
tariff, ranging from 3.35 UScents/kWh to 4.42 UScents/kWh, while small
commercial customers pay the highest, at 13.44 UScents/kWh. A heavily
subsidized tariff of 0.31 UScents for up tc 30 kWh/month of residential
consumption is applied. This tariff has fallen recently in real terms as it
was the only component of the structure excluded from the monthly tariff
increases applied during September through December, 1981. Electrolima
estimates that 11.2% of their residential customers and 0.6% of their
residential sales (9.9% and 0.2% of total customers and sales, respectively)
fall within this tariff category. High voltage supply tariffs have the same
pattern of charging commercial customers mare than the equivalent industrial
customers.
6.11      A 25% tax is applied to electricity sales and an additional
municipal tax is applied to cover municipal services. While most (80%) of the
25% tax reverts to the power sector to finance investment, the municipality
tax does not. This latter tax covers services that are not related to the
provision of electricity service and has the effect of unnecessarily
discouraging consumption. Though its importance as a fraction of total
revenue is not large, where applied, it can amount to 20% of the tariff
(currently it is only applied in two municipalities of Lima). This situation
will be monitored in connection with the tariff study now underway.



- 44 -
6.12      The tariff structure needs simplifying in such a manner that
consumers are charged in accordance with the costs of providing them service
so that hidden subsidies are eliminated, unless there are valid social reasons
for their existence. For example, while energy charges applied at high
voltage levels during the peak period are higher than off-peak tariffs, the
demand charge has no time of day component. A tariff study is now underway,
part:ially financed by Loan 1215-PE, with the objective of developing a new
tariff structure for the North-central system based on marginal cost
principles.  The study is scheduled for completion in   July 1982 and will be
discussed with the Bank, under the provisions of the above loan.
Yuracmayo Dam
6.13      The economic viability of this component of the project is to be
fully established through the definitive cost estimate based on the final
design now underway (para. 4.09). However, its initial economic
attractiveness was established in the generation planning exercise described
in para. 6.02. Construction of the Yuracmayo Dam forms part of the least cost
sequence for generation development. This project has a lower cost than the
average for future developments, as may be seen by comparing the cost of the
additional energy that will be produced in the Matucana hydro plant as a
result of construction of the Yuracmayo Dam, with the average incremental cost
of energy in the system (para. 6.04)3/. The estimated costs of the dam,
including physical contingencies and the expected output, are as follows (see
para. 4.12).
Costs (US$ millions,                                            Present Value at:
March 1982 Prices)   1982   1983   1984  1985  1986-2025          9%    11%    13%
Investment4/          0.92   2.75   9.16  5.50        -        15.40  14.85  14.34
Operating &
Maintenance5/         -       -       -     -       0.18       1.50   1.18   0.95
Total                                                          16.90  16.03  15.29
Output (GWh)            -       -       -     -                  731    576    466
Incremental energy
cost (UScents/kWh)                                              2.3    2.8    3.3
The cost of the incremental energy produced by the dam is thus below 3.3
UScents/kWh. This energy is available during the dry season and will replace
energy from thermal plants which has an approximate cost of 7cents/kWh.
3/   This latter cost actually includes the effect of the Yuracmayo Dam.
4/   Total estimated cost in March 1982 prices is US$23.5 million, including
import duties, US$18.32 million excluding duties. To this was added 15%
for physical contingencies.
5/   1% of the investment cost.



- 45 -
CHAPTER VII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements related to the proposed loan provide assurances that:
(a)   The Government would agree to discuss with the Bank and
establish, by December 31, 1983 (i) the identity of the new
electrical regions and the utility responsible for each; and (ii)
a timetable for accomplishing an acceptable reorganization of the
sector, in particular, the transfer of plant and personnel from
Electroperu to the designated regional utilities (para. 1.17).
(b)   the beneficiaries would apply for, and the government would
grant, tariff increases sufficient to enable the beneficiaries to
earn rates of return of 4%, 7%, and 10% in 1982, 1983 and 1984,
respectively and 12% p.a. thereafter (para. 1.25);
(c)   Electroperu and the Government would present to the Bank for
coment an investment program for the 1983-1987 period for works
outside the main systems, including rural electrification and
small hydro installations, by December 31, 1983; they would also
agree to present to the Bank for review and discussion, by
November 30 of each year beginning in 1983, the sectoral
investment and financing plan for the subsequent year (para.
1.27);
(d)   the three beneficiaries would submit audited financial statements
and auditors' reports within six months of the close of their
fiscal years (paras. 2.09, 2.23, and 2.30);
(e)   by December 31, 1985 Electroperu would take measures to:
(i) clearly define the responsibilities of the company's
financial and accounting units;
(ii) introduce internal regulations and handbooks describing
standard accounting procedures to be adopted;
(iii) specify the data processing equipment required to meet the
needs of the finance and accounting units; and
(iv) reorganize its accounting and internal audit systems in a
manner acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.21).
(f)   Electrolima would, by December 31, 1982, present an acceptable
plan of action for improving load forecasting techniques. By
December 31 each year Electrolima would present to the Bank for
discussion its annual load forecast report (para. 3.07);



- 46 -
(g)   Disbursements against Yuracmayo dam construction would be
contingent on satisfactory completion of final design (para.
4.08(b));
(h)   Electrolima would appoint a satisfactory board of consultants to
review the design and construction of the Yuracmayo dam two
months after completion of the engineering design, and would
carry out dam-safety inspections regularly after its completion
(para. 4.30);
(i)   the three beneficiaries would have to obtain Bank agreement for
any borrowing which:
(i) caused internal cash generation to be less than 1.5 times the
maximum future debt service requirement (para. 5.23); or
(ii) raised short-term debt to more than one sixth of cash
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses (para.
5.24).
(j)   the Government would reinvest all dividends it receives from
Electroperu back in the company (para. 5.26);
(k)   the Government would submit to IBRD satisfactory justification of
major projects before they are undertaken by any company in the
subsector which it controls (para. 5.27);
7.02      Provisions in the 1215-PE loan agreements relating to
Electrolima's tariff levels (para. 5.04) and dividend payments (para. 5.25)
have been dropped.
7.03      Under side letters to the legal documents the three beneficiaries
have confirmed that their operations would be maintained under acceptable
performance indicators (paras. 2.10, 2.24, 2.29).
7.04      W4ith the assurances listed above, the project forms a suitable
basis for a Bank. loan to Electrolima of US$81.2 mn under applicable terms
and conditions for Peru, with up to US$1.0 mn available for retroactive
financing. Of the total, US$12.3 mn would be relent to Electroperu and
US$3.6 mn, to Hidrandina.
May l8, 1982



PERU
SiXTH POWER PROJECT
ELECTROLIMA
ORGANIZATION C11ART
BOAfiDOf PIHEC1c$IS
[EXECU: IIVE L:::MI r-jE
EXEW I IVi PFti SlF.tN
K   CRPf1AIl -   -                INI HNIAL A I II
Lr5, ci.TAIIY  _}{ -_    
PUEBLIC
|     IELATION$
L. INE AL
MANAGER
GENERAL    DATA                ~~~~~~~LOW IN um~                             !k. PR'~ JIM'T
MIETA...            PRCSSN               ELCE   WIIN             AUVISORS            ADLICI
[PLAGNINI1                                                                                  -   -         - 
AND                                             COMMiL 0iIAL                                    VZMI h51NATIvt
L  MANAT E       J                                     C   IAIUCAiOR                                         iAAht.C                                           U AI.I ti R
-AAT                                                      TIAONR J                                                                                      L     
= ] _............I ,  _ . 1 _                                                                                             _            _ --E-- - -_--- -- --    --
ASSISTAN fMANAGER HMANAI|LI   ASrISIA TMANAGER                     ASNI.NT         AS;IIANfNNAI, MANAAGEiTA  MAtAA&t AAN  MANAh ltANA
ANIIiAIl'N AND    I GENERAL S[nVICES    ELECTRICAL DLSIGN      CUNSTRitCTION       CONSTRUCTON            CILL,               COLLECTNAC                               PluC       T
SISIL  ,                                E                                           ONIL  [HUCTION        C                                                          SSI,AN 'lI
MAN  I        A... AN MNAE           ECLIALNNINGAND     CIlDIGAN                ELCIALMA.IBILNAN                                                 NACPII,IMNALNSI1t
__.__ .                  I                                                                                                                                                              I  _ _ ____ _ ,_ _.__ ____ __ ______
CoA I. N AN         1 RIITO                                                                                                                                                      sIIWrNE L
olsr ir       J~ Icu.,  MAiNILNANLE                                                                                                                                              E.N LA .rt
ELEIATIDIT       AUMN11.1G At-|N



-48 -
ANNEX 2.2
PERU SIXTH POWER PROJECT
ELECTROLIMA'S PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Actual                                      Estimated
1. MAUKET INDICATORS                      1979     1980      1981      1982       1983       1984      1985       1986       1998-
Total nurber of customers (1000)      680       704      732        758        784       810        836        862       88E
Sales (aWh)                         3,184    3,393    3,818       4,254     4,531      4,827      5,148      5,484     5,841
2.  EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
Number of employees                  2,921    2,993    3,076       3,145      3,200     3,266      3,331      3,394     3,442
Customers/employeel/                  233       235       238       241        245       248        251        254        258
Energy sold/employee (CAi)           1.09      1.13     1.24       1.35      1.42       1.48       1.55       1.62      1.70
System losses in percent               9.1      10.5     10.4        9.5        9.1       8.8        8.5        8.6        8.6
3.  FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Rate of return on rate base (1)         8.8      5.6       3.        6         12         12        12         12
Return on equity (net income +
average equity - %)                 3.3       0.1      0.6        4.4       11        11         11         10
Debt service coverage excluding
interest charged to construction                       1.6        3.0        3.8       4.1        6.3        4.6
Contribution to expansion (%)                             60        44        108        48         34         20
Debt/equity ratio at Dec. 31                              24/80     21/79      19/81      18/82     17/83      28/72
Year-end receivables from customers
25% reserve for year                                    16         16         16        16         16         16
1/ In 1981-87 estimated to grow at 1.33% per year, the 1975-80 trend.



ANNEX 2.3
_ 49 -
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJEbT
ELECTROPERU
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
INTERtNAL AUDIT_
EXECUTIVE
PRESIDENT
PUBLIC            GENERAL            GENERAL             BOARD          ; INTERUTILITY COORDINATION
RELATIONS         SECRETARIAT          MANAGER            ADVISORS               AND PROVINCIAL
MANAGEREELECTRIFICATION MANAGER
i  TECHNICAL P              CONSTRUCTION                    PRODU CTION      I                   FINANCECOUNTNGPRSON
CENTRAL                   CENTRAL                        CENTRAL                           CENTRAL                  CEMNITRAL TIONAE
MANAGER                   MANAGER                        MANAGER                            MANAGER MANAGER  MANAGER
'I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~POUTO I                      I                                 IT BI 0NANI  N
MANAG ER                                                MANAGER I                                          MANAG
.WolId ank -23757



PERU SIXTH POWER PROJECT
ELECTROPERU'S PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1,
Actual                                     Estimate
1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
1.   MARKET INDICATORS
Total number of customers (1000)          287       320      361        381       402      424       446       469      494
Sales (GWh): retail                     1,393    1,453    1,517       1,639    1,770    1,912    2,064    2,230    2,408
bulk                      1,372    1,700    2,109       2,655    3,440    3,937    5,215    6,740    6,902
Average retail sales per customer
(kWh)                                4,870    4,540    4,202       4,302    4,403    4,509    4,628    4,755    4,874
Annual increase in retail sales
per customer                                    -6.8%    -7.4%       2.4%      2.3%     2.4%      2.6%      2.7%     2.5%
2.   EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
Number of employees                     5,402    5,350    5,300       5,300    5,300    5,300    5,300    5,300    5,300    1
Customer/employee                          53        60       68         72        76       80        84        88       93    C
Retail energy sold/employee (MWh)         258       272      286        309       334      361       389       421      454    1
System losses in percent 2/               7.0       7.0      7.0        7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0
/ Once Electroperu assumes its role as a holding company these indicators should apply to the regional utilities
as a whole.
2/ Includes transmission and distribution.



- 51 -                                              ANNEX 2.5
PERU SIXTH POWER PROJECT
HIDRANDINA'S PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Actual                                        Estimated
1.  EFFICIENCY INDICATORS                   1979      1980     1981       1982        1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
Installed capacity (MW)                135       135       135        135        135        135        135        135        135
Sales (GWh)                                      843       906        912        929        934        940       1032       1068
Number of employees                    200       203       203        203        203        203        213        213        213
Installed capacity (MW)/employee    0.68         0.67      0.67       0.67       0.67       0.67       0.63       0.63       0.63
Energy sold (GWh)/employee                       4,15      4.46       4.49       4.58       4.60       4.41       4.85       5.01
2.  FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Rate of return on rate base (%)        3.0      -0.2       3.6        6         12         12         12         12         12
Return on equity (net income 4
average equity - %)                  4.8      -0.7       3.2        5         10         10          9          8          6
Debt-service coverage excluding
interest charged to construction                         2.7        6         11          5          2.3        1.1        0.6
Contribution to expansion - (%)                          174         37          8          1          0         -9        -27
Debt/equity ratio (Dec. 31)                                1/99       6/94      21/79      32/68      58/42      59/41      57/43
Year-end receivables from customers
is % of revenue for year                                10         10         10         10         10         10         10



ANNEX 3. 1
P_I; - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Oneax 3.1  Forecast Derend In the North-Certra I I nlirconrnerd Sysem: 1 381 -1990 1/
Ernergy (GWi)                                                    Awrage
Estinaeed 2/                                  --------------------rFrecas-----------------------------                            1981 -90
i980         1981        1982       1983        1984       1898        1986       1981        1988       1989        1990     Growth Rate
Tumbes                                         C (')       117)      (19)         (20)       122)        (23)       (25)        (271       (29)         31
Piura                                         (114)      (1 31       (144)      ( 56) ;1 173)          (2161       1230)       248         264        280
Ta ara                                        (265)      (270)       (272)      (426)       (459)      (461 )      1463)       464         521        550
Bayovar                                        (23)       (23)        !29)       129)        129)        (29)      (144)       144         144        144
Onlclayo                                       (79)      (I6)         (95)      103)         245        263         279        323         345        364
P3scasmayo                                      ;7)         181        18)         19)       126        129         130        131         132        133
Cn ama- a                                      (10)        IItI        ' 2)      t'3)        113)       (14)        (151        16          17        239
TrujIlo                                        294        351         384        438         461        576         604        631         658        834
Ch8nbote                                       403        409         4'7        424         G42        673         663        694         928        938
HuanuLc                                        f16)       ;17)        118)        i19)       '21)        23          25         33          35         38
He I  Ia,nca                                    65         67          68         69          70         83         119        266         268        279
Parogoea                                       363        397         412        422         430        438         444        578         714        721
Lina A/                         3791          4259       470C       4987        5292        5627       5997       6390        6812        7261       7741         7.4%
Pisro                                           56         76         121        '56         181        194         207        220         252        267
ICra                                         44           49          75         79        211         231        236         241        247         253
'Ma colna                                      320        320         320        320         560        561         561        651         652        652
L0  Qroya                                     (671)      (724)       t-?;9)       997       1009       1032        1)18       1143        1163       1220
Ce!-ro de Pasco                               (2441      (2481       (253)       294         299        274         457        463         468        474
Pdchachaca                                    1230)      12461       (2671       303         311        348         924       1098        1107       1281
H jancayo                                       45         54          60         68          77         86          98        105         112        119
Huanca,el ca                                   10 1(Cl                50         93         102        106         110        114         l'8        123
Hlansaro                                        (0.5)     177         177        177         177        177         178        178         178        209
Tota! Incucldlg un-
Con-ectid Iwds                             7926        8386       89 7        9603     11,246     11934    13,440    14.579    158613    16,890                9.4%
5 grc,th o  total                                          11.4%        6.23      10.0%       14.68       6.1%       12.6%       8.5%        7.1%       8.23     9.4%
To-'a l Int-rconnecJed
systen only                  5060 3/       5951       6600        7071        9032     10,529     11,233      12,578     14,552      15,584     16,890
Peak Demand tMh)                                                        A\erage
Esi7)aited2/------------------------------------------Forecast19-----------------------------------------------                   81-90
1980       1981        1982       1983        1984       1385        1966       1987        1988       1989        1990   Growth Rate
'arrr1s (6)                                      (6)        (6)         (7)        (8)         (8)        (9)         (9)       (10)        (11)        II
'i Vra                               (17)       (261        130)       134)        136)       (39)        (57)       (60)         64         68          72
Talara                               141)       (42)       (43)        144)       (671        (72)        172)       (73)         73         82         86
bayovar                              l1)         (8)         (8)        18)         (81       110)        (23)        23         23          23          23
I ci ayo                            (19)        (23)        125)       (27)       (30)         57         60          64          74         79         84
pacasrayo                             (0.5)      (0.6)       (0.6)      (0.61       (0.61      26         29          29         29          30         30
Can"maro3                             (31        (3)         13)        (1)         (4)        14)         (4)        13         14          14         43
Truj I l'o                           83          91         99         105        122         128        145         152        160         167        199
Ch I                                1 2ote  130  105       107         109        179         180        186         188        235         238        240
HGanucl11o                            (3)        (31         (4)        (4)         (4)        (7)          8          8         11          12         13
H,i)a I72 I5                                     15         16          16         17          17         20          26         50          50         53
Pararrong,i                           50         54          56         66         69          73          76         77         97         115        118
Lira 4/                             694         782        831         881        933         991       1056       1126        1200       1280        1364          7.0%
0)sco                                  4         16          40         42          49         55          58         63         64          68          70
Ica                                  10          11         12         15          16         43          46          47         48          49         51
Mar co.-a                             48         46          46         46          48         86          86         86        100         100        100
4a Oroya                            t911        193)        (98)       (991       131         146        150         162        166         169        178
^erro  e 4asco                       (26)       132)        133)       (33)         39         50         61          62         62          62         63
pacharhaca                           126)       129)        131        (341        39          40         45         121        146         147        172
Hu-acyo                              13          14          17         is         21          23         25          28         30          32         33
Husarcaval'ca                         10)        10)         10.9)       8         16          16         17          17         18          19         19
M4an aro                               0.3        0.3        21         21         21          21          2          21          21         21          32
-roa includ ng un-
conr-&ced loads               1270 3/   1402         '530        1623       1898        2092       2254        2455        2695       2836       3054         9.2%
To-a  Interconnected
sysite  only                   1027       1136       1247        1329        1700       1952        2089       2313        2685       2825        3054
System ond facror (1)                56.2        58.8       60.4        60.7       60.7        61.6       61.4        62.1       61 .9       63.0       63.t
Sou,ca:  Mnlstry of Energy 4 Mines' January 1982 teriand foreaast
1/ This Is  lemard at the generation  level, (c)udlng distrlbution  and transmIss)on losses.  Load centers shown In parentheses are not
cornecte c to the system.
21 rFf0u1-qs fcr l Ima ir 1980 and 1981 ere aciuals.  Figures lor o-lher  od centers are estimates.
3/ Chlmbora I,terccnoected In 1980.
4/ CorresDoods to Electrollmas 5  er-V-air  reculr-emnt,   See ASne  3.4



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 o-f 2
PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Central-north System 1981-1987 Pcwer and Energy Balance
A. Power Balance (MW)
Capacity (MW)           1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Utility           Plant               Type   Installed   Available 2/   MW          MW     MW      MW      MW      MW     MW
1/
HIDRANDINA   Moyopampa                 H           63           58           58      58      58     58      58      58      58
Huampani                 H          31           26            26     26      26      26      26     26      26
Cahua                    H          40          26/38          26     26      26      26      26     38      38
ELECTROLIMA  Huinco                    H         258           240          240    240    240    240    240    240    240
Matucana 3/              H         120       75/105/12C        75     75      75    105    105    120    120
Callahuanca              H          68           55            55     55      55      55      55     55      55
Santa Rosa Gas Turbine T            52           43            43     43      43      43      43     43      43
New Gas Turbine          T         110          110           110    110    110    110    110    110    110
Auto-        *Centromin Plants 4/    H            183        146/157                               146    157    157    157
Producers    Yuncan                    H         126           108                                                         108
and Other    San Nicolas Steam         T          54            54           54      54      54     54      54      54      54
Utilitues    Paramonga Steam           T           22           22           22      22      22     22      22      22      22
Trupal Steam             T          15           15            15      15     15      15      15      15     15
Cartavio Steam           T          10           10            10      10     10      10      10     10      10
Trujilo Gas Turbine    T            21           21            21     21      21      21      21     21      21
*Several Steam 5/         T          34           34                                           34     34      34
*Pacasmayo Diesel         T          26           26                                           26     26      26
*San Jacinto & Laredo
Steam                  T           5            5                                                   5       5
Cajamarca Diesel         T           6            6                                                           6
ELECTROPERU  Canon del Pato 6/         H          150      91/105/45         91      91      91     91    105    105    145
Mantaro 7/               H         798          625           448    448    625    625    625    625    625
Restitution              H         217          197                                  197    197    197    197
Carhuaquero              H          75           70                                           70     70      70
Gallito Ciego            H          26           21                                                  21      21
Pampa Blanca             H          63           53                                                          53
Sheque Units 1 and 2   H           300          280                                                         280
Chimbote Gas Turbine   T            90           65            65     65      65      65      65     65      65
*Chiclayo Diesel          T          29           29                                           29     29      29
New Steam Plant          T         150          150                                                  150    150
Hydro                                          2,518        2,193         1,019  1,019  1,196  1,569  1,664  1,712  2,193
Thermal                                          624           590          230    340    340    340    429    584    590
Total                                          3,142         2,783        1,249  1,359  1,536  1,909  2,093  2,Z96  2,783
System Demand                                                             1,136  1,247  1,329  1,700  1,952  2,089  2,313
Reserves (MW)                                                               113    112    207    209    141    207    470
Reserve (M)                                                                  10       9      16      12      7      10      20
* = additions to system through interconnection.
1/  H = Hydro;  T = Thermal.
2/  During the dry season, which coincides with the annual peak demand.
3/  Matucana expansion in late 1983 will add 30 MW of capacity curing the dry season from 1984 onwards.  The Yuracamayo
dam will add another 15 MWT from late 1985 onwards.
4/  Includes Yaupi, Malpaso, Pachachaca and La Oroya. 11 MW are added to Yaupi in 1985.
5/ Chiclayo, Pascasmayo, Pomalca, Tuman and Pucala.
6/ Derivation of the Quitaracsa River and construction of Recreta reservoir in 1985 and 1987, respectively,
increase the capacity of Canon del Pato.
7/ 1981-1982 considering transmission constraints. The plant las 7 x 114 MW units, of which only six may
be used at any one time.



B. Energy Balance for Average Hydro Energy Condition (GWh)
1981    1982      1983    1984    1985        1986      1987
Utility               Plant
HIDRANDINA         Moyopampa                             455      455       455      455      455       455       455
Huampani                             194      194       194      194      194       194       194
Cahua                                257      257       257      257      257       292       292
ELECTROLIMA        Huinco                                915      915       915      915      915       915       915
Matucana                             658      658       658      658      658       718 1/   718
Callahuanca                          497      497       497      497      497       497       497
Auto-              Centromin plants 2/                                               983   1,023    1,023    1,023
producers          Yuncan                                                                                         910
ELECTROPERU        Canon del Pato                      1,184   1,184    1,184   1,184   1,235         1,235    1,302
Mantaro 3/                         3,536   3,536    5,126   5,126   5,126    5,126    5,126
Restitution                                                    1,657   1,657      1,657    1,657
Carhuaquero                                                               516       516       516
Gallito Ciego                                                                       157       157
Pampa Blanca                                                                                  503
Sheque Units 1 and 2               -                                                          488 4/
Total                                                  7,696   7,696    9,286  11,926  12,533   12,785   14,753
System Demand                                          5,851   6,600    7,071   9,032  10,529   11,233   12,578
Hydro Surplus (GWh)                                    1,845   1,096    2,215   2,894   2,004         1,552    2,175
%                                     32%      17%       31%      32%      19%       14%        17%
1/ Yuracmayo dam in service.
2/ Includes Yaupi, Malpaso, Pachachaca and La Oroya.
3/ 1981-82 takes into account transmission contraints between Mantaro and Lima.
4/  Energy gain prior to entry of Mantaro Transfer in 1988.
MP t3
x
HI 3
U)



PERU - SIXIH POWER PPrJECI
Annex 3.3: Electrolina - Historical Sales, Generation Requirenent and Peak Dennid Statistics
1971-81
1970     1971     1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981      Average
Energy and Power
Sales ((qh)                     1812.4   2001.4   2140.8   2309.9   2489.5   2663.4   2858.5   2962.3   3000.9   3147.6   3392.7   3817.7
Losses and Unaccounted for (GOh)  181.9    202.7    204.9    229.9    237.0    305.8    299.8    335.1    352.5    355.0    398.2    440.8
Total = Generation Requiraient   1994.3   2204.1   2345.7   2539.8   2726.5   2969.2   3158.3   3297.4   3353.4   3502.6   3790.9   4258.5
Peak Demand (N)                  391      423      442       486       516      569      587       597      609       645       694      782
Indicators
Losses anl unacconted for (%
of generation requirencnt)      9.12      9.20     8.74      9.05     8.69    10.30       9.49    10.16    10.51    10.14    10.50    10.35
System load Factor 1/ (%)        58.23    59.48    60.58    59.66    60.32    59.57    61.42    63.05    62.86    61.99    62.36    62.16
Growth Over Previous Years
Sales (%)                         8.48     10.42     6.97      7.90     7.78      7.00      7.33     3.63     1.30      4.89      7.79    12.33      7.01%    1
Peak Demand (%.)                  10.8      8.2       4.5      9.9       6.2     10.3       3.2      1.7       2.0      5.9       7.6     12.7       6.5%    (,
Gross Dcestic Product (%)          7.3      5.1       5.8      6.2      6.9       3.3       3.1     -1.2      -1.8      J.b       3.i                3.4% 2/
Source: Electrolima
1/ (Generation Requirement)/(Peak lm1 x 8760 hours).
2/ 1971-0 average growth.
February 1982



PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
A-.nex 3.4:  Elect-olima - Forecast Sales, Generation Requirement and Peak Demand
Energy (GWh)
-Actual-------Forecast-------------------                                          Average
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1982-87
Energy and Power Sales (GWh):
Excluding Zinc Refinery 1/          3391.5    3563.5    3834        4101       4387       4698       5034       5391
Zinc Refinery                          1.2      254.2     420        430        440        450        450        450
Total Sales                           3392.7    3817.7    4254        4531       4827       5148       5484       5841
Losses (GWh)                           398.2      440.8      446       456        465        480        513        549
Total = Generation Require-
ment (GWh)                 3790.9    4258.5    4700         4987       5292       5628       5997      6390
Peak Demand (MW): 2/
Exc.Luding Zinc Refinery 1/          694        730        779       829        881        939       1004       1074
Zinc Refinery                          -         52         52        52         52         52         52         52                       1
Total System                           694        782        831       881        933        991       1056       1126
Indicators:
Losses and Unaccounted for (%
of Generation Requirement)          10.5       10.4       9.5        9.1        8.8        8.5        8.6        8.6
Load Factors (%):
System excluding Zinc Refinery   62.36        59.6       62.5       62.6       62.7       62.8       62.9       63.0
Total System                        62.36     62.2       64.6       64.6       64.7       64.8       64.8       64.8
Growth over Previous Years (%):
Sales excluding Zinc Refinery        7.79      5.1        7.6        7.0        7.0        7.1        7.2        7.1        7.1
Total Sales                          7.6       12.5      11.4        6.5        6.5        6.6        6.5        6.5        7.3
Peak Demand                          3.1       12.7       6.3        6.0        5.9        6.2        6.6        6.6        6.3
1/  This refers to the Electrolima system excluding the Cajamaraquilla zinc refinery, Electrolima's single largest
customer, which came on line during 1981.
2/  Peak demand is derived from the projected load factor and system sales plus losses attributable to those sales.
3/  Losses related to zinc refinery sales are estimated at 3%.  Losses in the rest of the system are projected to
decline from 10.5% in 1981 to 10.1%, 9.7% and 9.3% in 1982 to 1984, and 9.0% from 1985 onwards.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.5
PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Electrolima 1981-1987 Power and Energy Balances
---------------------------Projected-----------------------
1981      1982      1l983      1984      1985      1986       1987
POWER BALANCE (MW)
Electrolima Plants:
'Ruinco                        240        240       240        240       240       240        240
Matucana                        75         75        75        105 1/   105        120 2/    120
Callahuanca                     55         55        55         55        55        55         55
Thermal 3/                      28         77        60         35        53        50         72
Sub-total                      398        447       430        435       453      465        487
Purchases from Hidrandina           84         84       84         84        84        84         84
Purchases from Electroperu         300        300      367        414       454       507        555
Total                              782        831      381        933       991    1,056       1,126
Peak Demand                        782       831       881        933       991    1,056       1,126
Electrolima's Thermal Reserve3/  15            76       93        118       100       103         81
ENERGY BALANCE (GWh)
Electrolima's Plants: 4/
Huinco                         915        915       915        915       915       915        915
Matucana                       658        658       658        658       658       718        718
Callahuanca                    497        497       497        497       497       497       497
Thermal 5/                       5         20        10         10        10        10         10
Sub-total                    2,075      2,090    2,080       2,080    2,080    2,140       2,140
Purchases from Hidrandina 6/        649        649      649        649       649       649        649
Purchases from Electroperu 7/  1,559        2,280    2,577       2,882    3,173    3,487        3,890
Total                            4,283      5,019    5,306       5,611    5,902    6,276        6,679
Less: Demand                      4,259     4,700    4,987       5,292    5,628    5,997        6,390
Surplus hydro energy 8/              24        319      319        319       274       279        289
1/ Second underground reservoir in operation.
2/ Yuracmayo reservoir in operation.
3/ Some thermal generation is required for peaking purposes. In the average year, thermal
generation from Electrolima's gas turbine plant is not required for energy purposes.
Electrolima thermal reserve is a part of the whole North-central system reserve shown in
Annes 3.3.
4/ Average annual output as in Annex 3.2
5/ Indicative amounts for peaking purposes only.
6/ It is assumed that Electrolima will purchase the average year output of the Moyopampa and
Huampani hydro plants.
7/  Eletroperu dictates the amount of its annual saLes to Electrolima.  The 1982 figure has
been agreed; the 1983-1987 figures are estimate:s.
8/ Water spillage in Electrolima's plants.



ANNEX 4.1
PERU - SIXTII POW,ER PROJECT
CENTRAL-NORTH SYSTEM
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION EXPANSION PROGRAM
1. GENERATION
YEAR                         PROJECT                     NOMINAL CAPACITY (MW)
1982      Gas turbines in Lima                                    108
1984      Matucana hydro plant reinforcement                       1/
Restitucion h1ydro plant                                75
Cafnon del Pato hydro plant reinforcement               2/
1986      Yuncan hydro plant                                      126
Gallito Ciego hydro plant                               23
Poechos and Curumuy hydro plants                        17
Yumracmayo dam (reinforcement to Matucana
hydro plant)                                           -
Vapor turbine                                          150 or 200
1987      Culqui hydro project                                     20
Sheque I hydro plant (after Mantaro Transfer works) 300
1988      Recreta hydro plant                                      40
Huinco hydro plant expansion                            60
1989      Sheque II hydro plant                                   300
1990      Vapor turbine                                           150
2.  TRANSMISSION
YEAR             LINE2/                LENGTH(KM)      CIRCUITS & VOLTAGE(KV)
1982      Pisco - Lima                    214                1x 220
1983      Mantaro'- Pachachaca            192                2 x 220 
Pachachaca - Pomacocha           14                1 x 220
Pachachaca - La Oroya            20                1 x 220
1985      Trujillo - Chiclayo             177                2 x 2204/
Chiclayo - Piura               359                 2 x 220
1/ Additional energy and firm capacity added.
2/ Additional energy only.
3/ Lines 138 kV and upper voltages. Lines connecting hydro plants to
the system- are not included in this list.
4/ 1 circuit in 1985, 1 circuit in 1986.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of 2
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
ELECTROLIMA'S 1982-1986 DISTRIBUTION EXPANSION PROGRAM
COST (US$ THOUSANDS)
F.C.      L.C.    TOTAL
1.   60/10 KV SUBSTATIONS                       9,678      5,394   15,072
(N: New; E: Expansion)
1.1  Huachipa (N)                                 357         205       562
1.2  Chosica (N)                                  656         421    1,077
1.3  Caudivilla (N)                               573         350       923
1.4  Efe (N)                                      931        571    1,502
1.5  Tocua (E)                                    402         265       667
1.6  Santa Rosa (E)                                154        151       305
1.7  Chavarria (E)                                364         187       551
1.8  Oquendo (E)                                    69         41       110
1.9  Balnearios (E)                             2,604      1,340    3,944
1.10 San Isidro (E)                               296         145       441
1.11 Villa Maria (E)                              248         115       363
1.12 Barranco (E)                                 592         252      844
1.13 Moyopampa (E)                                 69          41       110
1.14 Huampani (E)                                 421        245       666
1.15 Santa Marina (E)                             387         210       597
1.16 Barsi (E)                                    387         210      597
1.17 Tomas Valle (N)                              576         353       929
1.18 Maranga (E)                                  296         146      442
1.19 Reserva (N)                                  296         146      442
2.   REACTIVE COMPENSATION                      2,724      1,167    3,891
2.1  Chavarria 25 MVAR (1984)                      908        389    1,297
2.2  Chavarria 25 MVAR (1985)                      908        389    1,297
2.3  Balnearios 25 MVAR                            908        389    1,297
3.   60 KV LINES AND CABLES                     2,840       1,885    4,725
3.1  Balnearios Inlet                              248        150       398
3.2  Moyopampa - Chosica                            21         16        37
3.3  Huachiha - La Plavicil                        101         71       172
3.4  Chavarria - Oquendo                           263        184       447
3.5  Derivacion L625 - Caudivilla                 348         239       587
3.6  Santa Rosa - Tuna                            296         178       474
3.7  Barsi - Santa Marina                          132         92       224
3.8  Tramo L607/608 - EFE                          128         90       218
3.9  Tramo Balnearios - San Isidro                596         368       964
3.10 Chavarria - Tomas Valle                       140         99       239
3.11 Balnearios - San Isidro                      567         398       965



- 60 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 2
4.   MEDIUM AND LOW-VOLTAGE
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                    13,864    74,460      88,324
4.1  10,000 V lines and cables                 4,166    23,132      27,298
4.2  Transformers 10,000/220 V                 5,995    17,860      23,855
4.3  220 V lines                                 -       11,869     11,869
4.4  Connections to clients                    3,703    21,599      25,303
5.   AUXILIARY SERVICES                       10,936      6,355     17,291
5.1  Communication system expansion            4,795      2,016      6,811
5.2  Vehicles                                  2,644      2,124      4,768
5.3  Workshop                                    876        398      1,274
5.4  Laboratory                                  123       A105         228
5.5  Tools and equipment                       2,127      1,461      3,588
5.6  Minicomputer                                371        251        622
6.   SUBTOTAL DIRECT COST                     40,042    89,261    129,303



- 61-                    ANNEX4.3
Page 1 of 2
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
MANTARO TRANSFER SCHEME BRIEF DESCRIPTION
A. Works Comprised in the Scheme
Descriptive maps of the Mantaro Transfer Scheme are presented at
the end of this report (a plan and a profile) sihowing the principal works
comprised in the Scheme. They are:
(a)   Control works at Upamayo to raise the level of Lake Junin so as to
enable water to be released from the lake into the River Mantaro
below the existing Upamayo dam, and :o prevent deposits of
pollutants in the Upamayo pond being swept into the lake.
(b)   A gated diverting weir across the River Mantaro at Atacayan and
intake works capable of abstracting water from the river into a
canal which discharges into a large settling lagoon.
(c)   A pumping station with five pumps (one of them being a stand-by
unit) each of 4 m3/s capacity, capable of lifting the water 273 m
through a steel penstock tothe top of Loma Atacayan.
(d)   A headpond at the top of Loma Atacayan discharging into a canal
(the Middle Canal) which would convey the water to a reservoir
formed at Carispaccha.
(e)   A reservoir at Carispaccha formed by a dam with a maximum height of
30 m. (This reservoir is not required to provide storage, but to
serve as the final length of the aqueduct from Atacayan to the
Carispaccha pumping station.)
(f)   The Carispaccha pumping station which would draw water from the
upstream end of Carispaccha reservoir and lift it through a steel
penstock 257 m to a canal 2.5 km long discharging into
Marcapomacocha reservoir. The pump:!ng capacity and stand-by
capacity would be the same as at Atacayan.
(g)   Marcapomacocha reservoir which would be formed by building a dam
with a maximum height of 33 m at the site of the existing intake of
the Marcapomacocha - Cuevas canal.
(h)   Enlargement of the Trans-Andean Cue vas-Milloc tunnel so as to
increase the carrying capacity of the existing 10.1 km long tunnel
from 4 m3/s up to about 20 m3/s.



- 62 -             ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 2
Ancilliary works which would be made necessary by the Transfer
Scheme include construction of a diverting weir across the River Mantaro at
Puente Stuart in the Huancayo valley to ensure supplies to the existing
irrigation canals, and balancing storage of 0.8 Mm3 in the Rimac valley
downstream of Chosica which could regulate the water delivered to the water
treatment plant.
B. Mantaro Transfer Scheme Cost
The cost 1/ of the project as estimated in the feasibility study
prepared by Binnie and Partners amounts to about US$334 million of which
US$156 million would be the foreign component.
1/ Price level as of August 1980, including contingencies but not escalation,
nor financial charges.



PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEFMENTATION SCHEDULE
PART A, ELECTROLIMA COMPONENT
PREPARE DESIGN AND/OR             INITIATE
SPECIFICATIONS             CONSTRUCTION              COMISSION
1    1982-1986 Distribution Program
1.1  60/10 KV Substations
Huachipa                                        3/82                      1/83                     12/83
Chosica                                         3/82                      1/83                     12/83
Caudivilla                                      4/83                      2/84                     12/84
Efe                                             4/84                      6/84                     12/85
Tocua                                           3/82                      4/83                     10/83
Santa Rosa                                      3/82                     3/83                      9/83
Chavarria                                       3/82                     3/83                      9/83
Oquendo                                         3/82                      3/83                      9/83
Balnearios                                      3/82                     3/83                       9/83
San Isidro                                      3/82                      3/83                     9/83
Villa Maria                                     4/84                      6/84                     12/85
Barranco                                        4/83                      1/85                      1/85
Moyopampa                                       3/82                      3/83                      9/83
Muampani                                        J I8q                     3Rq'                      9/83
Santa Maria                                     3/82                      3/83                      9/83
Barsi                                           9/83                      5/84                      5/85
Tomas Valle                                     4/84                      6/86                     12/86
Maranga                                         4/84                      1/86                      6/86
Reserva                                         3/83                     11/84                      5/85
1.2  Reactive Compensation
Chavarria (1984)                                1/84                      1/85                      9/85
Chavarria (1985)                                1/84                      3/86                     12/86
Balnearios                                      1/84                      3/86                     12/86
1.3  60 KV Lines and Cables
Balnearios inlet                                3/82                     10/82                      2/83
Moyopampa - Chosica                             3/82                      9/82                      3/83



Huachica - La Plavicil                          3/82                      9/82                      3/83
Chavarria - Oquendo                             3/82                     9/82                      3/83
Derivacion L625 - Cudivilla                     3/82                     10/82                      2/83
Santa Rosa - Tocua                              3/82                     6/84                     12/84
Barsi - Santa Marina                            3/83                     6/85                      12/85
Tramo L607/608 - EFE                            3/83                      6/85                     12/85
Tramo Balnearios - San Isidro                   3/83                      6/85                     12/85
Chavarria - Tomas Valle                         3/83                     6/86                      12/86
Balnearios - San Isidro                         3/83                     6/86                      12/86
1.4  Mean and Low Distribution Network
10,000 V Lines and cables                      annual                    annual                   annual
10,000/110 Transformers                        annual                    annual                   annual
220V Lines                                      annual                   annual                   annual
Connection to clients                           annual                   annual                   annual
1.5  Auxiliary Services
Comuunications                                  3/82                     9/84                      3/85
Vehicles                                        6/82                        -                         -
Workshop                                        6/82                     6/83                      12/83
Laboratory                                      6/82                     6/83                      12/83
Tools and equipment                             6/82                     6/83                      12/83
Minicomputer                                    6/82                      6/83                     12/83
Assessment and training                  continue activity
0.
I'-'3



PREPARE
TERMS CF REFERENCE                PROPOSALS            FEASIBILITY      PREPARE        PREPARE            CONSTRUCTION
PREPARATION    BANK'S APPROVAL    INVITE   PAARD CONTRACT       SlIJDY     BIDDIN8 DOCS.   ENG. DESIGN      INITIATE  (OMMISSION
2 Yurecmayo Dam Construction                 3/82            4/82            4/82        7/82             N.A.          1 2/83           1 2/83        6/84      1 2/85
3 Hulnco Expansion Study                     3/82            4/82            4/82        7/82            12V83           N.A.             N.A.         N.A.       N.A.
4  Salto Bajo Study                          3/82            6/82            6/82       10/82
5 Transsndean Tunnel Exp. Study              9/81            9/81            9/81       1 2/81            N.A            6/82             6/82         N.A.       N.A.
(Done)          (Done)          (Done)
DEF I NE PROGRAM   EXECUTE PROGRAM
6 Training Programs                          3/82           6/83-6/84
TERMS CF REFERENCE                 PROPOSALS            PREPARE        PREPARE
PREPARATION   BANKS'S APPROVAL    INVITE  AWARD CONTRACT  BDDI0    DOCS.   ENG. DESIGN
PART B, ELECTROPERU COMPONENT
U'
i maniarv Tr n..-  -yjal StuJ!c_             9!Al            9/81            9/81        1 0/81           12/82          5/83
DEF I NE PROG.  EXECUTE PROGRAM
2  Training Program                          4/82          4/82-6/85
3 Flnancing Assistance                       5/82          7/82-7/84
TERMS OF REFERENCE                 PROPOSALS             PREPARE          PREPARE         PREPARE          OONSTRUCTION
PREPARATION    BANK'S APPROVAL    INVITE  AWARD OONTRACT    FEASIBILITY      BIDDING DOCS.   ENG. DESIGN    INITIATE  COMMISSION  O X
STUDY                                                              U
PART C, H I DRAND I NA COMPONENT                                                                                                                                          o.
Mayush 11 Hydro Project Study              3/82            4/82           4/82          7/82            N.A.           1 2/83           N.A.         N.A.        N.A.      w



- 66 -
ANNEX 4.5
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year          Disbursement during          Cummulative Disbursements
and Semester                    semester                  at end of semester
US$ million                 US$ million              %
1983
December 31, 1982              3.5          4.3              3.5               4.3
June 30, 1983                  3.7          4.6              7.2               8.9
1984
December 31, 1983              5.0          6.2             12.2               15.1
June 30, 1984                  7.4          9.1             19.6              24.2
1985
December 31, 1984              9.0         11.1            28.6               35.3
June 30, 1985                  8.7         10.7            37.3               46.0
1986
December 31,1985               9.0         11.1             46.3              57.1
June 30, 1986                 9.2          11.3            55.5               68.4
1987
December 31, 1986              7.0          8.6            62.5               77.0
June 30, 1987                  6.9          8.5            69.4               85.5
1988
December 31, 1987              7.0          8.6            76.4               94.1
June 30, 1988                  4.8          5.9            81.2              100.0



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.6
PERU SIXTH POWER PROJECT
ELECTROLIMA 1982-1986 DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROCIUREMNT SCHED JLE
Bid               Adver-                                Initiation
Quan-    Document   Bank   tisement   Bid          Bid    Contrat Delivery
Units     tity       Prep._ Approval   Publ.    2pen.    Eval.   Signing  of Goods
A. HIGH TENSION
A-1   lsclators 60 kV                             each    12,000       3/82      4/82      6/82      8/82      9/82      9/82      6/83
A-2   Metallic poles                               ton        250      3/82      3/82      6/82      8/82      9/82      9/82      8/83
A-3   60/10 kV Power transformers.L/               MVA        250       na        na        na        na        na       6/82      6/83
A-4  'Reactive compensation equipment&/           MVAR          25      na        na        na        na        na      12/82    12/83
A-5   60 kV Circuit breakers                      each         88      2/82      4/82      6/82      8/82      9/82      9/82      7/83
A-6   10 kV Connection equipment                   lot           1     2/82      4/82      6/82      8/82      9/82      9/82      7/83
A-7   10 kV Control equipment                      lot           1     2/82      4/82      5/82      7/82      9/82      9/82      7/83
A-8   60 kV Cable                                  km            2.4   3/83      3/83      4/83      6/83      9/83    10/83       8/84
A-9   220 & 60 kV Measurement transformers    each             80      2j82      4/82      6/82      8/82      9/82      9/82      7/83
A-10  60 kV & 10 kV Protection equipment           lot           1     2/82      4/82      6/82      8/82    10/82    10/82        7/83
A-Il  60 kV Miscellaneous equipment                lot           1     2/82      4/82      6/82      8/82    10/82    10/82        7/83
A-12  60 kV Circuit breakers (2nd lot)            each         65    11/82    11/82        1/83      3/83      6/83      6/83      4/84
A-13  60 kV Cable                                  km          16      6/83      6/83      7/83      9/83    12/83    12/83    12/84
A-14  60 kV & 10 kV Protection equipment           lot           1    11/82    11/82       1/83      3/83      6/83      6/83      4/84
A-1S  220 kV & 60 kV Measurement equipment    lot                1     1/83      1/83      3/83      6/83      9/83      9/83      7/84
A-16  60/10 kV Power transformers (2nd lot)2/ MVA             150       na        na        na        na        na       6/83      6/84
A-17  Reactive compensation equip.(2rd lot)2-  MVAR            25       na        na        na        na        na       3/84      3/85
A-18  70 kV Control equipment (2nd  0ot)           lot           1     8/83      8/83    10/83       1/84      3/84      3/84      1/85
A-19  220/60 kV Power transformers-                MVA        160       na        na        na        na        na       6/84      6/85
A-20  220 kV Control equipment                     lot           1    12/83    12/83       2/84      5/84      8/84      8/84      6/85
A-21  60 kV Miscellaneous equipment (2nd lot) lot                1     9/83      9/83    11/83       2/84      5/84      5/84      3/85
A-22  10 kV Connection equipment (2nd lot)         lot           1    11/83    11/83       1/84      3/84      6/84      6/84      4/85
A-23  Aluminum cables                              ton        150      3/82      3/82      6/82      8/82    11/82    11/82        8/83
B. MEDIUM AND LOW VOLTAGE
B-1   Low voltage protection and control
Equipment                                 lot           1     2/82      3/82      6/82      8/82      9/82    10/82       3/83
B-2   Low voltage protection and control
equipment (2nd lot)                       lot           1     3/84      3/84      4/84      6/84      9/84    10/84       3/85
B-3   Indoor ned. voltage protection and
operation equipmaent                      lot           1     2/82      2/82      6/82      7/82    10/82    11/82        4/83
B-4   Indoor med. voltage protection and
operation equip7ment (2nd lot)            lot           1     3/84      3/84      4/84      6/84      9/84    10/84       1/85
B-5   Outdoor med. voltage protection and
operation equipment                       lot           1     2/82      2/82      6/82      6/82      9/82    10/82       2/83
e-6   Outdoor med. voltage protection and
operation equipment (2nd lot)             lot           1     3/8L      3/84      6/84      8/84      9/84    10/84       4/85
B-7   Accessories for transformers                 lot          1      3/8;      3/82      6/82      8/82      9/82    10/82       4/83
B-8   Accessories for transformers (2nd lot)  lot                1     3/8z      2/84      6/84      8/84      9/84    10/84       4/85
8-9   Lamps                                       each    77,000       2/8;      2/82      6/82      9/82    11/82       3/83      6/83
B-10  Lamps (2nd lot)                             each    77,000       1/81      1/84      2/84      4/84      8/84      9/84    12/84
B-11  Isolators                                   each    31,800       2/8,      3/82      6/82      9/82    11/82    11/82        2/83
B-12  Isolators (2nd lot)                         each    34,300       2/8L      2/84      3/84      5/84      9/84    10/84       1/85
B-13  10 kVt Miscellaneous distribution
equipment                                 lot           1     2/82      3/82      6/82      8/82      9/82    11/82       2/83
B-14  10 kV Miscellaneous discribution
equipment (2nd lot)                       lot           1     2/8,i    2/84       3/84      5/84      9/84    10/84       1/85
B-15  10 kV Terminals                             each      1,750      2/8:!    3/82       6/82      8/82    10/82    11/82        2/83
B-16  10 kV Terminals (2nd lot)                   each      1,750      2/8-i    2/84       3/84      7/84      9/84    10/84       1/85
B-17  10 kV Connectors and accessories            each      2,400      2/82      2/82      6/82      8/82      9/82    10/82       2/83
B-18  10 kV Connectors and accessories
(2nd lot)                                each      2,200      2/8;      2/84      3/84      5/84      9/84    10/84       1/85
B-19  Poles                                       each      2,500      5/82      5/82      6/82      8/82    12/82       1/83      5/83
B-20  Poles (2nd lot)                             each      3,500      2/8S      3/84      5/84      9/84    10/84    10/84        1/85
B-21  Residential meters                          each    23,000       2/82      2/82      6/82      8/82    11/82    12/82        3/83
B-22  Residential meters (2nd lot)                each    27,000       2/8S      2/84      4/84      6/84      9/84    10/84       1/85
B-23  Industrial meters                           each      4,700      2/8Z      3/82      6/82      8/82    11/82    12/82        3/83
B-24  Distribution boxes                          each      1,000      9/82      9/82    10/82    12/82        3/83      4/83      7/83
B-25  Distribution boxes (2nd lot)                each        450      9/84      9/84    10/84    12/84        3/85      4/85      7/85
C. AVXILIARY SERVICES
C-1   Communications equipmentl/                   lot          1       na        na        na        na        na       7/83      4/84
C-2   Telecontrol equpment                         lot          1      6/83      8/83      8/83    10/83    12/83        2/84      1/85
C-3   Radio equipment'-     /                      lot           1      na        na        na       8/83      9/83    10/83    10/84
C-4   Telephone equipment-2/                       lot          1       na        na        na       8/83      9/83    10/83    10/84
C-5   Standard vehicles                           each         50      6/82      6/82      8/82    10/82    12/82    12/82    10/83
C-6   UJtility vehicles             2/             lot          1      6/82      6/82      8/82    10/82    12/82    12/82    10/83
C-7   Electric workshop equipment/                 lot          1       na        na        na        na        na       1/83      8/83
C-8   Mechanic workshop equipment- 2               lot          1       as        na        na        na        na       1/83      8/83
C-9   Automotive workshop 2 uipment-2              lot          1       na        na        a         na        na       1/83      8/83
C-10  Laboratory equipment-                        lot           1      na        na        na        na        na       5/83      8/83
C-il  Line works equipment                         lot           1     6/3      6/83      8/83    10/83    12/83        2/84      2/85
C-12  Safety and emergenO  equipment               lot           1     6/E3      6/83      8/83    10/83    12/83        2/84      2/85
C-13  Computer equipment-'                         lot          1       ns.       na        na        na       9/82      1/83      8/83
C-14  Standard vehicles (2nd lot)                 each         20      1/65      3/85      5/85      7/85      9/85      1/86      5/86
C-15  Utility vehicles (2nd lot)                   lot           1     1/65      3/85      5/85      7/85      9/85      1/86      5/86
1/ Expected to be co-financed.
2/ Purchase through international shopping.



- 68 -
ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA AND HIDRANDINA                             ANNEX 5.1
Consolidated Sources and Applications of Funds 1981-1986
(millions of US$ at Dec.31, 1980)
Tota],
1981       1982        1983        1984         1985        1986       1982-1986
SOURCES
Internal generat. of funds:
Operating income                         19.96       57.74       110.28      189.45      275.80      336.22
Deprec.& other provisions                57.01       72.38       81.70        94.28      112.22       131.39
Gross internal generat.               76.97      130.12      191.98      283.73       388.02      467.61    1,461.46
Debt service & dividends:
Interest                               23.53       26.85       26.61       32.23        64.51       87.47
Amortization                           24.57       24.52       34.28        49.03       92.79      108.41
Dividends                               -           0.44        0.58         1.60        2.81        3.61
Total                               48.10        51.81       61.47       82.86       160.11      199.49      555.74
Net internal cash generation             28.87       78.31      130.51       200.87      227.91      268.12       905.72
Energy tax: 50% 1/                       10.43       31.88       39.70        56.35       70.09       76.65       274.67
Borrowings:
Existing loans                         125.67      139.66       91.87        79.14       20.34        0.08
Proposed IBRD loan                       -           4.00       10.05        10.00       11.00       10.73
Loans to be contracted                   -          18.05       90.31       168.51      233.23      188.85
Total borrowings                      125.67      161.71      192.23       257.65      264.57      199.66   1,075.82
Customer contributions                    7.01        7.59         8.20        8.85        9.56        10.33       44.53
Equity investments:
- Capitaliz.of import duties              2.00       19.80         7.34        5.40        6.26        -
- For works for which Gov. has
assumed firian.responsibility          75.00      102.02      149.91       113.20       35.56       48.24
- Other                                  55.48        -           -            -            -           -
Total equity                         132.48      121.82      157.25      118.60        41.82       48.24      487.81
Total Sources                       304.46       401.39      527.89      642.32       613.95      603.00   2,788.55
APPLICATIONS
Plant and equipment                     248.47      339.44      446.13       562.77      493.35      434.88
Interest during construction             20.89       27.88       46.52        62.01       49.51       39.20
Total construction                    269.36.     363.32      492.65      624.78       542.86      474.08   2,497.69
Invest.in su'bsidiaries
ex Electrolima                          8.62        0.59        0.80         1.12        -           -            2.51
Increase in working capital:
- ex cash                              14.16       -3.88        7.63         5.51       17.76       13.78       40.80
- cash                                  5.96       35.52       20.25         7.30       4Q.02      110.14      222.23
Total Applications                    304.46      401.39      527.89      642.32       613.95      603.00    2788.55
Contrib. %: net internal cash/
construction                             11          22           26          32          42           57          32
Contrib. %: net internal cash +
energy tax/construction                  15          30           35          41          55          73           42
1/ Assumes t'hat remaining 50% of energy tax will be used to fund works not included in present program.



- 69 -
ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA AND HIDRANDINA                              ANNEX 5.2
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(amounts in millions of December 1980 US dollars)
1981        1982        L983        1984        1985        1986          1987
ELECTROPERU
Operating income                             3.58       38.76       78.46      142.36      216.25       274.03      303.06
Rate base                                  866.94      969        1121        1424        1802        2284         2526
Rate of return on rate base                  0.4         4           7          10           12          12          12
Net income (exclud.dividends)              -10.37       21.43       61.50      117.72      159.18       198.11      215.81
Average equity                            1014        1173        1399        1692        2008        2355        2761
Return on equity - percent                  -1.0         1.8         4.4         7.0         7.9          8.4         7.8
Debt-service coverage (excluding
dividends) - to 1.0                        1.4         2.5         3.3         3.4         2.1         2.1         2.2
Contribution to expansion percent
(excluding energy tax)                       5          19          22          30          46          78          89
Debt/equity ratio                           21/79       25/75      26/74      27/73         27/73        25/75       20/80
Current ratio (to 1.0)                       0.8         1.2         1.1         0.8          1.2         2.0         2.3
ELECTROLIMA
Operating income                            14.89       16.57       30.12       44.15       53.80       54.72        58.79
Rate base                                  399         414         430         442         538         547          588
Rate of return on rate base                  3.7         4           7          10          12           12          12
Net income                                   4.94        6.58       20.01       36.10       46.88       45.71        47.53
Average equity                             324         334         366         398         428         461          512
Return on equity                             0.6         2.0         5.5         9.1        11.0         10           9.3
Debt-service coverage (to 1.0)               1.8         2.5         2.8         3.7          5.3         5.1        -5.0
Contribution to expansion percent           97          30          79          67          57           29          36
Debt/equity ratio                       25/75          25/75       22/78       21/79       20/80       19/81       16/84
Current ratio (to 1.0)                       2.5         2.1         2.4         2.7          2.6         2.1         2.2
HIDRANDINA
Operating income                             1.49        1.70        2.94        4.15         5.75        7.48        8.30
Rate base                                   41.38       42.50       42.00       41.50       47.92       62.33        69.17
Rate of return on rate base                  3.6         4           7          10           12          12          12
Net income                                   1.35        1.66        2.89        4.10         4.70        4.42        5.45
Average equity                              42.45       43.74       44.97       46.18       47.09       49.75        62.63
Return on equity                             3.2         3.8         6.4         8.9         10.0         8.9         8.7
Debt-service coverage (to 1.0)               2.3        11.5        15.7       HIGH        - 3.8          1.9         1.0
Contribution to expansion percent          174          31          18          15            2           1          -7
Contribution-to-expansion percent
excluding dividends                        174          61          32          32            9           8           0
Debt/equity ratio                            1/99        5/95       25/75       37/63        66/34       73/27       71/29
Current ratio (to 1.0)                       1.3         1.8         4.8         2.2          3.1         1.0         0.6



- 70 -
ELECTROPERU                                      ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 4
Sources and Applications of Funds 1981-1987
(millions of U$ at Dec. 31, 1980)
Total
1981      1982        1983        1984        1985       1986    1982-1986    1987
SOURCES
Internal generation of funds
Operating income                 3.58      38.76       78.46      142.36      216.25      274.02     749.85      303.06
Dividends                        -           6.29       8.24       22.90       40.20       51.58     129.21       50.13
Deprec.& other provisions       35.49       39.91      46.77       57.24       73.35       90.46     307.74      100.73
Gross internal generat.       39.07      84.96      133.47      222.50      329.80     416.06    1186.80
Less Debt Service: 1/
- Inter. charged to operat.    13.44         16.82      16.45       24.13       56.55       75.40      189.35      86.74
- AmortLzation                   13.61       15.16      21.80       35.42       81.51       97.19     251.08       96.81
- Total                          27.05      31.98       38.25       59.55      138.06      172.59     440.43      183.55
Net internal cash generat.       12.02       52.98      95.22      162.95      191.74      243.47     746.37      270.37
Energy tax: 50% 2/               10.43       31.88      39.70       56.35       70.09       76.65      274.66      90.26
Customer-based contribution    22.45         84.86     134.92      219.30      261.83      320.12    1021.03      360.63
Borrowinigs:
Existing loans                 107.39      119.97      91.73       79.03       20.25        -        310.98        -
Loans to be contracted           6.17       18.05      79.71      155.81      167.63      132.85     554.05        10.58
TotaL Borrowings             113.56     138.02      171.44      234.84      187.88      132.85     865.03       10.58
Equity Investments:
Capitalization of import
duties 3/                      2.00      19.88        7.34        5.40        6.26        -         38.88        -
For works for which Gov.
has assumed financial
responsibility               75.00      102.02      149.91      113.20       35.56      48.24      448.93       71.76
Other                           55.48        -          -           -           -           -          -           -
Total Equity                132.48      121.90      157.25      118.60       41.82       48.24     487.81       71.76
Total Sources               268.49      344.78      463.61      572.74      491.53      501.21    2373.87      442.97
APPLICATIONS
Plant and equipment 4/         231.86     255.32      390.22      490.99      370.42      285.09    1792.04      287.04
Interest during construc.5/   20.89        27.79       45.58       59.57       43.60       28.54     205.08       14.58
Total                       252.75      283.11      435.80      550.56      414.02      313.63    1997.12      301.62
Studies                          6.36        5.84       6.56        3.61        4.31        5.00       25.32        5.00
Investment in subsidiaries    13.48        23.09       10.57        9.15        6.26       35.00       84.07      70.00
Increase in working capital
- ex cash                      9.52       4.86        2.32       10.83       12.24       10.41      40.67        5.12
- cash                      -13.62       27.88        8.36       -1.41       54.70      137.17     226.70       61.23
Total Applications         268.49      344.78      463.61      572.74      491.53      501.21    2373.87      442.97
====== =====, ====== == ~~~~~~.== ...    ....,=== _ .__s__..
1/ Debt service - existing debt: Based on debt-service schedules of mre than 80 loans and credits (mostly foreign) at
exchange rates prevailing at December 31, 1980.
Debt service - new debt:                            ---------Years----------
Interest     Grace  Total
Assumed Lending Terms                                 7%         Period   term
Proposed loan                                         11.6          4       17
Other development-agency loans                         8.5          *       17
Comnmercial loans:
- Generation: - US$75 mn and more                     10.0          *       12
- less than US$75 mn                   14.0          *       12
- lransmission: - US$15 mn and more                   10.0          3       11
- less than US$15 mn                 14.0          3        8
* Corresponds to construction period.
2/ The remaining half of the energy tax is assumed to be applied to plant and equipment not included in the current
progr am.
3/ Government reimbursement through Electroperu of import duties which Electrolima must pay.
4/ See dletailed list of direct investment on page 4.
5| Interest during construction: The foreign-exchange portion of each investment is assumed to be finaned with loans.
Interest on all loans during the construction period is charged to construction.



- 71 -
ELECTROPERU                                        ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 4
Income Statements 1981-1987
(millions of US$ of Dec. 31, 1980)
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986         1987
Number of customers (thousands)              361         381         402         424          446         469         494
Energy sales (GWh): retail 1/              1,517       1,639       1,770       1,912        2,064       2,230       2,408
block                2,109       2,655       3,440       3,937       5,215        6,740       6,902
total                3,626       4,294       5,210       5,849       7,279        8,970       9,310
Average tariff (US cent): retail           3.66        4.33        4.93        6.12        7.06         7.09        7.55
block         2.43        2.97        3.42         4.27        4.81        4.86        5.16
total         2.95        3.49        3.93         4.87        5.45        5.41        5.78
OPERATING REVENUES
Retail                                 55.58        70.98       87.26      116.94      145.67      158.00       181.80
Block                                  51.33        78.97      117.65      168.12      250.91      327.73      356.10
Total Revenues                      106.91      149.95      204.91       285.06      396.58      485.73      537.90
OPERATING EXPENSES
Generation operat.& maint (O&M)         14.74       14.78       14.90       15.15       20.88        23.04       29.12
Fuel 1/                                20.45        19.79       21.37       22.47       25.99       24.55       27.32
Transmission O&M  2/                     3.90        3.90.       5.20        5.60        8.80       12.09        13.39
Distribution O&M  2/                     5.00        5.18        5.37        5.57        5.77        5.98         6.22
Energy purchases                        0.21         0.21        0.21        0.21        0.21        0.21         0.21
Customer billing & collection 3/         2.53        2.67        2.81        2.97        3.13        3.28         3.46
Administration & general 4/            20.12        23.83       28.92       32.46       40.40       49.78        51.67
Depreciation 5/                        31.42        34.63       40.21       49.69       63.40       79.77        89.40
Amortization of deferred charges         1.27        2.44        3.75        4.47        5.33         5.05        4.89
Provision for expansion                  1.01        1.01         .01        1.01        1.01        1.01         1.01
Insurance                               0.89         0.91        0.90        1.03        1.80        2.32         2.72
Provision for self-insurance             1.79        1.83        1.80        2.07        3.61         4.63        5.43
Total operating expenses            103.33      111.19       126.45      142.70      180.33      211.71      234.84
Operating income                      3.58       38.76        78.46      142.36      216.25      274.02      303.06
FINANCIAL EXPENSES
Interest on foreign-debt 6/             9.94        13.45       13.48       21.57       54.39       73.65       85.39
Interest on local bonds  6/             3.50         3.37        2.97        2.56        2.16        1.75         1.35
Amortization of prepaid interest 7/  0.51            0.51        0.51        0.51        0.51        0.51         0.51
Total interest                       13.95       17.33        16.96       24.64       57.06       75.91       87.25
Dividends received                        -          6.29        8.24       22.90       40.21        51.58       50.13
Net financial expense or
(income)                           13.95       11.04        8.72         1.74       16.86       24.36       37.12
Net Income                            -10.37        27.72       69.74      140.62      199.39      249.69       265.94
T/ Sales and energy supply: based on master plan for interconnected systems, extrapolation of past trends for isolated
systems
Fuel (2% p.a. escalation used)                         Price per gall.n at 12/31/80
S/.              US$
Diesel No.2 - interior                                      180.40            .5265
- other regions                               129.80             .3789
Residual    - interior                                      140.80            .4110
- other regions                                98.56             .2577
kWh/gallon using
Diesel No. 2          Residual
Chimbote gas turbine                                         7                   -
50 MW gas turbine                                            10                   -
Large steam plant                                            -                   14
Chiclayo diesel                                               -                  12
Other diesel                                                 10                   -
Steam plants at Iquitos and Pucallpa                         -                   10
2/ Transmission distribution, operation and maintenance:  2.5% of gross asset value.
3/ Customer billing and collection:                             US$8 per customer.
4/ Administration and general:                                  US$4,500/kWh
5/ Depreciation:                                                3% of gross asset value
6/ See note 1/ to sources and applications of funds statement, page 1.
7/ Interest on loan for Mantaro studies.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 4
ELECTROPER1J
Balance Sheets at December 31, 1980-87
(in millions of US$ of Dec.1980)
ASSETS                           1980        1981         1982        1993        1984         1985        1986        1987
Fixed assets:
Utility plant in service        1004.91     1089.91      1218.91     1461.91     1850.91    2375.91    2941.91        3017.91
Accumulated depreciation         163.56      194.98       229.61      269.83      319.52       382.92      462.69      552.09
Net plant in service            841.35      894.93       989.30     1192.08     1531.39      1992.99    2479.22    2465.82
Const.work in progress           263.68      431.43       585.54      778.34      939.90      828.92       576.55      802.17
Total fixed assets             1105.03     1326.36    1574.84       1970.42    2471.29    2821.91    3055.77    3267.99
Invest. in subsidiaries           29.67       43.15        66.24       76.81       85.96        92.22      127.22      197.22
Current assets:
Cash                              10.46       -3.16        24.72       33.08       31.67        86.37      223.54      284.77
Accounts receivable 1/            26.28       21.09        26.70       30.88       42.95        59.76       73.19       81.05
Inventories 2/                    22.23       25.44        26.74       29.94       32.08        39.97       45.19       49.93
Total current assets             58.97       43.37        78.16       93.89      106.71       186.10      341.92      415.75
Deferred assets
Studies                           14.64       19.73        23.13       25.94       25.08        24.06       24.01       24.12
Other                             14.64        13.12       11.60       10.08        8.56         7.04        5.52        4.00
Total deferred                   29.28       32.85        34.73       36.02       33.64        31.10       29.53       28.12
Total Assets                   1222.95     1445.73    1753.97    2177.15    2697.60    3131.33    3554.44    3909.08
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital and reserves             931.91     1076.61      1232.22     1430.96     1607.98      1723.50    1853.02    2020.47
Retained earnings                 14.92         4.55       32.27      102.01      242.64      442.02       691.71      957.65
Total capital                   946.83     1081.16      1264.49     1532.98     1850.62    2165.53    2544.74    2978.13
Long-term debt excluding
current portion                  195.82      294.22      410.44       546.46      699.79       790.48      826.52      737.08
Current liabilities
Current portion of long-
term debt                       13.61       15.16        21.80       35.42       81.51       97.19        96.81      100.02
Short-term debt                    -             -          -           -           -            -           -           -
Accounts payable 3/               51.67        40.17       42.22       47.27       50.66        63.11       71.36       78.83
Total current liabilities        65.28       55.33        64.02       82.69      132.17       160.30      168.17      178.85
Other credits                     15.02        15.02       15.02       15.02        15.02       15.02       15.02       15.02
Total Liabilities & Capital  1222.95         1445.73    1753.97    2177.15    2697.60    3131.33    3554.44    3909.08
1/  Accounts receivable:  Number of days' billing: 1981-72; 1982-65; 1983 et seq. 55.
2/  Inventories: 382 of total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization, energy purchases, hased on
1977-80 experience.
3/  Accounts payable: 60X of total operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization, based on 1973-80
experience; this allows for construction expenditures.



- 73 -
ELECTROPERU                                          ANNEX 5.3
Page 4 of 4
Direct Investment in Plant and EquLpment 1981-1987
Tin milions of Us$ of De .1980)
Total
1981       1982        1983       1984        1985       1986        1987     1982-1986
Hydroelectric Generation
Already begun:
Mantaro stages I and II         4.16        -          -           -          -          -           -            -
Restitucion                    23.58      32.12       73.26      39.96        3.53       -           -         148.87
Canon del Pato extension        3.16             -                -           -          -                       -
Carhuaquero                    32.35      72.85       20.24      10.54        -          -           -          103.63
Charcani V                     63.54      47.19       31.14      26.40        -          -           -          104.73
Subtotal                     126.79     152.16      124.64      76.90        3.53       -           -         357.23
Future Projects:
J.equetepeque                   -          -           5.41       6.54        3.27       -           _           15.22
Poechos                         -          -           3.72       7.44        3.72       -           -           14.88
Curumuy                         -          -           7.64       8.33        6.03       -           -           22.00
Culqui                          -          -           6.49       13.60      13.60       6.49        -          40.18
Sheque                          -          -          59.37     123.95      123.95      59.37        -         366.64
Tranovase-Mantaro(25%)          -           1.77       2.62       11.66      22.96       26.27      13.16        65.28
Derquit                         -          -           2.45       2.44        -          -           -           4.89
Lluta                           -          -           -          -          30.80       64.59      64.59        95.39
Recreta                         -          -           -          -           7.31      14.60        7.29       21.91
Glens                           -          -           -          -           -         24.35       71.76       24.35
ene                             -          -           -          -           -          -          59.69        -
Subtotal                       _          1.77       87.70     173.96      11.64      195.67     2i6.49      670.74
Reinforce=ent Rio Santa          2.95       10.41      20.68        8.88       7.17        4.67       3.00        51.81
Total Hydro                  129.74     164.34      233.02     259.74      222.34     200.34      219.49     1079.78
Thermal Generation
Already begun:
Pucallpa                        6.72       7.41        2.76       -           -          -           -          10.17
Iquitos                         9.84       -           -          -           -          -           -           -
Subtotal                      16.56       7.41        2.76       -           -          -           -          10.17
Central-Nortb                   -          -          19.47      40.77       22.83       7.67        -          90.74
Using Alto Chicamo coal         -           -          -          -           -          25.48      53.20        25.48
Subtotal                       -          -          19.47      40.77       22.83      33.15       53.20       116.22
Total Themo1                  16.56       7.41       22.23      40.77       22.83       33.15      53.25       126.39
Transmission Lines
Paramonga-8uacho                3.07        -          -          -           -          -           -           -
Mantaro-Pachachaca-
Ca.llahuanca                  30.65       36.32      12.78        -          -          -           -          49.10
Mantaro-Huancayo-Pomacocha      -          -          14.84      25.28        -          -           -           40.12
Mantaro-Huancavelica-
Independencia                  -          -          10.95      15.32        -          -           -          26.27
La=bayeque-Chiclayo-Pacas-
mayo-Trujillo                  -          -           4.98       16.11       -          -           -           21.09
Canon del Pato-Chitbote         -          -           -          5.35        -          -           -           5.35
La Oroya-Fachachaca             -          -           -          2.86        -          -           -           2.86
Chimbote-Paramonga              -          -           6.33       4.75        4.75       -           -           15.83
Talara-Piura                    -          -           -          10.38       6.92       -           -           17.30
Pocasmayo-Trujillo-Chimbote    -           -           -         10.47        6.98       -           -           17.45
Olmos-Bayovar                   -          -           -          14.81       9.87       -           -           24.68
Olmos-Chiclayo                  -          -           -          -          16.62       -           -           16.62
Piura-Bayovar                   -          -           -          -          16.08       -           -           16.08
Chiclayo-Pacasmayo              -          -           -          -           6.17       -           -           6.17
Pachachaca-Li=a                 -          -           -          -           7.44        -          -            7.44
Cerro de Pasco-La Oroya-
Huancayo                       -          -           -           1.88       5.35       -           -            7.23
Southwest systen                -          -           0.91       8.58        -          -           -           9.49
Southeast system                -          -           -          -          11.94       -           -           11.94
Chimbote-Para=onga              -          -           -          -           -          6.33        4.75        6.33
Sheque Connection               -          --                                 -         42.21        6.19       42.21
Total trans=ionion            33.72      36.32       50.79      115.79      92.12      48.54       10.94      343.56
Regional projects and miscellaneous distribution
Cueco region                   15.83      20.25       60.75      60.75       20.25       -           -          162.00
Tacna                           3.50        3.63       3.63       -           -          _           _            7.26
Tombes                          1.02       -           -          --                                              -
Piura                           7.50        1.53       1.70       0.78        -          -           -            4.01
Lambayeque                      3.35       0.57        0.93       -           -          -           -            1.50
Others                         20.64      21.27       17.17       13.16      12.88        3.06       3.41        67.54
Total                         51.84      47.25       84.18      74.69       33.13        3.06       3.41       242.31
S5mmry
Hdydroelectric:
Co=pletion of works already
begun                       126.79     152.16      124.64      76.90        3.53       -           -         357.23
New works                       -           1.77      87.70      173.96     211.64      195.67     216.49       670.74
Reinforcement                   2.95       10.41      20.68       8.88        7.17        4.67       3.00        51.81
Total Eydro                  129.74      164.34     233.02      259.74     222.34      200.34     219.49      1079.78
Thermal                        16.56        7.41      22.23       40.77      22.83       33.15      53.20       126.39
Transmission                   33.72       36.32      50.79      115.79      92.12       48.54      10.94       343.56
Regional electrif. & dist.    51.84       47.25       84.18       74.69      33.13        3.06       3.41       242.31
Total Works                  231.86      255.32     390.22      490.99     370.42      285.09     287.04      1792.04



- 74 -
ELECTROLIMA                                         ANNEX 5.4
Page 1 of 3
Sources and Applications of Funds 1982-1987
(millions of US$ at Dec. 31, 1980)
Total
1981       1982         1983        1984         1985         1986     1982-1986      1987
SOtIRCES
Operating income                          14.89        16.57       30.12        44.15        53.80       54.72       199.36      58.79
Depreciat. & other provisions             20.31       31.18        33.63        35.73       37.42        39.20       177.16      41.02
Gross internal cash generation          35.20       47.75        63.75       79.88        91.22        93.92      376.52       99,81
Debt service:
Interest                                 9.95        9.99        10.21        8.05         6.92         9.n1       44.08       11,.26
Amnortization                           10.09        9.14        12.26        13.61       10.43         9.39       54.83        8.88
Total                                20.04        19.13        22.37       21.66        17.35        18.40       98.91       20.14
Dividends                                  0.05         4.94        6.58        20.01       36.10        46.88       114.51      45.71
Total debt serv.& dividends             20.09       24.07        28.95       41.67        53.45        65.28      213.42       65. 85
Net internal cash generation              15.11       23.68        34.80        38.21       37.77        28.64       163.10      33.96
Contribution from customers                7.01         7.59        8.20         8.85        9.56        1n.33        44.53      11.16
Borrowings:
Existing loans - 1215-PE (IBRD)         10.37        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         n.0o        0.00        0.00
- 2018-PE (IBRD)        0.00        0.59         0.00        0.00         0.no         0.0o        0.59        0.00
- Gas tturbine          n.00       15.86         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00       15.86        0.0o
- Local                 1.74        0.74         0.14        0.11         0.09         0.08        1.16        0.00
Total existing                          12.11       17.19         0.14        0.11         n.n9         0.08       17.61        0.00
Proposed IBRD loan                       0.00        4.no         8.00         9.00       11.00        10.73       42.73        0.00
Future loans                             -           -            -           -            -            -
Total borrowings                        12.11       21.19         8.14         9.11       11.09        10.81       60.34        o.no
Equity investment:
Electroperu                              2.86        2.62         2.43         2.63        -           30.00       37.68       50.00
Capitalization of import
duties 1/                             2.no        19.88         7.34        5.40         6.26         -          38.88        -
Total equity investment                  4.86       22.50         9.77         8.03        6i.26       30.00       76.56       5n.0o
Total Sources                           39.09       74.96        60.91       64.20        64.68        79.78      344.53       95.12
APPLICATIONS
Plant: Mantaro transfer (25E)              n.00         1.77        2.62        11.66       22.96        26.27        65.28       0.00
generation                         0.00        38.44        7.10        13.89        11.22       35.11       105.76      54.93
distribution                      15.64        39.50       34.55        31.89       32.51        34.17       172.62      39.82
Total                                   15.64       79.71        44.27       57.44        66.69        95.55      343.66       94.75
Working capital:
Other than cash                   2.94       -9.09         5.1n         6.72        5.37         2.72        10.81       4.75
Cash                             20.51        4.34        11.54         0.05       -7.37       -18.50       -9.94       -4.38
Total                                   23.45       -4. 75       16.64         6.76       -2.01       -15.77        0.87        0.37
Total Applications                      39.09       74.96        60.91        64.20       64.68        79.78      344.53       95.12
1/ Government reirnbursement (through Electroperu) of import duties which Electrolima must pay.



- 75 -
ELECTROLIMA                                         ANNEX 5.4
Page 2 of 3
Income Statements 1980-1987
(millions of US$ of Dec. 31, 1980)
1980        1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1986   1987
Sales: GWh 1/                                3393        3820        4254         4531        4827         5148        5484   5842
Average price per kWh (in UScents)           3.12        3.81        4.00         4.73        5.60         6.15        6.25    6.56
Revenues                                   105.91      145.52      170.20       214.12      270.48       316.68      343.02  383.41
Operating expenses:
Depreciation 2,                          17.23        19.66       30.48        32.88       34.93        36.57       38.30   40.02
Provision for expansion fund 31           0.66         0.65        0.70         0.75        0.80         0.85        0.90     1.00
Total provisions                       17.89        20.31       31.18       33.63        35.73       37.42        39.20   41.02
Purchased energy 4/                      33.43        55.06       73.17        94.88      131.24       161.77      181.93  214.35
Fuel 4/                                   0.08         0.28        1.39         0.70        0.70         0.70        1.39    0.70
Materials and supplies                     3.71        4.22        5.25         5.51        5.79         6.07        6.38    6.70
Personnel-related expenses 5/            25.35        32.24       35.94        39.18       42.27        45.81       49.70   53.75
Tariff-equalization                       6.12         7.52        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00    0.00
Other expenses                           10.82        12.50       12.70        13.30       13.90        14.40       14.70   15.10
Expenses charged to construction         -2.22        -1.50       -6.00        -3.20       -3.30       -3.30        -5.00   -7.00
Total                                    95.18       130.63      153.63       184.00      226.33      262.87       228.30  324.62
Operating income                         10.73        14.89       16.57        30.12       44.15        53.80       54.72   58.79
Interest expense                         10.68         9.95        9.99        10.11        8.05        6.92         9.01   11.26
Net income                                0.05         4.94        6.58        20.01       36.10        46.88       45.71   47.53
I/ Sales growth: 6.5%p.a.+ sales to Cajamarquilla zinc refinery.
2/ Depreciation: 4% p.a. on assets except new gas turbine, which is 5r p.a.
3/ Provision for expansion fund: based on extrapolation of past provi;ions required by law.
4/ Energy supply and cost:
Energy supply - GWh
Electrolima  Hidrandina  Electroperu  Electrolima   Total
Hlydro                        _           Thermal
1982                          1751            649          2280              20       4700
1983                          1751            649          2577              10       4987
1984                          1751            649          2882              10       5292
1985                          1796            649          3173              10       5628
1986                          1841            649          3787              20       5997
1987                          1841            649          3890              10       6390
Cost of purchased energy: Hidrandina - US$.015/kWh; Electroperu - see Electroperu income statement.
Fuel consumption and cost based on: 2.22 kWh/kg diesel No. 2; Sept-mber 1981 price = S/. 64000/ton or
US$136.40/ton; December 1980 price =    US$125.00/ton.
5/ Personnel-related expenses: Based on 3,080 employees expected at December 31, 1981, growth in number of employees
and real income per employee at 4 and 5% p.a., respectively.



- 76 -
ELECTROLIMA                                       ANNEX 5.4
Page 3 of 3
Balance Sheets at December 31, 1980-87
(in millions of US$ of Dec. 31, 1980)
ASSETS                          1980        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986        1987
Fixed assets:
Etility plant in service        692.97      712.42      752.42     807.42      837.42      886.42      921.42    1026.70
Accumulated depreciation        304.04      323.70      354.18     387.06      421.99      458.56      496.86      536.88
Net plant in service           388.93      388.72      398.24     420.36      415.43      427.86      424.56      489.82
Const. work in progress          14.74       10.93      50.64       39.91       67.35       85.04      145.59      135.06
Total fixed assets            403.67      399.65     448.88      460.27      482.78      512.90      570.15      624.88
Current assets:
Cash and equivalent               5.02       25.53       29.87      41.41       41.46       34.09       15.59       11.21
Accounts rece:Lvable             27.83       30.62       22.13      27.84       35.16       41.17       44.59       49.84
Inventories                      13.58       14.93       16.42      18.06       19.87       21.86       24.04       26.54
Total current assets           46.43       71.08      68.42       87.31       96.49       97.11       84.22       87.59
Other assets:
Deferred charges                  0.37        0.37        0.37       0.37        0.37        0.37        0.37        n.37
Other                             3.70        3.45        3.27        3.13       3.02        2.93        2.85        2.85
Total other assets              4.07        3.82        3.64       3.50        3.39        3.30        3.22        3.22
Total Assets                  454.17      474.55     520.94      551.08      582.66      613.31      657.59      715.69
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Equity                          301.47      318.23     349.96      381.36      414.33      440.93      480.09      543.07
Long-term debt excluding
current portion               103.81      106.78      115.71     110.24      108.92      110.62      112.55      106.09
Clurrent liabi:Lities
Overdrafts                       0.78        0.00        0.00       0.0o        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.on
Current portion of long-
term debt                      10.09        9.14      12.26       13.61       10.43        9.39        8.88        6.46
Accounts payable                17.39       19.12      21.03       23.14       25.45       27.99       30.79       33.79
Total current liabilities    28.26         28.26       33.29      36.75       35.88       37.38       39.67       40.25
Other credits                    20.63       21.28       21.98      22.73       23.53       24.38       25.28       26.28
Total Liabilities & Capital  152.70        156.32      170.98     169.72      168.33      172.38      177.5n      172.62



77
HIDRANDINA                                               ANNFX 5.5
Page 1 of 3
Sources and Applications of Funds 1981-1987
(millions of US$ al: Dec. 31, 1980)
Total
1981       1982        1983         1984        1985        1986       1987        1982-86
SOURCES
Operating income                    1.49        2.41        1.70         2.94        5.75        7.48         8.30       22.01
Deprec.& other provisions           1.21        1.29        1.30         1.31        1.45         1.73        1.87        7.11
Gross internal generat.         2.70         3.70        3.00        4.25         7.20        9.21       10.17        29.12
Debt Service (see Note):
- Interest                          0.14        0.04        0.05         0.05        1.04        3.06         2.85        4.24
- Amortization                     0.87         0.22        0.22        0.00         0.85        1.83         7.58        3.12
Total                          1.01        0.26         0.27        0.05         1.89        4.89       10.43         7.36
Dividends                           -           1.35        1.66         2.89        4.10        4.70         4.42       14.70
Total Debt Serv. & Divid.        1.01         1.61        1.93        2.94         5.99        9.59        14.85       22.02
Net internal cash generation        1.69        1.38        2.32         2.53        1.21        0.39        -4.68        7.06
Borrowings:
IBRD Loan 2018-PE                 -            2.50        -           -            -           -            -           2.50
Proposed IBRD loan                -            0.00        2.05         1.00        -           -            -           3.05
Future foreign loans              -            0.00        6.60         8.20       39.60       36.00        30.60       90.40
Future local loans                -            0.00        4.00        4.50        26.00       20.00       20.00        54.50
Total Borrowings                 -            2.50       12.65       13.70        65.60       56.00       50.60       150.45
Equity investment                 -            -           -           -            -           5.0o        20.00       25.00
Total Sources                    1.69         3.88       14.97       16.23        66.81       60.61       65.q2       162.50
APPLICATIONS
Construction program
(including studies):
Normal works                     0.24         0.24        0.24        0.24         0.24        0.24        0.24         1.20
Collarcocha                      0.50         0.50        -           -            -           -           -            0.50
Pishcapaccha                     0.23         0.47        6.0O        6.00         -                                   12.47
Jahuacocha                       -            0.70        1.00        6.00         6.00        -           -           13.70
Mayush                           -            2.50        4.40         2.10       50.00       50.o0        50.60      109.00
Total direct expenditure         0.97         4.41       11.64       14.34        56.24       50.24       50.84       136.87
Interest during construc.          -            0.09        0.94         2.44        5.91       10.66        16.41       20.03
Total Construction Program    0.97            4.50       12.58       16.78        62.15       60.90       67.25       156.90
Variation in working capital:
Other than cash                  1.70         0.35        0.21        0.20         0.15        0.65        0.26         1.57
Cash                             0.98       -0.97         2.18       -0.76         4.51       -0.94       -1.58         4.03
Total Working Capital            0.72        -0.62        2.39       -0.55         4.66       -0.28       -1.33         5.60
Total Applications               1.69         3.88       14.97       16.23        66.81       60.61       65.92       162.50
NOTE: Debt service - new debt:
-------------Years----------
Interest    Crace        Total
Period   _
Proposed IBRD loan                                                                         11.6          4           17
Future development-agency loans                                                            10.6          4           17
Local loans (from COFIDE)                                                                  11.0         1.5         7.5
Interest charged to construction during project-construction period.



- 78 -
HIDRANDINA                                               ANNEX 5.5
Page 2 of 3
Income Statements 1980-1987
(millions of US$ at Dec. 31, 1980)
1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985         1986       1987
Sales: GWh 1/                                 843          906         912          929         934          940       1,032      1,068
Average price per kW'h (in US cents)         0.74         1.03        0.84         1.04         1.26        1.41         1.92      2.10
Revenues                                     6.27         9.35        7.63         9.70       11.75        13.28        19.81     22.40
Operating Expenses:
Operations & maintenance 2/                3.03        2.98         3.nO         3.00        3.00         3.07        3.07       3.12
Purchased energy 1/                         -          1.42         1.63        2.45         3.28         3.01        7.53       9.11
Depreciation 3/                            1.17         1.21        1.30         1.31        1.32         1.45         1.73      1.87
Tariff equalization                        2.17        2.25          -            -           -            -           -          -
Total                                   6.37         7.86         5.93        6.76         7.60        7.53        12.33     14.10
Operating income                          (0.10)       1.49         1.70        2.94         4.15         5.75        7.48       8.30
Interest expense 4,/                       0.22        0.14         0.04        0.05         0.05         1.04        3.06      2.85
Net Income                              (0.32)       1.35         1.66        2.89         4.10         4.70        4.42      5.45
1/  Sales and energy supply: Based on 649 GWh/year sales to Electrolima and the balance to Paramonga, whose
requirements are based on expansion plans.
Energy Requirements (GWh
Supplied by:
Hidrandina    Electroperu   Total
1981                                           852              54           906
1982                                           857              55           912
1983                                           857              72           929
1984                                           857              77           934
1985                                           877              63           940
1986                                           877             155         1,032
1987                                           892             176         1,068
Price per kWh supplied by Electroperu: see Electroperu income statement.
2/  Personnel: constant at 203 individuals until 1985, when increase of 10 will be needed for operation and maintenance
of new reservoirs.
3/ Depreciation: 3.1% p.a. on gross asets.
4/ See note to sources and applications of funds (page 1).



- 79 -
HIDRANDIIA                                          ANNEX 5.5
Page 3 of 3
Balance Sheets at Deceuber 31, 1980-87
(in millions of US$ of Dec. 31, 1980)
ASSETS                           1980        1981        1982        1983         1984        1985        1986        1987
Fixed assets:-
Utility plant in service          75.22       75.46       75.88       77.12        77.36       92.67      109.44      109.68
Less accumulated depreciat.       33.29       34.50       35.80        37.10       38.42       39.88       41.61       43.48
Net utility plant                41.93       40.96       40.08       40.02        38.94       52.79       67.83       66.20
Const. work in progress            0.24        0.97        4.99        16.33       32.87       79.71      123.84      190.84
Total fixed assets              42.17       41.93       45.07       56.34        71.80      132.50      191.67      257.04
Current assets:
Cash and equivalent                0.80       -0.18       -0.60         1.58        0.83        5.34        4.40        2.82
Accounts receivable 1/             1.44        1.23        0.76         0.97        1.17        1.33        1.98        2.24
Inventories                        1.40        1.82        1.82         1.82        1.82        1.82        1.82        1.82
Total current assets              3.64        2.87        1.98        4.37         3.82        8.48        8.20        6.88
Other assets                       1.04        1.10         1.10        1.10        1.10        1.10        1.10         1.10
Total Assets                     46.85       45.90       48.16       61.81        76.72      142.08      200.97      265.01
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Shareholders' equity              41.77       43.12       44.35       45.58        46.79       47.39       52.11       73.14
Long-term debt excluding
current portion                  0.87        0.44        2.50       15.15       28.00        91.77      140.19      179.87
Current liabilities:
Current portion of long-
term debt                        0.87        0.43        0.22        0.00        0.85         1.83        7.58       10.91
Accounts payable 2/               3.16        1.73        0.91        0.91         0.91        0.91        0.91        0.91
Total current liabilities        4.03        2.16        1.13        0.91         1.76        2.74        8.49       11.82
Deferred credits                   0.18        0.18        0.18         0.18        0.18        0.18        0.18        0.18
Total Liabilities                   -           -          3.81        16.24       29.94       94.69      148.86      191.88
Total Liabilities & Capital   46.85          45.90       48.16       61.81        76.72      142.08      200.97      265.01
1/ Receivables: 10% of revenues.
2/ Payables: One month's billing of cash operating expenses and local construction expenditures.



- 80 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 2
PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Long Run Incremental Cost of Energy in the Central-north System
A. Expansion Program Costs
1.        The generation expansion program used as a basis for this estimate
of the marginal cost of power is that developed by MEM staff during project
appraisal in September 1981. This plan envisages the following additions to
generating plant capacity in 1982-2004:
Additions to generating plant capacity
(installed MW)
Period                Hydro             Thermal          Total
1981-1985               292                110              402
1986-1990               786                283             1069
1991-1995               1073               306             1379
1996-2000              1310                  -             1310
2001-2004               1550                 -             1550
Total 1981-2004               5011                699             5710
Associated with this generation investment program is a series of transmission
line investments and associated operating and maintenance costs, including the
fuel burnt in the thermal plants. The detailed costs streams covering the
period 1981-2030 are shown in Table 1. Half of the cost of the Mantaro
Transfer Scheme is assumed to be allocated to the power sector.
B.   Incremental Demand Met by Expansion Program
2.        The effect of investing in generation and transmission facilities
during the period 1981-2002 is to enable the system to meet increases in
demand for energy and power. It is difficult to associate the program in a
precise manner to increases in demand met; however, here it is assumed that
any increase in energy demand over the 1981 level is met as a result of
development program expenditures. This is a reasonable assumption since the
first plant in the program, Electrolima's 110 MW of gas turbines, is planned
to enter into operation in 1982.  In 1982 and 1983 large increases in demand
are met merely by the addition of transmission line capacity between Lima and
the Mantaro hydroelectric plant, enabling its existing units 4, 5 and 6 of 114
MW each to supply energy to Lima 1/. In this sense the incremental cost of
meeting; demand in these first years is low. This, however, merely reflects
the current situation of a shortage in transmission capacity in the system.
1/ The current transmission capacity from Mantaro to Lima is about 340 MW.
With the entry into operation of the second Lima-Pisco line in 1982 this
will increase to 450 MW, while in 1983 it will reach about 625 MW with the
commissioning of the Pachachaca - Callahuanca line.



-81 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 2
3.        After the year 2004 it is assumed t:hat no further increments in
demand are met by the development program given here. The last unit of the
last plant in the program, on the Ene river, comes on stream in the year 2003
and by the end of year 2004 the system reserve has fallen to a level which
requires the commissioning of additional capacity. The incremental demand for
energy met by the 1981-2002 development program is thus an amount which grows
from zero in 1981 to a maximum figure in 2004, at which level it stays until
the end of the economic life of the plant of the program, here assumed to be
the year 2030 (i.e. an average plant life of 40 years). The incremental
demand figures, shown in Table 1, were developed by analyzing the demand
forecast on which the development program was based. The forecast is the
summation of forecasts for 20 load centers; Ln analyzing the total forecast
for the Central-north system care was taken to omit apparent demand increases,
that is, demand increases that are the resul: of interconnection of existing
load centers into the system as the latter i3 extended.
C. Long Run Incremental Cost
4.        The long run incremental cost of energy in the Central-north
interconnected system may be estimated as the ratio between the present value
of incremental costs and the present value oE incremental demand. At the
estimated 12% opportunity cost of capital this would be:
Long run incremental cost of energy
in the Central-North interconnected
system at the 220 kV level              2250 x 106US$    =  35.9 US mills/kWh
62,710 x lO0kWh       (December 1980 prices)
This cost has been calculated for a range of discount rates for use in the
derivation of the combined internal economic rate of return on the generation
and transmission expansion program and Electrolima's distribution expansion
program. These values are shown in Table 2.



-  82 -                                      ANNEX 6.1
Table f.
PERU - St ITH POWER PROJECT
Annex 6.1. Table 1: North-Central System Oenieratlon and
Transmission Expansion Program Costs and Inarenental Demand Met. 1/
(Millions of December 1980 USS1
I n crere nt a I
Demand at the
220 kV Level
Mantaro      Met by the
Transfer 3/ Expanslon
-----Hydro Plant-----     ----------Thermal Plant----------  -Transmission Lines-   I nvestment   Program
Year     Investment      0 & M     Ilnvestnent    0 & M       Fue 1 2/   Investment    0 & M   and 0 & M    (GWH) 4/
1981         22.9         33.5        18.5         4.3          0.6                               1 .1            -
1982         86.3         33.5        19.5         4.3          0.8                             .13.4            584
1983        188.0         33.6        40.8         4.3          2.7        43.7                  32.5         1,343
1984        261.4         34.7        22.8         4.3          0.4       129.0                  44.5          1 ,828
19115       215.7         36.9         7.7         4.3          1.6        96.7         3.0      48.7         2,336
19116       127.7         40.5        25.5         5.3         10.9        50.7         6.7      31.5         3,852
1987        120.5         46.6        53.2         5.3         14.4        13.4         7.8       2.0         4,637
19118       199.7         47.1        56.9         5.3         24.8        24.6         7.9       3.5         5,819
19ii9       231.5         47.5        56.0         5.3        18.0         32.2         8.7       3.5         6,664
19S0        187.3         47.9        21.7         6.5         29.6        84.1         9.4       3.5          7,973
1991        142.5         51.0         8.0         6.0         27.3        82.0        10.1       3.5          8,789
1952         96.6         51.0        27.5         6.5         42.8        86.1        10.2       3.5         9,596
19953        59.7         51.0                     6.6        64.4         82.7        10.8       3.5        10,597
1994         20.0         62.4                     5.9          1.0        37.6        18.1       3.5        11,510
1995         40.0         62.4                     5.4          3.0        46.3        18.2       3.5        12,344
1996        171.1         62.4                     5.4          6.7        59.0        18.4       3.5        13,269
1997        190.6         63.6                     4.8          9.9        76.0        18.5       3.5        14,226
1998         88.2         67.1                     4.4          2.3        38.8        22.1       3.5        15,457
1999        166.8         67.1                     3.4          6.3        25.2        23.5       3.5        16,538
2000        118.0         72.5                     3.4          2.8        39.5        24.0       3.5         17,844
200!        132.3         70.5                     3.4          1.8        49.0        25.6       3.5         19,087
200;2       132.3         70.5        18.5         3.4         6.3         30.6        26.2       3.5        20,381
2003                      74.4                     3.4          1.3        18.5        27.2       3.5         21 ,760
2004                      74.4                     3.4          5.9                    28.6       3.5        23,225
200;                      74.4                     3.4          6.1                    28.6       3.5         23,225
2006                      74.4                     3.4          6.3                    28.6       3.5         23,225
2007                      74.4                     3.4          6.5                    28.6       3.5         23,225
2008                      74.4                     3.4          6.7                    28.6       3.5         23,225
2003                      74.4                     3.4          6.9                    28.6       3.5         23,225
2010)                     74.4                     3.4          7.1        22.6        28.6       3.5        23,225
2011                      74.4        90.8         3.4         7.3          4.9        28.6       3.5        23,225
2012                      74.4                     3.4          7.5         2.0        28.6       3.5        23,225
2013                      74.4        27.5         3.4          7.7         2.7        28.6       3.5        23,225
2014                      74.4                     3.4          8.0         2.0        28.6       3.5        23,225
2015                      74.4       118.9         3.4          8.2         3.0        28.6       3.5         23,225
2016                      74.4                     3.4          8.4         1.9        28.6       3.5        23,225
2017                      74.4       102.4         3.4          8.7         1.9        28.6       3.5        23,225
2018                      74.4                     3.4          9.0         2.3        28.6       3.5         23,225
2019                      74.4                     3.4          9.2         2.2        28.6       3.5         23,225
2020                      74.4                     3.4          9.5        97.8        28.6       3.5        23,225
2021                      74.4                     3.4          9.8       147.8        28.6       3.5        23,225
2022                      74.4        18.5         3.4         10.1        44.5        28.6       3.5        23,225
2023                      74.4                     3.4         10.4         2.9        28.6       3.5         23,225
2024                      74.4                     3.4         10.7        34.0        28.6       3.5         23,225
2025                      74.4                     3.4         11.0        28.1        28.6       3.5         23,225
2026                      74.4                     3.4         11.3        29.3        28.6       3.5        23,225
2027                      74.4                     3.4         11.7         3.1        28.6       3.5         23,225
2028                      74.4                     3.4         12.0        26.3        28.6       3.5        23,225
2029                      74.1                      3.4        12.4       290.9        28.6       3.5         23,225
2030                      74.4                     3.4         12.8         3.5        28.6       3.5         23,225
2031 5/   -760.1                    -118.9                               -467.3
1/  Costs and demand are taken from the September 1981 revislon of the North-central system plan issued by the
MInistry of Energy and Mines.
2    The December 1980 Internatlonal fuel prices of 25USS/bbl for Bunker C otl and 37USS/bbl for diesel oil were uned,
escalated at 3% per year.  At an 11% discount rate, fuel costs are 17% of total costs.  Tie major fue'
expenditures are concantrated In 1986-1993, so a change In the prim escalation rate to, say, 2% or 1% would not
have a major effect on the relative weight of ftel costs.
3/  This represents half of the cost of the, Mantaro Transfer, on the assumption that the other half may be at locoted
to water supply for Lima. The costs are taken frcmn the 1981 Binnle and Partners feasibi lity study, converted to
December 1980 prIces.  Operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 2% of the capital oost.
4/   ThIs Is demand incremental over the 1981 level.
5/   Salvage value of plant.



83
ANNEX b.1
Table 2
PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Annex 6.1. Table 2:  Long Run Increnental Cost of energy as a
Function of the Discount Rate
(A)                     (B)                   (C) = A/B
Present Value in 1981    Present Value
of Investment and In-    in 1981 of Incre-
cremental 0 & M Costs    mental Demand           Long Run Increment-
Discount Rate   (106US$ of December          Met by Program        al Cost ot Energy
(%.)                 1980) (_Wh) 2/                            (US$Mills/KWh)
0                  7,729                  853,509                     9.1
1                  6,671                  634,101                    10.5
2                  5,812                  47E,844                    12.1
3                  5,111                  367,439                    13.9
4                  4,536                  28E,377                    15.8
5                  4,061                  226,567                    17.9
6                  3,665                   181,830                   20.2
7                 .3,331                  147,915                    22.5
8                  3,047                   123,866                   25.0
9                  2,804                  10],603                    27.6
10                  2,594                   85,650                    30.3
11                  2,411                   72,943                    33.1
12                  2,250                   62,710                    35.9
13                  2,108                   54,383                    38.8
14                  1,982                   47,540                    41.7
15                  1,869                   4:.,865                   44.6
16                  1,767                   37, 117                   47.6
17                  1,675                   33,113                    50.6
18                  1,592                   29,711                    53.6
19                  1,515                   26,799                    56.5
20                   1,446                   24,291                   59.5
22                   1,323                   20,221                   65.4
24                   1,218                   11,096                   /1.2
26                   1,127                   14,649                   77.0
28                  1,049                    12,699                   82.6
30                     980                   11,122                   88.1
1/ Present value of the cost streams of Table 1, Annex 6.1. 0 & M costs
incremental above the 1981 level, only, are included here.
2/ Present value ot the incremental demand stream ot Table 1, Annex 6.1.



FM8 - SIXH OEP. PIECO
Anex 6.2. Pate df Heturn Analysis
-4 i llioms of Dbce,ter 198D )S$ 1
A               B               0sB                D              E             F-OfDH       I-&H            1                 G
long-nm           Cost of                        Dlstrit-                       Total        Forecast Price
eY P-utred   bnratal                 Eiergy xr-                     tlon 0 & M                     Benefit     for Eletricity                    92*ctraim
to Meet Tcre-    Cost of &e*T        put to Dig-    Distribu-       Oasts, Sale                   Fra  In-    plus 25% taK in   lncra,tal    Sale  (Fz-
mental  Sales     at 220 kV level   tribution        tion Invest-  ara Billing                     crm,tit    Dac.'8) prices    Sales wer    clatug Zi:
Year         ((Ii) I/      (LU39SU/kih) 2/  Sr-               umet 3/         (beta 4/         Total (bats   Sales       (UtMtUl/kdWi) 5/  1982 lel       lnry  6/
1982             -                                                31.05            -                           -            50.00               -            3,_4
1983            297                                               26.59            2.67                      15.22          59.13              267           4,101
1984            612                                               26.16            5.53                      31.52          70.00              553           4,387
1985            953                                               26.37           8.64                       49.25          76.88              864           4,698
1986          1,319                                               28.24           124:10                     68A0           78.13            1,2D0           5,034
1987-2011       1,711                                                -              15.57                      88.75          82.00            1,557           5,391
(25 years)
Basie Case:
Presert values in
1982 at 16.6I           7,476           49.A0              369.3          105.O           67.9            542.2  -   541.8                            6,795
Senitivity Aalysis:
All costs up 15%:
8V at 14.15%          9,009           48.45              436.5          125.1            94.2           655.8  -   655.4                            8,190
All costs &sea 152
n at 19.=             6,007           50.17              301.4           85.4            46.4           433.2   -   433.1                           5,459
Benefits up 152;
PV at 19.36%          6,191           57.62              356.7          101.1            56.3           514.1   -   513.6                           8,439
Benefits down 15%
PVat 13.7a%           9,283           41.05              381.0          109.4            84.4           574.8  -   574.3                            8,439
Ilostribution invest-
mest costs up 15%:
nV at 16.07%          7,771           47.82              371.6          121.7            70.6           563.9   -   563.6                           7,064
Dstribution invest-
sert costs dDwn 15%:
Pn at 17.15%          7,188           51.04              366.9           88.6            65.3           520.8   -   520.5                           6,533
Beefits valued at
April 1982 averae
tariff:
PV at 10.02%         12,975           30.35              393.7          115.9           118.0           627.6   -   627.7          53.207/         11,799
1/ This is increnental saes adjsted for losses as given in Annec 3.4.
2/ FiE    x 6.1, Table 2. Linear interpolation ws usei to estimate this cost at fractional diczotnt rates.
3/ Thi Is ilectrolma's total distribution ineat  it prcgram,  Lich ircludes tle Electralism  component of the ircpoeed project. Ilts afts gLven bete difkr fra twee in
Electrolima's flw of fuind stateclnt as inVort duties are ewleded here.
4/ lTese costs total 1.0 VSoents/16Wh (IDecemer 198) prices) on average, bised on an analysis of Electrolima's distribution OCM crats, sales  costs ard bllirg crts in 1978, 1979
ad 1980, ktidi ranged from 0.95oents/4k  to I cents/ldh, in cometasn prices, in these year.
5/  Ids is frae Electrolia's financial forecast, AnnK 5.4.
6/ See hxw 3.4. Zinc refinery deaird is ewluded here sinoe wne of the distribtion irwestmrant in 1982-86 is related to servirg this load.
7/  The April 1982 averg  Electrolla. tariff 9   28.95 Sols/lesh.  lb this is sded the 25% tax on electricity sales (Deoreo ley 163), 4hICh is direaly redated to I8b sales.
The resulting 36.19 SDles/t 'ae converted to Dember 198D US$ using the December 1980 - April 1982 dmnge in the cooaser prle index of 102% and the Deoeber S980 exdarW
rate of 337 Solesa/l$. Ihe result is 5.32 tEcents/kWh (Deceaber 198D prices).



- 85 -
ANNEX 6.3
ELECTROLIMA'S TARLFFS
(Effective December 1, 1981 and converted into US$ at the then pravalent exchange rate of 450 Soles/US$. Excludes Tax)
A. Tariffs for Low Voltage Supply (up to 380 V)
Residential    Small       General   Small       Government &   Agricultural
Commercial    Use    Industry   Municipalities   Pumping a/
5kV                  50 kW                       22:00-18:00
Charge for contracted kW (US$/kW.month)             -            -           -        1.35              -
Consumption up to 30 kWh/month (US$/month)         0.31         4.03        2.49   )                 1.52
Consumption of over 30 kWh/month b/ (USc/kWh)                                       )
- first 200 kWh                                 3.35      )            )         )             )              )
- netxt 800 kWh                                 3.60      ) 13.44      ) 8.23   ) 4.83         )  5.04        )   0.90
- excess over 1000 kWh                          4.42      )            )
a/ The tariff for pumping during the peak hours of 18:00-20:00 is 2.85 c/kWh
b/ There are also tariffs for unmetered supply for a minimum of LOO Watts contracted, of 7.92 $/kW.momth for
residential, 544.79 $/kW.month for commercial and $26.88 $/kW,month for general use customers.
B. Tariffs for High Voltage Supply
Below or At                                  ----Industry: contracted-----
2.3  kV          2.3 kV to 13.8 kV             demand over 999 kW
Industry  50kW   Industry    Commercial        2.3-30 kV  30-60 kV   60 kV +
50-999 kW  (5 kV)  50 kW                  _
Peak demand charge (US$/kW.month)                 9.68           9.19          9.15             9.19       8.71        8.22
Energy charge (USc/kWh)
10 a.m. - 10 p.m.                              )              )               8.06           3.85        3.40        3.23
)4.02          )3.85
10 p.m. - 10 a.m.                              )              )               4.08           2.19        1.73        1.63
Reactive energy (USc/kVArh)                        1.96           1.81           1.81           1.81        1.73        1.63



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
PERU - SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Related to the Energy Sector and Power Sub-sector
1. "Republica del Peru: Balance Nacional de Energia", Ministerio de Energia
y Minas, Programa de las Naciones Unidas Para el Desarollo, Lima, December
1976.
2. "Joint Peru/United States Report on Peru/United States Cooperative Energy
Assessment", 4 Vols., U.S. Department of Energy, August 1979.
3. "Estudio de Mercado de Energia Electrica: Informe Final", 3 Vols.,
Montreal Engineering (Overseas) Ltd., February 1980.
4. "Electrical System Studies", draft final report, Montreal Engineering
(Overseas) Ltd., December 1980.
5. "Updating of the Program of Generating Plants and Transmission Lines for
the Central-North System: 1980-1990 Period", 2 Vols., Lahmeyer-Salzgitter,
December 1980.
6. "Economic and Financial Statistics of the Electric Power Sub-sector
Companies: 1975-1979", Electroperu, January 1981.
B. Reports Relating to the Project
7. "Geological Feasibility Study of the Dam Projects for the Reservoirs of
Pishcapaccha, Juahuacocha, Incahuain, Collarcocha, Huarmicocha and
Yanapampa in the Rio Pativilca Basin", E. Rose, Hidrandina, November 15,
1979.
8. Yuracmayo Reservoir, Huinco Expansion, Salto Bajo Scheme, Trans-Andean
Tunnel Expansion - information for preparation of feasibility and final
design studies, 6 Vols., Electrolima, May 1981.
9. "Final Study of the Transfer of Water from the Upper Catchment of the
River Mantaro to Lima (First Stage)", 8 Vols., Binnie & Partners, March
1981.
10. "Plan of Works and Investments in the Transmission, and Sub-transmission
and D)istribution Substations: 1982-1985 Period", 12 VoLs., Electrolima,
May 1981.
11. "Forecast of Works and Investments in the Medium and Low Voltage
Distribution System in the Year 1986", Electrolima, July 1981.



87 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
12.  "Expansion of the Generation and Distribution Systems: 1982-1985", 4
Vols., Electrolima August 1981.
13. "Electrolima 1982-1986 Financial Forecast:", G. Heck, Electrolima, August
1981.
14. "Hidrandina Financial Projections: 1981-:L990", Hidrandina, October 1981.
15. "Electroperu Financial Projections: 1982--1990", Electroperu, February
1981.
16. Annual reports and financial statements of Electroperu, Electrolima,
Hidrandina, several years.



I



Ze                       24                              /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD1609flR
KMARCH 19821
CENTRAL-NORTH  INTERCONNECTED  SYSTEM- 
$5,       ~EXISTING  AND  MAIN  PROPOSED  HYDRO PLANTS                                                                               >
PIUER /,
\AOYCEAMHA
ride                 ~~~~CHACHAPOYAS \
CHIQCAYG                               
CAJAMARCA
PUCALLPAO 
,   CAN
F/ZPA
(Limbo ~       HURA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
HUANUC0Q')
oCERRO DL PASCO                          
MO0YOPA/P                            4i
dMA  CA/LAI/IA A/C
00.4 0   2~~~~~~S0     
ABEANCAY                               /         5
PRCOPOSEFD EXIST N/C,Mrc
220 kV T....sm,ssi- Les-
DooortmersReuedories                                 a-SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
PI-tegnoiReoo    ...ndAREs                                                                      PA
SE(&..ECUA  C'  H  IE






__________________ _                   _ _ _______    ____                   __                  _____    __________                                                 IBRD 16096Y
C  P E FR U                                          MARCH 1982
METROPOLITAN LIMA
ELECTROLIMA'S  DISTRIBUTION EXPANSION PROGRAM 1982-1986
Santa Roso     \                                                                                        Exisng irroonsmssion lines:
30 kv
130 kV
220 kv
Existing sibstrtions:
ZapaIIa~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             A      1~~~~30 kv
Zoapll +                                                                                j      60. kv
,/     220 kv
Project triansision5j   lines:
%                                                        6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Kv
K /                <,      Puente P,edra                                          3Crujrt e: rsToI ons:(new or expnrnded)
Ventonulla            A  Ventanilla                f                                                               6r K',
FT ltU    vrSTIISS or liToe:
---220 kv
CaudioiH I- us C C 1   Au0
Inforstos
.-Fr-m vlacmona arid Caliohuariva
4Oquerdor                                                                                                            m
C-12a00ia '!.  >                                    /v       =                                          From MoyHp.mpr
Carretera Central)                    Chosica
.   .....   F.   13                        At-                 a                                       \ -L     1          ^.^   .1 e> rla.4 ts AO kv
,-- _, <                                               CtRosa        (Puente
Sar a Moranna \  -                                                              A 
CoFFvo                          \                   f               TPando,  LTb6                                               ) / 6v
Trv Psata    B r vlivvFsto   -    9i0i5e1nrQ3(        %                                      )                                        /'La Planicie
~~.      X   .                   iLi~~~~~matdrbx s
; ,     XPetshsang
Mogdaleno del Mor .,     '           n Isidra
TrSs  ,=,brS/.,-ailleari(JS. 
P r                        axoverOa
\.  /                    t~~~~~~illa MCIla
B.rarivo         8,orranca              del Triunfo
(Jorge Ca   z)           s
.    ..   .   .    \    sffillO Ei \              XK&Atocongo
0 2                                   4                              o  5 lo \ Chorrillos . +< \oJ
KILOMETFR5,, P\S
0           2         ,              e        To     ~             .                                  From M24
o        5              a~~~1lE                                                                          P&6
-1215                                                                                                                                                                                      2 \  12]5r
n~ ~ ~~7~                                                                                        7/0 .                                                                               7h/Sdnwodb ff ~  






400000Y0,OWOOVO    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~'                    H ~~U   A    N U' C  O
-   -~~~~  ~~  K  -'K--                      '~~~~~~~~"'~~~"Y ~ 2000
2        1K                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  A    S   0
x  ""N,j                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  C  A  Y  AL
Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
j0H'UA         6/~N                 CERD   ASO                                                           0
-24                                                    C---~~~~~~~~~~~~~410~
j  --u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N                      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--3-
(    ~ /'O'APT~   '~~T CANA'~                           u                                                     N PCI
oLIMA"CA                                                               HUANCAY           N                                             Q    7o0
ANCON Q  MW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AN~
P  E    R    U*                    MPPE- 
PERU                          0~~~~~~~~~PUCUSANA       5044         -              ~     )          ~lI
MANTARO TRANSFER PROJECT AND                                                                           -2                                            N'                   k-
ASSOCIATED HYDRO POWER STATIONS                                                                                                                          s0
EXISTING   PLANNED          PUTS,RE                                           L                    /HUANCAVELICA                                   "-
________          ~~CANALS                       3C/T,13
------             ---    TUNNELS                       DE CA "ETE
HYDRO PLANTS                                /                                                       CYCUHA''
-                            ~~~~~~~~                                                   ~~DAIMS  7  4--AYA~ Cs5U < h                                            2OO
CONTOURS (IlIte-jIl d-y l000omet-)s                                NCHAK40                                                                                      ,. 
RIVERS                                                           A LTA('I
DEPARTMENT  CGISARESH  I N C-                                                                                                                                  PORAA
KILOMETERS                                                                                         // 
770~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y~
78~~~~~          730   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                              ~      ~      ~      ~      5O~8  L                              450






P E R U
MANTARO TRANSFER PROJECT
AND ASSOCIATED HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS
Sectional           View              j                        __                  _                            __                              ___
MY, <'S   -           ..- =                        --- .......
EXISTING   -LANNEI-
= _____=   PRESSURE TUNNEL OR PENSTO)CK
-____   -- CANALS
- - FREEFLOW  TUNNEL
_____                                 ______________            .PUMPING  STATIONS                 _                                                       _ _ --  - -_                                            __
H-ORfiIZNIAL S-CALE                                                                                                                                                                                                  2000
r  -   -   2 30   30          , 'Jl, -C) PoWER STA-IlO  1O8?Om0                                                                                                             '
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                               ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I I  7aW (LGANS 260 PE A0 D36 FE)
KILOMETERS                     i                                     |0
0        5So      l0ow      1500         _-                               _        CALLAHUIANCI MTIjA STATION 1235 
METEhRS                                               N
VERTICA, SCALE                    p.
MOYO'AMiPA POWER STATION 8E&P.      -       -
AMpAN Yi?POWER STATION E43 to   -
= a R 30 W=                                                                                       f 0  oeoOo   f000 t to.0    ti otoshotO  , I,-  deOoooIarions Goo sad 0
L I M A                                                                              - KELOMETERS           -    _                            .                                               -
220      210                           180       170       160        10       140                  120       so        1f30     son        8         7Sof      60 so,              40       -30         20    -  10-   -  t
- -,                                          0         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,



