Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3339-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ELECTROLIMA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
May 24, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfrmnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in 1981 and as of May 1, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981                 May 1, 1982
US$1                        S/. 426.60                    S/. 609.20
S/. 1                       US$0.0023                     US$0.0016
S/. 1,000                   US$2.34                       US$1.64
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
bpd         -  Barrels per Day
COFIDE      -  Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Bank)
DGE         -  Direccion General de Electricidad
(General Directorate of Electricity)
ERP         -  Economic Recovery Program
ELECTROLIMA -  Electrolima, S.A.
(Lima Power Company)
ELECTROPERU -  Empresa Electricidad del Peru, S.A.
(National Power Company)
GW           -  Gigawatt (1,000 MW)
HIDRANDINA  -  Energia Hidroelectrica Andina, S.A.
(Andean Hydroelectric Energy Company)
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
MEM         -  Ministry of Energy and Mines
MW          -  Megawatt (1,000 kW)
PETROPERU   -  Petroleos del Peru, S.A.
(National Petroleum Company)
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Electrolima, S.A. (ELECTROLIMA)
Guarantor:           Republic of Peru
Beneficiaries:       Empresa Electricidad del Peru, S.A. (ELECTROPERU) and
Energia Hidroelectrica Andina, S.A. (HIDRANDINA)
Relending Terms:    ELECTROLIMA would onlend part of the proceeds of the loan
to ELECTROPERU (US$12.3 million) and HIDRANDINA (US$3.6
million) on the same terms and conditions as those of the
proposed loan.
Amount:              US$81.2 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
11.6 percent interest per annum and a front-end fee of
1.5 percent.
Project
Description:       The proposed project is designed to (i) strengthen the
major institutions in the power sector by supporting
management and financial reforms; (ii) assist in the
financing of investment needed to expand production and
distribution of electricity; and (iii) support the
carrying out of priority engineering studies. The
project would be executed by three institutions:
ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA. ELECTROLIMA
would be responsible for the largest component of the
project comprising the 1982-1986 expansion plan for its
distribution system, construction of the Yuracmayo dam
(which would increase hydropower production), three
engineering studies and a training program. ELECTROPERU
would carry out engineering related to the preparation of
the Mantaro transfer project (designed to provide both
power and water for Lima), would receive technical
assistance in financial management and would carry out a
training program. The HIDRANDINA component would consist
of engineering related to preparation of the
high-priority Mayush hydroelectric project.
Project Risks:       The project faces no special physical risks except that
the Yuracmayo dam would be located in a seismic region.
In order to protect against the risk of the dam failing
due to an earthquake, the engineering design would be
executed in accordance with a special seismological
analysis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:    The estimated cost of the project, including taxes and
duties which would amount to about US$25 million or 10
percent of the total, is as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ millions------
A. ELECTROLIMA
1982-1986 Distribution Program                   89.3      40.0      129.3
Yuracmayo Dam Construction                       16.1        7.4      23.5
Engineering                                       2.5        4.1       6.6
Training Program                                  2.1        3.6       5.7
110.0      55.1      165.1
B. ELECTROPERU
Mantaro Transfer Project Engineering              4.4        5.0       9.4
Technical Assistance and Training Program         3.0        4.0       7.0
7.4       9.0       16.4
C. HIDRANDINA
Mayush Hydroelectric Project Engineering          1.0        2.5       3.5
Baseline Costs                            118.4       66.6      185.0
D.  Physical Contingencies                            13.3        7.9      21.2
E.  Price Contingencies                               32.2       16.9       49.1
Total Costs                               163.9       91.4      255.3
F.  Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                         -          1.2        1.2
Total Financing Required                   163.9      92.6      256.5
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
------US$ millions-------
Bank                                               -       81.2       81.2
Cofinancing (Supplier Credits)                     -        11.4      11.4
ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA         163.9       -        163.9
163.9      92.6      256.5



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                           1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1988
(US$ millions by Bank FY)
Annual                7.2   12.4   17.7   18.2   13.9  11.8
Cumulative            7.2   19.6   37.3   55.5   69.4  81.2
Rate of Return:       About 17 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Staff Appraisal Report No. 3743b-PE,
dated May 18, 1982.



a



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO ELECTROLIMA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A SIXTH POWER PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to ELECTROLIMA with the guarantee of the Republic of Peru for the equivalent
of US$81.2 million to help finance a sixth power project. The proposed loan
has a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6
percent per annum. US$15.9 million of the proceeds of the loan would be
relent by ELECTROLIMA on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to
the two other utility companies which would execute parts of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.         Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.         Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.         Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between
1977 and 1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net
exporter of about 60,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
1/ This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project President's Report of April 28, 1982
(Report No. 3292-PE).



- 2 -
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals.  In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors, and the response has been positive. The Government
strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase
in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 bpd.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the
urbanization process and improved education. But with declining death rates,
population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is currently
estimated at about 17 million.  The country's urban population is increasing
at 4.3 percent p.a. and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima
area. Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected
to grow in excess of three percent per year during the next 20 years. Over
the same time frame, it is expected that overall population growth will fall
only slightly, to about 2.4 percent p.a., unless an effective population
control policy is adopted. The Government is conscious of the need to slow
down Peru's demographic growth rate and is now developing a primary health
care program which would contain a family planning component.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only between
individuals but also between regions. The pattern of asset ownership in the
economy changed drastically through nationalization and a sweeping land
reform. The Government took direct control of key economic sectors and
imposed complex legislation to control the private sector. Many of the
policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost, and their implementa-
tion was inefficient.
8.        Between 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments followed expansionary
fiscal and credit policies. As a result, aggregate demand considerably
exceeded aggregate supply resulting in strong inflationary pressures and
widening external gaps. Inflation accelerated from five percent per year in
1970 to 38 percent in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially
negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating
capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant
between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
9.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of pay-
ments.  The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly nine percent of GNP. To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at
almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to
two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual exports of goods and
non-factor services.
10.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion, during which GDP
grew by more than six percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over six percent, and unemployment and underemployment rose
to almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during
the early 1970s.



Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
11.       Between 1975 and 1977, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports,
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative
level of US$800 million.
12.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program. Peru's
debt outstanding to the IMF as of December 31, 1981 amounted to SDR 578.9
million.
13.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period.  In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
14.       To overcome the economic recession, in the second half of 1978 the
Government adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in
addition to the above-mentioned stablization actions, included measures to
open up the economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax
system by broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of
resource allocation in the private and public sectors. These policy
changes-- together with a declining domestic market because of the
recession-- resulted in a major reorientation of industrial development, with
a large increase in the value of manufactured exports which rose from about
US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800 million range in 1980-81 (equivalent
to about eight percent of industrial output). The Government also drew up a
public sector investment program that aimed at redirecting investment towards
projects of clear economic priority and with positive effects on production
and employment. In support of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million
Program Loan in May 1979.
15.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance
of payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the country's net reserve
position had improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about four
months of imports.  Peru also made greater use of assistance from official
bilateral and international sources, thus improving the structure of its



- 4- 
external debt.  Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980,
however, external debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in
1980, growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which
affected the agricultural sector.  Moreover, because of a relaxation in
fiscal discipline, the public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent
of GDP, helping keep inflation for the year at a high level--59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
16.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980 and, following his electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a challeng-
ing economic and social situation with a number of acute problems which had
been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation.  These included:
high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban areas; higher
underlying inflation than had been reported because of price controls and
deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a public sector
deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for economic and
social services (including education, health and housing); a balance of pay-
ments with a substantial surplus, which, however, was partly due to unusually
high commodity prices and to the fact that import levels were depressed and
manufacturing exports high owing to the recession; and, finally, deteriorated
income distribution over the past several years resulting in increased social
unrest.
17.       The Government includes an economic team committed to economic
efficiency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, particu-
larly distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
18.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
19.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made progress
in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly reduced
and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to international
levels. The marketing of agricultural products was liberalized, and public
utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing
-- an effort that was supported by a Bank-sponsored Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981.



20.        The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. Companies in the important public enterprise
sector, for example, were transformed into more autonomous State-owned
limited liability corporations operating under private law. This measure
gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit and retain capable personnel.
Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term effects, and
they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments of the
Peruvian economy.
21.        In spite of the above-mentioned policy initiatives, economic
performance inl981 lagged behind expectations. GDP grew only at about four
percent, and employment generation was also sluggish. The balance of
payments deteriorated substantially as a result of declining export prices,
high interest rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid
expansion of imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$700
million, equivalent to about three percent of GDP. A major factor in the
deterioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit,
which reached about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some
progress was achieved in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December
1980-December 1981 basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it
decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the
openness of the economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in
imports, and--to some extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations.
The Government is aware that this level is still too high, however, and is
following actions which it expects will result in a further drop in inflation
in 1982.
22.        Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the deficit is
mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices.  Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is drawing up a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. It is also expected that the
Government will trim the public investment program in line with its
investment priorities. The Bank has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the
Peruvian Government on these issues. Moreover, it is expected that the IMF
will consider a sizeable EFF in the near future to support Peru's
stabilization efforts.
23.        Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through the medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance. Taking the above factors into
account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering around the 35
percent mark and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
24.       The Bank has approved 48 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,139.9 million, net of cancellations. About 33 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports),
20 percent for agriculture, 14 percent for the energy sector, 15 percent for
mining and industry, about 8 percent for education and urban development
(including water supply) and 10 percent for a program loan in support of the
ERP in 1979.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$440 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. About
US$44 million was disbursed on project loans in FY80 and US$70.5 million
during FY81. This compares with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5
million during FY77-79.
26.        The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strenghening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (iv) the improve-
ment of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank
lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power
sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly
productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture and industry--to help Peru
to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also
grown and will be further stepped up in the future. As part of its assis-
tance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on
May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing for its public
investment program. The next operations that would be ready for the
Executive Directors' consideration include projects in petroleum production
and rural development. These would be followed by projects in health and
education. The Bank is also considering a loan to help strengthen public
sector management.
27.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 5.8 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980, and
absorbed about 2.6 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1980. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.



28.        IFC commitments as of March 31, 1982 were US$37.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$18.9 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1982 is
presented in Annex II. In addition, a palm oil project was recently
approved, and a venture capital company is now being considered.
29.        The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December
31, 1981 were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their
shares of public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent
and 0.5 percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to
emphasize lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale
irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Energy Resource Base and Balance
30.        Peru has relatively large, diverse energy resources consisting of
hydroelectric power, oil, coal, natural gas, some geothermal power and renew-
able resources such as firewood and bagasse. Known (proved and probable) oil
reserves total about 800 million barrels while estimates of undiscovered
reserves range from two to twenty billion barrels. Some coal deposits suit-
able for thermal power generation or for metallurgical coke have been iden-
tified but most of the country has not been adequately explored. Gas
reserves are estimated at only one to two trillion cubic feet. Warm and
boiling springs exist in many parts of the country but the Government is only
now beginning to study the geothermal resources systematically.
31.        Oil currently provides about 70 percent of the country's commercial
energy requirements and 52 percent of total energy requirements.   Despite
this heavy dependence on oil, Peru's most significant potential sources of
primary energy are its hydropower resources. A recent survey of the
country's hydroelectric potential enumerated about 100 technically feasible
hydroelectric projects with a combined average output of 60 GW or 390,000
GWh/year -- an annual output roughly equivalent to the country's known oil
reserves.   About 85 percent of this potential is in the country's Atlantic
watershed east of the Andes. Of this total only 1,654 MW are presently being
used.
32.        Total energy consumption amounted to just over thirteen million
tons of oil equivalent in 1980. According to a recent study, the gross
energy balance for that year was as follows:
Primary Energy Source        % Share            End Use                % Share
Oil                             51.6    Residential and Commercial   31.2
Firewood and dung              22.5    Industry and mining                18.9
Hydroenergy                     15.6    Transportation                    17.0
Natural gas                      8.1    Agriculture, livestock             5.0
Coal and other                  2.2    Other                             27.9
100.0                                     100.0



33.       Until recently, the hydro potential of the Pacific watershed,
west of the Andes, and the northern coastal oil reserves were sufficient to
satisfy demand for energy in urban areas. These sources are no longer
adequate. In the future, therefore, hydroelectric, oil and biomass resources
of the Atlantic watershed will have to be tapped. Since these are far from
the demand centers and more difficult to develop, energy will become more
expensive.
34.       Oil.  Peru is one of the world's oldest oil producing countries and
was self-sufficient in petroleum for many years. During the 1950s, however,
with domestic prices for petroleum products as well as producers' margins at
low levels, domestic consumption began to outstrip lagging production. As a
result, Peru became increasingly dependent on crude oil imports in the 1960s
and 1970s. In the late 1970s, following the discovery of petroleum in Peru's
jungle, oil output began to increase substantially. By mid-1978 Peru was
once again self-sufficient in oil and production had climbed to 190,000 bpd
in 1979, a third of which was exported. Domestic demand, however, is likely
to increase as the economy recovers from the severe recession of the late
1970s and the country could again become an oil importer by the late 1980s.
35.        To spur petroleum exploration efforts, the Government is promoting
investment by foreign companies, under production-sharing arrangements with
PETROPERU -- the State-owned national petroleum company.   To attract foreign
companies, the Government put into effect a reinvestment tax credit and
eliminated restrictions on foreign companies' participation in secondary
recovery projects. As was noted previously (para. 5), these actions are
already beginning to pay off with oil output in 1982 expected to increase to
207,000 bpd. PETROPERU's administration, staff and operations are being
upgraded with support from the Bank's (i) US$32.5 million Petroleum
Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 1806-PE of 1980); and (ii) US$5.3 million Petroleum
Refineries Engineering project approved on March 25, 1982. This support
would be continued under a petroleum production enhancement project to be
presented to the Executive Directors later this year.
36.       In order to promote conservation, the Government has been periodic-
ally raising domestic petroleum prices so as to permit these to reach inter-
national levels in the medium term. In 1981, oil derivative prices were
increased by 25 percent in real terms. Moreover, in mid-December 1981, the
Peruvian congress passed a law authorizing increases in the domestic price
for regular gasoline from US$0.95/gallon at the end of December 1981, to
US$1.25/gallon by June 30, 1982. The prices of other petroleum products
would be raised in line with regular gasoline prices. Three consecutive
monthly increases, averaging approximately 4.5 percent in real terms, were
enacted in the first quarter of 1982.
37.       Coal.  Coal was mined in Peru until 1973 when the rising costs of
mining and competition from oil, which was sold at subsidized domestic
prices, led to a cessation of coal production. Coal deposits are known to be
widely spread throughout Peru but are generally low in quality. Moreover,
most deposits are considerably less than a meter thick, although some thicker
(and therefore potentially more economic) seams are known to exist in
northern and central Peru. No reliable estimate of the size of total coal
reserves exists and there has been no attempt to classify them appro-
priately. IDB has recently financed an engineering project aimed at defining
more clearly Peru's coal resources.



- 9 -
38.        Other Resources.  Most of the energy needs of the rural population
are met from biomass sources, with firewood being the dominant contributor.
Although 60 percent of Peru's land surface is covered by natural and cultiv-
ated forests and the annual gross primary potential available from this
resource has been estimated to be greater than the gross primary energy
currently consumed in Peru, 99 percent of the forest is located in the
sparsely populated Selva. Despite this fact, biomass accounted for over 22
percent of total gross energy supply in 1980.
Sector Organization, Planning and Strategy
39.        The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) has responsibility for coor-
dinating all energy planning activities, for making sectoral policy and for
initiating pricing action, which must then be approved by the Minister of
Economy and Finance. Operational responsibility is divided among various
public enterprises which report to MEM. PETROPERU is responsible for all
phases of production and distribution of petroleum and petroleum products.
In the electric power subsector, the two most important operating entities
are ELECTROPERU, the national power company, which is the main institution in
the sector and is responsible for developing power generation projects, and
ELECTROLIMA, the State-owned company serving the Lima metropolitan area
(accounting for about 60 percent of the market).
40.        In recent years, MEM has received a considerable amount of
technical assistance in the energy planning field. This assistance has
included an energy balance study completed in 1976 by the UNDP and an
assessment of resources and planning done in 1979 by the U.S. Government.
The German Government financed a survey of hydroelectric potential in 1979
and has, together with the Bank under the Fifth Power Project (Loan 1215-PE
of 1976),financed a power sector master plan, completed in 1980, in order to
develop a least-cost program for the sector.
41.        The principal objectives of Government policy in the energy sector
are to continue to satisfy domestic requirements for electric power and oil--
through increasing hydroelectric capacity and expanding petroleum production
--and to maintain oil exports while reducing the growth of domestic demand
for petroleum derivatives by using adequate pricing and other conservation
measures.
The Electric Power Subsector
42.        Electric Power Facilities.  Despite Peru's hydroelectric potential,
national electric energy production remained at a fairly constant 70/30
hydro-thermal ratio throughout the 1970s. As the hydro-dominated national
system is extended to isolated regions and to mining companies where thermal
generation now predominates, the hydroelectric component is expected to
increase.
43.        Public power companies meet about 70 percent of Peru's total
electric energy demand. The remainder is supplied by captive plants mainly
serving industrial and mining installations. The country's principal power
grid is the Central-North Interconnected System, which comprises about 1,500
MW of hydroelectric and 300 MW of thermal generating capacity. It represents
63 percent of the total 2,860 MW of generating capacity in Peru and about 85



- 10 -
percent of the public service system. The latest extension of the Central-
North system consists of a 220 kV transmission line, which was completed in
early 1981, linking Lima with Chimbote and Trujillo, two important cities on
Peru's northern coast. This system will be extended as far north as Piura
during this decade, incorporating in the process the hydro installations of
CENTROMIN, a State-owned mining company, by the end of 1982 and various
cities in the northern coastal zone by 1987. By 1990, the only large systems
that would remain outside the main power grid would be those serving the
southwest (Arequipa-Tacna), the southeast (Cuzco) and the major cities of the
Selva (e.g., Iquitos and Pucallpa).
44.       Electric Power Demand.  Because of Peru's economic difficulties in
the late 1970s, the growth in power demand dropped from an annual growth rate
of eight percent in the early seventies to four percent at the end of the
decade. Given Peru's rebounding economic performance in recent years, future
growth prospects and the plans for increased service levels, demand in the
Central-North system is projected to grow at over nine percent p.a. through
1990. The Government is committed to meeting this demand and recognizes
that, in order to do so, a major investment program will have to be
executed.
45.       Rural and Low-Income Electrification.  Until the late 1970s, rural
electrification did not have a high priority in Peruvian power planning and,
as a result, less than 10 percent of the rural population has access to
public-service electricity. The Government has now declared rural
electrification to be a major priority for the sector and has launched a
program focused on developing small hydro systems. This makes sense because:
(i) hydropower resources are generally available in many rural areas; (ii)
the topography makes grid interconnection uneconomic; and (iii) the poor road
network increases the cost of supplying fuel to isolated diesel plants. Since
this program was begun, ten plants have been completed, and work is now
underway at over 60 other locations -- 28 of which are being financed through
a US$28 million loan from USAID.
46.       A low-income urban electrification program focuses on bringing
electricity to the "pueblos jovenes" areas of the major cities, in which
low-income rural immigrants have concentrated. In 1981, about 23 percent of
Lima's population (and 27 percent of the population of the other major
cities) lived in these areas. This program was started in 1956 and has been
successful in raising service levels in these areas -- by 1981 over 60
percent of "pueblos jovenes" inhabitants had electricity. The program was
previously supported under Loan 1215-PE of 1976 and further support would be
provided under the proposed loan.
47.       Subsector Organization.  Prior to 1972, the public utility portion
of the subsector was composed of private, municipal and State entities
serving concession zones or regions. No national sector planning or
coordination existed and captive plants, serving large mining and industrial
installations, accounted for about 40 percent of total electricity generation
and were not generally interconnected with public-service systems.
48.       The Electricity Law of 1972 made the State the principal authority
in the sector. Under this law, MEM was given responsibility for power sector
policy formulation, for the authorization of investments, and for regulation
and tariff setting. The Ministry's General Directorate of Electricity (DGE)
was charged with carrying out these functions. The law also created a new
State-owned company, ELECTROPERU, responsible for planning, engineering,



- 11 -
construction and operation of all new generating facilities larger than 10 MW
and for development and construction of the transmission network. Finally,
the law provided for State participation in existing private utilities, the
largest of which was the predecessor to ELECTROLIMA.
49.       This structure proved to be ineffective because, through most of
the 1970s, DGE was a weak entity and ELECTROPERU was poorly managed. Both
experienced excessive turnover of high-level personnel because of low
salaries and thus did not provide needed leadership for the sector.    As a
result, tariff increases were slow in coming and sectoral institutions became
dependent on Government financial support. A power sector master plan, for
which DGE was responsible, was not completed until late 1980 -- well behind
schedule -- and a number of important hydroelectric projects, which were
needed to avoid generation of electricity by new thermal plants, were
delayed.
50.       Given the past difficulties with the sector, the Government intends
to strengthen its organization.  Organization studies were carried out in
1979 and 1980, financed by the Bank under Loan 1215-PE, and by the IDB. With
input from these studies, the Government has submitted to congress a draft
general electricity law which should improve the subsector's institutional
framework. Under this law, ELECTROPERU would share responsibility for public
service electricity supply with a number of regional utilities. The
intention is to provide these utilities with the opportunity to expand their
operations from the cities they now serve to surrounding regions. The bill
also gives ELECTROPERU responsibility for (i) execution of most large (500 MW
and up) generation and transmission projects; (ii) execution and operation of
inter-regional connections; and (iii) acting as a holding company for the
Government's shares of all sector entities.  In addition, it gives
ELECTROPERU responsibility for national power system planning and leaves DGE
to concentrate on sector policy and regulation. At the same time, the
Government has made a substantial effort to improve ELECTROPERU by
strengthening its management and raising salaries to lower staff turnover
(para. 67).
51.       The law is expected to be passed by congress in mid-1982.  While
it provides a sound framework for improving the sector through decentraliza-
tion, it leaves two aspects of importance to the implementation of the new
organizational arrangements undefined. These are: (i) identification and
establishment of the regional utilities and definition of the areas which
they would serve; and (ii) preparation of a timetable for implementing the
sector's reorganization. Since delays in resolving these issues would
prejudice the subsector's development, agreement that the Government would
establish these regional utilities and furnish to the Bank the timetable for
the subsector's reorganization, both by December 31, 1983, was reached during
negotiations of the proposed loan (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Subsector Finances
52.       Based on the net income-to-equity ratio traditionally used in Peru
to measure the financial performance of electric utilities, the subsector's
results have been unsatisfactory. Since 1974, the return on equity of sector
entities -- in real terms -- rarely exceeded four percent per annum, well
below the level required to provide the resources necessary to finance the
large investment program that needs to be undertaken in the future. However,
because of the low level of investment over recent years, the contribution to



- 12 -
expansion of the major utilities has been good -- the average over the last
five years was 35 percent -- and the financial position of the major
utilities is strong -- ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA have debt-equity ratios of
17/83 and 27/73, respectively.
53.       Investment in the sector will have to increase to about US$500
million/year -- well above historical levels -- if the utilities are to meet
anticipated increases in demand while providing greater service coverage --
at present only 35 percent of Peru's population receive electricity. In
order to generate these funds, the Government is improving the profitability
of the utilities.  The Government's objective -- reflected in the draft law
discussed in para. 50 -- is that the publicly-owned utilities as a whole
should have a rate of return on revalued assets of 12 percent. This
objective would be supported by the proposed loan (para. 71).  In addition,
the Government has introduced a 25 percent energy tax which will further
increase the effective rates of return by 4 to 5 points. Most of the
revenues from this tax are to be assigned to ELECTROPERU for system expansion
and about half of the total is expected to be invested outside the main
system in rural electrification and small hydro installations.   Although the
Bank would not finance this rural program under the proposed loan, since the
proposed amounts to be invested are substantial and since ELECTROPERU does
not yet have a clearly defined plan for this program, the company would draw
up such a plan for the 1984-87 period and obtain Government approval to it.
ELECTROPERU would also present the plan to the Bank for comment by
December 31, 1983 (Section 4.05 (a) of the draft Project Agreement with
ELECTROPERU).
Previous Bank Lending for Power and Bank Strategy
54.       The Bank has made six loans amounting to US$127.5 million for power
development in Peru. Three loans, totaling US$56.5 million, were for hydro-
electric projects for the Lima area and two, totaling US$46.0 million were
for expansion of the Lima distribution system. ELECTROLIMA and its predeces-
sor company, Empresas Electricas Asociadas, were the beneficiaries of all
these loans. The most recent loan, US$25.0 million for a Power Engineering
project, was made to ELECTROPERU in 1981 and aimed at preparing preinvestment
studies for a number of important hydroelectric projects and at supporting
improvement in ELECTROPERU's planning capacity. A portion of this loan was
on-lent to HIDRANDINA -- the State-owned public utility, which is a conces-
sionaire for the generation of electricity in parts of the Rimac and
Pativilca rivers -- to assist in evaluating the Mayush hydroelectric project.
55.       Execution of the first four power projects was generally satisfac-
tory. A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has only been done for the
Fourth Project (Ln. 511-PE of 1967). This report (SecM75-682 of
September 23, 1975) indicates that the project was completed about a year
late and with a small cost overrun. The delay arose from Empresas Electricas
Asociadas' initial financial problems; these were resolved during project
execution. Performance during project execution was good. The project's
economic rate of return was above the 12 percent expected, primarily because
of the increase in oil prices in 1973. The report also noted that the
project did not sufficiently address sectoral weaknesses. More recent power
loans, including the loan recommended in this report, have placed increased
emphasis on supporting sectoral development.



- 13 -
56.       The Bank's strategy for the power sector focuses on (i) strengthen-
ing the management and organization of the key institutions, particularly
ELECTROPERU, so that the Government's policy of promoting decentralization
and increasing institutional autonomy can be implemented effectively;
(ii) promoting the introduction of rational tariff policies so that the
sector's large investment needs can be financed without dependence on the
national budget; and (iii) supporting and assisting in the preparation and
execution of the hydroelectric projects -- most of which are complex -- which
are needed to expand power generation without recourse to thermal schemes
burning costly petroleum. This project would reinforce these objectives
through its support for institutional improvements -- including more rational
tariff levels -- and for preinvestment studies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
57.       The project was identified in January 1981 and its principal compo-
nent was prepared by ELECTROLIMA during the first half of 1981. The
engineering components have been prepared in connection with the previous
Power Engineering loan (para. 54) and the Water Supply and Power Engineering
project (Ln. S-li of 1978). The project was appraised during August/
September 1981. The appraisal mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report - Peru Sixth Power Project" (No. 3743b-PE, dated May 18, 1982) is
being distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary data
sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 29 to May 7, 1982 and
the Peruvian Delegation was headed by Mr. Ignacio Soto, the Director General
of Electricity.
Project Objectives and Description
58.       The project is designed to support the Government's decision to
give high priority to improving the power sector by: (i) assisting in
strengthening the major institutions in the sector, particularly ELECTROPERU;
(ii) assisting in the financing of priority investments in the distribution
of electricity so that unsatisfied demand can be met; and (iii) supporting
the preparation of priority projects for the sector, particularly the Mantaro
Transfer project.
59.       The project would include three components to be executed by
ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA. These are:
(a) construction of ELECTROLIMA's 1982-1986 electricity distribution
program and of the Yuracmayo dam; final design and preparation of
bidding documents for expanding the Transandean tunnel, needed in
order to carry out the Mantaro Transfer project; feasibility
studies of two hydroelectric projects; and the carrying out
of ELECTROLIMA's 1982-1986 training program;
(b) preparation of final design and bidding documents for the Mantaro
Transfer project; technical assistance to improve ELECTROPERU's
financial management; and the carrying out the utility's 1982-1986
training program; and
(c) preparation of final design and bidding documents for HIDRANDINA's
Mayush hydro project.



- 14 -
60.       ELECTROLIMA's component would account for about US$165.1 million
(or 89 percent) of project costs excluding contingencies. Most of this
expenditure would be for financing the company's 1982-1986 distribution
program, which would permit the connection of 130,000 new clients, mostly
residential, to the power system. More specifically, the component would
include construction or expansion of 19 electrical substations, construction
of 700 km of high- and medium-voltage lines, and installation of about 2,000
transformers as well as of about 480 km of low-voltage distribution lines.
The ELECTROLIMA component also includes financing for constructing the
Yuracmayo dam, which would regulate the water needed to generate power at the
120 MW Matucana plant -- thus increasing its output by 88 GWh/year of dry
season energy. Final engineering for the Yuracmayo dam will not be complete
until late 1982.  The current estimate of about US$24 million, however,
indicates that there could be up to a 100 percent increase in the cost of the
dam without jeopardizing its economic attractiveness. Nevertheless,
disbursements would not be made against this component until its economic
viability, based on final design, is confirmed -- to the Bank's satisfaction
-- by a feasibility study being carried out under the ongoing Power
Engineering project (para. 4 (b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       Three additional studies related to utilizing the additional water
made available by the Mantaro Transfer scheme would also be included under
the ELECTROLIMA component. These are:
(i) a feasibility study and, if justified, preparation of bidding
documents for the expansion of ELECTROLIMA's Huinco hydro plant
through addition of a fifth 60 MW unit (present installed capacity
is 240 MW);
(ii) a feasibility study of the Salto Bajo scheme. This study would
select the most economic development alternative for using the
increased water from the Mantaro Transfer scheme to generate power
by expanding hydroelectric production from three existing plants
downstream from Huinco or by developing one or more new hydro
installations; and
(iii) preparation of final design and bidding documents for the expansion
of the Transandean tunnel. This is an existing tunnel which
provides water to the Huinco plant. This work is actually a part
of the Mantaro Transfer scheme but falls under ELECTROLIMA's
responsibility because it owns this tunnel.
Finally, ELECTROLIMA's component would include a training program, which
would focus on improving the utility's training center through equipment
acquisition and technical assistance.
62.       ELECTROPERU's component would account for about US$16.4 million (or
9 percent) of project costs excluding contingencies. It would include about
US$10 million to finance a contract that has been signed with a British
consulting firm (Binnie and Partners) to prepare bidding documents and
complete engineering design of the Mantaro Transfer project whose feasibility
was established under the Bank-financed Water Supply and Power Engineering
project (para. 57). Its objective is to increase the water in the Rimac
river -- upstream from Lima on the western side of the Andes -- by diverting
water to the Rimac from the Mantaro basin -- on the eastern side of the



- 15 -
Andes. The water diverted would be used to (i) increase energy production in
the existing hydroplants on the Rimac basin; (ii) develop a new hydroplant at
Sheque; and (iii) supply Lima's incremental water needs in the late 1980s.
In view of ELECTROPERU's large borrowing needs over the next few years, it
would also include technical assistance to help strengthen the utility's
financial planning capability. The remainder of this component would cover
the costs of ELECTROPERU's 1982-1986 training program. This program was
prepared with the assistance of Bank staff and would focus on strengthening
plant operation and maintenance procedures, on expanding ELECTROPERU's train-
ing office through the acquisition of equipment, technical assistance and
fellowships and on improving procurement and inventory control procedures.
63.       HIDRANDINA's component would cost about US$3.5 million (or 2 per-
cent of total costs) excluding contingencies. It would consist of final
design and preparation of bidding documents for the Mayush hydro project.
This project, with an installed capacity of up to 130 MW, would complement
the existing 40 MW plant at Cahua on the Pativilca River. The Mayush proj-
ect's feasibility is currently being studied with the help of funds provided
under the Bank's Power Engineering project (para. 54) and this further engi-
neering work would only go ahead if Mayush's technical and economic feasibil-
ity is confirmed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4(d) of Schedule
1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower and Beneficiaries
64.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be ELECTROLIMA, since it
has responsibility for the largest share of the project.   ELECTROLIMA is the
State-controlled public utility concessionaire for generation and distribu-
tion of electricity in metropolitan Lima. The other two beneficiaries would
be ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA.
65.       ELECTROLIMA is a formerly private company which was nationalized in
1973 and has been controlled by the Government since then. With nearly three
quarters of a million clients, 1981 sales of over 3,800 GWh and assets of
nearly US$400 million, ELETROLIMA is one of the largest companies in Peru.
Eighty-eight percent of its shares belong to the Government, four percent to
ELECTROPERU and eight percent to private investors. ELECTROLIMA's board of
directors is composed of ten members, seven of whom are appointed by
ELECTROPERU, two by the employees of the company and one by COFIDE, the State
development finance bank. ELECTROLIMA is well organized and well managed.
The board and president decide on policy matters while the general manager is
responsible for day-to-day operations.
66.       ELECTROLIMA's total staff is just under 3,000 people, which is
reasonable for a utility of this size. The quality of this staff is high.
The company's information, reporting and financial systems are also good; the
only areas of weakness are in the company's time consuming, bureaucratic
acquisition procedures and in its uncoordinated demand forecasting prac-
tices. With regard to acquisitions, the main problem has been that procure-
ment decisions by the technical department have been subjected to excessively
slow reviews by the utility's administrative units. Agreement has been
reached on the use of less time consuming review procedures for items to be
acquired under the proposed loan (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement); at
the same time, technical assistance services financed under the proposed
loan's training component, would help ELECTROLIMA to implement more efficient
procurement procedures generally. With respect to demand forecasting,
ELECTROLIMA is in the process of improving the annual preparation of demand



- 16 -
forecasts with the help of technical assistance provided under the Bank-
financed Fifth Power project (Loan 1215-PE of FY76). By December 31, 1982
the utility would present to the Bank an acceptable plan of action for
improving its forecasting techniques. In addition, by that date -- and
annually thereafter -- the utility would submit its ten-year demand forecast
to the Bank for comment (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       As discussed earlier in this report (para. 49), ELECTROPERU has
been a weak institution. While the Government has recently started taking
action to strengthen the company, these measures are complicated by
ELECTROPERU's size -- it has over 5,000 employees -- and the fact that it has
offices spread throughout Peru.   Like ELECTROLIMA, it has a ten-man board of
directors, which formulates policy together with the president. Operational
responsibility lies with the general manager. Until recently, the general
manager had about 20 working groups reporting directly to him -- a fact which
over-centralized decision making and meant that there was insufficient dele-
gation of authority. In order to improve the situation, the Government has
focused on increasing the quality of management in ELECTROPERU. Specifically
it has (i) provided the utility with the autonomy to pay higher salaries;
(ii) appointed -- at the Bank's urging -- a new general manager with solid
power sector management experience; and (iii) replaced three of ELECTROPERU's
key managers with better qualified professionals and hired five advisors to
assist five other senior managers.
68.       Now that the Government has taken action to begin building up
ELECTROPERU, the Bank would, through the project recommended in this report,
focus on three specific aspects of institution building: training, improving
the financial information systems, and planning.   Training activities have
been neglected in recent years with the result that the training unit itself
needs assistance before it can more effectively execute a satisfactory
program. Bank staff worked with the unit during project preparation in
defining a program that would be executed over the 1982-1986 period with
support from the proposed loan (para. 62). With respect to financial infor-
mation, the staff of the department responsible for this in the company has
been strengthened recently and are -- with the assistance of consultants
financed under a loan from IDB -- introducing reforms and new procedures
designed to reorganize the accounting system. The objectives of this reorga-
nization would be to: (i) clarify the allocation of responsibilities between
the financial and accounting units; (ii) standardize accounting procedures;
and (iii) specify data processing needs. Improvements, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be made in all three of in these areas by December 31, 1985
(Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement with ELECTROPERU). With regard
to the third area of weakness -- planning -- formal investment planning is
now being done by ELECTROPERU and, under the provisions of the Bank-financed
power engineering project (para. 54), a master plan for power generation and
transmission must be updated semiannually. However, the initial plans that
were produced in 1981 did not include a program for works outside the main
system (e.g. for rural electrification). ELECTROPERU will continue to
prepare the master plan but, in order to improve overall planning,
ELECTROPERU would also agree to review with the Government and the Bank, by
November 30, 1983, and each year thereafter, its detailed sectoral investment
and financing plan for the following year (Section 4.05 (c) of the draft
Project Agreement with ELECTROPERU). With respect to its preparation of this
detailed plan, the utility's financial management would be assisted through
the technical assistance provided under the proposed loan (para. 59 (b)).
Finally, in order to make sure that any large new projects which are added to
the master plan are subjected to a thorough review before they are



- 17 -
launched, the Bank would be provided with a satisfactory economic justifi-
cation of any major projects before they are commenced (Section 3.03(b) of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).
69.       HIDRANDINA is a small company formed in 1947 by Empresas Electricas
Asociadas, ELECTROLIMA's predecessor, to generate electricity at two loca-
tions outside Lima and sell it in bulk.   Ninety-three percent of the shares
are owned by ELECTROPERU with the remaining 7 percent belonging to private
investors. Four of the six members of the board of directors are nominated
by ELECTROPERU and two by the staff of HIDRANDINA. The utility owns three
hydroelectric plants: the 40 MW plant at Cahua, the 63 MW plant at Moyopampa
and the 32 MW plant at Huampani.   The company has about 200 employees and is
a small, well organized, well managed utility.
Finances
70.       The financial analysis carried out in conjunction with the prepara-
tion of this project shows that in the 1982-1986 period, the combined invest-
ment requirements of the three participating institutions will be large --
equivalent to about US$2.5 billion (in 1980 prices). By 1986, the companies'
fixed assets would be nearly 50 percent higher in real terms. The
Government's policy is that power companies should, to the extent possible
be financially self-sufficient in the future -- though it will be making some
financial contributions to them in the short term. Sources of funding for
the investment program between 1982 and 1986 are as follows:
Source                      Amount (US$ millions of 1980)
ELECTROPERU/ELECTROLIMA and                          906
HIDRANDINA net cash generation
Energy Tax Funds Available                           275
Total Internally Generated Funds                   1,181
Borrowings                                         1,076
Equity Investments from the Government               488
Other                                                 44
Total                                              2,789
71.       These projections show that the institutions would contribute about
42 percent of the funds required for investment during the 1982-86 period
from internally generated funds. The projections are prepared on the assump-
tion that tariffs would be increased sufficiently to enable the companies to
earn the Government's objective of a 12 percent return -- excluding the
energy tax -- on rate base by 1985. The Government increased charges by over
30 percent in real terms during 1981. In order to achieve this 12 percent
goal, tariffs would have to be increased by a further 50 percent, in real
terms, by 1985. The Bank would support this objective by including
covenants in the proposed project's legal documents whereby the institutions
would apply for tariff increases which would gradually enable them to reach
the stipulated 12 percent rate of return on rate base (revalued fixed assets
plus working capital) from 1985 onwards. Under the project, the Government
would authorize the requested tariff increases (Section 3.05 of the draft



- 18 -
Guarantee Agreement; Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
4.03 of both Project Agreements). The interim rate of return targets set for
the utilities would be four percent in 1982, seven percent in 1983 and 10
percent in 1984. In order to help ELECTROPERU protect its capital structure
as it becomes more profitable, the project also calls on the Government to
reinvest ELECTROPERU's dividends -- should any be declared in the future --
back into the company (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
72.       The financial projections for each company show that they would all
maintain a strong financial position throughout the forecast period.
ELECTROLIMA's debt/equity ratio would improve slightly from 25/75, at the end
of 1981, to 19/81 at the end of 1986. Meanwhile, ELECTROLIMA's debt service
coverage ratio would remain above 2. ELECTROPERU's debt/equity ratio would
rise modestly -- from 21/79 in 1981 to 25/75 in 1986 -- and its debt service
coverage is expected to improve from 0.8 times to 2.0 times during the same
period. HIDRANDINA's debt/equity ratio would increase considerably from 1/99
in 1981 to 73/27 in 1986 because of the relatively heavy borrowing and
investment associated with construction of the Mayush hydroelectric project.
Because of this borrowing HIDRANDINA's debt service coverage would decline
from 2.3 to 1.0.
73.       In spite of the improvement in earnings which is foreseen, borrow-
ings contracted by the three companies during the period will be large --
over US$1 billion over the next five years. While it is the intention of the
Government and the companies to maximize borrowing from international and
bilateral financing agencies, in order to ensure that the borrowing is con-
tracted in a disciplined manner, the three companies have agreed to obtain
the Bank's concurrence for new borrowings if (i) short-term debt exceeded
one-sixth of operating, maintenance and administrative expenses (excluding
non-cash provisions); and (ii) their internal cash generation was less than
1.5 times their future maximum annual long-term debt service requirement
(Sections 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement and 4.04 of the draft Project
Agreements).
Project Cost and Financing
74.       The total project cost is estimated at US$ 255.3 million equiv-
alent, including taxes and import duties which amount to about US$25 million
or 10 percent of total costs. This estimate includes physical contingencies
amounting to 10 to 15 percent of the cost of each item and price contin-
gencies, in dollar terms, of 8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984,
7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent thereafter. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$91.4 million, or 36 percent of project costs with the
balance (US$163.9 million or 64 percent of total costs) being for local
expenditures. The project's total financing requirements -- total costs plus
a front-end fee of US$1.2 million -- come to US$256.5 million. The proposed
Bank loan of US$81.2 million would, after deduction of the front-end fee,
finance 88 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The remaining US$11.4
million of foreign costs, mainly representing imported transformers, would be
financed through suppliers credits. The project's local costs would be
contributed by the three participating agencies, 93 percent by ELECTROLIMA,
6 percent by ELECTROPERU and 1 percent by HIDRANDINA. In order to permit
prompt initiation of the engineering for the hydro projects, retroactive
financing for foreign exchange expenditures incurred after September 15,
1981, up to a limit of US$1.0 million, is proposed.



- 19 -
Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
75.       ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA would be responsible for
overall execution of their respective components of the project. ELECTROLIMA
would enter into subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank and on
the same terms as the proposed Bank loan, for onlending US$12.3 million to
ELECTROPERU and US$3.6 million to HIDRANDINA (Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Signing of these agreements would be a condition of
disbursement for their components of the project (Schedule 1, para. 4 (c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). ELECTROLIMA would execute the physical works
included in the project and its engineering staff would carry out the plan-
ning for these works, supervise engineering designs and prepare specifica-
tions for equipment, materials and works. ELECTROLIMA's technical staff is
competent and can execute the project adequately.
76.       Civil works, materials and equipment to be financed with funds from
the proposed loan with a total value of US$97 million would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Local suppliers and those from Cartagena agreement member
countries (or any other regional trade agreement acceptable to the Bank of
which Peru is or may become a member) would be accorded a preference repre-
senting the difference between the prevailing duty actually applicable and
the duty applicable to goods imported from non-member countries, or 15 per-
cent on the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. The regional preference would
not be applied, however, if a domestic manufacturer was determined to be the
lower bidder after application of the domestic preference. An additional
US$11.3 million in minor civil works, which are not suitable for packaging
and which are too small to be of interest to international bidders, would be
procured through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
agreed to with the Bank. Limited international tendering would be used for a
few items which have to be compatible with existing equipment (such as expan-
sion of existing communication equipment, special workshop and laboratory
equipment and computer software), each not exceeding US$150,000 and estimated
not to exceed US$1.5 million in total. Consultant services financed under
the loan would amount to about US$19.5 million (excluding contingencies).
The costs are based on estimated average rates of about US$11,000 per staff-
month including subsistence and travel. All Bank-financed consultants would
have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and would be hired under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement and 2.02 (a) of both project agreements).
77.       The loan would be disbursed over a six-year period -- from mid-1982
to mid-1988 -- in accordance with the following expenditures for eligible
expenditures: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for goods procured abroad
and 100 percent of the ex-factory cost for any locally manufactured items
which are selected through ICB; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for con-
sultants from abroad and 90 percent of local expenditures for local consul-
tants; 30 percent of expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for training fellowships; and 100 percent of the front-end fee.
Project Benefits
78.       The project's main component would entail expanding the availabil-
ity of power in Lima. As a result of the operation recommended in this
report, over 130,000 families -- more than 50 percent of which live in low-
income areas -- would be provided with access to electricity and thus have



- 20 -
improved living standards. An economic rate of return has been calculated
for the aggregate 1982-86 expansion program of the central-north intercon-
nected system, which includes the project. Using the anticipated tariffs,
including taxes paid by ELECTROLIMA's customers, as a proxy for benefits, the
rate of return is estimated at about 17 percent.
79.       There are certain important, but non-quantifiable benefits which
are expected to result from the project. The engineering studies would
assist in preparation of a series of hydroelectric projects which are needed
if construction of costly thermal plants is to be avoided. The Bank's
support for preparation of the Mantaro Transfer project is particularly
crucial if this highly complex project is to proceed in the optimum manner to
provide needed power and water for Lima by the end of this decade. In addi-
tion, the training which would be provided would result in an upgrading of
the quality of staff in ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA, the two major institu-
tions in the sector. The dialogue that has taken place during project prepa-
ration has provided the Bank with a vehicle for supporting needed institu-
tional reforms and for strengthening the financial performance of the util-
ities. The higher tariffs which the project foresees would enable these
utilities to make a greater contribution to their investment programs while
encouraging conservation of energy and a more rational allocation of
resources. Finally, the annual review of the investment and financing plan,
in combination with the Bank's review of the economic justification of major
projects (para. 68), would provide the Bank with an opportunity to help
ensure that future investments are made in a well thought out manner.
Environmental Aspects
80.       The proposed project does not present environmental problems.
ELECTROLIMA has taken adequate care of environmental effects in designing the
distribution network. The engineering studies to be included in the project
would include environmental impact statements. With respect to the engineer-
ing for the Mantaro Transfer project, two particular environmental issues
would be addressed so that the final design would be able to deal with them.
These issues are:
(i) control of the pollution -- from the effluent of the large Cerro de
Pasco copper mine -- which currently enters the Mantaro River; and
(ii) the potential ecological effect of raising the water level --
because of the dam that would be constructed on the eastern end of
the Transandean tunnel -- in Lake Junin by 1.7 meters including the
measures needed to assist in relocating the 115 families around it.
Project Risks
81.       The project faces no special physical risks.  Nevertheless, as the
Yuracmayo dam would be located in a seismic region, the engineering design to
be financed under the proposed project would include a seismological analysis
whose findings would be reflected in the dam's design. In addition,
ELECTROLIMA would agree to appoint a board of consultants, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to review the design two months after
completion of the preinvestment study mentioned in para. 60 and to follow
Bank requirements for dam safety inspections during the course of the damts
construction (Sections 3.04 and 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between ELECTROLIMA, COFIDE (the State
Development Bank, which under Peruvian Law must be a party to all agreements
providing for external loans to public enterprises) and the Bank; (ii) the
draft Project Agreements between the Bank and ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA,
respectively; (iii) the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Peru and the Bank; and (iv) the Report and Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for power
loans. The main features of the draft Project, Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of disbursement for the project components to be
executed by ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA would be their entering into sub-
sidiary loan agreements (each satisfactory to the Bank) with ELECTROLIMA.
Disbursements for the construction of the Yuracmayo dam and for the
engineering for the Mayush hydro project would also be conditioned upon
confirmation of the economic justification of these components.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                              by M. A. Qureshi
May 24, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVE7GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATEY-Z
TOTAL           1285.2                                 MOST RECENT            HIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL     305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  230.0       410.0     730.0                1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     436.3        691.8     736.9               1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0      13461.0   17149.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3         57.4      66.5                  64.2                     53.2
FOPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MlLLIONS)                       28.5
STATIONAKY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         7.9        10.5      13.3                 34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. K1. AGRICULTURAL LAND     33.0         44.0      54.6                 94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                         43.6         44.3      42.8                 40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                         52.0         51.8      53.6                 55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4          3.9       3.6                  4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.8       2.7                  2.4                       1.5
URBAN                              5.1          5.0       4.3                  3.7                       3.1
CKUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.4         41.8      37.8                 31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.7        14.5      11.1                  8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4          3.0       2.6                  2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          96.0        102.0      86.0                108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                   95.0         99.0      97.0                107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0         61.0      59.0                 65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.0         25.0      24.0                 34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGEb 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.5         19.6      13.7                  7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7         53.5      58.0                 64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       122.0/c    86.0                 70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIoN)
TOTAL                             14.6         35.0      48.3                 65.7
URBAN                             30.2         58.0      60.0                 79.7
RURAL                              0.8          8.0      25.0                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         36.0      34.0                 59.9
URBAN                               ..         52.0      51.0                 75.7
FURAL                               ..         16.0        ..                 30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2011.7       1904.9    1545.1               1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2205.0/d      738.0     745.0               1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            425.1/e      469.6     542.7                471.2                     262.3
URBAN                               ..        524.8     430.1                558.0                     191.8
RUKAL                               ..       3055.3    5747.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         19.0      23.0                   ..                      18.2
HOUSUING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                              4.8         4.97g       .
KURAL                              4.9          4.67       ...
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                              2.0          1.77       .
RURAL                              2.7          2. 47       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             26.0         32.1/f
URBAN                             50.7         54.3/f
RURAL                              4.2          2.7/f



- 23 -                                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                           Page  2  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  83.0        103.0      112.0                 101.7                     105.9
MALE                   95.0        111.0      116.0                 103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                 71.0         96.0     106.0                  101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   15.0         30.0       50.0                  35.3                       66.3
MALE                   18.0         34.0       53.0                   34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                 13.0         26.0      46.0                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  20.0            17.0       16.0                   30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              34.0         35.0       40.0                  29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                            12.0         17.0       29.0                  15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          61.0         72.5/f    79.7                    80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            8.0         17.1       18.5                  42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          108.0        135.1      135.4                 215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.2         29.3       50.8                  89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        123.3       51.0                   62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..                    3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        3193.9       3896.8    5079.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     21.1         20.7       22.8                  22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                53.0         44.8       37.8                  35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   19.0         20.1      20.0                   23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.4         28.9       29.6                   31.8                      42.3
MALE                                   49.6         45.8       45.6                   49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                 13.2         12.0       13.6                   14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.7        1.6                    1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/g            ..         .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.47A          61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/g           1.9/f       ..  
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0/g           7.07         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     180.0                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      293.0                 513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..      200.0                 362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       49.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-75;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
*  The updated 1980 GNP per capita shown in the 1981 Bank Atlas is
$930 (at 1978-80 prices) and the 1980 woPulatinn is estim-ated at
17,625,000.



- 24 -                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONSi OP SOCIAL INIICATOiO
i.tnee:  Alaboagh tbe data are dn-n  fie ....t.. generaly judged the mean  -htbntntai- end reliable.  it ehould glen be  oted  that they anY not bentr
-IIt-n I,lln'coupanabl   ..te.. nIf tInlc  of etendetdi-ed d.tinitinne  en   onen  need by differet coen.... Iin colctn   tbe date.  The detete
.Ibel .s., ucfl in deetebe  rdr  of         igttd      nditten   trede, ed  h ...rt              eei  mjor diffe...ncee  betwee  I...oIltes
Thereeron   genopeate, 11).t' nbeeaountrygrnocer.theeo.b)eottcnyed  (171 aountry~- g                              ioytbeosa.ehethigtere-ortecge             , looebticnt rygrnSoy
of tesb(t   onr   eontfr'aia   ncu  011 ino                          Ine    goPei1te "Middle Inc-           -torh bfiott  andniddle    - met  tahomn  heau=         feteoe
eot-ulo  f fitoitte).l  the ree     -neg Po Jet, the ategeaepylte    eghted erihrtuetoeae  for each indtaror-and  hbee  only  hen
.ainrLr  of, the  Iote    teAoebe dat  for c1hat niiteo.i-                         b   eeeeo toft e_aonIte   d ta edeeods cc the nollebtiltt  tf data
en Jentnofr,cnntee                acte   JIt tetgavrgeo  oneiliod-efe  to atother.  Tb.. ec   vtee    t  elly  -efel 1n  -pm-niog tin on i   of
ete todto-nn  at a tine e-ng the tecettY etd telreca -           ope
LADit ARMA (Ih-ne.ad eqIka.)                                                                          Pe   Fattrt ifeecital ted-ttl  ota -,td tutni - ?Toyc.i-to   (total
Totl1 - T-1e e-fece...   ..e.c.nyieglao  oe  and inlend eaes.tba..  endrrl  divided by thtet resynotte  com"ber of hoepn-tral bede,
Aglo.1t.ltul - tEnieste  ef et     _ornalaesnedteny..tatly or trnartily                               avilable  to poblic ecd ycitnaege alad stlaited h.eptilndre
too eolpe, paetnce. earket etd kitohen gendets  ot.c lie feline: 191  data.                         hattaloecc.Oenaeaeetb  eecePetiacettly etaffed
cu1l.t d by cn  cneelc   ehod ac World B..k Atlas )1977-79 beele); 1960,                              and  meial     IrIr   n  petnetetly enaffrd by a yhystcian  (hot bya
1970, sod 1919 dsta,                                                                                   _d ical am..c.   t  I.r.e, eiditf, etc.)  hioh offert-a-            n    tot
d,ri,n nod pr-cde a hatted  -ang  of aedica1 fcilftitee.  tFrta,
iinnIGf CONSUMPyTIOt ti  CAIIA - Annel c-tentlo  of comnca  eea   Jta                                   tIcL tnIcPI       rbnbertl  icee  Oepctt                          '.Itna    oylaa
and  igni-. yet-ele-, natura  gas nod hydro.-',  ela   n   etane   ln                                 acdrenl  boPh.inaIk loca   ctote  hott             adnd1loa  and naterity
'trinity) It bilngree   of col eqolne1en  Pcc tayir; 1960. 1970, and1919                              ctee.Sye-taled-hocpitale ace inloded eel   - .decttl
dta.                                                                                              Adniesto.. n-e ti-acita  Bed - Tota   ubro    ddtaon    otitoh-rge
item  bpiytlel  divided by tha n-net  f bela.
MPUrLATIONa AND tVITAL, STAfISTICS
Total Pnrulatieo. iid-Tear(h                  A.ne)-d  of Je1y 1; 1960, :970, end 1919           HOUSilIN
dsLa.                                                                                            Avet..r tine of H"  Ibed  ...e..sona - hcucehiold)-tot-l, urban.            nd.   ta
Ithbc Pntaarn .  ....aII of total   - tait  of orb:a,ctri  ouatt                                      A hn.eehold cnlt              Ill.gee  oftdi elyeho.aeinn   qenten
different deft.tinton  of omen. area  eay afec  co           ra   Jy of dat                        and tbet J el  neal-.I.  A b-ede-  -t ldgec ma Io nay noA  included to
among cnonntte.;  1961. 1970, atd 191~,9 data.~                                           tbr  ,ou fhld  o  ennai            eyse
-nneto ....        tnehenntnbco  reretne ret coca- total, urban, end tonal -
tny,canlotto ner 110                                                                                                     J aro    oonlnyoeclo   r   te   o19  bto   eeo   e   eni  all ura,nd totl   ope .oretoa
toa    nnaltby ag Iad aee   d thlt  tntnlly erd ferti   It  ctee.                      danilloga,  reyoti-ly.  Onallictaen-lcdetn-e                        --ttirctcend
Irjtlcyretarefn  motItt ratne onaytlie of fhr.. levelen.au.-                             un   Petdyca
log life no pettanty at blnth intn-eamt with c          Pnty'a  e  tait ic  hn-e         Attna-   ilttctv.atett   aeltal    oa.-nn.an   uo
lee,  n  fml  life enpectety mtabtltelt  at 71.1 yeere .  The yarec -                     Cetetlna  Attelli.g  ni.. .lrtlctc  to linig q-eter...Pm                       - g
no   erIIt" y trends fot yro-c tot. y Pynn.                                                 Afee   noietRt
Stationar  n el ln- IIne -t -noy yoo.latOt  there. Ian  growth aite                                Primatn aeohl-  nal.  aeIn  teIeo                   cttl   aeed fenal
the   iribnte   a aqal o nb  deah tae, ad eet te ag  errcloe cc                   enrllmet ofallageeat te trmarylevlIneretottfgI                     o
naioentetat.  Ti  le acJvdol   tarfrt n   ae definetoottacdehILIagehooatn:nral   oldeolldre  aged 6-11
the rerleoeenr lenelof ed iten- r-p-odnore      at.  nbec, eaci:h aeearteyeet  hot edjoetd for dilfer-t  lscgthe of primay ede-tinn: for
of nneo n            ile .. Ifel  enotly.  The seat  _loay pnn-ulati   site, me.                        Ileltastt  onlvteh        edeta.. cnrnln_tey eceed ill yer-te
eend lenel.                                                                                 nd.oatlccreqttreeac  lae   ot  er   f  prvdytnt   narilt
fea  stationar    Jctat            Ia renhbd - The year mhet etac-tcay yoyoleclon                     ero-ldeegnrl   oatna.o   ece    rinn   otettn   Ir  roPi
attnh. bee hencencd.                                                                               oeel   e  de1  na.o  ag;ctettdtnOtant   enal
tef in. La  -tid-yer yopn-oltot pet s.... kiloneten.  (ill bectarne) of                            Vcatlnna eIr-ilmei  (aer-ono of ......darvl - no..taional istiatlone..
toa   re;10, j1970 and 1979 data -                                                         locode tecIhn!:Ical-,sidsre.o  obryo m   ehiob h                  rn   Lndeyecod-
-e   n   a.ancltnllnd -Caon    nb                     fot agttt-lto-a  lacd                        in ra   emteat   fsordaytslo   oe
ony; 1960, 1970 ard 1978 dat.                                                                    turt-       h-tenerrtto    erli-tyo..ad ....andary-nToll etAdent  ennedt
teltion ASIMIreonr  (eeroen) -Childre   10-14 yeera), e-riog-age  (15-                              Ptri-y andetndy   -lel  divided by noner  of teac.hers in the
6A year) ,and rettrad 165 years aod ove) aa rereentagee of  itd-yea  PIyn-tnepodglvls
ato:1961,  197,a       1979 date.                                                              Molt literay rare Inencent.) - Litatatend.1te  fable no reed and write)
i' lno   rwlnn _   Ipero-ni --totl - aa..uI gltnwhrae  of nona1 aid-                             aep-rcc-e  o Itotal adult p-oycinnl    aged 15 yeare eod over.
year yoelact.. for 1950-60, 19ti-10, and 1970-79.
PnnatnIen ht  U_alrctt      oe  - gonuosl.-oeh cat-  of utha  Pete-                        CifNSlitTlOf
C_anlonaC-j11 foe105-6, 1it0-Ol, aod 1970-79.                                                                       .!asneeCr   tr tho.....d p.orlatinol - Pes-g-r oste toyreep nu
Crd hnrAae  erreenl - Ac 1a ItLe hirthe Per thnuand of etd-,-yar  ee_ig  eether  ighn y-a....e; eclIdee anbelant-, hee_e  end
yoyuacln; 196l, 1970, and 1919 dat.                                                              eltayvhle
Crudeleahet   pt hea l-oanua  deaths Pen thenenddof  id-ear-ai  eaet Prefcrhno .and nylal    -01  nYPee ofretee  fo  rdIo
yyltn;1960, 1970, ad1979 dana.                                                               Ieeosen   eea  yobhltc tar thoc...d of yyl               -ln;eolds  v
GIrne   aer tnot       en-anaege  teete  of daughitree eva             ill bea  to                   fteedreteei   noclee and in yer  ela   rglfrttnIf radio
bet noma  rerdcIve yaiod if she.arr Pue    .r.e.n. g-r oti  fe-                                     aeetanetc;dal   o   aaoyascyntbe Ioarblestn-
tlltty  rates; usnallyfiv-year avcaeeedIng in 190  Igt.n.17.msJionia  blee   lcnIg
Fa-ily PIa.-J.a -                Adtnr. -Inna  )nhn,ceade)t- Annual nuber of acannr                TV tRcenver  (aer thoumed pnnultlnn)    TV  eevr  for broadoa   no II
of bIrth-onotrolI davncee under eeepi         fnaional family cenn   P-'ge-                        geea  public yen1 thonsand yoylpa!tto ealdenlcnedTrceer
famIlyPJ y   dao1._-leer    loerct L o  meyd nee) - tercnag   of manle                                inl ieant ise en   Inyear   hIn rgtratlo   ofo estni   fet
woano  obild-her~il   g  (1-A      hara b  uae bitrhb-.nnnr-I d-v..eeto                      tseaarCrottn    re   heen                                        thitn)      hw   ...aeag. tc
all maried eneninsae  gegtue                                                                       nlsd C f tdaily geea   t esrnmmeet  daft ned  aaeldloa
yehlioanti   devn-d pi-tialy no  -aoedtng  a              =ecl ..  In Je con.e,'llerd
REfO aItD feTLfITtOa                                                                                    no ha "daily" tf in  par t    -en...  fou  tilm..  .n.ek.
laden of Fnn   rouctian rerCatt  )16          _7-lt  -(de. nf pr tpfita anul                       Cinem  A--cIa Atf-d-nce emr  aPita retTet-ese:              o  the nube  of
yroducnoni  .ofdal Ondc        nIniJ.   yvdttneoue   adadfa ndntbtemld durIng thyerIniodiag  Ldnetn   to drietn                                                             _ne
Is o  caeneryear bhete. C-indtl.e..ve .primary goods (e.g. eAg-r...                             end mbi    ae
Idoeu   n  age) ehio  er  eib  end  -nninnirtnt  (e.g. cnffea ad
natnl  nrg  t`duce   prc       stht;1961-, 191, ad1979 dana.                             TatL1 Labor Poree ithona...del  E- tno ioly actt- paraons, tncuding
yeP- et  erl  ofdcl.re  ln2rc_n of requir-mnte  - Inepuftd from                                    an-md fnrna  ca-d unemyloy   butenldthuetv,audt,ec.
energ  equiivalen1t2of nt fond auppILc  aveilable in cnntry per cPapn.. onaro   poelt                                   ofa nilng..   lflnitl       L.    atc    Innttaar
Per day.   va-La.ble enpIJte  coprise dm.Iio produttLat, i,pnnte I...                            non to-p-tble; 1960. 1970 aId 1979 date
guantnta  ueed in fond ylote..ielag   Ind   Lasst  dierIIunLo.     .      iqtre-            Astol   ure l.--tent  - Lao   uc  I   ema ffotetry,h-tiog  aed
mn.twr  mtuaa   by PAt b..eed onpytn ia   -d.ed  fat ..-ma  acrl-                               fihbing sep trm sa  of tota  labor ftrte; 161, 1970 and 1979 dana.
ynty and health onn..nidrt-a e-vr-anL.1 me-aue  body woighta, age                              lnd    ymatiet  - Labor fncm   L in mntg, no-troontac, aanfatnrtnlg
end e.. dietetbcfLon  of  ypcart,ad alwn   17 t-ren Ifor meeanad  aet                                             ,mtnr and gas as percentage of tona  lab-r ftnvc; 1960,
f.Inuahold. leve;l; 196-65, 1970,oad 1977d dta.                                                   1970 aed 1979 dana.
enonpitr  ueel  nf renneto laa-  net day) - Pnovittnnenof pen cePit.                           fann rtnnanbr-nt      otl   al,ad femle-yar-tnipatino or
oaf eapy of food Per day.  fea  eupp1y of food I. defined as abate  . t-                         atintnynee.eomo                  etotal,_ ml, and fenl  labor fntcsa
qulr=m.aafnr.1  all .noneias eetblishad bf USDA provide for elii-                                 etngeof total, male and femal  yylantLoa of at1 ages reep-tiv-ly;
a    oten    f 60 grEa of tnna1 protein Par day end if gsm   nf animal nod                 1961,. 1970, and 1979 data.  Thaaa arc bae   on. d     10s partit pate  ret-
y.lce prntatv_ of m.,i  11 an-am  eheAd he atlmel Prnti    Tfhaae ana-                           r-flsanlnga       e.-rat-   n  rhI   pnnal,nd 1mg time tred.IA
cede Iyeloe     .tan   .b. of 75 En-ama of t-Ia ptroet  an   25gam    f                          fe  ai-ttte  arm  from  ntintecr_          e
animal ppo-ei  cc, anavrge1 frlthb  world, Ppeop-d by  A  L0.i  the Third                      ton-alo Denende-n   t!ti   - ett  of  nnuleenuder Itan  65 and Iys
Wnrld Fond SA_my  1961-65, 170 end 1977 deta.                                                    no  the total laorfoce
Per cels onea eerl  fro   anma  and1 P,"e   - pete-n supply at fund de-
rIve    P"m unaeso1       ulesI  gas           dan; 1961-65 ,197D and 1977d.fta.            INCOME DnyIgryBTIOa
Mild  same1-41 flnnalitt ets Iper  heuca_d   - aaa   eth-e`hoad  n                       Pretg  nf P-eeIncome fbo    n  abca  Anod  -  aeend.byrticie
ag olp- lma-, no  hildeen  in thgia ae gnp  fne meet det..lapta.tun                      5 Per..en. richest 26Leoo,   ors  20 prcet, nod pnnren  At pnrta
cIes. data derived fr-  life tab_16, 197  and 179 de ta.                                           of hnaeehnlde.
Li. t aOcaret e at Birlh (ven-e  - bee-ae naber nf year  of li.IferminIng                          The fnltwiaa  ei-ate  are vrappranimta m                      oerm f pnvatyt evls
atbntb;1960, 1970 and 199aa,ed slhoudb   aepee    i                                                                                        J nedthecoin
in atle-nlity Sane lra  thanad           A--uI deanba of infanta under ema year                 alaed AbnltePve,anne lee                        -Oerceti-uhnad itel-
nof aga Per nbnna   live bif the.                                                                  Abnlate p-very Laa  leve  J. that  ecam   level bl1w  ahich a  I.inte
An-n  nSfe  aNer iIre nfeelt""n- total  Nhnoa na  -ea                                            ureowiyaeun  die   laesnIal1 nnn-fnad rLnrmet   iant
(ee    upyinoldaa   Zte .,a  orfae noat  I. untreted hon unonsmnaed                       g t.td geltins Pavetv I-tm   Level (Ui$e tnna   arba  end  -ora  -
matnca-a   than teem  pranat-d  hrhas ,tern.  an   antr  c t  naoralreatv   pnvsrty tan.-n  leve  Ls o-tbindn   vrgeperpn
ptmngmof thein tayntta   ny-itnn.  I'n`e na   lve  apbiternlIcaatI                                                  e   enn.Urban leve  IA dance d fin   h   ua
f t.aaia n _anpaet In-tad met  -er  than 200 me.ter  Zre  n b-e may he-en  vith adjeam t f-r high-r n-net at living  in  -rtatme
nn=idmred as  e1ing sithin emaeble a              oea f than hae . I  rura  arn                   attd  analneat   baua  eet    am    ee  eecnl-a-e
emeembleaceeenud imply that tha hancumife ormcaso   h    aehi                                      n    _ua  -Prcn  ofpplctna (P.. ca   ua)                        r   aelt
dn  anhtet  eped a dlaproynen.inet  part of the day in fetobing ntapae'
*..bn  of pant  (ota'       uhn   e   aa)een   yatn    ipetc
pernennaga  If theit ..eapcttve Papolati-             .. tanat  dtapnel may iolude
end L_en-atar by  ae-hresyn    o n   u o f pit prenean   nueicnai   anyt  sad' PrnJeti.a. Diperateon
l.t tnal.ttn_a                                                                                                                                            fla  1991,
Pemlenen  arFbtenian    Fpnltiea  divided by a,bnr of pettitiag  pbyei-
nam   qnilia  tem    mmiol sbai a  uiemeeLty leve.
PPena.tiamertreePeea-Pplo   dmivdd  by macbar nf preteeong
male cAd f ala  geadanta n.       a   rn a   =neama   cad ceetetetmes



- 25 -
PERU                                                                                                      ANNEX I
PaRe 4 of 5
ECONDOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
A C T U A L                                                    ESTIMATED       PROJECTED                 GROWTH DATE (X p.a.)                1977
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                         1965            1970          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979p          1980p          1981            1985            1965-76      1976-80    1980-85            2 of
(millioms of US dollars at 1977 prices)                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GDP
Dross Domestic P-odu-t                                  8902.5          10693.6      13376.8        13647.1       13639.6       13570.8       14079.0        14516.4        15082.5         18792.5             3.9          1.6         5.3             100.0
GCios fro  Tcrms of Trode                               -610.9            130.0       -246.9        -179.4            0.0       -235.9          679.9          872.1          317.0           558.2            n.a          n.a         n.e                8
Grocu . oc.D i_o locouc (GDY)                           8291.6          10823.6      13129.9        13467.7       13639.6      13334.9       14758.9         15388.5        15399.5         19350.7            4.4           3.4         4.7             100.0
Imports                                                 1840.2          2190.1        2985.4        2697.7        2706.8        1988.7        2086.8          3004.6         3455.3          3724.7            3.5          2.7         4.4               19.8
Exports                                                 2314.3           2616.8        1906.9       1908.8         2129.5       2431.2         2730.1         2578.5         2632.6          2979.6           -1.7          7.8         2.9               15.6
Exporto, Terms of Trade Adjusted                        1703.4           2746.8       1660.0        1729.4         2129.5       2195.3        3410.0          3450.6         2949.6          3537.8            0.1         18.9          0.5              15.6
Resource Gap, Ters-  of Trods Adjusted (-: sacpls)    136.8             -556.7        1325.4          968.3         577.3       -306.6       -1323.2         -446.0           503.7           186.9            0.0          n.e         u.s                4.2
Total ConsorRPtiOn                                      6461.3          8669.0       11313.3       11694.8        12172.2       11272.3      11633.3         12543.7        12990.5         15787.9            5.C          1.8         4.7               89.2
Io-tsiaeut                                              1967.1          1597.9        3142.0        2741.2        2044.7        1756.0        1802.2         2398.8          2914.7          3749.7            3.1          3.3         9.3               15.0
Domestic Soiogs                                         1830.3           2154.6       1816.6        1772.9         1467.4       2062.6        3125.4          2844.8         2409.0          3562.8           -0.3         12.5          4.6              10.8
p/ preliminary
PRICES IN US DOLLARS (1977   100)
EDport Prior Inde                                          32.9            46.9          87.4          90.6         100.0          97.7        148.6           175.4          164.3           243.4
Import Price uIdes                                        44.7             44.3        100.4          95.7         100.0         108.1         119.4          131.0          (46.7            205.1
Terms of Trode Indeo                                      73.6           105.0          87.1           94.7        100.0          90.4         124.9          133.S           112.0           118.7
Annual Average Exchcnge Rate (Doles peP 5)                26.8             38.7          40.8          57.4          83.8         156.3        224.4          208.7          416.0              u.a
GDP BY SECTOR        ---                                        LABOR FORCE_               _                                LABOR PRODUCTIVITY
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY                            In Mil. of UD             Percest of           Growth                                     Percent of        irowth                                      Percemt of            Gro-th
IN 1973 PRICES                                                     Dollars                   Total              Rats            IE  Thooumads               Total            Rate            Im UD  Dollars               Average             Rate
1970        1980         1970       1980          70-80          1970        1980         1970     1980        70-80          1970        1980         1970       1980           70-80
Agricult-re (in-l. fishing)                                  1534.2      1457.8          17.3      11.8         -0.5          2011.9      2248.0         48.0      40.0       1.1            762.6       648.5         36.1       29.4        -1.6
Industry (aioing, Rmauf., electr.., consr. )                3226.3       4712.4          36.5      38.1          3.9           769.1      1037.2         18.4      18.5       3.0          4194.9      4543.4         198.6     206.2           0.8
scroi-es (all others)                                        4084.8      6198.1          46.2      50.1          4.3          1407.6      2328.3         33.6      41.5       5.2          2902.0      2662.1         137.4     120.8          -0.9
Total/Average                                                8845.3     12368.3         100.0     100.0          3.4          4188.6      5613.5        100.0    100.0        3.0           2111.8     2203.3         100.0      100.0          0.4
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                                                            ESTIMATED      PROJECTED
(as pe-neat of Currest GDP)                                    1965           1970          1975         1976        1977         1978           1979       1980        1981           1982
Cormest Reveso-                                                13.2           14.6          14.0          13.4        13.5        14.3          16.0        18.4         16.6          17.2
Corro-t UnpeodOtore                                            12.4           12.1          14.4          14.8        16.9        15.8          12.8        16.2         16.5          15.7
C-trenc  SayDogs                                                0.8            2.5          -0.4          -1.4       -3.4         -1.5           3.2         2.2          0.1           1.5
Copitol Uxpenditores                                            3.9            3.7           4.5           4.5         3.5         3.1           3.7         4.7          4.6           4.1
Eoterual Assistance (Net)                                       1.0            0.5           2.3           1.8         3.0         0.4          -0.7         0.3          0.3
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                              AC T U A L
(as perceat of Total Carrest ERpenditure)                      1968           1973          1976        1977         1978                         DETAIL ON                                       1981/85 DevelopRent Plso
PUBLIC SECTOR                                     US $           2 Total
Eductiton                                                      30.6           27.9          22.9          18.1        16.1                         INVE8TMENT PROGRAM                               Million
Heath                                                           9.4            6.3           6.2           4.7         6.0                                                                        1981 Prices
Agnicult-re                                                     3.6            4.4           1.8           1.3         3.4
Other Ecouoric Services                                         3.2            4.0           5.2           3.2         2.7                        AgrEciltuse, Fishing                              1557.2           14.1
GC-enea  seriEces (Inoludlng deeEnse)                          46.4           42.7          46.9          54.1       45.2                         IEdostry, Tourism sod MisiOg                       924.1            8.3
oterrcst on Debt                                                5.4           11.3          10.8          15.1       24.1                         Energy                                            2688.1           24.2
Other                                                           1.8            3.3           6.2           3.5         2.5                        Tea..po-t asd Comi-taiicoe                        2547.2           23.0
Social ood Local  Icter-t Projects               3367.6            30.4
Totol Current Expeoditores                                 100.0           100.0         100.0         100.0      100.0
T 0 T A L                                   11084.2          100.0
ONEY AND CREDIT                                                1973         1974         1975         1975        1976         1976        1977         1977         1978         1978         1979         1979         1980          1981 p
(Billioss of Roles outstandiag
at the sod of pmriod)
M.o.ey asd Qost-Sloney                                          98.3        120.0        141.8        142.4       166.3        166.8       216.2        220.5        344.1        361.1        686.4        725.9        1305.1        1973.5
Bank Credit to Psblic Sentor                                    27.2         26.9        49.7          60.3       101.4        L15.3       149.3        198.9        262.2       303.7         204.1        237.0         371.5         682.2
Bank Credit to Private Seitor                                   73.2         84.5       108.2        109.8        134.5        136.0       167.8        173.8        233.1       243.2         382.8       442.5          801.8        1521.8
Undenlying EUchange Rats (S/. per U0$)                          38.7         38.7         38.7         65.0        65.0         85.0        85.0        160.0        160.0       225.0        225.0         390.0         390.0         390.0
Uoney as Percant of GDP                                         25.0         24.3         22.6         22.7        20.0         20.1        18.9         19.3         18.7         19.6         19.9         21.1          23.5          20.7
CODSUoer Price loden So soles (1977=100)                      37.5         43.9         54.3                     72.4                    000.0                    157.8                     281.7                       421.4
Anouol Percentage Change Is:
Coosnase _ rRcs Index io Dolcs                                 9.5         16.9        23.7                      33.5                     38.0                     57.8                      67.7                        59.2          75.4
Bank Credit to Poblin SDctor                                  53.7         -1.2         84.8                     68.2                     29.5                      31.8                    -32.8                        56.8          83.6
MAok Credit to Private Sector                                 27.7         15.5        28.1                      22.4                     23.4                     34.1                      57.4                        81.2          89.8
March 22, 1982



I



AS19E  l8E98I5   ETEA   SSSAC2AEDB
I                                            I~~~~~114 173 19  217  A7I :17   1998      199      18IET                            19
.s  .......T                                                                                                                                   -I'99  l-  99.  190 -1.  TE-  91S -1.    -1.  519-9.  9.9l:            1
099941198991  118.9    911.9    993-9    897.9    199.1    111.9    895.9    991.1    197.1  111.1     1911.9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~11,11:1                                11   I 111-           -1.
1,19991111  -71.9  8.1  99.9  19.8  11.9  A.1   -11.1  9.9   91.1              IA-I           81.A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,11:
39991 99,1959 99591           -91.8    -99.9    .97.9    -15~~.1      9      III      1-919      85.9      39.1             999.3         1.14.A                                                                                -
9838911 &194919999 .I  -51.1    -19.1   -191-1    173.1    919.1    911.1    -91-4  -1199.9   -719.9  911.4- -941.1:,                                                         I
1.899119 1S89,9 19999199 141 991141 91  -1-9  1.9    919.9   -18.7   -799-4-179.1  -19191 .199.71999 .           917-1          811.
999199991 11419799  1111191918119.91 4              919
1991118191, 9191998119 99194991188  99.9  19.1  13.1    199.1    49.9    193.9  18.1  13.3  lI-I  99.9      39.1       99.1       -93.9        19.1        9.7I1I
4.1198119113  111.4    999.9    199.9    191.1    179.1    199,9    119.1    170.9   1115.1     9171.1         7119.1        19-4       11.1        11.8I.,    19.8I.      91.1~4          1:
99999 11349998499 941 1911-l19581519 4,13  191, 319T.E  191.1    191.1    191.1    499.1    179 .1   9117.7    199,9  911.7  719.9  1.1    11.4 -9.1               9.9         4.1
81491 11118 13.1.9.1  811-9   1091.1   1149.9   1197.1   9111.1   91111   1911.7   1191.7   9191.9   1911.3         8911.9        19.4        8.9.       11.7        11.9       91.
. .....88.1.11..9    10.0..                                           .      1.        1.        9.997            7   4              8.            99            .          19          71        1.            .
191919.   ....                         11 '~"I,.9   99.  Il-A     10.-1.-               7.      09       99.7991                    19ll91111.                              19        1.            .           .



I



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year            Borrower            Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
27 loans fully disbursed                                       409.2
949        1973    Republic of Peru        Education           24.0         1.9
1196       1976    Republic of Peru         Transport           76.5        22.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru         Power               35.6         4.9
1281       1976    CENTROMIN                Mining              39.7         4.7
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.          21.6         9.6
1358       1977    COFIDE                   Industry            35.0         3.9
1403       1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture         25.0        21.3
S-11       1978    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment        8.8         2.5
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation          56.0        51.1
1806       1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5         27.0
1812       1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.          15.0        14.4
1888       1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment        7.5         5.1
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.      5.0         4.7
1963       1981    CORPAC                   Aviation            58.0        57.6
1968       1981    COFIDE                   Industry            60.0        60.0
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU             Power               25.0        25.0
2064        1981    Central Reserve Bank Industry              26.0        26.0
2091       1982    Republic of Peru         Transport           93.0        93.0
2117       1982    PETROPERU                Industry             5.3         5.3
Total                                                   1,058.7
of which has been repaid                                183.5
Total now outstanding                                     875.2
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3               _
Total now held by Bank                                    875.2
Total undisbursed                                                     440.0
1/   Since March, the Bank has approved two loans to Peru:  (i) US$40.6 million
to the Lima Water and Sewerage Service for a water supply project; and
(ii) US$40.6 million to the Republic of Peru for an agricultural research and
extension project. These loans were approved on May 11 and 20, 1982,
respectively, and will be signed shortly.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of
Year                Obligor                        Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2         -      0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks              0.3       -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3       -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers            4.1       -      4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement              2.3      0.2     2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement              1.1      0.5     1.6
1975         Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining             15.0       -     15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining              2.0     0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining              2.7     0.5      3.2
1981         Sogewiese                         Leasing             3.0      0.1     3.1
1981         Consorcio Energetico de           Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission        4.5       -      4.5
Total gross commitments                              35.5      1.8    37.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             18.0     0.4    18.4
Total held by IFC                                    17.5      1.4    18.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                               8.2      -       8.2



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year, and
disbursements now stand at about US$22.1 million.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date: 
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$12.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower -- the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -- agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-ll-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is gaining momentum. The implementation of most of
the Bank-financed components of the project has begun or is in the process of
being started.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility report for
the phosphate fertilizer project is being reviewed.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date:  April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed.  A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closin
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of
Effective Date:                    ; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on December 8, 1981. It is
expected to be signed shortly.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of
Effective Date:             ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This loan was approved by the Board on February 16, 1982 and is
expected to be signed in the near future. Prequalification of consultants and
constructors is being done.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
Effective Date:                  ; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on March 25, 1982. It will be
signed shortly. Selection of consultants is now being done.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  9 months
(b) Project prepared by: ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA with
Bank assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July 1980
(d) Identification of the project: January 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: August 1981
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 7, 1982
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1982
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) By December 31, 1983, and as part of the power subsector's
reorganization, the Government would: (i) establish regional
utilities; and (ii) furnish to the Bank its timetable for
implementing a reorganization of the power subsector (para. 51).
(b) By December 31, 1983, ELECTROPERU would have drawn up and obtained
Government approval for its investment plan for works outside the
main system and submitted this plan to the Bank for comment
(para. 53).
(c) As a condition of disbursement for the Yuracmayo Dam, ELECTROLIMA
would present to the Bank an economic analysis confirming -- to the
Bank's satisfaction -- the dam's economic viability (para. 60).
(d) As a condition for disbursement on the HIDRANDINA component, the
Mayush project's feasibility would be confirmed in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 63).
(e) ELECTROLIMA would, by December 31, 1982, present to the Bank
an acceptable plan of action for improving load forecasting
techniques. Also, by the same date, and annually thereafter,
ELECTROLIMA would present its ten-year demand forecasts to the Bank
for comment (para. 66).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) By December 31, 1985, ELECTROPERU would reorganize its accounting
and internal audit system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to:
(i) clearly define responsibilities of the company's financial and
accounting units; (ii) standardize accounting procedures;and
(iii) specify data processing needs (para. 68).
(g) By November 30, 1983, and each year thereafter, ELECTROPERU would
review with the Government and the Bank its sectoral investment and
financing plan for the following year.  The Government would also
submit to the Bank a satisfactory technical and economic justifi-
cation of any major project before carrying it out (para. 68).
(h)  ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA would seek, and the
Government would authorize, tariff adjustments sufficient to enable
the utilities to gradually reach a rate of return of at least 12
percent by 1985 and thereafter. The Government would also reinvest
all dividends it receives from ELECTROPERU back into the company
(para. 71).
(i) ELECTROLIMA, ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA would obtain Bank concur-
rence for any borrowing which: (i) raised short-term debt to more
than one sixth of operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses in the preceding 12 months; or (ii) caused internal cash
generation to be less than 1.5 times the maximum future long-term
debt service requirement (para. 73).
(j) As a condition for disbursement on the components to be executed by
ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA, subsidiary loan agreements, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, would have to be signed by these utilities and
ELECTROLIMA (para. 75).
(k) ELECTROLIMA would appoint a board of consultants, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to review the design of the
Yuracmayo dam within two months of completion of the engineering
and follow Bank requirements for dam safety inspections (para. 81).



IBRD16094R
CENTRAL-NORTH  INTERCONNECTED  SYSTEM/ 
r                  ~~~~~~EXISTING  AND MAIN  PROPOSED  HYDRO PLANTS-~ ~L
PIRA 
a0~~~~~
-    ~~~~~~'CHACHAPOYA
CH CAY'D\2 
PUCALLPAO~
H'1UARAZ......
A N ~ ~ ~ ~~ U 
HUIANCO 5/1/1UT
MfOYOPA MPA     -            pc&"AoT
H21AMPAIV/
LIMA      CALL HV/VANCk
PLATANW4            21TiUI
NJANCA                                                      PUERTO0
EL-ICA                                                      MAILDONADO(
SAC U CHO       OU   TH
POco                       ARANCAY     o%~~~~~~~IZCO    7     
LAo                                          &L1/S1-"'/ AN!NCA
[PROPOSED EXISTINGMooo,f 
220 kV To r---o L-r,
0  *    Sobstoflons                                                       7'                   C-AN\0 
R,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b    R
MOQIJEODA A>
o    ro   Co  Inc  210                                             --                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACI J
12'              C~~ H \  



