LOAN NUMBER 2179 PE
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
between
INTERNAIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTROLIMA S.A.
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA BE DESAROLLO S.A. - COFIDE
Dated .                      77/   , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2179 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          7drrye- le , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REC NSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here'n-
after called the Bank) and ELECTROLIMA S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A)   the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)  Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Bor-
rower or any successor thereto, Part B of the Project will be
carried out by Empresa Electricidad del Peru S.A. or any succes-
sor thereto (hereinafter called ELECTROPERU), and Part C of the
Project will be carried out by Energia Hidroelectrica Andina
(HIDRANDINA) S.A. or any successor thereto (hereinaft r called
HIDRANDINA). The Borrower will make available to ELECTROPERU and
HIDRANDINA the proceeds of the Loan allocated for purposes of the
carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project, respectively, as
hereinafter provided;
(C)   CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO S.A. - COFIDE
(hereinafter called COFIDE) has participated in the negotiation
of this Agreement and has represented to the Bank that it has
discharged all of its other responsibilities as financial agent
of the Borrower pursuant to the Decreto Legislativo No. 5 of the
Republic of Peru published in El Peruano on December 31, 1980;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and ELECTROPERU
and HIDRANDINA respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with


﻿-2-
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otterwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth:
(a) "ELECTROPERU Subsidiary Loan Contract" means the con-
tract referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(b) "IIIDRANDINA   Subsidiary  Loan   Contract"   means  the
contract referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreiment;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Contract" means any one of the
contracts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section
and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under a
Subsidiary Loan Contract;
(d) "ELECTROLIMA'S Charter" means the public deed No. 506,
dated August 24, 1906, incorporating the company, and the term
includes the estatutos thereof adopted under such public deed, as
amended by public deed No. 3393, dated December 6, 1976, and as
further amended thereafter solely to increase the capital social;
(e) "ELECTROPERU's Charter" means the Guarantor's Legisla-
tive Decree No. 41, published in El Peruano on March 5, 1981, as
amended by the Guarantor's Legislative Decree No. 61, published
in El Peruano on March 25, 1981, as further amended by the Gua-
rantor's Legislative Decree No. 157 published in El Peruano on
June 15, 1981, and the term includes all legal provisions men-
tioned or referred to in Article 5 of such Decree No. 41 and such
provisions of the Guarantor's Legislative Decree No. 40, pub-
lished in El Peruano on March 5, 1981, as are applicable to the
Guarantor's electric power subsector; and "Estatutos" means the
public deed incorporating ELECTROPERU as approved by Decreto
Supremo, 007-EM/SG dated May 13, 1981, published in El Peruano on
May 18, 1981 and registered by the Registro Mercantil of the
Registros Publicos de Lima on July 16, 1981;
(f) "HIDRANDINA'S Charter" means the public deed No. 1417,
dated November 22, 1946, incorporating the company, and the term


﻿-3-
includes the estatutos thereof, adopted under such public deed,
as amended as of October 10, 1973, and as further amended there-
after solely to increase the capital social;
(g) "Entity" means any one of ELECTROPERU or HIDRANDINA;
(h) "Subsidiary" means any company, including filiales and
subsidiarias, of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock
or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled
by the Borrower or an Entity, and the term includes any company
of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or other
proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by any
one or more Subsidiaries or by the Borrower or such Entity, as
the case may be, and one or more Subsidiaries.
(i) "Prior   Project"   means   the  Project   described  in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement for Loan 2018-PE (Power
Engineering Project) between the Bank and ELECTROPERU dated
August 19, 1981, and "Prior Loan Agreement" means such Loan
agreement, as amended from time to time;
(j) "Credito Pulblico" means Direccion General de Credito
PU'blico (General Directorate of Public Credit) of the Guarantor's
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce;
(k) "Mantaro Transfer Scheme" means a project which will
supply   additional  pc 'er  to  the   Guarantor's   central-north
interconnected power system and water to Lima, increasing the
water discharge in the Rimac basin by diverting water thereto
from the Mantaro basin. The water so diverted will be used to
increase energy production in the existing hydro-plants, to
develop a new hydro plant in Sheque with an initial generating
capacity of about 300 MW and to increase the supply of drinking
water to Lima;
(1) "Association Contract" means the contract (Contrato de
Asociacion en Participacion) dated September 30, 1981, between
ELECTROPERU and the Borrower and Servicio de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado de Lima - SEDAPAL, as approved by the Guarantor's
Supreme Decree 031-81-EM/DGE, entered into by the aforesaid par-
ties for purposes of the carrying out of all the activities of
such parties related to the Mantaro Transfer Scheme;


﻿-4-
(m) "Mayush Hydro Project" means a pxcect, the feasibility
of which is being studied under the Prior Loan Agreement, which
will consist of the construction of a plant of about 130 MW
generating capacity and which was described in Part C.2 of the
Prior Project as consisting of a 40 MW plant and referred to
therein as Cahua II;
(n) "ELECTROPERU Project Agreement" means the Project
Agreement between the Bank and ELECTROPERU of even date herewith,
as amended from time to time; and "HIT'ANDINA Project Agreement"
means the Project Agreement between the Bank and HIDRANDINA of
even date herewith, as amended from time to time; and, in both
cases, the term includes all agreements supplemental to the
respective Project Agreement and all Schedules thereco;
(o) "Project Agreement" means any one of the Project Agree-
ments referred to in paragraph (n) above;
(p) "1215 Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Guarantor and the Bank dated September 20, 1976, as amended from
time to time, and the term includes all Schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto;
(q) "Master Plan" means the plan for future generation and
transmission additions to the overall electric power system of
the Guarantor prepared under the 1215 Loan Agreement and updated
pursuant to Section 4.05 of the Prior Loan Agreement; and
(r)  "Enterprise"   means  any   one  of   the  Borrower   or
ELECTROPERU or HIDRANDINA, and "Enterprises" means all of them
collectively.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-one million two hundred thousand dollars ($81,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1


﻿-5-
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
speci.- of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for Part A and of
goods required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one million two
hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000). The fee shall be payable
in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the
event that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the
fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required for the full payment of the fee in the currency
or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. The Board of Directors of ELECTROPERU and the
Board of Directors of HIDRANDINA, or the person or persons
authorized by each of them, are designated as representatives of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in
respect of Parts B and C of the Project, respectively.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project and cause ELECTROPERU and HIDRANDINA to carry out Parts B
and C of the Project, respectively, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
(b)   For purposes of the preceding paragraph the Borrower
shall enter with:
(i) ELECTROPERU,   into   a  Subsidiary  Loan  Contract
(hereinafter called the ELECTROPERU Subsidiary
Loan Contract) whereby ELECTROPERU will borrow
from the Borrower, for purposes of carrying out
Part B of the Project, the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (5) and
(6) of the table set forth in Part 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Table);
and
(ii) HIDRANDINA,    into  a  Subsidiary   Loan  Contract
(hereinafter called the HIDRANDINA Subsidiary Loan
Contract) whereby HIDRANDINA will borrow from the
Borrower, for purposes of carrying out Part C of
the Project, the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (7) of the Table.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and
conditiorn of each Subsidiary Loan Contract shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, and shall include the following:


﻿-7-
(i) all provisions of this Agreement and the General
Conditions concerning repayment of principal of,
and payment of interest and other charges on, the
Loan, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the repay-
ment of the principal of, and to payments of
interest and other charges on, each Subsidiary
Loan;
(ii) each withdrawal from the Loan Account for purposes
of the carrying out of Part B or Part C of the
Project made pursuant to Section 2.10 of this
Agreement shall be deemed a disbursement in re-
spect of the corresponding Subsidiary Loan under
the applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract; and
(iii) each payment to the Borrower under each Subsidiary
Loan Contract shall be made sufficiently in ad-
vance of the applicable payment date under this
Agreement, so as to enable the Borrower to utilize
the proceeds of such payment to discharge in a
timely fashion its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
(d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ELEC-
TROPERU Subsidiary Loan Contract and the HIDRANDINA Subsidiary
Loan Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
B3rrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such
Subsidiary Loan Contracts or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
supervision of Part A (2) of the Project and in the carrying out
of Part A (3), Part A (4), Part A (5) and Part A (6) (b), (c),
and (e) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accor-
dance with principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981, and in Part E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
(b)   The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants in the performance of their services for the Project and
make available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Bank, in such number as the Bank shall reasonably
request, copies of the documents prepared by them for the
Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs,
specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs.
(d) With respect to the evaluation and putting into effect
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in any
document prepared by the consultants for purposes of the carrying
out of Part A (3), Part A (4) and Part A (5) of the Project, the
Borrower shall, during the carrying out of such Parts of the
Project and upon their completion, exchange views with the Bank
on said recommendations and conclusions.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower   shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than two
months after the completion of the feasibility study included in
Part B.2 (i) of the Prior Project, appoint a board of consultants
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank who will re-
view, from a safety viewpoint, the design for the dam and related
structure, to be constructed under Part A (2) of the Project.
These consultants shall, during the carrying out of such Part of
the Project, also review, from a safety viewpoint, the works
being carried out under such Part of the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall, before issuing tender documents to
the prospective bidders for the carrying out of Part A (2) of the
Project, afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on


﻿9-
the findings and conclusions of the studies included in Part B.2
of the Prior Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such steps as
shall be necessary on its part to ensure that the findings and
recommendations of the studies to be carried out under Part A
(3), Part A (4) and Part C of the Project are appropriately
integrated with the conclusions of ELECTROPERU's studies for the
Master Plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction or work, as the case
may be, and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures, including separate accounts for Part A of the Project,
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part A of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pr, -eeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Proj-
ect, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contrace for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may pub-lsh a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-10-
(e) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Part A (1) and Part A (2) of the Project, their cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.07. Notwithstanding the obligations of the Bor-
rower in respect of the carrying out of Part A (5) of the Project
in this Agreement contained, the Borrower acknowledges that the
legal relationships between ELECTROPERU, Servicio de Agua Potable
y Alcantarillado de Lima - SEDAPAL and the Borrower in respect
thereof are governed by the Association Contract. Consequently,
the Borrower shall exchange views with ELECTROPERU and SEDAPAL
during the execution of the study included in such Part of the
Project, shall make available to ELECTROPERU and SEDAPAL all
reports and draft reports, and all documentation in support
thereof, originated in such study and shall reflect the cost of
carrying out such study in its books as part of the Borrower's
contribution to the Mantaro Project pursuant to the Association
Contract.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Jorrover
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain    its  financial  position, plan   its   future
expansion and carry on its operations in accordance with
ELECTROLIMA's   Charter  and   with  appropriate   administrative,
business, financial, engineering, and public utility practices
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its legal existence and right to
carry on operations, including, without limitation, Part A of the
Project, and shall, except as the Guarantor and the Bank may


﻿- 11 -
otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights as
may be necessary or useful for its operations (including such
Part of the Project).
(b)  The Borrower shall take all such action, including the
provision of funds and resources, as shall be necessary to ensure
that its facilities, equipment and property are adequately
operated  and maintained, and where applicable, repaired and
renewed.
(c)  Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be an impor-
tant requirement for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking, including Part A of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken
all action as shall be required to ensure that its operations,
including Part A of the Project, are carried out in conformity
with appropriate pollution control and ecological standards.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
Section 4.05. Without limiting the generality of the preced-
ing Sections the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank, cause the dam and related structures constructed
under Part A (2) of the Project to be periodically inspected by
the board of consultants referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement in accordance with sound engineering practices in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition
of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance
or methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety. To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Bank
appropriate arrangements for the Bank's review no later than one
year before the expected completion of such structures.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause any Subsidiary it may
create or establish to observe and perform the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement to the extent to which such obliga-


﻿- 12 -
tions shall or can be applicable thereto, as if such obligations
were binding upon such Subsidiary.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1982, set forth a plan of activities aiming at
improving its current demand forecasting, based on the study
included in Part A.4 (b) of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the 1215 Loan Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall, starting on December 31, 1982,
furnish to the Bank for comment a 10-year demand forecast, and
update it annually thereafter.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts,
including the accounts referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (i) of
this Agreement, and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements and
of the accounts referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (i) of this
Agreement, for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase there-
of, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of
such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall take all necessary steps, including
filing applications with the Guarantor for tariff adjustments, so
as (i) to yield adequate rates of return for each calendar year
starting in 1982, calculated in accordance with Part B of the
Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement; and (ii) to permit the
Guarantor to comply with Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall, within the first month of each
calendar quarter, review the adequacy of its tariffs to produce
an adequate annual return for the year in question and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review; and
(c) if any such review shows that the Borrower would not
earn an adequate annual return required for the year in question,
the Borrower shall apply for an adjustment of its tariffs
accordingly.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur:
(a) any long-term debt, unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever


﻿- 14 -
amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum long-term debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all long-term debt, including the long-term debt
to be incurred. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i) the term "long-term debt" shall mean all debt of
the Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is incurred;
(ii) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rates
in effect at the time of the incurrence of long-
term debt even though they were not in effect dur-
ing the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less operating and
administrative expenses, but before provision cov-
ering depreciation of costs and provision for
other non-cash expenses required by laws or regu-
lations of the Guarantor, interest and other char-
ges on long-term debt; and
(iii) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on long-term debt;
(b)    any short-term debt, unless the aggregate of all
short-term debt incurred by the Borrower, including the short-
term debt t) be incurred but deducting, to the extent the Bank is
satisfied therewith, cash and the cash value of negotiable
instruments held by the Borrower, is equal to or less than
one-sixth (1/6) of the operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses (excluding depreciation and other non-cash provisions)
of the Borrower for the twelve-month period preceding such incur-
rence. For the purpose of this paragraph the term "short-term
debt" means all debt of the Borrower for money borrowed, includ-
ing bank overdrafts, maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after the date on which it was incurred.
For the purposes of this Section, debt shall be deemed to be
incurred on the date of execution and delivery of a contract,
loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt; pro-
vided, however, (i) that in the case of a loan contract or agree-
ment or other instrument providing for a short-term debt or for


﻿- 15 -
the modification of its terms of payment, debt shall be deemed to
be incurred on the date, and to the extent, the amount of such
debt has become outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument, and (ii) that in the case of guarantee of debt,
debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the day the agreement
guaranteeing such debt has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
Section 5.06. Section 4.08 of the agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower dated September 20, 1976 (5th Power Project) is
hereby deleted, and the provisions of Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of
such agreement are hereby replaced by the provisions of Sections
5.04 and 5.05 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any Entity shall have failed to perform
any of its respective obligations under a Subsidiary Loan Con-
tract;
(b) an Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations under the corresponding Project Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any of ELECTROPERU or HIDRANDINA
will be able to perform its obligations under the ELECTROPERU
Project Agreement or the HIDRANDINA Project Agreement, respec-
tively;
(d) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of ELECTROPERU or for the suspension of its operations,
or the Borrower or ELECTROPERU shall have passed any resolution
for its respective dissolution or liquidation;
(e)  (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


﻿- 16 -
(A) the Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
the   dissolution   or   disestablishment   of
HIDRANDINA or for the suspension of its
operations, or
(B) HIDRANDINA shall have passed any resolution
for its dissolution or liquidation;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Guarantor establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that other legal entity or entities,
acceptable to the Bank, has or have been assigned
functions, powers and responsibilities equivalent
to those set forth in the Charter with respect to
HIDRANDINA and in HIDRANDINA's By-laws;
(f) any action or proceeding shall have been taken by an
Entity or by others whereby any of the assets of such Entity
shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(g) a change in (A) ELECTROPERU's Charter or its Estatutos
or ELECTROLIMA's Charter or HIDRANDINA's Charter or (B) the
legislation of the Guarantor, shall have occurred which shall
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or
ELECTROPERU or HIDRANDINA to carry out its respective covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Loan or Project
Agreement, as the case may be.
For the purposes of this paragraph the term "change in the
legislation of the Guarantor" shall mean any change (including,
but without limitation, any amendment or repeal of, or failure to
carry out or enforce, any such legislation) in the entire body of
legislation of the Guarantor (including, but without limitation,
all constitutional provisions, statutes, laws, legislative
decrees,  decree-laws,   executive  decrees,   including  Supreme
Decrees, and regulations, and any other legal provisions of a
similar nature) directly or indirectly relating to the carrying
on of the business of any of the Enterprises and the deter-
mination and adjustment of the rates for the sale of electricity
of any of the Enterprises.


﻿- 17 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a per-
iod of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;
(b)  any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) or (f) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (g) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a)  that this Agreement has been duly registered by Credito
Piblico; and
(b)   that the ELECTROPERU Project Agreement has been exe-
cuted and delivered on behalf of the Bank and ELECTROPERU and the
HIDRANDINA Project Agreement has been executed and delivered on
behalf of the Bank and HIDRANDINA, and that each such execution
and delivery have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary governmental and corporate action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:


﻿- 18 -
(a)   that this Agreement has been registered by Crfdito
Publico; and
(b)  that the ELECTROPERU Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of ELECTROPERU and the HIDRANDINA Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of HIDRANDINA, and are legally binding upon ELECTROPERU and
HIDRANDINA, severally, in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 7.03. The date            620113/82 , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
ELECTROLIMA, S.A.
Jirdn Lima 261
Lima 1, Peru
Cable address:                      Telex:
LIGHT                              39420057


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, and COFIDE in the
role described in the Preamble of this Agreement, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ELECTROLIMA S.A.
By
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO S.A.-
COFIDE
By
Authorized Representative
By
/     Authorized Representative


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods for                  28,700,000          100% of for-
Part A (1)                                     eign expendi-
of the                                        ditures and
Project                                       100% of ex-
factory cost
of local ex-
penditures
(2) Civil works                 9,700,000          30%
(ex-cluding
amounts wi
held as per-
formance
guarantees)
for Part A
(1) (a),
Part A (1)
(b) and
Part A (2)
(3) Goods and                   2,300,000          100% of for-
fellowships                                   eign expendi-
for Part A                                     tures
(6) of the
Project
(4) Consultants'                6,000,000
services for
Part A (2) of
the Project


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
under Sections
3.02 and 3.04
(a) of this
Agreement,
Part A (3),
Part A (4),
Part A (5),
and Part A (6)
of the Project
(a) Procured                                  100% of for-
abroad                                   eign expendi-
tures
(b) Locally                                   90% of local
procured                                 expenditures
(5) Goods and fellow-           2,700,000          100% of for-
ships for Part B                              eign expendi-
(2) of the Project                            tures
(6) Consultants'                6,300,000
services for
Part B of the
Project
(a) Procured                                  100% of for-
abroad                                   eign expendi-
tures
(b) Locally                                   90% of local
procured                                 expenditures
(7) Consultants'                2,500,000
services for
Part C of the
Project


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(a) Procured                                  100% of for-
abroad                                    eign expendi-
tures
(b) Locally                                   90% of local
procured                                 expenditures
(8) Fee under                   1,200,000          Amount due
Section 2.05
of this Agree-
ment
(9) Unallocated                21,800,000
TOTAL           81,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable


﻿- 23 -
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of .the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be
made in respect of Categories (4) and (6) on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after Septem-
ber 30, 1981, to the extent such expenditures have been incurred
for purposes of Part A (5) or B (1) of the Project, or both;
(b)  on account of expenditures for Part A (2) of the Proj-
ect unless the Bank and the Borrower have approved the findings
and conclusions of the studies included in Part B.2 of the Prior
Project and the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfac-
tory to the Bank that the carrying out of Part A (2) of the Proj-
ect will be consistent with such approval;
(c) in respect of payment made for expenditures under Cate-
gory (5), or (6), or (7) unless !vidence satisfactory to the Bank
has been furnished to the Bank showing that the corresponding
Subsidiary Loan Contract has been executed on behalf of the Bor-
rower and the applicable Entity, including an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank show-
ing on behalf of the Borrower and such Entity that such Subsid-
iary Loan Contract has been duly authorized and ratified, and
executed on behalf of the Borrower and such Entity, and is
legally binding thereupon in accordance with its terms; and
(d)  on account of expenditures for Part C of the Project,
unless evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to
the Bank that the Mayush Project is justified under the Master
Plan.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, after consulting with the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the


﻿-24-
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such real-
location cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, ir. the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   To be carried out by the Borrower
(1) Borrower's 1982-1986 Distribution Program
(a) Construction   of new   substations and   expansion  and
improvement of existing substations, totalling about 19
in   number,   with   an   aggregate   of   about   390
megavolt-ampere of additional transformer capacity, and
equipping thereof as required.
(b) Construction of about 700 circuit kilometers of a
single or double circuit, 60 kV or 10 kV, as the case
may be, distribution lines.
(c) Acquisition and installation of about 1,700 10,000/
220 V transformers and equipment as required.
(d) Installation of about 400 circuit kilometers of single
or double circuit 220 V urban distribution lines and
street lighting equipment as required.
(e) Domiciliary connection to about 130,000 new clients.
(f) Acquisition and utilization of equipment to improve
the Borrower's communications system and auxiliary
services.
(2) Yuracmayo Dam
Construction of an earth dam about 44 meters high at
Yuracmayo in the Rimac river forming a reservoir of about 45
million cubic meters, a concrete spillway, a valve chamber, and
acquisition and installation of related operation and control
equipment.
(3) Huinco Hydro Plant Expansion
(a) Studying the feasibility of, and (b), if warranted,
preparation of final design and tender documents for,


﻿- 26 -
addition of a fifth 60 megawatt unit to the existing
240 megawatt Huinco plant.
(4) Salto Bajo Scheme
Studying (i) the alternatives for the use of the hydro
potential downstream from the Huinco plant mentioned in (3) above
(the Salto Bajo Scheme) and (ii) the selection of one alternative
and the feasibility thereof.
(5) Mantaro Transfer Scheme
Studying and preparation of the final design and preparation
of tender documents for the expansion of the Transandean Tunnel
and the modifications to the Marcapomacocha Canal, both as part
of the overall preparatory studies and activities required for
the carrying out of the Mantaro Transfer Scheme.
(6) Enhancement of the Borrower's training facilities and
training of the Borrower's staff, and strengthening of the
Borrower's administrative and technical procedures
(a) Relocation   and  renewal of   the Borrower's    training
center and acquisition and utilization of equipment
therefor.
(b) Up-dating of teaching material and methodology.
(c) Training of instructors.
(d) A program of fellowships for the Borrower's staff.
(e) A program of technical assistance to strengthen the
Borrower's administrative and technical procedures
including procurement methods, inventory control system
and distribution planning.
Part B:   To be carried out by ELECTROPERU
(1) Mantaro Transfer Scheme
Studying and preparation of the final design, preparation of
tender documents and the remainder of the preparatory studies and
activities required for the carrying out of the Mantaro Transfer


﻿- 27 -
Scheme, other than those referred to in Part A (5) of the
Project.
(2) Training
(a) Execution of a training program for instructors who
will train ELECTROPERU's staff in fields such as plant
operation   and   maintenance,   distribution    network
maintenance and testing of measurement equipment.
(b) Strengthening of ELECTROPERU's training center, and
acquisition and utilization of equipment therefor.
(c) A program of fellowships for ELECTROPERU's staff.
(3) Technical Assistance
A program of technical assistance for ELECTROPERU to
strengthen its financial planning capability.
Part C:   To be carried out by HIDRANDINA
Mayush Hydro Project
After completion of Part C.2 of the Prior Project,
preparation of the final design and tender documents therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May I and November 1
beginning November 1, 1986
through   November 1, 1998                  3,125,000
On May 1, 1999                                    3,075,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 29 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  11.60%


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
o
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A (2) of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
4.    For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c. and f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in  the   evaluation  of  the  bids;   and  (iii)  the   cost  of
transportation


﻿- 31 -
insurance, inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of the goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Peru or in a country which is a party to the Cartagena Agreement
or to any other regional trade agreement, to which the Guarantor
is a party and which is acceptable to the Bank (the Cartagena
Agreement and any such other regional agreement hereinafter
called the Regional Agreement), may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
1.     All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following four groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Peru
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the man-
ufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Peru equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country other than Peru which is a party to the
Regional Agreement.
(d) Group D: bids offering goods manufactured else-
where.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and


﻿- 32 -
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group
C and group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid
price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D
bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount
equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid or group D bid; or (ii)
15% of the c. and f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties exceed 15% of such price. If either the group A bid or the
group C bid is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
5.    If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph
4 above, a bid from group D is the lowest, and provided there are
taxes actually payable for the importation of goods offered in
the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined under para-
graph 3 above, all group D bids shall be finally compared with
such lowest evaluated bid from group C, after adding to the c.
and f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D
bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount
equal to the smaller of (i) the positive difference, if any,
between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in
such group D bid and for the importation of goods offered in
group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c. and f. price of goods to be
imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest bid in such
comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for the
award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as deter-
mined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
6.   The detailed technical evaluation shall be performed only on
the lowest responsive offer in each group.


﻿- 33 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for communication equipment, special workshop and
laboratory equipment and computer software and teaching materials
for Part A (1) (f), Part A (6) (b) and Part B (2) of the Project,
may be awarded following evaluation and comparison of proposals
requested from not less than three qualified suppliers from not
less than three countries and territories eligible under the
Guidelines, but only to the extent each contract so awarded is
estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $150,000, is
awarded to the lowest evaluated proposal evaluated and compared
with other proposals in accordance with criteria and procedures
set forth in Part A of such Guidelines and the aggregate of the
contracts  so   awarded  does   not  exceed   the  equivalent   of
$1,500,000.
2.    Contracts for civil works under Part A (1) of the Project,
including installation of equipment acquired thereunder, shall be
awarded after competitive bidding locally advertised and applying
for bid evaluation and comparison the same criteria and proce-
dures to be used in respect of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of prequalification.     The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the proce-
dure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:


﻿-34 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 35 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement of Consultant Services
1.   Consultants whose services are to be employed for purposes
of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and Section 2.02 (a) of
each of the Project Agreements shall be selected after inviting
proposals from a short list of firms or individuals. Such short
list will be sent to the Bank for approval and the invitations to
be issued will, in each case, set forth the criteria to be taken
into account for the selection of the individual or firm to which
the contract will be awarded. Such criteria will be determined
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Enter-
prise in question, and will take price into account in accordance
with methods and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Although under certain circumstances, as described in the
Guidelines referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the
Bank may consider the possibility of asking proposals from a
single firm or individual, extended lists will not be used for
asking proposals.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  Z 7iL.. day of    i, 198
FOR SECRETARY


