Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6583 
Operation Name 
Ghana Third Agriculture Development Policy Operation 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (29%); 
Agricultural marketing and trade (29%); Agricultural extension 
and research (14%); Irrigation and drainage (14%); Animal 
production (14%) 
Project ID 
P122796 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 6, 2011 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 10, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 24, 2011 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Despite impressive recent economic performance, agriculture remains the primary livelihood of the 
majority of Ghanaians and disproportionately of the poor. Consequently, sustaining and enhancing 
agricultural growth is critical to rural poverty reduction and to the continuation of the structural 
transformation process.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The objective of AgDPO 3 is to continue support for the Government’s efforts to foster agriculture-led 
growth to achieve the objectives of the Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda (GSGDA) for 
2010-2013. The program development objective is “to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of 
Ghanaian agriculture.” Specifically, the proposed AgDPO 3 will support a policy agenda aimed at 
enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of Ghanaian agriculture and improving the effectiveness 
and efficiency of public spending in the agriculture sector. The new DPO series will support the 
achievement of the Government objectives for agriculture-based growth and poverty reduction as 
articulated in their Food and Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP II) and programmed in 
the Medium Term Agriculture Sector Investment Program (METASIP). By supporting implementation 
of the METASIP, the operation will directly contribute to achieving national objectives. Monitoring of 
the impacts will be encompassed within the Ministry of Food and Agriculture’s sector monitoring 
apparatus. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
With strong institutions, and a sufficiently robust framework for public financial management, Ghana is 
well placed to receive aid in the form of sector budget support through the Bank’s development policy 
lending (DPL) instrument. It also strengthens harmonization and alignment within the sector. 
The third agriculture development policy operation (AgDPO 3) is the first in a series of three DPLs over 
2011 – 2013. The proposed credit is noted in the Joint Assistance Strategy and Country Assistance 
Strategy for Ghana. It consists of single tranche disbursements of SDR36 million (US$57 million 
equivalent). The proposed operation would be followed by the fourth, then fifth AgDPO covering the 
Page  2
same policy areas and designed to deepen and consolidate the implementation of reforms introduced 
under the present operation. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
57 
 Total 
57 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
AgDPO 3 will build on the reforms, policies and activities supported under the first and second 
operations (AgDPO 1 and 2). The reform program supported by the operation derives from FASDEP II 
and METASIP, both of which are implemented by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Progress of the 
operation will be monitored using the Government of Ghana’s agricultural statistics, Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture’s internal data, and data from the private sector. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Five policy areas have been identified that aim to achieve the following: (1) Development of and 
funding for demand-driven agricultural technology for improved on-farm productivity, including 
extension and education, seed and fertilizer technology adoption and input market development; (2) 
improving farmers' market access and market performance, facilitation of out-grower schemes, 
investment promotion, and finance; (3) improving irrigation management and development of new 
irrigation infrastructure through public-private partnerships; (4) improving the management of the 
marine and inland fisheries sector, including conservation of fish stock; and (5) improving agriculture 
sector management, priority setting, and resource allocation. 
 
The main risks are: (i) change in policy direction, away from private sector-led, government-facilitated 
agriculture growth; (ii) a challenging fiscal and macroeconomic context, and the risk of poorly managed 
oil revenues to the detriment of the agriculture sector; (iii) continued weakness in financial management 
and coordination of sector-wide resource allocation; and (iv) delays in completion of the sector-wide 
approach and further advances in harmonization and alignment. Mitigation strategies to address these 
risks are as follows: confirmation of the Government of their continued commitment to prevailing 
agricultural policy framework and investment program; intense engagement with the IMF on 
macroeconomic management; technical assistance to improved financial management and coordination; 
and active engagement through the CAADP and sector working group mechanisms. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Positive poverty and social impacts are expected and while the operation does not have an explicit 
regional focus, the operation contributes to the Government’s efforts to target regional disparities. First, 
by focusing on measures to improve the productivity of food crops the target beneficiaries are, by 
implication, poor small-holder farmers. 
 
There are no significant anticipated negative environmental effects from the activities supported by the 
proposed operation and there should be beneficial effects arising from actions aimed at strengthening the 
management of land, soil and water and the promotion of good agricultural practices. METASIP 
Page  3
integrates environmental management as critical for sustainable agricultural growth and therefore 
proposes to strengthen land and water management. Environmental impact assessments will be carried 
out on MoFA’s programs. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
World Bank 
Contact: Jan Joost Nijhoff 
Title: Senior Agriculture Economist 
Tel: 5337+4119 / 233-302-214-119 
Email: jnijhoff@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD) 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Angela Dannson 
 
Title: Deputy Director, Ministry of Food and Agriculture 
Tel: 233 302 660935 
Email: adannson@gmail.com 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
