Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB6340   
Operation Name 
Ghana Third Agriculture Development Policy Operation 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (29%); 
Agricultural marketing and trade (29%); Agricultural extension 
and research (14%); Irrigation and drainage (14%); Animal 
production (14%) 
Project ID 
P122796 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 22, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 31, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 24, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Despite impressive recent economic performance, agriculture remains the primary livelihood of the 
majority of Ghanaians and disproportionately of the poor. Consequently, sustaining and enhancing 
agricultural growth is critical to rural poverty reduction and to the continuation of the structural 
transformation process. With strong institutions, and a sufficiently robust framework for public financial 
management, Ghana is well placed to receive aid in the form of sector budget support through the 
Bank’s development policy lending (DPL) instrument. It also strengthens harmonization and alignment 
within the sector. 
 
The third agriculture development policy operation (AgDPO 3) is the first in a series of three DPLs over 
2011 – 2013. The proposed credit is noted in the Joint Assistance Strategy and Country Assistance 
Strategy for Ghana. It consists of single tranche disbursements of SDR
XXX
 million (US$50 million 
equivalent). The proposed operation would be followed by the fourth, then fifth AgDPO covering the 
same policy areas and designed to deepen and consolidate the implementation of reforms introduced 
under the present operation. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of AgDPO 3 is to continue support for the Government’s efforts to foster agriculture-led 
growth to achieve the objectives of the Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda (GSGDA) for 
2010-2013. Specifically, the proposed AgDPO 3 will support the achievement of the Government 
objectives for agriculture-based growth and poverty reduction as articulated in their Food and 
Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP II) and programmed in the Medium Term Agriculture 
Sector Investment Program (METASIP). By supporting implementation of the METASIP, the operation 
will directly contribute to achieving national objectives. Monitoring of the impacts will be encompassed 
within the Ministry of Food and Agriculture’s sector monitoring apparatus. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  2
AgDPO 3 will build on the reforms, policies and activities supported under the first and second 
operations (AgDPO 1 and 2). The reform program supported by the operation derives from FASDEP II 
and METASIP and is structured along five policy areas that aim to achieve the following: (1) 
Development of and funding for demand-driven agricultural technology for improved on-farm 
productivity, including extension and education, seed and fertilizer technology adoption and input 
market development; (2) improving farmers' market access and market performance, facilitation of out-
grower schemes, investment promotion, and finance; (3) improving irrigation management and 
development of new irrigation infrastructure through public-private partnerships; (4) improving the 
management of the marine and inland fisheries sector, including conservation of fish stock; and (5) 
improving agriculture sector management, priority setting, and resource allocation.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
There are no significant anticipated negative environmental impacts from the activities supported by the 
proposed operation and there should be beneficial effects arising from actions aimed at strengthening the 
management of land, soil and water and the promotion of good agricultural practices. METASIP 
integrates environmental management as critical for sustainable agricultural growth and therefore 
proposes to strengthen land and water management. Environmental impact assessments will be carried 
out o
n
MoFA’s programs. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jan Joost Nijhoff 
Title: Senior Agriculture Economist 
Tel: 5337+4119 / 233-302-214-119 
Fax:  
Email: jnijhoff@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD)
 
