 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14804

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 09/28/2015

                 Country: Ghana
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                2
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                2
              Series ID: S122808
        First Project ID : P122808                                               Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Ghana Fourth                Project Costs (US$M):                     50.0                  50.0
                           Agriculture
                           Development Policy
                           Operation
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                      50.0                  50.0
       Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural    Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Development
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 05/26/2011
                                                             Closing Date:             11/24/2011          11/24/2011
          Sector(s):    General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (25%); Agro-industry; marketing; and trade
                        (25%); Crops (25%); Irrigation and drainage (13%); Animal production (12%)
         Theme(s):      Other Private Sector Development (25%); Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Rural
                        policies and institutions (25%); Rural markets (13%); Regulation and competition policy
                        (12%)
    Second Project ID :P122796                                                    Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name:   Ghana   Third               Project Costs (US$M):                     57.0                56.0
                        Agriculture
                        Development Policy
                        Operation
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                     57.0                56.0
      Sector Board:     Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                        Development
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                 05/15/2012
           Cofinancers:                                      Closing Date:             11/15/2012          11/15/2012
          Sector(s):    Agricultural extension and research (30%), Agro-industry, marketing, and trade (27%),
                        Central government administration (15%), Irrigation and drainage (14%), Animal production
                        (14%)
         Theme(s):      Rural markets (37%), Rural services and infrastructure (37%), Other rural development
                        (13%), Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (13%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo       Fernando Manibog         Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Two previous DPOs (AgDPO1 and AgDPO2) were approved by the Bank for Ghana over the period 2008-2010.
Because of a shift in the Government's agriculture strategy in 2009, this series was closed and an ICR prepared. A
new series (AgDPO3 and AgDPO4) was launched with new program objectives and expected outcomes, and
implementation of the new DPO series is the subject of this review.

The Program Development Objective of the third DPO aimed: " to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of
Ghanaian agriculture" [Program Document (PD) for AgDPO3, p.3].

The Program Development Objective of the fourth DPO was: " (i) to enhance productivity and market access among
farmers, and (ii) to improve agriculture sector management." [Program Document (PD) for AgDPO4, p.3]. The
Program Development Objective was not revised in the fourth DPO, but was reformulated to better reflect the policy
areas, outcomes and indicators in the Results Framework.

The two programmatic operations supported seven specific objectives as described in both PADs, and in the country's
policy matrix: "(i) Improved research, extension services, skills training and education in agricultural sciences and
farm management, (ii) Adoption of agricultural input technology, (iii) Increased participation of smallholders, (iv)
Improved performance of grain markets, (v) Improved irrigated agriculture, (vi) Improved management of the fisheries
sector, and (vii) Enhanced delivery of agriculture sector investment program" (PD-3, p.35-46, PD-4, p.33-44).

As most sub-objectives were activities, the assessment of the programmatic DPOs will be conducted against the five
pillars and the Program development Objectives as stated in the fourth DPO.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

The program supported five policy areas as detailed below:

    Policy Area I: Agricultural Technology for Improved On -farm Productivity : Identified key outcomes were: (i) enh
     anced ability of the research system to identify and program research priorities of producers and other
     stakeholders, (ii) greater and speedier availability of seed technologies, (iii) greater effectiveness and efficiency
     of private sector input distribution network. Prior actions to be implemented toward the above outcomes were: (i)
     FY2011 funding for agricultural research to be reflected in budget, for disbursement based on research priorities
     identified by Research Extension Liaison Committees and Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MoFA), (ii) Science,
     Technology and Innovation Policy and Development Program approved by Cabinet, (iii) Plants and Fertilizer Act
     approved by Parliament, (iv) public-private partnership arrangement between fertilizer industry and Government
     setting out operational modalities and roles and responsibilities, including a transparent methodology for
     determining fertilizer prices and subsidy levels, and (v) Seed, Plant Protection, and Fertilizer Councils
     established, funded, and operational, (vi) Review of 2010 and 2011 fertilizer programs, and fertilizer-seed
     program design completed, and findings reflected and integrated in agricultural input support program modalities
     for 2012.

    Policy Area II: Market and Value Chain Development : Key expected achievements were (i) increased value of
     production of key smallholder cash crops, (ii) increased agribusiness turnover and sector growth through
     enhanced financial liquidity and tax incentives, and (iii) increased integration of small holder farmers in grain
     markets. Prior actions identified toward the selected outcomes were (i) MoFA Out-grower value chain fund
     established, (ii) Warehouse Receipt System (WRS) pilot launched, (iii) Export Development and Agriculture
     Investment Fund operational for agribusiness investments, and (iv) operational modalities of the National Food
     Buffer Stock Company disseminated widely.

    Policy Area III: Irrigation and Other Infrastructure : Program reforms intended to achieve increased agriculture
     productivity and production through increased area under water management and expanded rural feeder
     network. Prior actions toward the identified outcomes were (i) draft irrigation regulations submitted by the Minister
     of food and agriculture to revise existing regulations, confirming joint responsibilities of operation and
     maintenance of irrigation schemes, and (ii) new irrigation sector master plan approved, including implementation
     modalities of PPPs, and the role of Water User Associations (WUAs) in operation and management of irrigation
     schemes.

    Policy Area IV: Fisheries: Reforms aimed to achieve: (i) increased incomes and productivity arising from
     improved conservation of marine fish stocks and value chain development, and improved inland fisheries
     management. Prior actions selected toward the identified outcomes were: (i) fisheries regulations enabling the
     implementation of the 2002 Fisheries Act issued, and (ii) registration and licensing of all existing industrial and
     semi-industrial fishing vessels completed, and a moratorium placed on the issuance of new licences in these
     sub-sectors in effect.

    Policy Area V: Sector Management and Coordination : Program reforms in this area aimed to achieve greater
     coordination of agriculture-related spending, resulting in improved resources allocation for Medium Term
     Agriculture Sector Investment Plan (METASIP). Prior actions adopted toward the identified outcome were: (i)
     multi-stakeholder, MoFA-led governance structure formed to oversee implementation of METASIP, (ii)
     methodology established to define agriculture sector spending across ministries, and applied to identify
     agriculture spending in the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Roads and Highways for the
     2012 budget.

                            Table 1: Number of prior actions per policy area and per DPO
  Policy Areas                                      AgDP3                    AgDP4                  Total
  Agricultural Technology for Improved                 3                        3                    6
  On-farm productivity
  Market and Value Chain                               2                        2                     4
  Development
  Irrigation and Other Infrastructure                  1                        1                     2
  Fisheries                                            1                        1                     2
  Sector Coordination                                  1                        1                     2
  Total                                                8                        8                     16


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Costs: The two operations under review were the third and fourth programmatic DPLs designed to support the Ghana
Shared Growth and Development Agenda for consolidated actual costs of US$107.0 million, or the equivalent of the
total costs at appraisal.

Financing: The program was funded by two IDA credits.

Dates: DPL-3 was approved on May 26, 2011 in the amount of US$50.0 million, made effective on September 22,
2011, and closed on schedule on November 24, 2012. DPL-4 was approved on May 15, 2012 in the amount of
US$57.0 million, made effective on September 12, 2012 and closed on schedule on November 15, 2012. Disbursed
amounts in US$ were practically equivalent to the dollar amounts at approval, because of short period elapsing
between the approval and the disbursement of resources. A third planned DPL was cancelled.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Substantial

Macroeconomic context . Before the initiation of the two programmatic operations, the country was in a challenging
macroeconomic context, and oil revenue was poorly managed, at the expense of the agriculture sector; and there
were weaknesses in the financial management and coordination of agriculture sector-wide resource allocation. The
approval of the two DPLs was part of the country's efforts to pursue fiscal and debt stabilization, and reestablish a
balanced funding of the agriculture sector.

The two sector DPLs were approved in the context of other budget support organized under the Multi-Donor Budget
Support (MDBS) framework to which the Bank contributed through the Economic Growth Poverty Reduction Support
Credit (EGPRS) and the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC), although these instruments focused on
cross-cutting issues including public financial management (PFM) and economic governance. To fully address
budget needs at the sector level, a key objective of the new AgDPO series was to strengthen the Government's ability
to plan sector-wide resource allocation and implement using its own budgetary resources.

Bank-led Donor Support :. The Bank led the dialogue among Development Partners that were active in agriculture,
achieving enhanced coordination and division of labor amongst them based on expertise in various sub-areas of the
agricultural sector. In particular, the preparation of the second AgDPO series relied on an ongoing budget support
operation by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), whose policy agenda focused on local level
government management processes, gender, farmer organizations and research-extension linkages. The AgDPO
series was designed in close consultation with CIDA, resulting in a policy reform agenda that provided
complementarity and mutual reinforcement. Other partners included (i) USAID which supported agricultural value
chains, as well as (ii) other donors like Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), Japan and International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD), which supported aspects of policy and investment in Ghana’s agriculture sector.

Alignment with Government Strategy : Government's commitment to address the above challenges was embedded in
the Ghana's Second Growth and Development Strategy (GSGDA) for the period 2010-13. The strategy stressed the
need for the Government to focus on agriculture, and acknowledged the centrality of macroeconomic stabilization to
generate the fiscal space for investing in policies, programs and projects related to the enhancement of Ghana's
private sector competitiveness, accelerated agricultural development and natural resource management, and the
consolidation of a transparent account, and efficient Government. The two DPLs were intended to help the
Government of Ghana implement the Medium-Term Agriculture Sector Investment Plan (METASIP), underpinned by
the Food and Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP), which represented a Government-owned plan and
policy to implement the Comprehensive African Agricultural Development Program (CAADP). The introduction of the
new AgDPO series responded to the financing needs of the newly developed METASIP and to the needs of MoFA as
the lead government institution. It reflected newly articulated policy and program priorities and was designed to
complement investments by other development partners, using the METASIP as a single reference point.

There was a clear alignment between the policy measures promoted by the two DPLs, and the above government
priorities. Moreover, the Ghana aid policy and strategy paper indicated that general budget support would continue to
be the preferred aid modality within the aligned and harmonized multi-donor budget support.

Alignment with Bank Strategy : The two DPLs were also in line with the 2010 CAS progress report and the 2013
Country Partnership Strategy. The proposed operations contributed to CAS development targets and outcomes.
Whereas the CAS envisaged a series of three operations, the first series was discontinued after the second operation
with the view of developing a new series that would be aligned to a newly emerging policy and program environment.
The AgDPO-3 was the first of the new series that responded to the changed policy and program environment by
assisting the Government of Ghana (GoG) implement the CAADP Compact through the recently formulated
METASIP. The new DPO series continued to contribute to CAS outcomes related to Development Target 1.2,
Modernizing Agriculture, while also contributing to Development Target 1.1, Financing Private Sector.

Both documents emphasized that Bank's intervention in Ghana will be in support of the three pillars of: (i) improving
economic institutions; (ii) improving competitiveness and job creation; and (iii) protecting the poor and vulnerable. In
particular, the CPS emphasizes the need to improve the management of agricultural sector resources.

The program supported by the programmatic series was realistic overall, in terms of actions and policies that were to
be implemented, and the targeted outcomes as well. The reform agenda was relevant since its approval until its
closure, because it was aligned with both the country's priorities, the Bank's strategies, and the African regional
program in the agriculture sector.


b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

Design principles : In order to mitigate macroeconomic risks and funding imbalances in the Ghana agriculture sector,
the Government committed to pursue the prevailing agricultural policy framework and investment program, and
maintain engagement with the IMF on macroeconomic management, and technical assistance to improve financial
management. In addition to supporting the METASIP, the DPLs also recognized the importance of consistent and
adequate funding for recurrent expenditures, specifically for the delivery of key public goods such as extension and
animal health services that support the investments under METASIP. The Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) operated by the Government intended to reconcile the sector's recurrent expenditure and the METASIP
budget, ensuring alignment and complementarities between programs and budgets.

The objective of the programmatic policy operations was not correctly stated in the third program document, and was
restated in the fourth operation, and this provided a better coherence between the statement of the program objective,
and the content of the seven sub-objectives. The seven sub-objectives were sound, as developed under Section 2a.

Prior actions : Below is a summary discussion of the prior actions presented in detail under 2.c, which were to
contribute in the achievement of the expected outcomes in the four selected policy areas:

    (i) Agricultural technology for improved on -farm productivity : Six prior actions and five indicators were identified
     at approval to support achievement of the following three outcomes: (i) enhanced ability of the research system
     to identify and program research priorities of producers and other stakeholders, (ii) greater and speedier
     availability of seed technologies, (iii) greater effectiveness and efficiency of the private sector input distribution
     network. Both the prior actions and indicators were realistic and measurable, and there were baseline values in
     most cases.

     (ii) Market and Value Chain Development : The results framework in this area was composed of four prior actions
     and three indicators to pursue three outcomes: (i) increased value of production of key smallholder cash crops,
     (ii) increased agribusiness turnover and sector growth through enhanced financial liquidity and tax incentives,
     and (iii) increased integration of smallholder farmers in grain markets. Prior actions had strong institutional depth
     and were transformative, and indicators were measurable and achievable.

     (iii) Irrigation and Other Infrastructure : Two prior actions and two indicators were selected to support and
     measure, respectively, increased agriculture productivity and production through increased area under water
     management and expanded rural feeder network. Prior actions were first-generation institutional reforms, and
     performance indicators targeted change in organization and management quality of the irrigations systems.

     (iv) Fisheries: Two prior actions were to contribute in achieving increased incomes and productivity arising from
     improved conservation of marine fish stocks and value chain development, and improved inland fisheries
     management. Two indicators were to measure progress towards outcomes. Prior actions were structural, and
     reforms were first generation and detached from the identified outcomes, although identified indicators were
     measurable.

     (v) Sector Management and coordination : The pursued outcome was for greater coordination of
     agriculture-related spending result in improving resource allocation for the METASIP. Two prior actions were to
     be implemented and six indicators were to be used in gauging performance toward the outcome. Prior actions
     were structural and first-generation reforms and performance indicators were complex.

Results Matrix : The operation was well focused on supporting selected reforms and policy actions, and the list of prior
actions by policy area included actions and reforms deemed essential to its successful implementation as discussed
in the result matrix which was composed of three tables: (i) a table on the progress on prior actions, (ii) a table on the
policy matrix, and (iii) a table on the results framework. The three tables were complementary and underpinned the
theory of change of the programmatic series.

As raised in the ICR, the results matrix could only capture the Bank's contribution, and not that of other donors
supporting similar activities, and in particular, CIDA. As a general feature of the results matrix, there was a mismatch
between the identified outcomes, and the prior actions and the performance indicators. For instance, planning and
implementing reforms in the seed sector has proven to be a medium to long term process needed to increase
improved seed technology at the farm level. Similarly, regarding the time it takes for an industry to restructure and
fully develop its potential, the duration of the AgDPO series was short and the expectation of increased volumes of
seed produced and marketed through a wider distribution network was ambitious. The same reasoning holds for the
fisheries policy area.

Overall, the restated objective was clear, outcomes were fully achievable in the long run, although there were some
which were achieved during the life of the two operations. Prior actions were all relevant, and while some of them
were strong, others appeared to be far from influencing the achievement of targeted outcomes.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

"To enhance productivity and market access among farmers , and to improve agriculture sector management ."

(i) Agricultural Technology for Improved On -farm Productivity : Substantial

Identified key outcomes were: (i) enhanced ability of the research system to identify and program research priorities of
producers and other stakeholders, (ii) greater and speedier availability of seed technologies, (iii) greater effectiveness
and efficiency of private sector input distribution network.

    Improved research, extension services , skills training and education in agricultural sciences and farm
     management: More than Achieved

     The target of demand-driven research projects identified in all 10 regions was surpassed, reaching 30 against a
     target of 27. The following institutional and structural reforms were completed as prior actions and contributed to
     achieving the outcome: (i) the FY2011 funding for agricultural research was reflected in the budget for
     disbursement based on research priorities identified by Research Extension Liaison Committees and Ministry of
     Food and Agriculture (MoFA), (ii) the Plants and Fertilizer Act was approved by Parliament, (iii) a Public-Private
     Partnership arrangement between the fertilizer industry and the Government of Ghana set out operational
     modalities, roles and responsibilities, including a methodology for determining fertilizer prices and subsidy levels,
     and (iv) the Science, Technology and Innovation Policy and Development Program was approved by Cabinet in
     order to promote (a) mainstreaming of agriculture STI, (b) demand-driven nature of agricultural research and
     innovation, and (c) regional collaboration in agriculture research.

     Targets for demand-driven research and technology development have been exceeded and there was good
     progress towards the outcome, and expected performance was more than achieved.

    Adoption of agricultural input technolog y: Partially Achieved

     Regarding the quantity of certified seed available for sale (disaggregated by region and by crop), the target was
     missed for maize, but was exceeded for rice (4,523.2 mt against a target of 4,317 mt) and soya (390.5mt against
     a target of 372.7 mt).

     For the the number of agro-dealers selling fertilizer and seed, despite the decline in seed production as
     measured in 2012, the number of agro-dealers has increased and reforms in the agricultural inputs sector have
     been substantial, including increased private sector-led supply of high-yielding maize varieties and provision of
     other inputs for various crops grown under contract arrangements. A substantial part of the 753 additional dealers
     sell seed but this could not be substantiated, for the lack of up-to-date data on seed dealers.

     While there was a decline in seed production in 2012, the number of agro-dealers has increased and reforms in
     the agricultural inputs sector have been substantial, including increased private sector led supply of high yielding
     maize varieties and provision of other inputs for various crops grown under contract arrangements.

(ii) Market and Value Chain Development : Substantial

Key expected achievements were (i) increased value of production of key smallholder cash crops, (ii) increased
agribusiness turnover and sector growth through enhanced financial liquidity and tax incentives, and (iii) increased
integration of small holder farmers in grain markets.

    Increased participation of smallholders : More than Achieved

     The targets for value of selected non-traditional export crops (US$m), and the share of total lending by banks to
     agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors (% of total lending portfolio) were exceeded. The largest contributors to
     the growth in non-traditional exports from smallholder crops were (i) cashew, whose production increased from
     57,000 tons in 2010 to 157,000 tons in 2012, valued at GhC 170 million, (ii) shea nut exports more than doubled
     during this period, to GhC 48 million in 2012, and (iii) significant increases for for coffee, fish, pineapple, mango,
     coconut, beans, and cotton. As a prior action that contributed to the outcome, a MoFA Out-grower Value Chain
     Fund was established.

     Key achievements toward outcome included (i) increased availability of credit to the agricultural sector; (ii)
     increase in the production of smallholder cash crops; and (iii) participation of smallholders in value chains.

    Improved performance of grain markets : Achieved

     The target for storage capacity for agricultural commodities (tons) was exceeded, as 10 warehouses were
     certified by the Ghana Grain Council. Government has actively facilitated private sector participation in grain
     markets and has recognized the importance of transparency of its interventions through the National Buffer Stock
     Company. The demand for additional storage capacity confirms the improved policy environment, and the
     construction of 23,000 tons of warehouse capacity since 2010 meets the target;

     Grain markets improved markedly because of (i) the construction of additional storage capacity, (ii) the creation
     of an investment fund window for agriculture, and (iii) the launching of the National Food Buffer Stock Company
     activities. However, stored quantities were not reported.

(iii) Irrigation and Other Infrastructure : Substantial

Program and policy reforms intended to achieve increased agriculture productivity and production through expanded
area under water management and a larger rural feeder network.

    Improved irrigated agriculture : Achieved

     The first outcome target was met as joint management of irrigation infrastructure (% of sites) was practiced in a
     total of 14 schemes. Regulations also addressed important issues of land allocation within irrigated areas and
     supported the Joint Irrigation System Management (JISM) system that is operated by the Ghana Irrigation
     Development Authority (GIDA) and farmer cooperatives in a number of schemes. As part of the development of
     the JISM system, Land Allocation Committees (LACs) were formed and strengthened in all 14 schemes using the
     JISM system during 2012.

     The target of new PPPs on irrigation at pre-feasibility stage was exceeded, because two PPPs for irrigation
     development are currently being developed. A pre-feasibility study of the PPP has recently been completed and
     will allow the preparation of detailed terms of reference for the full feasibility study.

     In summary, policy and institutional reforms in the irrigation sector have gained momentum in recent years and
     are resulting in changed management structures in existing public irrigation schemes as well as in the
     development of PPPs devoted to irrigation. There was no information on the rural feeder network.

(iv) Fisheries: Modest

Reforms aimed to achieve increased incomes and productivity arising from improved conservation of marine fish
stocks and value chain development, and improved inland fisheries management.

    Improved management of the fisheries sector : Not achieved

     The target of freezing the issuance of new licenses for industrial and semi-industrial fishing vessels was achieved
     as there currently is a restriction on the registration of industrial and semi-industrial trawlers. The suspension has
     been implemented, with 14 industrial and semi-industrial fishing vessels registered (as renewals) in 2012,
     compared to 17 that were registered in 2011. The target of reducing the size of Industrial trawl fleet was not
     achieved, although no new licences were issued.

     While new license restrictions are fully imposed for industrial and semi-industrial vessels as well as trawlers, the
     original intention to gradually reduce the number of licensed industrial trawlers has not materialized.

(v) Sector Management and Coordination : Substantial

Program reforms in this area aimed to achieve greater coordination of agriculture-related spending that results in
improved resources allocation for METASIP.

    Enhanced delivery of agriculture sector investment program : Achieved

     The target related to the composition of the MoFA budget (Service and Investment budgets as % of the total
     MoFA discretionary budget) was achieved, as services and investment amounted to 26.3% of discretionary
     budget in 2012. Improvements in the planning and budgeting process have translated into improved budget
     outcomes. The shares of MoFA budget lines 2 (Admin/Goods & Services) and 3 (Assets/Investment) in MoFA's
     total discretionary budget resources (which represents the resources that deliver activities on the ground)
     increased from 24% in 2010 to 26.3% in 2012.

     The budget execution rate as measured by the Government's funds budget, against the funds released, was
     missed for goods (84.25% against 90.0%), and achieved for assets (97.2% against 95%) in 2012. Respectively,
     84.2% and 97.2% of GoG resources that were budgeted for items 2 and 3 were released to the MoFA in 2012.
     However, due to the implementation of the new single spine salary structure for civil servants, releases for
     employees' compensation exceeded the budget by 73%. Budget releases for assets/investments were extremely
     low in 2011. On the other hand, releases of donor resources generally exceeded budgeted amounts and
     compensated for any shortfall.

     The budget execution rate measured for GoG and donor funds released and actual expenditure, was achieved
     for goods and services (95% against a target of 95%), and for assets (about 140% against a target of 95%). A
     comparison of actual expenditure against the annual budget reveals that the former generally equals or exceeds
     the latter, with the exception of line item 2 in 2012, the targeted budget execution performance of GoG and donor
     resources was met or exceeded.
    Significant improvements in sector-wide planning and budgeting were achieved. Actual releases of GoG
    resources were mostly higher than budgeted, but mainly for salaries. Donors have compensated the shortfall in
    actual expenditures for goods and services, and assets. Actual expenditures of the resources that were released
    were mostly above target, except for goods and services in 2012.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

Moderately Satisfactory

The objectives and the design of both DPLs were substantially relevant. The program (AgDPO4) and specific
objectives were clearly stated and consistent with the country's priorities and embedded in the Bank's strategies for
Ghana, and in the African regional program for the agriculture sector. The results matrix as described under Section
3.b was also substantially relevant, although there was a mismatch between the outcomes, and the prior actions
completed before program approval.

Performance toward outcomes displayed substantial results in the case of four policy areas, and modest results in the
case of one pillar (Fisheries). Results were substantially achieved in (i) increased participation of smallholders, (ii)
policy and institutional reforms related to the irrigation sector, (iii) demand-driven research and technology
development, (iv) improving grain markets performance, and (v) developing agriculture sector-wide planning and
budgeting. While some progress was made, only modest results were achieved in the adoption of agricultural input
technology, and in improving management of the fisheries sector. While there were other donors supporting the
country in the same policy areas, satisfactory contribution to the outcome by the programmatic series was confirmed
by the Bank team.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Significant

The policy reform agenda supported by the programmatic series under review was successful, due in major part to a
strong Government's ownership and leadership. While efficacy had both modest and substantial ratings, the reform
thrust to modernize the agriculture sector was consistently strong. For the near future, progress achieved will
continue to be used by the MoFA and other stakeholders in the deepening of the policy dialogue and the
transformation of the agricultural sector. The institutional infrastructure, which was supported by the series, will
provide the needed continuity in deepening reform in Ghana's agriculture, complemented by the CAADP reform
framework.

The two key pillars that might contribute in sustaining the achieved outcomes are the wide range of donor partners
active in the Ghana's agriculture sector on the one hand, and the strong relationship between the DPLs with other
Bank operations on the other hand. A host of key donors are still engaged for the long haul in providing budget
support, investment funding, and technical assistance in support to the agriculture sector. In particular, the Bank is
using the same range of policy lending instrument, investment and TA projects in supporting commercial agriculture,
fisheries, transport, sustainable land and water management and budget support through programmatic Poverty
Reduction Support Credits.

However, the worsening fiscal situation and the decision by the Government to discontinue the series under review
signaled that there were challenges as regards to the funding of agriculture investments using the Government
budget. The pursuit of a major agricultural investment agenda to which it would allocate a substantial portion of its
budget in line with the CAADP agreement has not shown a high level of sustainability. Following increased oil
production and the presence of donors, this risk might be mitigated over time.

On balance, the risk to development outcome is rated as significant because of important negative factors (fiscal
deficit, and DPL series discontinuation), despite some positive factors (presence of donors supporting the agriculture
sector refrom, and oil production revenue).
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The Bank used its convening capacity to work with the MoFA, other development partners and internal stake
holders to identify critical gaps and opportunities for support in the agricultural sector, based on a robust body of
analytical evidence, which had been completed by the Bank and other partners ahead of the DPLs' launching. In
particular, the Bank maintained engagement with the IMF on macroeconomic management, and technical
assistance to improve financial management.

The approved DPLs were well-designed operations, with participation and input from other donors and domestic
stakeholders. There was a strong relationship between the DPLs and other Bank operations; the programmatic
DPLs were an additional instrument that complemented other sector DPLs, investment and TA projects, which
were being implemented to create a conducive environment for the agriculture sector.

Drawing on lessons learned from the efficacy of DPLs in other sectors, the Bank carefully assessed the
operations' risks during preparation, and used a participatory approach that involved sector stakeholders in
identifying priorities, as well as risks mitigation. The objective and design of the two DPLs were substantially
relevant, and implementation and M&E arrangements derived from a productive interaction among key
stakeholders. They were effective in creating synergy among the multiple interventions supporting reforms in the
agriculture sector.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


The presence of the task team leader in the Bank's country office facilitated implementation through intensive
engagement in the sector policy dialogue, allowing a sustained interaction with government officials and
development partners. The Bank team played a leadership role in sector policy dialogue and in closely monitoring
progress on prior actions and in providing technical assistance to the Government. The task team worked closely
and collaborated effectively with all development donors to ensure the operations' complementarity with donor
support programs.

The ICR did not provide sufficient clarity on the causes of the discontinuation of the programmatic series after two
disbursements, reflecting some policy inconsistency by the Bank, because a list of reforms supported by the
series were not totally accomplished yet. The Bank team indicated that the Ministry of finance was implicitly at the
origin of the discontinuation, because of doubts about transferring budget resources to a sector ministry with a
weak sector medium-term expenditure framework.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government displayed commitment and total ownership of the reform program through the Ministries of
Food and Agriculture (MoFA) and Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP), which worked closely with the Bank
to effectively prepare and implement the two programmatic operations. The Government ensured consistency
among the policies supported by the policy operations with the objectives of the METASIP and the CAADP
framework.
The Government was able to engage a host of donor partners, who supported the reform agenda in the agriculture
sector, and established close cooperation with them and other domestic stakeholders. Because of that
coordination and leadership, even when the DPLs were discontinued, the Bank remained engaged in the country
through other budget support, policy and investments and TA projects, and continues to implement a sectoral
approach to development in the agricultural sector.

However, the Government experienced a fiscal deficit during program implementation, which hampered regular
transfers of adequate resources to support investment in the agriculture sector. Moreover, the Government could
not establish realistic and actionable medium-term expenditure frameworks that could have facilitated transfer of
resources to line ministries, including the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Finally, the Government also decided
to discontinue the DPL series, which impacted negatively on some policy objectives that still required
consolidation to achieve positive results.



   Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory


 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The ICR did not delineate the specific implementing agencies that played a key role in the design and execution of
policy reforms supported by the programmatic operations. Responsibility for implementing policy reforms lied with
the MoFA, with additional financial and contractual responsibilities performed by directorates in the MoFEP.

There was active collaboration among the various partners and stakeholders in the implementation of the DPOs.
Relevant directorates of MoFA and MoFEP worked closely together. The Agriculture Sector Working Group (made
up of key actors in the agriculture sector, including development partners) was closely involved through sharing of
information at the monthly meetings and discussion of outcomes at the annual Joint Sector Review.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

When the DPLs were approved, it was determined that the agriculture sector monitoring framework was to continue to
serve as the basis for monitoring sector performance and therefore the results of the Bank's policy operations, and
this was a sound option. The objectives and targets in the proposed DPL series were aligned with the monitoring
framework and were consistent with the FASDEP objectives and the METASIP program components. Expenditure
reporting was to be obtained from the Government's submissions to CAADP, which are guided by the definitions of
what constitutes agriculture expenditure as well as data from the Accountant General.

The DPLs M&E was aligned with the MoFA's system and the activities of other donors, utilizing the annual reporting
and the Joint Sector Review process by all stakeholders. The results framework for the new DPLs supporting the
agriculture sector was to utilize the existing MoFA's M&E framework, and to also draw on information from
decentralized Ministries, Departments and agencies' (MDA) units and the private sector. The results framework
required the updating on the baselines and the targets, which were to be released by the the Ministry of Agriculture.
With the baseline numbers in place, the targets were to be calibrated to reflect the METASIP targets. As such, some
targets presented in the matrix were to be adjusted.


b. M&E Implementation:

Performance of part of the indicators was tracked using data from the MoFA's M&E system and other frequently
collected information. Data for the remaining indicators were collected from other industry sources. New analytical
work under the Joint Sector Review process, policy studies by other donors, were utilized to expand MoFA's sector
performance data.

c. M&E Utilization:

In the context of a programmatic series of DPLs, subsequent operations are designed on the basis of progress made
during previous ones. In this case, the fourth DPL factored in all information on the reform program that was available
when the third DPL was completed, and was used to design and adjust the reform agenda under the fourth DPL.

The ICR indicated that reports on macroeconomic developments assessed progress in implementing the
macroeconomic framework agreed by the Government of Ghana, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World
Bank, and the Multi Donor Budget Support (MDBS). Those reports helped to assess the adequacy of the
macroeconomic framework for the two operations.

  M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The TTL provided additional information on possible environmental impacts of the DPL series. In compliance with
OP8.60, the policy measures supported by the operation were not expected to have significant effects on the
environment. Beneficial effects were expected to arise from actions aimed at strengthening the management of land,
soil and water and the promotion of good agricultural practices.

Ghana has a robust environmental institutional framework and considerable capacities to set environmental
management standards. The main frameworks include (i) the 1991 National Environmental Policy, (ii) the 1992
National Environmental Action Plan, and (iii) the 1994 Environmental Protection Agency Act. This framework seeks to
reconcile economic development and natural resource conservation.

Low fertilizer use causes severe soil nutrient depletion, and enhanced fertilizer use combined with improved soil
management is expected to have contributed to the restoration of soils and the improvement of soil fertility. In
addition, agricultural intensification could have resulted in reduced encroachment on forests. Measures taken to
improved fisheries management under Policy Area 4 could have resulted in conservation of fish stocks.

The reform agenda of the programmatic series has directly and indirectly benefited rural populations, including many
households in the Northern part of the country where productivity increases were measured, brought about by the
availability of improved agricultural input technology and improved market access.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

The overall fiduciary risk of the operation was rated modest, given the positive public financial management (PFM)
improvements coupled with the Government's commitment to reforms as exemplified by its implementation of a
Government-led PFM Reforms Charter, and the latest IMF Safeguards Assessment, which indicated that Ghana had
implemented the necessary reforms at the Bank of Ghana.

When the agriculture sector DPLs were being designed, Ghana's PFM was solid enough to warrant the continuation of
Development Policy Operations. Analytical work undertaken by Development Partners in collaboration with the
Government highlighted the strong foundation being built towards strengthening PFM in Ghana. Fiduciary issues
remained regarding budget execution, but reforms were under way for an effective cash management system, the
treasury single account, and the full reinstatement of commitment controls in all ministries, departments and agencies
(MDAs). These measures were to lower the risk of expenditure slippages and to support the predictability of resource
flows to MDAs.

There were no issues with the flow of funds related to the two DPL disbursements. In light of the positive assessment
of the prevailing fiduciary conditions by the Bank’s financial management team, no audit was requested.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant           The ICR rated the RDO as Substantial,
                     Outcome:                                                     which is not part of the rating scale in
                                                                                  the harmonized OPCS-IEG guidelines.
                                                                                  However, the equivalent to the ICR's
                                                                                  "Substantial" would be "Significant" in
                                                                                  the harmonized OPCS-IEG rating scale
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately            Transfer of budget resources to the
                                                            Satisfactory          MoFA was not sufficient to support
                                                                                  needed investment and TA. The
                                                                                  Government also discontinued the
                                                                                  series, which impacted negatively on
                                                                                  some policy objectives that still required
                                                                                  consolidation to achieve positive
                                                                                  results.
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

IEG agrees with the four lessons identified in the ICR, which are rephrased below:

(i) The design of policy matrices and the tracking of prior actions are major undertakings that need to be better
integrated in the results framework. As policy reforms are expected to eventually result in changes, prior actions
and triggers should be considered as necessary steps towards achieving the PDO. Internalizing prior actions,
triggers and the related reporting requirements at various levels within the sector ministry enhances ownership and
improves reporting, especially when operation's results framework is drawn from existing indicators to measure
performance in the sector.

(ii) For sector-specific DPOs, the relationship should be handled carefully between the technical ministry as the
main counterpart for policy development, and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP) as the
contractual partner to whom the resources are disbursed should be handled carefully. Stronger engagement of
MoFEP and better collaboration between the latter and the Ministry of food and Agriculture (MoFA) could improve
the quality of the policy reforms and could have influenced the decision-making process that led to the
discontinuation of DPL-5 programmatic series

(iii) It is important to coordinate investment lending operations closely with the partner in order to align the policy
reform steps and set realistic targets. A substantial delay in effectiveness of the Ghana fisheries project caused
delays in the implementation of reforms related to the reduction of trawler licenses.

(iv)It is important to ensure that the policy agenda underlying the operation is complementary to the Bank's and
other development partners' investment lending operations, because it creates synergies that enhance the policy
making process as well as program implementation.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No

Why?

The assessment of the DPL series would be useful to IEG 's efforts to understand the effectiveness of the policy
lending instrument when it is used to support sector-specific reforms in a country in the initial phase of economic
emergence. It would be interesting to understand how this instrument is used in synergy with other instruments of the
Bank and other donors.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


Quality of evidence and analysis : The ICR is candid, clearly written and organized around the results framework of
the series, and provided an adequate analysis of the project design and implementation. The evidence provided to
support outcomes is sufficiently quantitative and directly related to measuring progress toward the achievement of
identified outcomes.

Internal consistency and lessons : The absence of reporting on the contribution of the donor community in the
achievement of the program outcome was a major shortcoming, because substantial resources from donors
supported the program. There were also weaknesses in reporting on the policy objective related to enhanced delivery
on sector policy and investment program. Overall, lessons learned from the implementation of the series make sense.

Consistency with Guidelines : The ICR had several substantive and minor weaknesses as follows:(i) the ICR was
silent on fiduciary and safeguards issues (additional information was provided upon IEG request by the Bank team) (ii)
there was a confusion in the use of scale in the rating of efficacy (four point scale) and outcome (six point scale).
Minor shortcomings included the following the omission of the date of effectiveness date of the Fourth DPL, (ii) risk to
development outcome, which was rated as substantial, instead of significant, and (iii) the ICR discussion of DPO
design was not centered around the results chain.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
