Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
March 31, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6382 
(The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
Poland Energy Efficiency DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Country 
Poland 
Sector 
Energy Efficiency; Renewable Energy; Climate Change 
Operation ID 
P115426 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Poland 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 31, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
April 18, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
Other Decision 
{Optional}
Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no 
other decisions are added
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Poland has shown remarkable resilience to the global financial crisis. The macroeconomic 
policies implemented prior to and during the global crisis have helped to ensure a continuous 
economic expansion in recent years and to return growth close to its potential.  The government 
policies are supportive of a sustained growth, keeping external imbalances in check and 
narrowing fiscal deficits over the medium-term.   
 
However, the country faces a dilemma of how to go about decreasing emissions, while 
maintaining its focus on economic growth to converge with EU-15 income levels, and at the 
same time, reducing its large fiscal imbalance. To solve this conundrum, improving energy 
efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy are the cornerstones
 of the country’s 
energy policy. The Government aims at achieving zero growth in energy demand over the 
medium- to long-term and reducing Poland’s energy intensity to the level of the EU-15 by 2030, 
while at the same time increasing the share of renewable energy.  
 
The next steps in achieving improvements in Poland’s energy intensity will be challenging as 
they follow a decrease in energy intensity of more than 50% since 1990. 
 
Significant potential for efficiency gains still remains as Poland’s energy intensity is still double 
that of the EU average. The buildings and transport sectors are the primary target for energy 
efficiency gains given their large share of energy consumption and their expected rapid annual 
growth. 
Poland also faces a challenge in achieving bold renewable energy targets as there is little 
hydropower or geothermal potential, attractive wind power sites are limited and solar power is 
Page  2
expensive.  Biomass applications have recently shown promise and are, along with wind power 
and biogas, expected to be the focus of attention in meeting Poland 2010 renewable energy 
target.   
II. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The program development objective of the proposed operation is to support the Government’s 
program to: (i) decrease actual final energy consumption by 9% p.a. by 2016 and reach a 20% 
reduction target by 2020 compared to business as usual; and (ii) increase the share of renewable 
energy in final energy consumption to 15.5% by 2020.   
 
The prior actions supported in the proposed operation are as follows: 
ƒ
Energy Efficiency Law to be passed by the Parliament and Senate, which establishes the 
White Certificates program as a mechanism to meet its energy efficiency targets. 
ƒ
An ordinance on heat tariffs that provides incentives to increase the share of cogeneration 
by allowing cogenerators to price their bulk heat up to the price of heat produced by local 
heat-only boilers was issued in September 2010. 
ƒ
The Government has updated its regulatory environment to support the implementation 
of Smart Meters as the first step towards implementing Smart Grids.  The reforms have 
created the enabling environment to support the start, in November 2010, of Smart Meter 
pilot programs by two utilities. 
ƒ
The Government has provided adequate (200 million PLN) budget support for the 
Thermo-Modernization Fund in 2011.  The TMF is a grant component that leverages 
about six times as much funding for energy efficiency investments in households. 
ƒ
The Government will issue two ordinances on Electronic Tolling System (ETS) charges 
covering: (i) the structure of electronic toll charges and (ii) the maximum toll levels that 
can be charged taking into account all costs related to construction, operation and 
maintenance of road infrastructure. The toll is differentiated by vehicles emission levels 
and will thus support investment in improved efficiency 
ƒ
The Government has established a National Renewable Energy Action Plan that outlines 
how they can scale-up its existing Renewable Energy program to meet its commitment of 
at least 15.5% of renewable energy use by 2020.  This Plan provides the guidance for 
accelerating the application of the successful existing certificates programs. 
 
Key outcomes of the proposed operation are to reduce Poland’s energy intensity and limit the 
growth in emissions by implementing energy efficiency and renewable energy actions, measured 
by: (i) improved governance by providing adequate financial support to the implementation of 
the EE and RE program, (ii) reduced energy consumption in the supply side by increasing the 
share of cogeneration in power supply, (iii) acceleration of supply and demand-side EE measures 
by supporting the implementation of a smart metering program, (iv) decreased energy 
consumption in the transport sector, and (v) increased use of Renewable Energy in the Poland’s 
final energy consumption. 
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Government policies continue to balance support for a broad-based, sustainable economic 
recovery with medium-term fiscal stabilization. Poland has managed successfully to shore up 
economic growth, strengthen financial markets and sustain social outcomes. In 2010, as the crisis 
Page  3
was gradually fading, the authorities adopted an accommodative fiscal and monetary stance. 
From 2011 on, a more conservative fiscal policy, required in view o
f
Poland’s debt rules and EU 
commitments, should be accompanied by a private sector led recovery. So far, the government 
policies are supportive of a sustained growth, keeping external imbalances in check and 
narrowing fiscal deficits over the medium-term.  
 
Poland’s Energy Policy is driven by the broader agenda of sustainable economic growth to 
enable convergence with the EU-15 by 2030, while respecting its fiscal constraints and EU 
obligations to reduce GHG emissions. The Government has made energy efficiency the 
cornerstone of meeting its energy challenges as stated in its Energy Strategy to 2030. Renewable 
energy has also been identified by Government as a key pillar to meet its energy security and 
emissions reductions targets. The Government has introduced a number of regulatory, market 
and quasi-market measures to improve energy efficiency, such as: end-use consumer savings; 
increasing power and heat generation efficiency; reducing network losses; introducing 
mandatory performance certificates for buildings; improving its building standards; introducing 
minimum standards for power-consuming devices; and providing targeted loans and grants for 
investment in energy efficiency. To support the implementation of renewable energy, the 
Government has established a certificates program that obliges electricity suppliers to increase 
the share of renewable energy in their portfolio as well as a subsidy scheme to decrease 
investment costs. 
 
The proposed DPL supports the Government’s broad-base reform program to achieve a low-
emissions growth and is expected to be an anchor for the strategic dialogue between the Bank 
and the Polish authorities, in particular in the area of regional and global public goods. Poland is 
at an interesting confluence, building on lessons learned from EU-15 countries on how to design 
and implement energy efficiency and renewable energy policies and programs, while providing 
lessons for emerging economies on how to make the transition.   
 
The Bank collaborated closely with the IMF and the European Commission to ensure that the 
measures under the proposed DPL program reinforce and complement their support to Poland. 
 
IV. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: (
 m.)
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
750 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
750 
 Total 
750 
 
V. Tranches
 (if applicable)
 
VI. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  4
The Ministry of Economy has overall leadership for the formulation of the Government Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy Reform Program and follow-up of its implementation. A 
Working Group was appointed in June 2010 by the President to oversee the development and 
implementation of the Energy Reform Program. The Director of the Department of Energy at the 
Ministry of Economy will continue to be the focal point for this DPL and will have responsibility 
for monitoring progress.  
 
Supervision missions will allow the Bank to continue providing policy advice and technical 
support to the Government departments and institutions involved in the implementation of the 
sector’s reform program. It is anticipated that supervision missions will monitor actions and 
review progress in the implementation of the DPL until the project’s closure.  
 
VII. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
Three key risks to delivering the DPL Program’s results are identified:
 
Economic Risks.
 A worsening in the external environment could slow down growth in Poland, 
and possibly delay the ambitious fiscal consolidation. The reduction of the fiscal deficit from 7.9 
percent of GDP in 2010 to 3.2 percent of GDP in 2012 reflects Government’s fiscal measures, 
along with the cyclical improvement in the economy and tax bases. The main fiscal measures 
were adopted as part of the 2011 budget, with the exception of the reduction in transfers to 
private pension funds and the new rule to limit local government borrowing. Finally, Poland 
expects the EU to agree later this year that a reduction in the fiscal deficit to less than 3.5 percent 
of GDP will be sufficient to abrogate the EU’s excessive deficit procedure. 
Political and Institutional Risks.
 Approaching general elections to Parliament in late 2011 may 
temporarily reduce the Government’s willingness to undertake further bold structural reforms, 
including those to facilitate private investment in EE and RE. The program is ambitious and 
faces some implementation risks: (i) the White Certificates Scheme is relatively complex when 
compared to schemes in other EU countries, (ii) difficulties in addressing legal, regulatory, and 
financing barriers may arise if there is a lack of inter-ministerial coordination and given limited 
institutional capacity and resource constraints. Parties include the Ministries of Economy, 
Environment, and Infrastructure, the Energy Regulator, regional and municipal Governments, 
and other public entities such as the National Fund for Environmental Protection. The main 
political risk is partially mitigated by the Government’s strong and broad-based ownership of its 
EE and RE program as demonstrated by the adoption of the Energy Strategy Until 2030 and the 
Energy Efficiency Law.   In addition, Poland has committed itself towards the EU to meet its 
agreed 2020 national energy efficiency and renewable energy targets and has to report to the 
European Commission at regular intervals on progress made in the implementation of its national 
action plans in those two areas.  Mitigating measures to address the Institutional risks include 
establishing an inter-ministerial team to monitor implementation of the Government’s energy 
policy and associated specific multilateral working groups, increased engagement by the Bank in 
policy dialogue and provision by the Bank of advisory services on best practices in other EU 
countries. The Government and the Energy Regulator have also designed an implementation 
strategy by which White Certificates would be gradually introduced. The Government has drawn 
on experience in other EU countries and is committed to closely monitor implementation of its 
energy strategy. 
 
Page  5
Social and Environmental Risks.
 Social tensions and declining support to the Government’s 
Energy Efficiency program resulting from increases in energy prices and from high transaction 
and administrative costs for market participants to engage in energy efficiency investments. 
These risks would be mitigated by ongoing public outreach and communications campaigns to 
raise awareness and provide transparent information about existing energy efficiency programs.  
 
VIII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
The proposed DPL-and the seven policy areas that comprise the program are expected to have 
overall positive poverty and social impacts on consumers and the population at large. The 
programs and the policies that they support are expected to help: (i) improve the efficiency of the 
energy sector, which is likely to reduce the real cost of the provision of energy services, and thus 
have a positive effect on affordability; (ii) enable significant energy efficiency and renewable 
energy investments that would increase demand for local “green jobs” and thus stimulate 
economic development; and (iii) reduce air pollution, thereby mitigating its impacts on human 
health. The program strengthens the framework for long-term sustainable growth across the 
economy and in the energy sector in particular.   
 
Some reforms, however, may have an unintended detrimental effect on certain social groups. 
One of the negative short-term social impacts is related to the implementation of the White 
Certificate Program. According to GoP, the cost resulting from implementation the program will 
lead to an increase of energy prices in the order of 1.5 % to 2 %. It is expected that these short-
term costs would be compensated by the energy savings arising from energy efficiency 
investments within 1 to 3 years. Even in the short term, the expected increase in prices would 
have a modest impact on household welfare, although it might affect some households more than 
others. It is estimated that the impact of such increases on household welfare is to be equivalent 
to 0.3 percent of total household expenditure and at most 0.6 percentage points of the poverty 
headcount.  The distributional impact of such an increase would be rather uniform across 
quintiles.  
 
Additional insights on the nexus between other energy efficiency policies supported in this 
operation and poverty and social issues are expected to be drawn from ongoing analytical work 
that would explore both costs and potential lost opportunities of the implementation of EE 
investments, focusing on the poor, and makes recommendations on how they could be addressed.  
 
Environment Aspects  
The program is expected to have positive effects on the environment and natural resources. 
Decreasing GHG emissions will address the climate change agenda; decreasing SOx, NOx and 
particulates will address human health risks and local and regional air quality issues; decreased 
need for cooling water from thermal power plants will decrease environmental impacts on water 
systems.  Possible negative impacts from new construction are limited as much of the energy 
efficiency improvements are expected to be caused by improving the effectiveness of building 
envelopes.  Modernization and construction of high efficiency energy generation facilities and 
reducing energy losses in electricity and heat distribution networks under 2007 to 2013 
Infrastructure and Environment Operations Program and Regional Operations Program of the 
Page  6
National Energy Efficiency Action Plan will be made in accordance with Poland environmental 
standards (comprehensive environmental impact assessment), which follow EU principles and 
are thus expected to be acceptable.  
 
IX. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Gary Stuggins 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2607 
Fax:  
Email: Gstuggins@worldbank.org 
 
 
Borrower 
Contact:  
 
Title:  
 
Tel: 
   
Email:  
 
 
X. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
