Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  58591 
Operation Name 
Poland Energy Efficiency DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (30%);Renewable energy (10%);General energy sector 
(60%) 
Project ID 
P115426 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Poland 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
November 23, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 17, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2011 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The overarching goal of the CPS is to support Poland’s convergence towards EU living standards
.
The recently completed DPL program of EUR3 billion has been central to the Bank’s engagement in 
Poland, as emphasized in the 2009-13 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) approved by the Board on 
June 30, 2009.  The CPS aims to situate the Bank’s engagement in Poland firmly in the context of the 
activities of other external partners and focuses on niche areas of engagement where the Bank can add 
value. 
The Bank’s strategic partnership with Poland is based on four pillars: (i) Growth and Competitiveness; 
(ii) Public Sector Reform; (iii) Social and Spatial Inclusion; and (iv) Regional and Global Public Goods. 
The proposed Energy Efficiency DPL will be an anchor for the strategic dialogue between the Bank and 
the Polish authorities, in particular in the area of regional and global public goods. Public financial 
management reform, private sector reform, labor market efficiency and social sector reform, supported 
by the recent DPL series, have been key elements of the first three pillars. 
With the new DPL, the 
Bank will focus on supporting energy sector reforms and climate change challenges related to the 
EU energy and climate policies.
 The operation follows-up on the key findings of the CEM titled 
“Transition to a low carbon economy in Poland”, which is a unique AAA activity of the Bank in ECA.  
The analyses associated with this operation identified energy efficiency as the highest priority in 
addressing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions decrease in a fiscally sustainable manner. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The energy efficiency program is designed to accelerate the Government’s success in decreasing 
the energy intensity of its economy by more than 50% from 1990-2007, by broadening and 
deepening the program
.
Much of the success to date comes about from improvements in the industrial 
sector and structural changes to the economy. However, two other events impacted Poland’s energy 
intensity: the economic contraction that took place during the 1990s and slowdown in growth in 2008/9.  
The design of the Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) is expected to help delink future economic growth 
and energy use. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  2
2
1. 
The Government’s EEP focuses on the decade to 2020, designed to help meet the agreed EU 
target of decreasing energy use by 9% by 2016 and by 20% by 2020 relative to a Business as Usual 
scenario
.
The primary interventions that would enable this target to be met are: 
a. 
The Government has prepared a draft Energy Efficiency Law that was approved by the Council 
of Ministers in October 2010.  The law is designed to create the legal framework to support the 
Government’s objectives of decreasing energy use. 
 
b.  Decreasing energy use in buildings supported by a buildings certificates program and 
implementation of upgraded buildings standards.  The Government initiated a buildings 
certificate program in which the energy use of a building is made publicly available.  The 
program is designed to improve consumer knowledge about the energy costs associated with 
purchasing or renting a home to provide incentives for improvements.  In particular, the program 
is designed to help address the landlord-tenant problem caused by information asymmetry 
between the owners and renters of buildings.  The program is in its early stages of 
implementation: improved effectiveness is expected to take place by improving information  
sharing. 
 
c. 
Increased use of waste energy to provide heat and electricity by increasing the use of 
cogeneration.  The current use of cogeneration is limited to large scale applications.  
Scandinavian countries have demonstrated that there are prospects to improve upon this by using 
smaller sized, distributed cogeneration sources.  The Government currently supports this 
program with red and yellow certificates programs as a market instrument to induce more 
cogeneration applications to enable them to meet their target of doubling cogeneration use by 
2020.  Draft Ordinance have been prepared to induce increased use of cogeneration by 
improving pricing incentives to for cogeneration facilities. 
 
d.  Introducing a White Certificates program to support meeting energy efficiency targets in a 
market-friendly manner.  The Government plans to draw on the experience of UK, France and 
Italy in the introduction of their White Certificates programs to help provide incentives to meet 
Poland’s energy efficiency targets.  Experience has proven to be successful elsewhere.  The 
Government will work with advisors to help design the implementation program to ensure 
effectiveness of the proposed program. 
 
e. 
The implementation of Smart Grids, starting with Smart Meters, designed to better integrate 
demand-side management in the energy balance.  The Government has started pilot smart 
metering programs to better integrate demand with energy supply price signals.    The 
Government is planning to develop a Smart Grids roll-out strategy, integrating the Smart Meters 
program into a broader Smart Grids strategy to improve the potential benefits in its use. 
 
Page  3
3
f. 
Changes in behavior supported by an outreach program.  The Government has recently embarked 
in a targeted outreach program designed to address the problem with access to information. 
 
g.  The Government playing a leadership role in energy efficiency interventions to set a good 
example in decreasing its energy consumption.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Accelerating energy efficiency interventions will have a number of environmental benefits: decreasing 
GHG emissions will address the climate change agenda; decreasing SO
x
,
NO
x
and particulates will 
address local and regional air quality issues; decreased need for cooling water from thermal power 
plants will decrease environmental impacts on water systems.  Possible negative impacts from new 
construction are limited as much of the energy efficiency improvements are expected to be established 
by improving the effectiveness of building envelopes with better insulation and reduced leakage.  New 
small cogeneration facilities will be built in accordance with Poland environmental standards. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1000 
 Total 
1000 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Gary Stuggins 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2607 
Fax: (202) 614-1569 
Email: Gstuggins@worldbank.org
 
