                                                 CONFORMED COPY


                                              LOAN NUMBER 8070-PL




              Loan Agreement

(Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Development Policy Loan)



                            between



                   REPUBLIC OF POLAND


                              and


      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                AND DEVELOPMENT




                      Dated June 16, 2011
                                                             LOAN NUMBER 8070-PL

                                LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated June 16, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(“Borrower?) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:



ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred and fifty million Euro
        (EUR 750,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
        a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
        days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
                                           2


        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are June 1st and December 1st in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
               of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
               (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
               amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
               Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
               portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
               from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
               Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
               Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
               all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
               outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
               Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
               is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
               in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
               provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
               Guidelines.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions:

        (a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
               either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
               framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
               Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
               carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
               request; and

        (c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                                            3


                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program.



ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

                         ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

5.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                u1. Swietokrzyska 12
                00-916 Warszawa
                Republic of Poland

                Cable:                                           Facsimile:

                MINF                                             (48) 22 6943070
                Poland

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:          Telex:                   Facsimile:

                INTBAFRAD               248423(MCI) or           1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.         64145(MCI)

6.04.   This Agreement shall be issued in two (2) signed originals in English.
4
                                          5



           AGREED at Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above
written.


                                REPUBLIC OF POLAND




                                By /s/ Jacek Dominik
                                                        Authorized Representative


                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                By /s/ Thomas Laursen
                                                        Authorized Representative
                                            6


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                   Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program

        The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.     The Act on Energy Efficiency was approved by the Parliament on April 15, 2011,
and promulgated by the President on April 29, 2011, thereby establishing the Borrower’s
White Certificates Program as a mechanism to meet its energy efficiency targets.

2.      The Borrower has provided incentives to increase the share of cogeneration by
allowing cogenerators to price their bulk heat up to the average price of heat produced by
heat-only boilers, through the issuance of the Ordinance on Heat Tariffs of September
17, 2010 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland No. 194/2010, item 1291).

3.       The Borrower, through its Energy Regulatory Office, has issued a draft
Regulatory Statement which covers all the key areas of implementation of Smart Meters,
and, through the State-owned enterprise Energa, has initiated said implementation.

4.      The Borrower has allocated PLN 200 million for financing the Thermo-
modernization and Renovation Fund in fiscal year 2011, through the enactment of the
Budget Law for 2011 of February 19, 2011 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland
No. 29/2011, item 150).

5.      The Borrower has implemented electronic tolling system charges for heavy
vehicles on major national roads sections, through the issuance of the Ordinance on
National Roads or Sections on Which the Fee will be Collected Electronically and the
Rates of the Electronic Toll of March 22, 2011 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of
Poland No. 80/2011, item 433) and the Ordinance on the Calculation of the Maximum
Rate of Electronic Toll of March 22, 2011 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland
No. 77/2011, item 417).

6.      The Borrower has submitted its National Renewable Energy Action Plan to the
European Commission through Decision by its Council of Ministers of December 7,
2010, thereby detailing its commitment of at least 15.5% of renewable energy use by
2020.

Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                          7


B.       Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The
allocation of the amount of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                                   Amount of the Loan
                                                       Allocated
            Allocations                           (expressed in EURO)


(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                         750,000,000


        TOTAL AMOUNT                                  750,000,000


C.     Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program being
carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s
macroeconomic policy framework.

E.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1.      all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount
equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon
such request shall be cancelled.

G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2012.
                                            8


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                 Amortization Schedule

1.       The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share?). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.


                                                       Installment Share
        Principal Payment Date                     (Expressed as a Percentage)

On each June 1 and December 1
       Beginning December 1, 2020
       through December 1, 2030                                4.55%

On June 1, 2031                                                4.45%


2.      If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

         (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

         (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment
Share?) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

3.      (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
                                            9


payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.

         (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
                                           10



                                     APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
                Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
                Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
                or grant;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
                Borrower:

        Group           Sub-group       Description of Item

        112                             Alcoholic beverages
        121                             Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
        122                             Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
        525                             Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
        667                             Pearls, precious and
                                        semiprecious stones, unworked
                                        or worked
        718             718.7           Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                        thereof; fuel elements
                                        (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                        nuclear reactors
        728             728.43          Tobacco processing machinery
        897             897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum group metals (except
                                        watches and watch cases) and
                                        goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                        11


     Group           Sub-group       Description of Item

                                     wares (including set gems)
     971                             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                     gold ores and concentrates)

     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
             agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
             (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
             satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

2.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

3.   “PLN? means Polish Zloty, the lawful currency of the Borrower.

4.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable energy efficiency and use of renewable
     energy, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated April 29, 2011 from the
     Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of
     the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
     during its execution.

5.   “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
     category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
     Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

6.   “Smart Meters? means a electrical meters that record consumption of electric
     energy in intervals of an hour or less and communicate that information to
     the utility for monitoring and billing purposes, and enable two-way
     communication between the customer and their appliances and the supplier.
                                           12


7.      “Thermo-modernization and Renovation Fund? means the Borrower’s fund
        established through the Act of November 21, 2008 on Support for Thermo-
        Refurbishment and Renovation, as amended (Journal of Laws of 2008, Number
        223, item 1459; of 2009, Number 157, item 1241; and of 2010, Nr. 76, item 493).

Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is not applicable to this Agreement.

2.      Sections 2.02 (Special Commitment by the Bank), 2.04 (Designated Accounts),
        2.05, (Eligible Expenditures), 2.06 (Financing of Taxes) and 2.07 (Refinancing
        Project Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and Interest) and 2.08
        (Reallocation) are not applicable to this Agreement.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), 5.02 (Performance under the Loan
        Agreement and Project Agreement), 5.03 (Provision of Funds and other
        Resources), 5.04 (Insurance), 5.05 (Land Acquisition), 5.06 (Use of Goods,
        Works and Services; Maintenance of Facilities), 5.07 (Plans; Documents;
        Records), 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits) and
        Paragraph (b) of Section 5.11 (Visits) are not applicable to this Agreement.

4.      Paragraph (b) of Section 5.08 is not applicable to this Agreement, and Paragraph
        (c) of Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 5.08 Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
                to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
                such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
                execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the
                Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
                accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.?

5.      The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
        deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
        alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
        accordingly:

        (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
                follows:
                                13


             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put
             in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures
             excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.?

(b)   The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
      Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

(c)   The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
      modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout
      these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):

             “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan
             Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.?
