                                        Document of
                                     TheWorld Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2605



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-80700)


                                       ON A LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF €750 MILLION

                          (EQUIVALENT TO US$1.11 BILLION)

                            TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                         FOR AN

 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                       June 25, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Central/South Europe and Baltics Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective as of February 2011)
                         Currency Unit
                US$1.00                 2.8 PLN
                EUR 1.0                3.97 PLN

                    Weights and Measures
                         Metric System

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  JANUARY 1 – DECEMBER 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAU     Business As Usual (scenario)
CHP     Combined Heat and Power
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
EE      Energy Efficiency
ESCO    Energy Service Company
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GIS     Green Investment Scheme
GNP     Gross National Product
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund
JSAN    Joint Staff Advisory Note
LDP     Letter of Development Policy
MAC     Marginal Abatement Curve
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
MOI     Ministry of Infrastructure
MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NBP     National Bank of Poland
NEEAP   National Energy Efficiency Action Plan
NREAP   National Renewable Energy Action Plan
OPFs    Open Pension Funds
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
RE      Renewable Energy
ROSC    Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
TMRF    Thermodernization and Renovation Fund
      Vice President   Philippe H. le Houerou
    Country Director   Peter C. Harrold
     Sector Manager    Ranjit J. Lamech
Project Team Leader    Gary Stuggins
ICR Primary Author     Ryszard Malarski
                                                  THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND

    ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                                                CONTENTS




     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring



	
1.  Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................ 1 
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................. 4 
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................... 7 
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................................ 17 
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 18 
6.  Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................................... 20 
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................... 20 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............................. 21 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................ 22 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................................... 23 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 24 
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 25 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................................ 26 
MAP ............................................................................................................................................... 27 
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Energy Efficiency
Country:                 Poland                  Program Name:
                                                                            Development Policy Loan
Program ID:              P115426                 L/C/TF Number(s):          IBRD-80700
ICR Date:                06/25/2013              ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:      DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                            POLAND
Original Total
                         USD 1,114.50M           Disbursed Amount:          USD 1,077.79M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 1,114.50M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:          12/06/2010   Effectiveness:                                   07/05/2011
Appraisal:               03/22/2011   Restructuring(s):
Approval:                06/07/2011   Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                  03/31/2012             03/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:             Satisfactory       Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                          Rating:
      Performance                                      any)
Potential Problem Program No                     Quality at Entry          None

                                                 i
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Program at any                              Quality of Supervision
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                  83                      83
Other Renewable Energy                                               17                      17


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                         92                    92
Pollution management and environmental health                             8                   8

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                 Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:          Mamta Murthi                           Peter D. Thomson
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                       Ranjit J. Lamech
Program Team Leader:       Gary Stuggins                          Gary Stuggins
ICR Team Leader:           Gary Stuggins
ICR Primary Author:        Ryszard Malarski


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The program development objective of the proposed operation is to support the Government's
program to: (i) decrease actual final energy consumption by 9% by 2016 and reach a 20%
reduction target by 2020 compared to business as usual; and (ii) increase the share of renewable
energy in final energy consumption to 15.0% by 2020. These targets are part of Poland's
commitment towards the EU in the context of the latter’s energy and climate change package.
Against the backdrop of tight fiscal constraints and the need to maintain economic growth and
alleviate poverty, energy efficiency measures have been identified as the highest priority and
least cost way to decrease airborne emissions. Because of its large energy savings potential, the
buildings sector will be the primary focus of measures to reduce energy use. Biomass and wind
power are expected to be the main sources of new renewable energy through 2020.




                                                    ii
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                          Achieved at
     Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                    approval                         Completion or
                                                                       Values
                                                  documents)                          Target Years
                   Draft Ordinance determining the level and method of calculation of the energy
Indicator 1 :      savings obligations imposed on energy suppliers for the implementation of the White
                   Certificate Program to be prepared by Ministry of Economy
                                                                                  Draft Ordinance was
Value
                                                                                  prepared and finanl
(quantitative or   No Ordinance               Draft Ordinance
                                                                                  ordinance was
Qualitative)
                                                                                  adopted
Date achieved      06/07/2011                 06/30/2012                          09/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Fully achieved
achievement)
                   Adequate support for the implementation of the energy efficiency program as
Indicator 2 :      measured by at least maintaining 2011 staffing and budget levels of the energy
                   efficiency unit within the MoE.
Value
(quantitative or   4 staff                   4 staff                               7 staff
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/07/2011                06/30/2012                            06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Energa to install 200,000 smart meters
                                                                                   Contract in place for
                                                                                   installation of
Value                                        200,000 smart
                                                                                   310,000 by end of
(quantitative or   0                         meters to be
                                                                                   2013, of which
Qualitative)                                 installed
                                                                                   109,000 were
                                                                                   installed in 2012
Date achieved      06/07/2011                06/30/2012                            06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Partially achieved and in progress to achieved by end 2013
achievement)
                   Provide financing for the Thermo-Modernization and Renovation Fund of at least
Indicator 4 :
                   PLN 200 million in 2011
                                              200 million PLN
                                              allocated for the                In 2011 260 million
Value
                   No allocation in the 2010 TMF in the 2011                   PLN was allocated,
(quantitative or
                   budget for the TMF         budget, leveraging               and 1.7 billion
Qualitative)
                                              more than 1 billion              leverage
                                              PLN

                                                   iii
                                               Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
     Indicator          Baseline Value                         Revised Target
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                                  Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
Date achieved      12/31/2010                12/31/2011                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Fully achieved
achievement)
                   First year data available on categories of heavy vehicles, their emission levels and
Indicator 5 :
                   their estimated fuel consumption
                                                                                      Total fuel
                                                                                      consumption and top
                                                                                      down estimation of
Value
                                                                                      CO2 emissions
(quantitative or   No data available           No data available
                                                                                      available. Complete
Qualitative)
                                                                                      data by category of
                                                                                      heavy vehicles not
                                                                                      available.
Date achieved      06/07/2011                  06/30/2012                             06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      The share of renewable energy in final energy increases
Value
                   7.2% of final energy      9% of final energy                    2010: 9.58%
(quantitative or
                   consumption               consumption                           2011:10.60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2009                12/30/2011                            06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Fully achieved
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                Values (from                            Achieved at
     Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                  approval                             Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                 documents)                            Target Years
                   Number of applications for approval of heat tariff changes and forecasted reduction of
Indicator 1 :
                   heat and power
Value
                   No applications were      15 applications to be
(quantitative or                                                                   12/31/2011
                   submitted                 submitted
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010                12/15/2011                            06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                   iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

        Date ISR                                 Actual Disbursements
 No.                        DO              IP
        Archived                                    (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                        v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1.   Program Context:

1.     At appraisal, Poland had shown remarkable resilience to the global financial crisis. In the
decade leading up to the crisis, Poland’s increasing integration with Europe brought strong
economic expansion and convergence to EU income levels. As the crisis broke out, this
integration made Poland vulnerable to collapse in regional capital, trade and labor flows, but
Poland’s companies, workers and households weathered well the impact of the global financial
crisis. Poland remained one of the fastest growing EU countries in 2010. Real GDP expanded by
3.8 percent in 2010, the fourth highest rate in the EU. Growth was driven by growing domestic
demand and supported by the overall resilience of the labor market and reviving bank credit
expansion to households. The decline in private investment was largely compensated by a
double-digit expansion in public investment, which constituted about 30 percent of total
investment. Public investment was stimulated largely by EU funds.

2.    Fiscal policy supported the recovery. The general government deficit was estimated to have
increased further from 7.4 percent of GDP in 2009 to 7.9 percent of GDP in 2010. The overrun in
the 2010 fiscal deficit compared to the target of 6.9 percent of GDP was due to higher local
government deficits as well as weaker-than-expected tax collection, linked mainly to low
corporate income tax collection, as enterprises used loss carry-over provisions to lower tax
returns. For example, state budget execution data suggest that the underperformance of corporate
income tax and personal income tax caused an increase in the fiscal deficit of 0.5 percent of GDP.
The Public debt according to ESA95 (Eurostat) methodology was estimated to have increased
from 50.9 percent of GDP in 2009 to 54.8 percent of GDP in 2010.

3.    In this macroeconomic context, the Government faced the dilemma of reducing harmful
emissions while maintain its focus on economic growth to converge with EU-15 and do this in a
constrained fiscal environment. Poland is committed under EU regulations (referred to as the EU
2020 climate package) to make improvements in energy savings on supply and demand sides,
limit Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, and introduce a larger share of renewable energy in its
energy supply mix. Energy efficiency measures particularly in the buildings sector were
identified as the highest priority and least cost way to decrease GHG emissions. Renewable
energy was also expected to help reduce GHG emissions to some extent, with biomass and wind
power expected to be the new main sources of renewable energy through 2020.

4.    Consistent with these findings, the Government’s Energy Policy until 2030, adopted by the
Council of Ministers in November 2009, identified the key objectives of Polish energy policy: (i)
improve energy efficiency; (ii) enhance the security of fuel and energy supplies; (iii) diversify
electricity generation by introducing nuclear energy; (iv) develop the use of renewable energy
sources, including biofuels; (v) develop competitive fuel and energy markets; and (vii) reduce the
environmental impact of the power industry. The Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy DPL
was an anchor for the strategic dialogue between the Bank and the Polish authorities, in particular
in the area of regional and global public goods. The overarching goal of the Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) is to support Poland’s convergence towards EU living standards. The Bank’s
strategic partnership with Poland is based on four pillars: (i) Growth and Competitiveness; (ii)


                                                1
Public Sector Reform; (iii) Social and Spatial Inclusion; and (iv) Regional and Global Public
Goods. With the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy DPL, the Bank focused on supporting
energy sector reforms related to the EU’s energy and climate policies.

1.2.    Development objective:

5.   The program development objective of the operation was to support the Government’s
program to: (i) decrease actual final energy consumption by 9% by 2016 and reach a 20%
reduction target by 2020 compared to business as usual; and (ii) increase the share of renewable
energy in final energy consumption to 15.0% by 2020.

1.3.    Project design:

6.     The Policy Areas and prior actions supported by the program were:

7.    Policy Area I: Developing the Legal Framework to support the Energy Efficiency
Strategy. In the Government’s Energy Strategy for 2030, Energy Efficiency was given key
priority and considered a cornerstone for successful implementation of the Policy. A National
Energy Efficiency Action Plan (NEEAP) was prepared in compliance with the requirements of
the EU’s Energy Services Directive. However, it was unlikely that energy efficiency targets were
met without changes to the legal and regulatory frameworks.

8.   The prior action supported by the DPL was approval in 2011 of the Energy Efficiency Law.
The Law put in place the enabling environment for the Government’s White Certificates program
which was critical in helping Poland meet its EU targets on energy efficiency in a quasi-market-
based manner. The Energy Efficiency Law also made provisions for the Government to reduce its
energy consumption; thus playing an important role in setting a good example for others.

9.    Policy Area II: Decrease Supply-Side Energy Use. Increased use of cogeneration for the
production of electric power and heat, particularly in the small-medium size plant ranges, was of
critical importance in increasing energy efficiency on the supply side. To accomplish this, the
Government set a target to double the amount of electric power supply through cogeneration
between 2006 and 2020. One of the principal tools used by the Government was expansion of the
existing “rainbow scheme? of guarantee of origin certificates favoring various modes of
cogeneration production based on fuel: red for coal-fired cogeneration plants, yellow for gas-fired
plants and brown for biogas (from agricultural biomass) fired plants.

10. The prior action supported by the DPL was to provide incentives to increase the share of
cogeneration by allowing cogenerators to price their bulk heat up to the average price of heat
produced by heat-only boilers. This was achieved through the issuance of the Ordinance on Heat
tariffs in September 2010 which was expected to increase the construction of new small-medium
sized cogeneration capacity.

11. Policy Area III: Improvements in Demand-Side Energy Efficiency. The Government
identified the deployment of smart grids as a crucial instrument to enhance energy efficiency,
accelerate demand-side management, distributed energy options and encourage the use of
renewable energy resources. The Smart Grid program involved feasibility studies and pilot


                                                2
projects. Earmarked budget was PLN 550 million (US$187 million) for investments in the
country’s energy infrastructure from 2011 to 2018 and the development of a nationwide Smart
Grid. Governance of this process was formalized by the establishment of a Smart Grids Working
Group to identify the necessary legislative and regulatory changes that would enable the
accelerated deployment of the smart metering program.

12. The prior action supported by the DPL was the issuance of a draft Regulatory Statement
which covered all the key areas of implementation of Smart Meters, and, through the State-owned
enterprise Energa, the initiation of the said implementation.

13. The residential and services buildings sector in Poland accounted for about 40% of the final
energy demand. Due to the country’s relatively cold climate and below-average thermal
insulation of buildings, major energy savings could be obtained by improving thermal insulation
of buildings. The Government has established a three-pronged approach to addressing this issue:
(i) improved energy standards for new buildings; (ii) design of a near-zero energy building
concept for implementation starting in 2020; and (iii) support for retrofits of existing buildings
with a subsidy program. The Government has made grant funding for up to 16% of project costs
available since 1999 through the Thermo-Modernization Fund, which is resourced from the State
budget. However, funding for this program was interrupted during fiscal 2010 as a result of
pressures on the State budget.

14. The prior action supported by the DPL was the allocation of PLN 200 million for financing
the Thermo-Modernization and Renovation Fund in fiscal year 2011. The prior action was
achieved through the enactment of the Budget Law for 2011.

15. The transport sector, the second largest energy consumer, was responsible for 24% of the
energy consumption in Poland. Furthermore, energy consumption of this sector was growing fast
at an annual rate of 9 percent. The sector accounted for 12-13% of Poland’s GHG emissions,
95% of which were caused by road transport. This level is expected to increase significantly
without active policy measures on charging for road usage.

16. The prior action supported by the DPL was the Introduction of the Electronic Tolling
System (ETS) for heavy vehicles on major national roads section. This was an important policy
tool in managing heavy vehicle (trucks and buses) road transport demand and thus GHG
emissions. The ETS was also fully compliant with current EU transport policies and related
directives.

17. Policy Area IV: Renewable Energy. By 2009, renewable energy contributed to 7.2% of the
overall energy consumption, while the EU target for Poland is to achieve Renewable Energy
contribution of 15% by 2020. Poland was limited in its opportunities for renewable energy, as
there were only a few hydropower options; solar photovoltaic options were expensive given the
sunlight availability and intensity. The country initiated its support for the renewable energy
program using market-based instruments: green certificates for Renewable Energy and brown
certificates for cogeneration using biogas from agricultural biomass. The existing green
certificates program, established in 2005, was designed to facilitate the implementation of
renewable energy options by obligating energy suppliers to meet annual renewable energy targets
or pay a sizeable penalty (the “substitution fee?).


                                                3
18. The prior action supported by the DPL was the submission of the government’s National
Renewable Energy Action Plan (NREAP) to the European Commission thereby detailing its
commitment of at least 15% of renewable energy use by 2020. The NREAP was designed to
guide investments that would enable Poland to meet its agreed EU target. It outlined the specific
measures to be taken in different sectors – electricity, heating, cooling and transport, and foresees
financial support for renewable energy.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.     Program Performance

19. Program disbursement of EUR 750,000,000 was completed on July 19, 2011, as expected.
The DPL was designed to be a one-off loan, with medium and long-term targets established, in
case the Government wished to convert this to a programmable series of DPLs. All outcomes
planned for this DPL were achieved (see table below).

20. Furthermore, all the medium-term actions are either completed or in progress (see table
below), as well as some of the outcomes for potential future DPLs.

                                         Actions                                              Status
                                                                                              (completed / ongoing)
Prior Actions (by May 2011)
The Act on Energy Efficiency was promulgated by the President on April 29, 2011,              Completed
thereby establishing the White Certificates Program
The Borrower to provide incentives to increase the share of cogeneration by allowing          Completed
cogenerators to price their bulk heat up to the average price of heat produced by heat-only
boilers
The Borrower, through its Energy Regulatory Office, to issue a draft Regulatory               Completed
Statement to cover all the key areas of implementation of Smart Meters, and to initiate the
implementation through the State-owned enterprise Energa
The Borrower to allocate PLN 200 million for financing the Thermo-Modernization and           Completed
Renovation Fund in fiscal year 2011
The Borrower to implement an Electronic Tolling System for heavy vehicles on major            Completed
national road sections
The Borrower to submit its National Renewable Energy Action Plan to the European              Completed
Commission, thereby detailing its commitment of at least 15.0% of renewable energy use
by 2020
Medium-Term Actions (by May 2012)
The Annual Review of the Energy Policy to be completed and adopted by the Council of          Completed
Ministers
National Energy Efficiency Action Plan-2 (NEEAP-2) to be finalized and submitted to the       Completed
European Commission
Monitor and evaluate the implementation of energy efficiency measures                         Completed
An Ordinance on the methodology related to Guarantee of Origin certificates (CHP and          Completed
fuels used), including provisions for support of biogas from biomass and coal-bed
methane (“purple? certificates)
The Government to issue an ordinance to establish the “brown? certificate scheme to           Completed
promote cogeneration from agricultural biomass
A Smart Grids Law to be submitted to Parliament                                               Ongoing
Draft Law on Energy Characteristics of Buildings to be approved by the Council of             Ongoing



                                                          4
Ministries by December 2011 transposing the EU’s Recast Energy Performance of
Buildings Directive
Draft of the Renewable Energy Law approved by the Council of Ministers.                    Ongoing
Long-Term Actions (by December 2013)
Adopt a Revised Energy Policy                                                              Ongoing
Monitor, evaluate and report on the implementation of NEEAP-2                              Ongoing
Draw on the monitoring and evaluation of energy efficiency measures to fine tune the       Ongoing
policy reforms for energy efficiency
Establish mechanisms to operationalize the trading system for White Certificates by 2013   Completed
Amend the Energy Law to implement the Program for Development of Cogeneration              Ongoing
Enact the Smart Grid Law and prepare related secondary legislation                         Ongoing
Enactment of the Law on Energy Characteristics of Buildings                                Ongoing
Issue an Ordinance tightening new building standards to 120 kWh/m2 covering all forms      Ongoing
of energy, not just heating
Enactment of the Renewable Energy Law                                                      Ongoing

2.2.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

21.     In a deteriorated external environment, Poland faced strong headwinds. Between 2008
and 2011, Poland’s performance was strong by regional standards. It was the only EU member to
avoid recession in 2009 thanks to a combination of sound fundamentals and proactive counter-
cyclical policies, and it recorded sound economic growth in 2010 and 2011, thanks to strong
domestic consumption and a rebound in investment (largely driven by the absorption of EU
funds). Poland’s cumulative growth over the period, at about 16 percent, was the highest in the
EU. Yet, the economy slowed down. GDP growth slowed to 1.9 percent in 2012 and further
decelerated in early 2013 as renewed turmoil in the Euro zone weakened business’ and
consumers’ confidence, leading to an abrupt drop in investment and consumption. The
deceleration is further amplified by the negative impact of the ongoing fiscal consolidation effort,
by the closing of the investment cycle under the 2007-13 EU financial perspective, and by
negative growth of real wages.

22.      In the context of the economic slowdown, there was a shift in public support for energy
efficiency (EE) and renewable energy (RE). Poland twice vetoed EC proposals for strengthening
GHG emissions targets. There was a call for re-negotiating the climate package to lower the
burden on the Polish economy. These voices became stronger with the downturn of the economy
as unilateral decreases of GHG emissions were perceived as a “tax? that would decrease the
competitiveness of heavy industries and, hence, jobs. Wide discussion on further support of RE
and EE in other European countries echoed those in Poland: there were many doubts about
increasing energy prices for consumers. Under these circumstances, the Ministry of Economy’s
initial proposal for a new RE law, disclosed in the spring of 2012, met considerable criticism
from owners of existing RE installations (mainly wind farms and hydro power plants). Separately,
the Ministry of Finance proposed to limit state support for RE until 2020 due to concerns that
higher energy prices would damage Poland’s economic competiveness in the long run.

23.    The Government remained committed to RE and EE support but had to balance it with
other broader economic development and fiscal policy objectives and had some capacity
constraints: despite strong official, political commitment to fulfill obligations from the EU
climate and energy package, the Government is obligated to weigh such support against the
possible negative impacts for developments on the economy. Additionally, Ministry of Finance


                                                        5
has had some concerns about the negative impact of EE support on its fiscal deficit, as positive
results would accrue only in the medium to long term under the current design. Finally, the
ability of the Polish Government to address EE issues is limited by the still relatively low number
of dedicated EE staff and analytical resources in the Ministry of Economy, restricting its capacity
to drive the Government’s vision and strategy and policy development forward.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

24.     Data was systematically measured and consolidated. At the time of the ICR most of the
indicators in the policy matrix have been updated since they were regularly monitored by the
Government. To fulfill its obligation to deliver data to the Eurostat framework in a timely
manner, the Government has established a data collecting system similar to other EU members.
Article 9f of the Energy Act (Journal of Laws of 2006 No 89, item 625, as amended) contains
provisions on the system for reporting the share of electricity produced from renewable energy
sources. Article 30(4) of the Act of 25 August 2006 on bio-components and liquid biofuels
(Journal of Laws No 169, item 1199, as amended) contains provisions on drawing up summary
quarterly reports on the market of bio-components, liquid fuels and liquid biofuels. The
Government will endeavor to establish a complete and reliable monitoring system, including
indicators for individual measures and instruments.

25.    Energy savings were calculated using a top-down method, according to the methodology
published by the European Commission: “Recommendations on Measurement and Verification
Methods in the Framework of Directive 2006/32/EC?. The year 2007 was recommended by the
European Commission as the base year. The achieved (2009) and projected (2016) final energy
savings under this Directive are presented in two ways. A top-down approach is based on
national statistics and evaluation models. Total final energy savings are calculated for the
national economy as a whole and by all the end use sectors. Additionally, final energy savings
can be determined, for selected measures, according to a bottom-up method. The method allows
for demonstrating a direct relation between the implementation of energy efficiency measures
supported by the energy policy.

26.     The primary source of energy savings was the Thermomodernization and Repairs Fund,
based on the data from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (BGK). The statistical analysis was based
on energy audits verified by the Polish National Energy Conservation Agency (KAPE).
Following a new order by the Ministry of Economy, BGK gathered information about savings
achieved, for which thermomodernization bonuses were awarded. Therefore, the bottom-up
method will in the future (2011-2016) involve simply summing up the savings in the BGK
database drawing on the audits performed for such investments. The same procedure would be
applied towards projects supported within programs of the National Fund for Environmental
Protection and Water Management.

27.     The Central Statistical Office and the Polish National Energy Conservation Agency
(Krajowa Agencja Poszanowania Energii S.A.) also monitored energy savings. They participated
in a 2.5-year (2010 to 2012) project under the Intelligent Energy Europe Program (IEE) called
“Monitoring of European Union and national energy efficiency targets: ODYSSEE - MURE
2010?. The main objective of the project was to use the developed energy efficiency indicators
for EU economies to analyze, identify and evaluate the results of energy efficiency policy


                                                6
measures. The project involved the establishment and development of the ODYSSEE database,
which included the data and amount of energy efficiency indicators, and the MURE database
within formation concerning energy efficiency improvement measures.

2.4.   Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

28.    The Government decided not to continue with follow-up Energy Efficiency and
Renewable Energy DPLs. Ministry of Finance expressed its preference for support to a reform
program that is centered around issues which largely fall within the scope of its own
responsibilities.

29.      The Bank continued its engagement in supporting the Government of Poland to meet its
RE EE targets through analytical work and Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS). The Bank is
working with the Ministry of Regional Development in a RAS with the objective of shaping the
overall infrastructure program along the national development priorities and the "Europe 2020"
strategic agenda on Smart, Sustainable and Inclusive Growth; and optimizing the use of
traditional EU grant-based funding and other financial instruments to promote low-carbon
emissions investment in infrastructure. Specifically, the RAS focuses on the following investment
priorities:
     Production and distribution of renewable energy sources,
     Energy efficiency and renewable energy use in enterprises, state-owned sector and
         housing sector,
     Smart distribution systems at low and medium voltage levels,
     Low-carbon strategies in urban areas,
     High-efficiency cogeneration of heat and power energy, and
     Investment needs in the waste sector to meet the requirements of the environmental acquis.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

30.     The main objective of the loan and the pillars remain highly relevant to Poland’s current
development agenda. Poland faces two main challenges under EU climate and energy package: to
meet (i) a target of 15% of RE in final energy consumption and (ii) a target of a minimum of 9%
in the overall amount of energy savings for 2016 relative to the average annual energy
consumption from 2001-2005. Both challenges are achievable, but require significant common
effort by the Government, business and society. The DPL objectives strongly aligned with and
supported these efforts.

31.     Objectives and Design: The objective(s) of the loan and the pillars were highly relevant
to Poland’s current development agenda. GHG emissions reductions and energy security continue
to be key priorities in the Government’s energy strategy. The obligations related to energy
savings and renewable energy sources are even more important than ever, as the time to meet
these targets approaches.



                                               7
Improving energy efficiency became an important component to help Poland meet its emissions
reduction targets. The Second National Action Plan for Energy Efficiency, following the
obligation of Directives 2006/32/EC and 2010/31/EC, was prepared in February 2012 to provide
the European Commission with reports based on energy end-use efficiency and energy. It
included a description of measures to improve energy efficiency, focusing on energy end-use
efficiency, and calculations concerning energy savings achieved in 2008-2009 and expected in
2016, as required by the abovementioned Directives. There is strong governmental dedication to
continue a path of meeting the minimum 9% target of the average annual consumption, where the
average is drawn from 2001-2005, as defined previously in the First National Energy Efficiency
Action Plan (EEAP) 2007. Furthermore, the next Operational Program of the EC (2014-2020)
includes a considerable focus on energy efficiency. The design of the DPL was fully consistent
with this priority.

32.    The new RE act is still under public discussion, and while the general principle of support
for RE is widely agreed on, the issue of the level of support to different technologies is
unresolved. This act is a part of the “tri-act package?, which consists of the RE act, a new energy
law and a gas law. All three are proposals of the Ministry of Economy, which expects that current
consultations will end in the first half of 2013. After the EC’s notification regarding the RE act, it
is expected to be introduced to the parliament and enforced by the end of 2013.

33.     The Government has clearly remained committed to its energy efficiency and renewable
energy program after the DPL. However, the pace of implementation has been slow and some of
the policy proposals and implementation could have been improved. For example, the energy
efficiency program for public buildings has been slow, as has been the implementation of the RE
law. The proposed feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy have been problematic; the proposed
programmatic approach for the DPL could have enabled support to help improve their
effectiveness and efficiency. TA supported by the GEF has successfully supported measures to
implement the registration of energy efficiency of buildings and energy auditors.

34.    Relevance to Bank Assistance Strategy: The DPL was designed to support the regional
and public goods component of the Bank’s CPS covering 2009-2013, which emphasizes the
importance of climate action for sustainable development in Poland. The DPL was designed to
help Poland meet its EU commitment to the climate package by decreasing its carbon intensity
and effects on global warming.

35.    Analytical support for the DPL: The DPL was designed based on the Low-Carbon
Country Economic Memorandum for Poland, the Government’s Energy Policy Until 2030 and its
associated documents, analytical work undertaken by the International Energy Agency (IEA) and
the European Commission, as well as relevant EU Directives on energy services, energy
performance of buildings, and cogeneration.

36.       The key documents used in preparing this operation were:

      •   Transition to a Low Emissions Economy in Poland (World Bank, 2011): The report
          provided the primary analytical underpinnings upon which the DPL was based. It
          identified energy efficiency and some renewable energy options as components of


                                                  8
           Poland’s energy program that could reduce emissions over the next decade. Specifically,
           the study highlighted energy efficiency as the option that would best address Poland’s
           carbon abatement targets and associated economic impact in the long run.
       •   Poland’s Energy Strategy Until 2030 (Government of Poland, November 2009). The
           Government’s Energy Strategy clearly established energy efficiency as its primary focus
           in meeting many of its broad-based policy objectives. The Strategy outlined the policy
           objectives and secondary objectives, along with the principal measures through which
           increased energy efficiency and use of renewable energy are to be achieved.
       •   The National Energy Efficiency Action Plan (Government of Poland, June 2009) and the
           Second National Action Plan for Energy Efficiency (Government of Poland, February
           2012). The NEEAPs define the Government’s energy efficiency strategy to support the
           Energy Strategy, and set intermediate energy savings targets (to be updated every three
           years in light of the results achieved and feedback obtained from the EC).
       •   The National Renewable Energy Action Plan (Government of Poland, December 2010)
           and Addendum to the National Renewable Energy Action Plan. They define
           implementation of the Government’s renewable energy strategy in support of the Energy
           Strategy and set intermediate renewable energy targets (to be updated every three years in
           light of the results achieved and feedback obtained from the EC).
       •   Two reports were prepared at the request of the Bank. First, the Review of Cogeneration
           Issues in Poland (January 2011). This review analyzed (i) the current status of
           cogeneration in Poland; and (ii) various incentive schemes, in operation or proposed, to
           promote fuel-specific forms of cogeneration. This report highlights the need for the
           Government to make a decision soon on the post-2012 incentive scheme. Second, the
           Energy Performance of Buildings in Poland report (January 2011). This report provides
           detailed and critical insights in the evolution of the current energy efficiency policy with
           regard to the buildings sector and discusses the current status. It offers specific policy
           recommendations on how the Government should proceed in order to make significant
           progress in this critical area during the next ten years.
       •   Review of White Certificates Programs (EC, 2006). Poland’s White Certificates program
           was intended to be the cornerstone of its energy efficiency program, by creating energy
           efficiency obligations on energy suppliers and distributors. Three EU countries – France,
           Italy and the UK – have positive experiences that help guide implementation of Poland’s
           program; in particular the need to start off with a relatively simple program and build on it
           as experience is gained with implementation.

37.     In addition, analytical support to the Government was provided by drawing on the early
results of the Energy Efficiency Lessons Learned in Germany, Sweden and Ireland and their
applicability to Poland. Advisory services were provided on the behavioral and marketing
aspects associated with developing home/business area networks, to make smart meters more
effective (funding as provided by the Poland GEF project). Finally, analytical work, funded by a
multi-donor Trust Fund on poverty and social issues, was carried out to focus on the barriers
faced in extending energy efficiency benefits to the poor and vulnerable.

3.2.       Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                                    9
38.    The overall program objectives and targets for the DPL were fully met, both for the
reform program as well as in terms of the macroeconomic framework. However, a substantial
amount of work that was planned to be supported by follow-up programmatic DPLs remains to
be addressed. The originally envisaged follow-up DPLs as well as analytical support would have
helped the Government further its efforts to fully meet its EU energy and climate package
commitments, in particular the 2020 target for renewable energy. By maintaining a stronger
focus on achieving energy efficiency targets, the impact of an implied “tax? (see section 2.2) on
the economy of investing in higher cost GHG reduction options could also be reduced.

39.     Additional elements were brought into the program to assist Poland in addressing the
challenges resulting from the global economic crisis. The crisis also led to some delays in
structural reforms, which were postponed until the recovery gained strength. With economic
recovery in 2010 and 2011, the Government initiated fiscal consolidation strategy, aimed at
reducing Poland’s excessive fiscal deficit. Despite renewed slowdown in GDP growth in 2012,
(Poland’s GDP growth slowed from 4.5 percent in 2011 to less than 2 percent in 2012 a result of
the prolonged recession in the Euro area as well as drop in domestic demand), the Government
continued fiscal retrenchment which led to the decrease in fiscal deficit from 7.9 percent of GDP
in 2010 to 3.9 percent of GDP in 2012.

40.     Pillar 1: Energy Efficiency Strategy. The objective of Pillar I was to develop the legal
framework to support the energy efficiency strategy and its implementation. Most policy actions
under this pillar have been achieved. These actions helped improve the legal framework and
strategic thinking on EE, in addition to establishing monitoring schemes. However, the overall
policy reforms for EE are not yet fully developed and implemented as the secondary legislation
lags behind the primary legislation. Despite the remaining concerns of the Ministry of Finance
on increasing energy efficiency investments in public buildings because of the possible negative
impact on the fiscal deficit, the Government remains committed to meet its 9% energy efficiency
improvement by 2016, is monitoring progress regularly, and appears to be on track to meet this
target.

41.     Pillar II: Decrease Supply-side Energy Use. The objectives of the supply-side energy
efficiency measures have been partially achieved. Cogeneration, the second most important
instrument of limiting primary energy use on the supply side, is not yet sufficiently supported by
governmental policy: “red? and “yellow? certificates expired on December 31, 2012; “purple?
certificates (for biogas) are operational until 2019. A new act, approved by the Government on
January 2, 2013, proposes to extend temporary “red? (for coal) and “yellow? (for gas) until
March 31, 2015, but this act needs approval by parliament. About half of 2013 CHP will not
receive support by red and yellow certificates. However, new certificates have been introduced
(“orange?) for new CHP constructed since January 1, 2013. The market perceives this situation
to be unstable and, as a result, new CHP investments are developing slowly.

42.     Pillar III: Improvements in Demand-Side Energy Efficiency. The objective of this
pillar was to enable acceleration of demand-side management and loss reduction through: (i)
implementation of the smart grid program; (ii) reducing barriers to energy efficiency investments
in the buildings sector; and (iii) creating stronger incentives to improve fuel efficiency of road
vehicle fleet and road transport operations. The implementation of the smart grid program was
partially achieved. The supporting studies reveal that considerable work was needed before the


                                               10
framework legislation could be drafted, resulting in delays to the timetable expected at the time
of appraisal. The Government has, however, not abandoned this effort. Full implementation of
smart meters is behind the target to enable full implementation by 2020, but it remains achievable.
The pilot installation of 109,000 smart meters was completed in 2012 and an additional 520,000
are planned to be implemented in the near future by ENERGA. However, the benefits from the
smart meters will not accrue unless the related infrastructure and incentive mechanisms are
established. The legal framework to support these efforts is behind schedule and there are many
issues which need to be resolved, like establishing independent data operator, defining home area
network standards and adopting a smart grid law.

43.     The Government has fully met its targets for financing energy efficiency measures in
existing buildings. The Thermomodernization and Renovation Fund provided financial support as
planned. However, the financing program could be more effective if the coordination with the
National and Regional Environmental Funds and EU funds is improved. Other improvements in
the building sector have been slower than expected; new building standards have not been
implemented, the enactment of revised energy characteristics of buildings has not been adopted,
and registry for energy performance of buildings certificates, supported under the World Bank
GEF program, has not been introduced. These concerns are confirmed in the Report by the
Building Performance Institute Europe, which states that a more comprehensive plan needs to be
adopted so that it can be implemented in the Building Code. The Report also identifies the need
for improved financial support schemes to achieve energy savings targets in newly constructed
buildings – an issue that is disputable given the modest incremental cost (less than 5%) for
improving the energy efficiency of new buildings.

44.    The DPL’s transport component focused on reducing emissions from heavy vehicles by
monitoring vehicles categories, emissions, and their impact through an electronic toll collection
system. This objective was partially achieved. The ETS was successfully delivered and has been
extended. However, the data is scattered among many institutions and is maintained in several
sources: in CEPiK (Central Registry of Vehicles and Drivers) for the Ministry of Administration,
in ITS (Institute of Vehicles Transport) since 2010 on request of the Ministry of Transport, by
type of cars and their age, and in Samar (a business entity). Additionally, the Ministry of
Transport collects data about newly registered vehicles, and Kobize issues National Inventory
Reports (the last in 2012 which covers period 1988-2010) but heavy vehicles as summarized as
one category. The monitoring and evaluation of results needs to be improved to make this system
more effective.

45.     Pillar IV: Renewable Energy. The share of renewable energy in final energy has
increased from 7.2% of final energy consumption in 2009 to 10.6% in 2011, and is projected to
be 11% in 2013. Based on this trajectory, Poland is expected to meet its EU target of 15% of final
energy consumption from renewables by 2020. This increasing share of RE in the Polish energy
system creates new problems: 15% of final energy consumption from RE implies that about 19%
of electricity should be supplied from RE by 2020. However, RE installations, once built create
operational problems as their marginal operating costs are nearly zero and unpredictable for solar
and wind. Polish authorities responsible for a stable electricity system are concerned about the
longer-term impact on system stability in the future. This obstacle needs to be resolved in the
context of the development of the new RE law.



                                               11
 46.     The longer-term prospects are of concern as the current support scheme is valid only till
 2015, and the discussion on new RE act has not been completed and the new RE law isn’t
 expected to be considered before the beginning of 2014, about two years behind original schedule.
 Without clear support scheme in place for the coming ten years, potential RE investors are
 reluctant to make commitments and Poland could see a downturn in new investments in
 renewable energy.

    Objective                    Actions                                Comments
Pillar I: Develop an Energy Efficiency Strategy supported by an updated Legal Framework
and an adequate governance structure to enable the strategy to be implemented
                   Medium-term Actions
                   The Annual Review of the Energy Achieved.
                   Policy to be completed and            Current (2012) is ongoing; there is
                   adopted by the Council of             review on the regular basis; 2011 is
                   Ministers                             approved by Council of Ministers,
                                                         2012 is expected in the end of 2013.
                                                         Additional review (every two years)
                                                         by
                                                         IEA, with the most recent one done in
                                                         2012
                   National Energy Efficiency            Achieved on February 10, 2012
                   Action Plan -2 (NEEAP-2) to be
Develop an         finalized and submitted to
Energy             European Commission
Efficiency
                   Monitor and evaluate the              Achieved.
Strategy
                   implementation of energy              Central Statistics Office published
supported by an
                   efficiency measures                   report “Polish Developments on EE in
updated Legal
                                                         2000-2010? (August 2012); NEEAPs
Framework and
                                                         are based on these reports; it will be
an adequate
                                                         continued every year
governance
                   Long-term Actions
structure to
                   Adopt a Revised Energy Policy         Achieved.
enable the
                                                         Revised version was adopted in 2010
strategy to be
                                                         (additional chapter on nuclear power
implemented
                                                         was added); new energy policy until
                                                         2050 is under consideration:
                                                         assumptions will be revealed mid 2013
                   Monitor, evaluate and report on       Achieved.
                   the implementation of NEEAP-2         MOE plans to work out NEEAP-3 in
                                                         2014 which monitors and evaluates
                                                         previous one (NEEAP-2)
                   Draw on the monitoring and            Not achieved
                   evaluation of energy efficiency
                   measures to fine tune the policy
                   reforms for energy efficiency
                   Establish mechanisms to               Achieved


                                                12
   Objective                     Actions                               Comments
                    operationalize the trading system   All regulations in place. Energy
                    for White Certificates by 2013      supply companies need to buy 1%
                                                        (2013) of energy they delivered.
                                                        Tender procedure: Ordinance Oct 23,
                                                        2012, the first call for proposals: Dec
                                                        31, 2012 with deadline Jan 31, 2013
                                                        Methodology for audit and method of
                                                        calculation of the energy savings
                                                        Ordinance in Aug 10, 2012
Pillar II: Decrease Supply-side Energy Use
                    Medium-term Actions
                    An Ordinance on the                 Achieved.
                    methodology related to Guarantee    Biogas from biomass: introduced in
                    of Origin certificates (CHP and     Oct.18, 2012, item 1229
                    fuels used), including provisions   Cogeneration (methodology): July 26,
                    for support of biogas from          2011, item 1052
                    biomass and coal-bed methane        Scheme valid until March 31, 2019
                    (“purple? certificates)
                                                        According to the 2007amendment to
                                                        the Energy Law, the support system
                                                        for electricity produced from high
                                                        efficiency cogeneration was
The Government                                          strengthened (from March 11, 2010)
intends to double                                       through the introduction of a support
the share of                                            mechanism in the form of certificates
cogeneration in                                         of origin for the methane-fired sources
energy (power)                                          released and captured by underground
supply by 2020                                          mining works in active, liquidated or
as compared to                                          closed coal mines and gas obtained
2006 to make                                            from biomass in compliance with
more effective                                          article 2, paragraph 1, point 2 of the
use of primary                                          Act of August 25, 2006 on bio-
energy supply                                           components and liquid biofuels
                                                        (Official Journal No 169, item 1199)
                                                        The operation of this mechanism has
                                                        been scheduled for March 31, 2015.
                                                        Energy Department worked out a draft
                                                        law aimed at extension (for another
                                                        couple of years) of support system for
                                                        all types of high – efficiency
                                                        cogeneration. The draft law has been
                                                        already adapted by Council of
                                                        Ministers.
                    The Government will issue an        Brown Certificates were introduced in
                    ordinance to establish the          the beginning of 2012, and all



                                                13
   Objective                     Actions                              Comments
                   “brown? certificate scheme to       necessary regulations are on place.
                   promote cogeneration from           Because national gas provider PGNiG
                   agricultural biomass                forced high standards and parameters
                                                       for this gas, cleaning it is very
                                                       expensive (similar situation is in
                                                       Germany: only 6 of around 3500
                                                       biogas installations clean gas);As a
                                                       result, producers of biogas don’t apply
                                                       for “brown? certificates, and decide to
                                                       make electricity on the basis of this
                                                       gas. They are authorized to acquire
                                                       “green? certificates
                   Long-term Actions
                   Amend the Energy Law to           Not achieved.
                   implement the Program for         “red? and “yellow? certificates expired
                   Development of Cogeneration       on Dec 31, 2012, “purple? works
                                                     continue until 2019. New act approved
                                                     by Government on Jan 2, 2013
                                                     proposes to extend “red? and “yellow?
                                                     until March 31, 2015 (but this act
                                                     needs further legislative way in
                                                     parliament). Around half of 2013 CHP
                                                     will not receive support by red and
                                                     yellow certificates; new certificates are
                                                     introduced (“orange?) for new CHP
                                                     constructed since January 1, 2013;
                                                     2013 is the first year when CHP (gas
                                                     and coal) have to buy some amount of
                                                     CO2 permits
Pillar III: Improvements in Demand-Side Energy Efficiency
Enabling           Medium-term Actions
acceleration of    A Smart Grids Law will be         Not achieved
demand-side        submitted to Parliament           Smart Grids Law is not on the list of
management and                                       current draft regulations: however,
loss reduction                                       parts of this law are included to the
through: (i)                                         “trójpak? (Energy-Gas-RE) which is
implementation                                       excepted to be adopted in the
of the smart grid                                    beginning of 2014
program, (ii)      Draft Law on Energy               Not achieved
reducing barriers Characteristics of Buildings to be Ministry of Transport, Construction
to energy          approved by the Council of        and Maritime Economy (MoTCaME)
efficiency         Ministries by December 2011       published in mid 2012 provisions of
investments in     transposing the EU’s Recast       this regulation, but discussion about it
the buildings      Energy Performance of Buildings is not finished yet
sector, and (iii)  Directive


                                               14
    Objective                      Actions                             Comments
creating stronger    Long-term Actions
incentives to        Enact the Smart Grid Law and       Not achieved
improve fuel         prepare related secondary
efficiency of        legislation
road vehicle fleet   Enactment of the Law on Energy     Not achieved
and road             Characteristics of Buildings
transport            Issue an Ordinance tightening      Not achieved
operations           new building standards to 120      MoTCaME published draft in October
                     kWh/m2 covering all forms of       2012 but without methodology of
                     energy, not just heating           “optimal costs?, without definition of
                                                        “zero-energy? building; new draft,
                                                        with consumed comments, is expected
                                                        in the first quarter of 2013
Pillar IV: Renewable Energy
                 Medium-term Actions
                 Draft of the Renewable Energy          Partially achieved
                 Law approved by the Council of         The forth draft is still under public
                 Ministers                              discussion as a part of “trójpak?
                                                        (together with Gas Law and Energy
                                                        Law) the beginning of 2014 is a most
Increase the
                                                        probably date of entering in to force;
share of
                                                        current support scheme valid until
renewable energy
                                                        2017, hence suspension of entering
in final energy
                                                        new legislation unexpectedly caused
consumption is a
                                                        acceleration of new RE investments;
critical
                                                        800MW new wind power generation
component of the
                                                        in 2012
Government
                     Long-term Actions
Energy Policy.
                     Enactment of the Renewable         Not achieved
The Government
                     Energy Law                         Planned in the beginning of 2014
has established a
                     The share of renewable energy in   Achieved
target of 15.0%
                     final energy increases.            2010: 9,58%
by 2020 which
                     Baseline 2009: 7.2 % of final      2011: 10,60%
would also
                     energy consumption.                (Ministry of Economy report in April
enable it to meet
                     Target 2011: 9% of final energy    2011)
its GHG
                     consumption.
emissions target
                     The share of renewable energy in   Data will be available in 2014;
                     final energy increases.            2013: 11,05% (plan)
                     Baseline 2009: 7.2 % of final      (the same source as above)
                     energy consumption.
                     Target 2013:11% of final energy
                     consumption.




                                                15
3.3.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

47.     The DPL has moderately satisfactorily supported all its objectives. At the end of the
project, while the outstanding reform agenda is still significant, there have been results under
each pillar, and policy foundations for future reforms have been established. The objectives of the
loan set at the time of its approval remain relevant. The Government of Poland has had to face
many challenges created by the slowing economy and budget constraints that impacted its
support for EE and RE issues. The implementation of the revised legal framework designed under
the DPL was only partially achieved as new regulations introduced difficult design and other
issues leading to delays. However, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to meeting
the medium-term actions and outcomes outlined in the DPL; the prospects for their completion
therefore look good.

3.4.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.     There were no measured poverty impacts as energy prices have not increased despite the
increased use of higher-cost renewable energy. However, a Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment that was initiated under the DPL is addressing potential energy-related poverty issues.
According to Eurostat, 20% of Polish householders have problems with paying bills for heat
during the winter, 17% have a problem with paying bills for energy at all; according to URE
(Energy Regulator) and 1.5 million people in Poland are at risk of “energy-poverty?. A social
safety net is in place to help the poor, an important component of the solution to energy poverty.
However, the energy efficiency program has not reached the poor despite the fact that they
typically live in buildings with the lowest energy efficiency and hence the highest potential
economic benefits from improving EE. A study was undertaken to explore the barriers that the
poor and vulnerable in Poland face in investing in energy efficiency. The biggest problem is
affordability, coupled with access to capital and the landlord-tenant problem (the owner of the
assets typically doesn’t pay for the heating costs). The perverse incentives are further
complicated by the fact that poor households often are forced to use the highest cost source of
heat (electricity), as the lowest cost source (district heating) is often not available where they live.
A second stage to this study was initiated in March 2013 to prepare solutions to this problem.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     As this DPL was heavily focused on establishing a legal framework in a number of areas,
it was a major first step for longer term development in some institutions: (1) Ministry of
Economy which took a bold action to establish the White Certificates and is preparing secondary
legislation and works heavily on new RE law; (2) increased capacity at URE on the Smart
Metering regulations (supported by a GEF project) and internal units for coping operationally
with White Certificates; (3) the Polish National Energy Conservation Agency which is organizing
trainings for energy efficiency auditors in connection with White Certificates scheme; (4)
Ministry of Transport which is preparing public buildings registry and addresses the establishing
higher standards of energy consumption; (5) Environment Fund (and Ministry of Environment)


                                                  16
which prepared several grants/loan lines for supporting RE and EE development in Poland; (6)
Ministry of Finance which undertook discussions on White Certificates and funding of energy
efficiency measures in buildings. The Ministry of Finance is also a strong supporter of “modeling
group? dedicated to strengthening governmental analytical capacity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

50.    Over the course of the DPL, there was a strategic re-engagement of the Bank in the
Government’s reform program on public goods which has laid the groundwork for future
collaboration.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

51.     The most important reassurance of sustainability is the commitment across the political
spectrum to the development objectives of reducing energy consumption and progress in
construction of new renewable energy schemes. These objectives are strongly linked to the
country’s commitment to achieving EU targets of 15% share of renewable energy in final energy
consumption by 2020 and the national target of 9% of energy saving in 2016. These targets are
broadly owned strategic goals of the country. Related GEF and Technical Assistance projects
also continue to contribute to the likelihood of sustainability of the achievements of the DPL
objectives.

Economic Risks

52.     There is a significant decline observed in Polish Economy by the end of 2012, and
prediction for 2013 shows that economy will continue to slow. Poland’s economy is not immune
to the broader regional economic crisis: this situation produces mixed impacts on the DPL reform
program. On one hand, lower economic activity has reduced energy consumption, and resulted in
lower energy prices which should contribute to a willingness to support higher cost renewable
energy. On the other hand, this creates less of an incentive to invest in energy efficiency. Taking
it into account the limited capacity of the Government to address many problems in parallel,
energy efficiency and renewable energy policy reforms may be assigned a lower priority over the
near term. Concerns regarding competitiveness of Polish industry and the lobbying of different
renewable energy technologies, as well as fossil fuel technologies, will continue to burden the
processing capacity for reforms. As a result, main reform policy actions could be considerably
delayed.

Political and Institutional Risks

53.     The Government has been willing to undertake structural reforms. For example, the
relatively complex White Certificates Scheme as set out in the Energy Efficiency Law was fully
introduced with only slight delay. Collaboration among the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of
Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Energy Regulator, regional and municipal
Governments, as well as other public entities such as the National Fund for Environmental
Protection is still a challenge for the Polish administration. The currently organized modeling


                                                17
group, drawing on staff from these Ministries, is developing new analytical skills and makes
progress in cooperation within the Government. The recent reorganization within the energy
efficiency unit in the Ministry of Economy did not change significantly the capacity for strategic
thinking on energy efficiency within the Government. The Energy Regulator institutional
rearrangements have made more advances to enable it to cope with the White Certificates
Scheme and smart grid issues.

Social and Environmental Risks

54.     The risk of social tensions and declining support for the Government’s Renewable Energy
Program resulting from increases in energy prices and administrative costs for market
participants to engage in energy efficiency investments is still relevant. Public communication
campaigns to date had limited impact and would benefit from being upgraded. Energy prices
have not risen, helping to mitigate this risk. Continued support for energy efficiency is expected
to help maintain such support.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.   Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

55.     The Bank adequately underpinned the DPL with analytical and advisory activities. The
analytical work and project preparation budget enabled a program design that was consistent with
the national development strategy focused on those key constraints that could prevent Poland
from achieving its EU commitments.

56.     In designing the program there was close collaboration between the sector staff working
in different areas of the DPL and with the counterparts in the Government and line ministries.
One illustration of this close cooperation was that the Government requested follow-up analytical
work on Registry for Energy Performance of Buildings Certificates, smart meters, financing for
energy efficiency in the public sector and macroeconomic analysis with Ministry of Infrastructure,
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.    The Bank team maintained frequent dialogue with the client, including in conjunction
with follow-up on GEF-funded and Bank-funded technical assistance.

58.    Without team members in the field, monitoring of progress towards outcome indicators
was not possible to monitor on a continuous basis and some difficulties were encountered as data
and information was not always updated by various line ministries in a timely manner.



                                               18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.     Bank performance both at entry and during supervision benefitted from the close linkage
with the Government’s own strategic reform pillars to achieve its own EU commitments and the
Bank’s DPL. This led to a strong interlinked series of reforms and reduced the risk of any move
away from addressing the carefully defined program of reforms over the first year of
implementation and also in the medium term. However, a large number of dispersed development
objectives, many of them very challenging to achieve in the short run, would have benefited from
a series of DPLs.

5.2.   Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.     The DPL helped the Government accelerate the implementation of energy efficiency and
renewable energy national strategies and its EU obligations. The Government demonstrated
ownership and commitment to policies promoted under the DPL, ensuring that adequate levels of
human and budgetary resources were allocated and maintained to provide institutional capacity.
All prior actions were completed on time and the Government is continuing to build capacity to
implement the follow-up measures to ensure that the program remains on track with medium-
term actions.

61.     Also, key counterparts at the Ministry of Finance facilitated communication with line
ministries involved (Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Transportation) although there was some
discussion between the MOF and the MOE and URE over the budgetary allocations to support
the design and monitoring of the energy efficiency and white certificates program. In the end all
three entities committed to at least maintaining staffing levels within MOE and URE.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.     The implementing agencies performed well. The capacity of the energy team within the
Ministry of Economy was stretched thinly as it has a fairly broad mandate and a modest team.
Most Government bodies followed through on the program reforms and handled the challenge of
preparing substantial amounts of new legislation well as demonstrated, e.g. by the Energy
Efficiency Law. Delays in the implementation of the Renewable Energy law, the Gas law and the
Energy Law as well as supporting secondary legislation are symptoms of the limited capacity of
the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Finance and the regulator, URE, were consistently
responsive, helpful and supportive throughout the process. However, there were some challenges
with timely implementation of the DPL triggers and actions as they were at times viewed as a
disruption to normal work e.g. at the Ministry of Economy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


                                               19
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63.     The performance of the Government and implementing agencies showed that they were
keen to benefit from the DPL recognizing that their energy efficiency program was important in
achieving their EU targets. However, the pace of implementation of the reforms has not been
maintained at a consistent pace, with a direct impact on outcomes, resulting in a moderately
satisfactory rating.

6. Lessons Learned

64.     A programmatic DPL with several installments would likely have enabled further
progress on the policy agenda. While the Government appears to be meeting its energy efficiency
and renewable energy targets, the pace of energy efficiency reforms has slowed down somewhat
after the DPL was approved. As this DPL demonstrates, it is possible to deliver reforms even
under circumstances where achieving political consensus is at times challenging; a programmatic
DPL could have been helpful in ensuring the sustainability of the reforms and supporting further
actions.

65.     The breadth and depth of the DPL objectives stretched the capacity of the Government to
deliver. A DPL series could have helped alleviate this constraint. For a single, one-off DPL it
would have been preferable if the agenda centered on only few of the most important policies.
Furthermore, it would have been also helpful if some of the specific energy efficiency analytical
work currently under way would have been carried out already prior to the preparation of the
DPL.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

66.  A summary of the Borrower’s comments is presented in Annex 4. The Bank has no
comments on issues raised in the Borrower’s comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

The Project did not have co-financing.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A. No comments were received.




                                               20
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
             Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Hinderikus Busz               Consultant                             ECSEG
Leszek Pawel Kasek            Senior Economist                        ECSP2
Ewa Joanna Korczyc            Country Economist                       ECSP2
Rozena Serrano                Program Assistant                      ECSSD
Carolyn Turk                  Lead Social Development Specialist     AFMRW
Claudia Ines Vasquez Suarez   Young Professional                       YPP
Iwona Warzecha                Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Barbara Ziolkowska            Procurement Analyst                    ECSO2




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                                                USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY10                                                                          7004.85
FY11                                              37.90                    368,134.11
                              Total:              37.90                       375,138.96
Supervision/ICR
FY12                                                  2.73                    85,067.62
FY13                                                  2.76                     14,569.53
                              Total:                  5.49                     99,637.15




                                                 21
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      22
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                       23
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Client concurs with the positive assessment of the implementation of the DPL. Despite the
global economic crisis and rapidly changing conditions leading to a considerable slowdown in
domestic economic growth, Poland has been able to minimize the negative impact of the global
crisis inter alia by precisely carrying out this DPL program.

Sustaining the efforts to fulfill the DPL areas, Poland developed a legal framework supporting the
energy efficiency strategy (by preparing the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan), decreased
supply-side energy (by increasing use of cogeneration for the production of electric power),
introduced improvements on the demand side (Smart Grids as an instrument enhancing energy
efficiency, accelerating demand-side management), designed a national renewable action plan
(focusing on wind power, biogas and biomasss to support the renewable energy program through
market-based instruments, e.g. green certificates and brown certificates).

The medium and long-term actions set out in the DPL have been achieved or are in progress. The
Clients thinks that the “Satisfactory? rating under the “relevance of objective, design and
implementation? presented in the ICR accurately assesses the progress made, taking into account
the external environment and its impact on Poland’s economy. The analysis of the DPL
implementation indicates that in setting forth objectives and targets, it is necessary to avoid too
ambitious approach that increases the risk of non-performance of some obligations.

The Client observes that the overall success, however, has not been achieved in relevant areas
due to external factors resulting from the global financial crisis. Some macroeconomic indicators
have slumped slightly compared with their projections but the Polish economy still boasts strong
economic fundamentals that may serve as a launching pad for further progress.

The Client appreciates the cooperation and commitment of the World Bank team and has shown
interest in further cooperation with the Bank.




                                                24
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                       25
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents
1.   Poland: Country Partnership Strategy for the period 2009-13, Report No. 48666-PL
2.   Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the period 2009-13, Report No.61315-PL
3.   Convergence Program Update 2011
4.   Convergence Program Update 2012
5.   Poland: National Reform Program from April 2011
6.   2nd National Energy Efficiency Action Plan for Poland dated February 10, 2012
7.   Addendum for the National Renewable Energy Action Plan of December 2, 2011
8.   Program Information document March 31, 2011, Report No.: AB6382
9.   Energy Efficiency in Poland 2000-2010, Warsaw 2012
10. Poland’s Energy Efficiency Policy in the Context of the EU Climate Goals, presentation by
    Tomasz Dabrowski, director of the Energy Department at the Ministry of Economy, dated
    November 27, 2012




                                             26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33467R


                                                                                                                                           PO L A N D
                                                                                                                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE (WOJEWÓDZTWO) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                             POLAND
                                                                                                                                            RIVERS

                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                            MAIN RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE (WOJEWÓDZTWO) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



            14°E                                    16°E                                   18°E                                         20°E                                       22°E                                    24°E


                                                                   B a l t ic                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                       RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                     Gulf of                                Gusev    FEDERATION
                                                                                                                     Gdansk                                                                                 LITHUANIA
                                                                                                           Gdynia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                        Slupsk                                  ´
                                                                                                             Gdansk                                                                                                                           Vilnius

                To
  54°N
             Stralsund
                                                           Koszalin
                                                                        POMORSKIE                                             Elblag                                                                        Suwalki
                                                                                                                                         WA R M I N S K O -                                                                                    54°N

                                                                                                                                          MAZURSKIE
                    ZACHODNIOPOMORSKIE
                                                                                                                 Wisla




      To
Neubrandenburg                                                                                                                                       Olsztyn
                     Szczecin
 GERMANY




                                                                                  K U J AW S K O -                                                                                    PODLASKIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BELA RUS
            To
           Berlin                                                                 POMORSKIE                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lomza
                                                            Pila                               Bydgoszcz                                                                   Ostroleca                              Bialystok
                                                                       Notec                      Torun
             Od                    Gorzów                                                                                                             Ciechanów
               ra
                                   Wielkopolski                                                                                                                ew
                                                           Warta                                                                                             ar
                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                         Wloclawek                                                         Bu
                                                                                                                                                                                              g                                    To
        To                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Baranavichy
                                                                           ,                                                           Plock
       Berlin
                                                                      Poznan                                                               Wisla MAZOWIECKIE
                                                                                               Konin                                           WARSAW
                          LUBUSKIE                                             War
                                                                                   ta                                                                                                             Siedlce                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pinsk
  52°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         52°N
                         Zielona Góra                WIELKOPOLSKIE                                                                                                                                              Biala
                                                                                                                                                Skierniewice                                                    Podlaska                   To
   To                                                         Leszno
                     Ny




  Berlin                                                                                       Kalisz                           Lódz                                                                                                      Kovel'
                       sa




                                                     O




                                                                                                          Sieradz
                                                      dr




                                                                                                                                                                                            LUBELSKIE
                                                        a




                                        DOLNOSLASKIE
                                        DOLN OSL ASKIE                                                           LÓDZKIE
  To                                                                                                                                   Piotrków                       Radom                           Lublin                                     To
Dresden                                                                                                                                Trybunalski                                                                                              Kovel'
                                         Legnica
                                        Jelenia                        Wroclaw                                                                                                                                         Chelm
                                        Góra
                                                                                                                                                         Kielce                                                           ,,
                                                     Walbrzych                  OPOLSKIE                                  Czestochowa                                                                                 Zamosc
                                                                                         Opole                                           SWIETOKRZYSKIE
                            To                                                                               SLASKIE                                                Tarnobrzeg                S
                          Prague
                                                                                                                                                                                              an




                                                                                                                                                                   tula
                                                                                                                                                               Vis
                                                                                                                     Katowice
                                To
                              Prague                                                                                                                                      PODKARPACKIE
  50°N                                                                                                                                    Kraków                                                                                               50°N
                                                                                                                                                        Tarnów
                                                                                                                                                                                      Rzeszów                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,                            L'viv
                 C Z E C H R EPU B LIC
                                   LI C                                                                                           MALOPOLSKIE                                                      Przemysl
                                                                                                                   Bielsko-
                                                                                                                                                                                      Krosno
                                                                                                                   Biala                    Nowy Sacz
                                                                                     To
                                                                                    Brno
   0        25       50      75     100 Kilometers

                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                Rysy
                                                                                                                                                (2,499 m)
                                                                                                                                                                           To                                          UK R AI N E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UKR
                                                                                                        Zvolen                                                            Kosice
   0                25        50         75 Miles

   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                            SLOVAK
                                                                                                                            SLO      REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                VA K REPUBLI C
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        18°E                                             20°E                                             22°E                                         24°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARCH 2007
