Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7025-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
February ^5, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted disbudion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bank authoraion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      =    Burundi Franc (FBU)
US$1.00                            .    FBu 125 (June 1987)
US$1.00                            -    FBu 114 (Annual Average 1986)
US$1.00                            '    FBu 105 (June 1985)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGCD             - Administration Generale de la Cooperation au
Developpement
BANCOBU          - Banque Commerciale du Burundi
BBA              -  Banque Belgo-Africaine
BCB              - Banque de Cridit de Bujumbura
BNDE             - Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique
BRB              - Banque de la Ripublique du Burundi
CADEBU           - Caisse d'Epargne de Burundi
CAMOFI           - Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement
CCCE             - Caisse Centrale de Coopiration Economique
CCI              - Chambre de Commerce et de l'Industrie du Burundi
CCP              - Office des Cheques Postaux
CCPF             - Centre de Perfectionnement et de Formation
CFTB             - Centre de Formation Technique Bancaire du Burundi
COOPEC           - Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit
CPI              - Chambre de Promotion Industriel
DEG              - Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EIB              - European Investment Bank
FNG              - Fonds National de Guarantie
SBF              -  Societe Burundaise de Financement
SIP              - Societe Immobiliere Publique
SOCABU           -  Societe d'Assurances du Burundi
Societi Holding  -  Sociite Holding Arabe Libyen Burundais
UNDP             - United Nations Development Program
UNIDO            - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID            - United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
BURUNDI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX CREDIT
CONTENTS
Pane No.
Credit and Project Summary ..................       ....
PART I - THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT .... .......... ......... ...... .       1
A.  The Economic Setting ...**....*****..**.............. . ............   1
B.  The Small Scale Enterprise Sector ............... ..........           2
Importance and Characteristics .........................          2
Formal SSE ...................... *                             3
Informal SSE ... o***........................... .... 3
Artisan Sector ........ #.0 .... ,*06  .  .~...                 5
Government SSE Policies ......**.*0* ............*....            5
Import Licensing  ....... 0000* ........... *..*.....           6
Price Decontrol ...............................                 6
Production Incentives .# ........... . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . .  6
Tariff Reform .................6.....................           6
Investment Code ........     ....... .............0 ...........  7
The National Guarantee Fund ............ ..........             7
Promotion and Training Institutions .......      .............    7
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) ..............          8
Industrial Promotion Center (CPI) ......      ..............    8
Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Burundi (CCI). *..          8
Government Staff College (CPF) ............. ..........         9
C.  The Financial Sector ......... ..... ....... ...........* .. ......    9
Institutional Structure . ......            ......... . ,.......  9
The Central Bank (BRB) .................... O..                10
The Commercial Banks ..........*.... *....*..  ,........       11
The Development Banks ... ...........      ...............     13
The Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPECs) ........         . 15
Iuterest Rates and Resource Mobilization    ...............      15
Credit Policy .............. .. *...*..... .*.**...              17
Term Lending and SSEs:  Need for the Proposed Credit....         19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Burundi in
June-July 1987. The mission was composed of Messrs. Christian Schmidt and
Andres Jaime of AF3IE and of Messrs. Jacob Levitsky and Roman Semkow,
Consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlchl duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World fank authorintion.



- ii -
Pate Nc.
PART II - BANK GROUP SECTOR LENDING STRATEGY ........... ........                  20
PART III - THE PROJECT .....         ...........*....**.** .***.........           21
Project Objectives and Justification .. .................                21
Lessons Learned from Previous SME Assistance Efforts ...2:
Project Description                 ....................                 22
Credit Component ..       ............... .. . .. ..  .....    .         22
Institutional Arrangements ............           ..........t         22
Eligible Intermediaries .............................                 23
Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects ....... .........              24
Terms and Conditions of Financing .0.....................             25
Subloan Processing and Administration ...............                 26
Assistance and Training Component              ......................    27
Design and Special Features .....aa.................                  27
Entrepreneurship Development Program             ................     27
General SSE Assistance Training for Banks             ...........     28
Estimated Cost of the Component's Various Programs ...                29
Terms and Conditions ........ ................ .                      29
Project Management Unit ....... .    ........  ...... .. ... .           30
Small Enterprise Bureau ..................... .                          31
Project Cost and Financing              .............................    32
Project Implementation ...... ........   ..................  .           32
Project Management ..................................                 32
Procurement and Disbursement ........................                 32
Special Account           .....................................       34
Auditing and Reporting ...         .... .............. ..... .        34
Project Benefits and Risks             .............................     34
Benefits .............................34
Risks .. ..................................                           35
PART IV - AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE REACHED ..........                  35
ANNEXES:
I - Draft Participating Agreement ..........................                  37
II -        Appraisal  Format     .......................................      45
III - Simplified Appraisal Format ...... ............ .......  .. .             50
IV - Supervision Format .............   **000...... ..........................  55



-iii -
Page No.
ANNEXESt (continued)
V - Draft Agreements ........ ..    ............................    57
(a) Project Management Unit (Management Agreement) .....       57
(b) Small Enterprise Bureau (Cooperation Agreement) ....       60
VI - Draft Terms of Reference for
(a) SSE Technical Assistance        ...........................  63
(b) Bank Seminars .......... ..   ..........................   66
VII - Companies and Employment in the formal SSE Sector
in 1986 ..........      ...................................  68
VIII - Stratification of a formal SSE Sector sample
by Employment ..................e********.****..* ......     69
IX - Expenditure Pattern of Households and Demand
Projection for Selected Consumer Goods ..... ........ ...    70
X - Central Bank Organization chart, 1987..... .............        71
XI - List and Characteristics of Financial Institutions  .....      72
XII - Interest Rate Structure as of May 1, 1987  ..............       73
XIII - Distribution of Credit to the Economy by Term Structure.        75
XIV - Summary Balance Sheets of Commercial Banks .............       76
XV - Summary Balance Sheets of BNDE & SBF ...................        77
XVI - Distribution of Bank Deposits by Category of Depositors.       79
XVII - Distribution of Bank Deposits by Sector and Term  .......       80
XVIII - Synopsis on Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPECs) ...       81
XVIX - Schedule of Disbursements         ..............................  83



BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers          Republic of Burundi
Beneficiaries:     Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB), participating
financial intermediaries, Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, and small enterprises.
Amount:            SDR 5.7 million, equivalent to US$8 million.
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.
Relendinft Terms:   The Borrower would pass on US$7.2 million equivalent to
BRB at 7.0 percent p.a. minus an administrative fee, of
0.5 percent (to cover the operating cost of a Project
Unit within BRB) for 30 years, including a grace period
of 10 years. BRB would onlend the funds to qualified
participating financial intermediaries at 7.0 percent
(or at the treasury bond rate to be established
following the introduction of a treasury bonds auction),
with a flexible amortization schedule reflecting the
aggregate maturity of subloans extended by
intermediaries. The onlending rates would be revised
annually. Interest rates charged by participating
intermediaries to beneficiary SSEs would be, initially,
11 percent for subloans of up to seven years and 12
percent for subloans beyond seven years. Following the
introduction of a market-oriented rediscount rate,
interest rates would be variable and market-determined.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government. The Borrower would use the remaining US$0.8
million to (i) provide training and technical assistance
to participating intermediaries and beneficiary SSEs
and, (ii) establish an SSE promotion unit in the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry.
Benefits:          In the past, Burundi has not had a practical and
effective approach towards SSE development. With the
mandate recently given to the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry to take the lead in SSE promotion, the proposed
project would help nurture this development, which is
expected to generate new job opportunities at a
relatively low capital cost. It is expected that the
credit component would help create 2,500 new jobs at an
average cost of US$4,000 per job. The impact of the
project is expected to be appropriately dispersed both
geographically and among various groups with benefits
reaching subborrowers in the secondary cities and
microenterprises.



-ii-
Risks:             Being the first apex operation in Burundi, the project
lnvolves institutional arrangements that are new to the
Central Bank and to the participating intermediaries.
Initial dalsy in subloan processing may occur as BRB
will need to familiarize itself with the system and as
participating intermediaries develop further their
appraisal and supervision capacity. This risk would be
considerably reduced by the swift implementation of the
technical assistance component and by close IDA
supervision during the initial project execution phase.
Estimated Costs                       Local        Foreign       Total
-----------US$ million----------
Investments                         3.0          7.0           10.0
Technical Assistance and Training   0.4          0.6            1.0
SSE Bureau                          0.1          0.1            0.2
3.5          7.7           11.2
Financing Plan:
SSE Subborrowers                     1.5          -              1.5
Participating Financial
Intermediaries                      1.5          -              1.5
Government                           0.2          -              0.2
IDA                                  0.3          7.7            8.0
3.5          7.7           11.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY             1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
Annual             0.7       1.1       1.8       2.4       1.6       0.4
Cuwulative         0.7       1.8       3.6       6.0       7.6       8.0
Economic Rate of Returns NA.
Maps No. 20663.



BURUNDI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
I. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A. The Economic Setting
1.01     Burundi is a small, densely populated and land-locked country with
over 4.5 million inhabitants and an estimated GNP per capita of US$250 in
1986. The population is overwhelmingly rural (93 percent) and derives its
livelihood from subsistence agriculture and coffee cultivation. Despite
the predominance of the rural economy (60 percent of GDP), Burundi has a
relatively developed services sector and a small but active manufacturing
sector which the Government is eager to promote as agricultural development
is constrained by land availability and increasing demographic pressures.
1.02     Following a period of growth due to the coffee boom in the mid-
70s, Burundi's economy started encountering serious financial and economic
difficulties in 1981. Terms of trade deteriorated and oil prices surged.
A rapid increase in domestic demand and expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies led to a deterioratiotn in the balance of payments and large budget
deficits. Between 1978 and 1983, the current account deficit increased
from 5 percent of GDP to 12 percent, and the budget deficit from 6 percent
to 11 percent. Inflation, which was running at a high rate of 15 percent
p.a. led to a rapid appreciation of the Burundi franc in the absence of
corrective adjustments. To control the increasing deficit in the balance
of payments, administrative controls were imposed on imports and on foreign
exchange. In addition, price controls were imposed for imported and
domestic goods. These control measures led to distorted prices, high rents
accruing to monopolist importers, lack of Interest in productive sector
investments and to a general slowdown of economic activity.
1.03     Towards the end of 1983, the Government launched a program of
initial adjustment measures.  These included the depreciation of the
Burundi franc by 30 percent versus the US dollar, an increase of producer
prices of main export crops (ranging from 6 to 50 percent) and the raising
of some taxes. In addition, public wages were frozen, and an effort was
made to control both capital and recurrent public expenditures. But while
Government revenues initially increased significantly due to higher coffee
revenues, continued import restrictions on intermediate goods hampered the
output of the modern sector. Furthermore, a prolonged drought in 1984 led
to a reduction in agricultural value added of about 6 percent, and thus to
a 1 percent decline in real GDP.



-2-
1.04     Starting in 1985 the economic situation recovered somewhat.  GDP
growth reached 4.2 percent due to a substantial recovery in agricultural
value added (a result of higher world coffee prices), and expansion of
existing manufacturing units. The balance of payments improved as well.
With IMF and IDA assistance, preparation for the first Structural
Adjustment Program --currently being implemented--began in May 1985 with
the objective of restoring financial equilibrium in the short-term and
initiating a medium- term restructuring of the economy.
1.05     Main short term adjustment measures included:  the adoption of a
realistic and flexible exchange rate policy, the correction of the
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate which had occurred during
the previous years, progressive liberalization of exchange controls and
prudent financial policies compatible with the objective of (i) reducing
the budget deficit, (ii) maintaining a sustainable balance of payments
position, (iii) containing inflation to about 5-6 percent, and (iv)
increasing credit to the private sector.
1.06     The medium term adjustment program included the rationalization of
the incentive syst,m through further decontrol and liberalization of the
economy, and the improvement of the efficiency in resource allocation
through major changes in trade and industrial policies. The Government has
also taken important steps to strengthen public expenditure management and
to rehabilitate the public enterprise sector.
1.07     The above measures have already produced important changes in the
economic environment. Faced with increased competition, firms are now
looking for cheaper sources of imports (notably in the regional and non-
traditional markets) and export markets are being explored. Manufactured
exports increased by 60 percent in nominal value in 1986 (80 percent of
which in the form of processed coffee), and export contracts for beer,
glass, soap, tobacco and textiles have increased substantially. Moreover,
the depreciation of the FBu (23 percent in terms of SDR, between July and
December 1986), offset the impact that import liberalization might
otherwise have had on increased demand for imports. The policy environment
for industry has, as a result, improved substantially. The second tranche
of IDA's first structural adjustment credit was released on April 21, 1987.
Another SAC carrying the adjustment process further is currently being
prepared, and SAF discussions are being finalized.
B.  The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector
Importance and Characteristics
1.08     Small-scale enterprises (SSEs) in Burundi are a non-homogeneous
and relatively small group, varying significantly in complexity and
sophistication as well as by size and activity. SSEs with the same number
of employees or comparable sales volume often differ in management style,
organization and ability to maintain records, depending on the nature of
their activity or the background and capacity of the owner-manager. Partly
because of this diversity, and partly because of the absence of a clear
official definition of small--and in the Burundian context also medium--
enterprises, reliable data on Burundi's SSEs are scarce. In the absence of



- 3 -
comprehensive statistics, the characterization below draws on several
scurces, Including the National Studies and Statistics Service, various
Ministries (Commerce and Industry, Labor, Justice), and the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, all of which focus on different aspects of SSE
activity, such as employment, taxes, licensing, permits, etc.
1.09     The SSE sector is marked by very limited donor support.  Except
for past UNIDO assistance to the iniustrial promotion center (para. 1.31)
and two SSE credit lines to one of the development banks, most donor
assistance has concentrated so far on selected artisan activities in the
provinces.
1.10     Officially, all SSE establishFrants belong to one of four
categories, namely the formal and informal industrial sector and the modern
and traditional artisan sector. The formal industrial sector includes,
besides registered SSE establishments, the 7 larger manufacturing companies
in Burundi, among which are the beer and bottle factories. Activities in
all four categories are geared towards meeting domestic demand for basic
goods. As in other countries of comparable stage of industrial
development, food processing (excluding coffee and tea) dominates
manufacturing the sector. Other activities are linked to shelter
(basically construction materials), clothing, (weaving, spinning, etc.),
furniture making, wire drawing and gem cutting. Overall, all four SSE
sector categories contribute one third to the total manufacturing sector
which, in this predominantly agricultural country, accounts for about 10
percent of GDP and which grew at an average annual rate of 4 percent in
real terms between 1978 and 1986.
1.11     The formal SSE sector comprises all officially registered firms in
Burundi except for the 7 large manufacturing firms mentioned above and
employs about 20,000 people. Its activities are monitored by the National
Studies and Statistics Service, which has a roster of 557 registered
companies. Of these, 69 percent are in the commercial and services sector
and 20 percent in manufacturing. The majority (60 percent) are
concentrated in the metropolitan region of Bujumbura. While relatively few
companies employ a large labor force, 66 percent employ less than 50
persons each in the agro-industry, mining and manufacturing subsector. In
the remaining sectors, the majority of companies employ less than 25
persons each.
1.12     Capital investments of the formal SSE sector are concentrated in
the manufacturing sector. The average investment for the sector is
US$40,000 per enterprise. Basic financial ratios of the sector indicate
that long-term credit has so far not played a significant role in the fixed
capital formation of formal manufacturing enterprises. Over half of the
assets are self-financed by company owners. As a result, debt servicing
represents only 3 percent of total operating expenses for the sector. At
the same time, 25 percent of companies carry no debt at all.
1.13     The informal SSE sector, defined as all non-registered SSE
activities in Bujumbura and the larger provincial towns, especially in
Ngozi and Gitega consists of an estimated total of 950 companies employing
less than 25 persons each. The best available estimates indicate that
about 65 percent of these companies are active in the commercial and



- 4 -
services sector. Most of them exist and manage to operate outside the
official legal framework, hence reliable information on their activities is
scarce. Compared to the country's predominant agricultural sector,
informal inoustrial establishments do not require assets such as land, nor
do they require large amounts of capital.  The labor force generally is
made up primarily of the owners plus a few family mt bers and apprentices.
A special 1987 Bank survey of the informal sector in Bujumbura, which
represents the most developed market, reveals that activities are
concentrated mainly in retail trade, construction, manufacturing,
electrical and mechanical repair and transport. Trade constitutes 66
percent of the total output of the sector, while manufacturing activities
constitute less than 20 percent, and construction less than 3 percent. In
the latter two subsectors, it is the formal sector which dominates. Other
informal SSE activities include pottery, carpentry, tailoring, and basket
making. Metal fabrication is also a significant, more rural manufacturing
activity, but it is concentrated in the provinces of Ruyigi and Bubanza.
1.14     Most SSEs in Burundi's formal and informal sector are owned,
managed and operated by nationals, unlike the few large companies which
often have foreign interest and management. Less than 2 percent of the
staff of all SSEs are foreign. Available data also suggest that SSEs are
more labor intensive and less dependent on imported inputs than larger
enterprises.
1.15     Between 1973 and 1986, the net increase in the number of
registered SSEs amounted to 421, which resulted from 4,142 start-ups and
3,721 closures. While the number of start-ups indicates that there is no
lack of entrepreneurial spirit in Burundi, the emount of closures
demonstrates simultaneously that the SSE sector faces problems as well as
it tends to base new activities on inadequate feasibility studies,
overrates the market potential and underestimates operating costs.
1.16     SSEs in Burundi encounter a number of constraints, brought to the
attenition of the appraisal mission in all main provinces: (i) The access
to bank credit, both for fixed assets and working capital is still
difi-lcult with banks being concerned more about collateral quality than
financial viability of the project; (ii) SSEs are characterized by their
lack of well established management structure and orzanization, and by
rudimentary accounting s:stems. Basic practices such as quality,
production and inventory controls are virtually unknown. The resulting
excess costs are integrated in the product cost structure and passed on to
the consumer disregarding price and demand elasticity; (iii) Market
limitations represent a lesser, but still relevant problem. The
expenditure pattern of rural households which represent 92 percent of total
households indicates that purchases are limited to basic consumer needs:
food, clothing, housing, medicine and household goods of first necessity.
As a result, SSEs face a local market the growth of which is restricted by
the modest purchasing power of its predominantly rural population; (iv)
Being landlocked, another difficulty for economic operators in Burundi is
the access to appropriate technoloay and imported raw materials. Transit
of goods is unreliable and very costly. Only large companies can afford
adequate inventories to safeguard against stock outs. In addition, imports
of second-hand equipment are currently prohibited, resulting in low
capacity utilization and high investment costs per job. It is expected,



however, that under SAC II, this restriction will be lifted; (v) Finally,
local distribution channels are In disarray and suffer from collusive
practices. Since Burundi's independence In 1962, over 190 commercial
trading centers have ceased operation. SSEs unable to develop costly
private distribution channels encounter serious marketing problems in
commercializing and selling their products.
1.17     Successful SSEs in Burundi have been built up by individual
initiative and have developed by reinvestment ok surpluses. In the past
several years, few new SSEs have been established. This can be attributed
mainly to the economic slow down until 1985 (para. 1.02). Since SSEs have
generally found it difficult to obtain professional assistance in the past
to prepare bankable feasibility reports and in getting banks interested in
their project proposals, few of them had access to funds other than the
equity investments of the owner or his imediate or extended family,
although some SSEs have in rare cases operated on suppliers' credits.
Those that have had access to bank credit have been mainly financed by BNDE
and, more recently, by SBF for machinery and equipment imports. The
appraisal mission strvey (para. 1.16) showed that new SSEs are being
established again and this will result in increasec credit demands.
Improved assistance and increased regional coverage to meet financing needs
will substantiate this additional credit demand.
1.18     The Artisan Sector.  The modern as well as the traditional artisan
sectors are made up of a large number of establishments, most of which are
unregistered and do not keep any records of their activities. Despite
these shortcomings, the artisan sector is an important generator of
employment. Traditional artisan activities are carried out by
approximately 100,000 farmers, predominantly in the rural areas. These
activities, which range from basket weaving to brick making represent a
part-time occupation providing additional Income. Skills are transmitted
from one generation to the next. More 'modern' artisan activity implies,
by local definition, that the craftsmen, received either formal training at
a specialized institution or church mission or underwent apprenticeship
training, or both. Whereas the traditional craftsman operates as an
individual in his spare time, modern craftsmen exercise their profession on
a full-time basis and usually have employees assisting them. Approximately
40,000 craftsmen conduct activities in metropolitan Bujumbura and in
smaller townships. According to a 1987 study of the artisan sector by a
foreign consulting company, modern artisans are increasingly in competition
with each other due to the often homogeneous products and have to survive
on very small profit margins.
1.19     Burundi's artisan sector received considerable donor assistance
from both official bilateral and NGO sources. This assistance is mostly
granted in the form of expert advice and is scattered among various, in
some instances quite distant provinces.
Government Policies affecting SSEs
1.20    Although the Government of the Third Republic, formed in September
of 1987, has reemphasized the importance of SSE development, there are no
regulations for SSEs separate from those for large enterprises. However,
after a period of emphasizing large public sector projects as an instrument



- 6 -
for industrial growth, the Government now recognizes that further
industrial development appropriate to the country's scale and needs should
largely involve privately owned small- and medium-scale enterprises. In
the past, the growth of the sector was partly hindered by policies such as
price controls and import restrictions, but also by cultural values which
gave higher social status to administrative and military positions compared
to trade and industrial activities. This environment has changed.
Starting in 1984, numerous public appeals have been made by highly placed
Government officials for national talents to concentrate on economic
productive activities, start their own busir.ess and rely on their own
capacity to be economically successful.
1.21    The new macroeconomic environment, together with the need to
promote the participation of Burundian entrepreneurs in the country's
investment and growth process, has thus accorded a high priority to private
sector enterprises and to improving the policy and institutional framework
for their development. In the process, the Government has implemented
major changes in trade and industrial policies. While they do not affect
SSEs exclasively, they do have the same results for them as for other
economic agents. The main steps towards deregulation of the economy were
in the areas of import licensing, price determination, production
incentives and tariff reform.
1.22     Import Licensing: At present, most import licenses are granted
automatically, except for a limited number of luxury goods, and for 3
groups of locally manufactured goods, subject to temporary quantitative
restrictions. Previous regulations which had led to monopolization of the
trader profession have been abolished.
1.23     Price Decontrol: Most price controls have been removed, after
they had been fixed for most manufactured goods at the producer, wholesale
and retail levels until 1985/86. This policy was applied to producer
prices through a fixed 20 percent profit margin (cost plus) oa production
cost. For some strategic products (salt, cement, sugar), prices can still
be subject to a ceiling (for no longer than four months), to offset
possible speculation caused by acute shortages or temporary import
difficulties. The new pricing policy applies to public enterprises as
well.
1.24    Production Incentives:  The above measures were complemented by a
set of incentives designed to stimulate -nvestment and production in the
productive sectors. The Investment Code was revised (para. 1.26) to
provide automatic incentives to all investors (Burundian and foreign) who
meet specific criteria related to utilization of labor and adequate rates
of return. Other incentives include elimination of all export taxes on
manufactured goods and the reactivation of the draw-back system.
1.25    Tariff Reforms With a view to reducing high rates of effective
protection the Governaent restructured Import tariffs and provided a basic
rate of protection for the production of intermediate goods based on
domestic resources. To this end, the number of duty rates was reduced from
57 to 5, a minimum duty of 20 percent was established on all imports and
the maxim-m duty was reduced to 100 percent, applied essentially to luxury
goods. Non-luxury goods are now taxed in the 20-50 percent range, to be



narrowed to 20-40 percent in 1989. For a few cases in which higher rates
might be imposed to protect infant industries, the Government has
introduced formal procedures to grant selected enterprises a temporary
relief in form of an import surcharge (with a maximum rate of 30 percent)
levied for a maximum period of three years. This import surcharge rate
would be gradually reduced during the three-year period.
1.26     A new Investment Code was promulgated in March 1987.  The new
Code, which was revised under the Structural Adjustment Credit, provides
automatic incentives to all investors (Burundian and foreign) who meet
specified criteria, namely having an economic rate of return of at least 10
percent for the project and an investment cost per job of less than
US$20,000. This increases the access of SSEs to the Code as provisions
contained in the previous Code encouraged investments only if they reached
a minimum size, i.e., FBu 15 million (US$125,000) for new projects and FBu
10 million (US$85,000) for extensions. Other changes in the new code
include (i) lifting the protection against competing imports and no longer
prohibiting the establishment of new enterprises even if they compete with
existing a~--4vities; (ii) eliminating the exeAption of import duties on
equipment and industrial imports; and (iii) reducing the review process
(including final approval or rejection) to a maximum of three months. The
Code's benefits now consist essentially of a profit tax exemption for a
fixed period of five years and seven years for industries located outside
Bujumbura.
1.27     The National Guarantee Fund.  In July 1987, a decree was approved
setting up the Fonds National de Guarantie (FNG)-- a National Guarantee
Fund--the purpose of which is to provide additional guarantees to the banks
for a substantial part of the loans to SSE when the latter cannot furnish
sufficient collateral. The appraisal mission advised the Government in the
form and procedures of the FNG. It is envisaged that the guarantee scheme,
if operated efficiently, will help remove one of the major obstacles to
increase lending by the commercial banks to SSEs, namely the lack of
adequate collateral of such borrowers.
1.28     The FNG would guarantee up to 70 percent of a loan for a 1 percent
annual fee on the guaranteed portion to a maximum of FBu 10 millions for
fixed assets loans. The FNG would also guarantee 60 percent of working
capital loans up to a maximum of Flu 5 million for each borrower.
Eligibility for guarantees would be limited to enterprises with fixed
assets not greater than FBu 30 million (US$240,000 equivalent).
Promotion and Training Institutions
1.29     The principal institutions charged with promoting the development
i          of Burundi's SSE sector are the Ministry of Commerce & Industry (MCI), the
National Development Bank (BNDE), the Industrial Promotion Center (CPI),
and more recently, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI).  With the
exception of 3 foreign experts (not specifically focussed on SSE issues) in
BNDE, there is no other donor assistance for SSEs. The main training
institution is the Government Staff College (CPF). Even though a major
objective of the technical assistance component of this project is to help
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry meet its new promotion role, the other
institutions might also render useful services to potential SSEs.



- 8 -
1.30     The Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) has a General
Directorate with two departments for industry and artisanal sector. Both
departments report being understaffed. At this point, the MCI does not
have any units directly concerned with policy formulation and preparation
of legislation to promote the SSE sector.
1.31     The Industrial Promotion Center  (Centre de Promotion
Industrielle, CPI) was created in 1981 to help promote and develop
Burundian industry through provision of assistance to industrial
enterprises. CPI is a parastatal agency under direct control of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The 1986 operating budget was FBu 56.6
million (US$450,000 equivalent), provided by Government resources and
foreign donor grants. Main activities have included the preparation of
project feasibility studies and, since 1985, the provision of technical
assistance to firms in technological choice, management, and training. In
the past, CPI's role has been limited by frequent changes in management as
well as by difficulties in gaining acceptance by the private sector.
Furthermore, the local staff of 22 have inadequate backgrounds and some are
working only part-time. Under the new Government, CPI is redefining its
role to become a study unit and shift all assistance functions to the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
1.32     The Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) represented in the past
a relatively small segment of the commercial and industrial community,
mainly the larger enterprises based in Bujumbura. Starting in 1987, the
Government has given the mandate to the CCI to expand its activities and
play a more aggressive role in representing the business community
throughou.t the country. This initiative came about by realizing that a
private organization was more suited to effectively reach the private
sector and channel the assistance needs. As a consequence, CCI's structure
has been modified significantly and its budget increased considerably.
Under the project, CCI is to play a leading role in implementing the
technical assistance program. Following a membership drive after its
mandate was increased, CCI currently has over 2,000 associate members, and
the number is still increasing. The General Secretary is a dynamic and
knowledgeable executive and former Dean of the Faculty of Economics and
Administration at the University of Burundi.
1.33     CC!'s budget is entirely financed from membership dues which range
from FBu 2,000 to FBu 100,000 p.a., depending on the size and equity
strength of ths member company.  In parallel to its membership drive, CCI
is expanding its services, and it has already established 4 representations
outside Bujumbura to better attend members' needs in the provinces.
Recently two Directors have been recruited. One has responsibility for
domestic affairs covering information, communication training, assistance
and coordination with the regional chapters of the chamber. The other
director oversees international affairs, including import/export, relations
with regional trade zones such as CEPGL, PTA, foreign chambers of commerce,
etc.
1.34     The 1987/1988 program of the CCI focuses on the launching of
training programs both in the capital city and throughout the most
important provinces. This shows that the Chamber does not perceive itself
only as a lobbying group but that it responds to the needs of its members,



-9-
who concluded that governmental agencies did not generate the practical,
private sector oriented programs required. Despite its relatively fresh
start in Burundi's business promotion, the CCI, through its enthusiastic
staff, has shown its willingness to assume a leading role in assisting
enterprises. Therefore, CCI was chosen as the best suited institution in
the country to take charge of the project's TA program.
1.35     The Government Staff College.  The Government Staff College
(Centre de Perfectionnement et de Formation en cours d'emploi, CPF) is a
parastatal agency primarily sponsored by UNDP. It started operations in
1979, has a total of 40 local staff, and 3 foreign experts. Revenue
sources comprise mostly Government subsidies and foreign donor grants. The
center focuses its overall attention on civil servants even though private
sector participants are allowed to participate in the courses. The center
organizes management seminars and workshops, conducts research on
management and training issues, publishes its own monographs and studies
and maintains an audio-visual library. However, the few workshops and
seminars oriented towards the private sector tend to concentrate on
scientific management suitable for big corporations only.
C. The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure
1.36     The financial sector in Burundi consists of:  (i) the Central Bank
(BRB); (ii) three commercial banks: Banque de Credit de Bujumbura (BCB),
Banque Commerciale de Burundi (BANCOBU) and Banque Belgo-Africaine Burundi
(BBAB); (iii) three other deposit-taking institutions: Caisse d'Epargne du
Burundi (CADEBU), Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de Financement
(CAMOFI) and Comptes Courants Postaux (CCP); (iv) two other lending
institutions: Holding Arabe Libyen Burundais (HALB) and Fonds de Promotion
Economique (FPE); and (v) two development banks: Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique (BNDE), a mixed institution with 40 percent
Government participation, and Societe Burundaise de Financement (SBF),
controlled (54 percent) by the Government but with sizeable (31 percent)
local private shareholding.
1.37     The Government, directly or through two fully Government owned
financial institutions (BRB and FPE) holds a controlling interest in all
financial institutions but the commercial banks.  With other public sector
enterprises, Government holds close to 50 percent of the capital of the
commercial banks but needs the Burundian private shareholders to marshal a
majority. Foreign shareholding is limited to the commercial banks (49
percent in two banks and soon a similar or lower proportion in the third)
and to BNDE.  The Burundi private sector holds shares only in the
commercial banks and in SBF.
1.38     In addition to these institutions there is an array of savings
cooperatives (COOPECs) started with French assistance in 1984 which are not
yet accredited by the Central Bank (para 1.60). There are also quasi-
financial institutions which comprise: the Institut National de la Securite
Sociale (INSS), a Government agency which collects contributions from
employers and employees, and manages the national pension plan; the Societa
d'Assurance du Burundi (SOCABU), a mixed sector insurance company which



- 10 -
used to have a monopoly in the insurance business in the country but has
now a competitor (UCAR), recently established with foreign participation;
the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU) which collects,
processes and partly finances the coffee crop; and the Coffee Equalization
Fund. The relative importance of the various institutions in terms of
their lending to the economy is shown in the table below and in Annex XI.
Total credit outstanding by the financial institutions at the end of 1986
amounted to FBu 16.1 billion (US$129 million).
DISTRIBUTION OF CREDITS TO THE ECONOMY
(Annual averages An percent)
1981      1982      1983      1984       1985
Central Bank                   7.6       4.4       3.2        2.5       2.2
Commercial Banks              65.1      62.0      53.3       50.1      53.0
Development Banks             12.5      16.5      25.2       27.8      26.7
CAMOFI                         6.6       8.9       9.7       10.5      10.3
CADEBU                         6.4       6.6       7.2        8.0       7.0
Other                          1.8       1.6       1.4        1.1       0.8
TOTAL                        100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
Source: BRB
1.39     There is a certain measure of competition within Burundi's
financial system. The commercial banks compete among each other and with
BRB, CADEBU, CAMOFI and CCP for public sector deposits, and with CADEBU and
CCP for private sector deposits. On the credit side, development
institutions participate in short-term credit, namely coffee financing,
while commercial banks are required to allocate a portion of their
resources to term credit.
1.40     The financial institutions participating in the project (the
Central Bank, and the commercial and development banks), as well as the
COOPECs, are described in more detail in the paragraphs below.
1.41     The Central Bank (BRB) regulates financial institutions in Burundi
and defines and administers national monetary and credit policies. The
latter function is performed by BRB's three-person Executive Committee (the
Governor, Vice-Governor and the Administrator) and approved, when not
actually directed by the Minister of Finance. Between October 1986 and
October 1987, BRB was without a Governor and the Executive Committee was
virtually inactive. This weakened the Central Bank and led to the Minister
of Finance increasingly assuming the task of formulating monetary and
credit policies. As Burundi's central financial institution, BRB issues
the currency, manages the foreign exchange reserves, and acts as the
Government banker and the lender of last resort to the financial system.
It also accepts deposits from and grants credit to a number of public
sector enterprises, and manages a Credit Bve..au (Centrale des Risques)
which collects from the financial institutions monthly information on the



- 11 -
amount and nature of loans outstanding to any given borrower and advises
each financial institution of the total loans extended to each of their
customers.
1.42     The Central Bank's regulation of financial institutions mainly
focuses on three aspects: (i) interest rate regulation - BRB currently
still fixes the minimum deposit and maximum lending rates, thus
predetermining the financial spread available to financial institutions;
(ii) prior approval for bank credit exceeding a certain amount (currently
FBu 10 million or US$80,000); and (iii) classification of credits as
wrediscountablen or "non-rediscountable" and the related operating ratios
that banks have to maintain. BRB does not establish reserve requirements
and commercial banks are financially regulated mainly through the operating
ratios.
1.43     BRB's past supervision of the management and operation of
financial institutions has been weak, especially as regards inspection.
BRB relies exclusively on information and data provided monthly by the
financial institution, and undertakes no thorough inspection of the banks
other than occasional brief on-the-spot checks. Despite the past lax
control, banking institutions are generally well managed and financially
sound. They have their own provisions policies and adequate appraisal and
disbursement procedures.
1.44     BRB has a total staff of 418, including its Bujumbura headquarters
and one branch each in the 2 largest provinces. The fact that in the past
year BRB has been without a Governor accounts in part for its managerial
weakness.   With the recent appointment of a new Governor, this situation
is expected to change. BRB's organization structure appears in Annex IX.
1.45     The three commercial banks were until 1985 fully foreign-owned.
In 1985 the foreign parent companies of the two larger banks sold 51
percent of their shares to Burundian interests, mainly to the Government
and public sector enterprises. The transfer to local shareholders of up to
80 percent of the capital of the third bank (BBAB) is currently being
negotiated. The former parent companies have retained the management of
BCB and BANCOBU until the end of 1987 under a management contract agreed
upon at the time of the sale of their shares. The authorities have
recently made known their intention to extend the management contracts.
Furthermore, the Minister of Labour has agreed to reconfirm, prior to
negotiations of the project, the employment status of non-Burundian staff
in the banks (and all other private firms). The three banks are still
closely linked to their European shareholders and their policies,
procedures, and management practices reflect those of the parent companies.
BCB and BANCOBU are the dominant institutions, with 43 percent and 37
percent respectively of the total loan portfolio of commercial banks. They
have a branch network in the country (six branches for BANCOBU, five
branches for BCB) which would allow the project to reach SME clients
outside of Bujumbura more directly. The third bank is only active in the
capital and has a more limited range of services.
1.46     The commercial banks extend mainly short-term credit with a large
proportion of loans financing export and import operations. Other short-
term credits are extended through overdrafts. Banks do not engage in more



- 12 -
sophisticated types of operations such as leasing. Coffee financing
constitutes another central part of the lending business. Until recently
commercial banks were the only institutions engaged in this very profitable
and virtually risk free activity, but lately, with the help of the
authorities, other financial institutions have become involved in coffee
financing (development banks and OCIBU).
1.47     Following Central Bank instructions to commercial banks (para.
1.71) to hold at least eight percent of their outstanding portfolio in the
medium- term (2-7 years) and long-term (over 7 years), the banks are
becoming familiar with term credit but so far, in the abse':e of a
functioning guarantee fund (para. 1.27), term loans are gtanted mostly to
well-known clients. The capacity of commercial banks to appraise loans is
generally adequate. Credit analysis, although emphasizing the personality
of the borrower, also covers such aspects as evaluation of market
potential, sales forecast, projected cash flow, pro-forma financial
statements, quality of the management, and includes direct visits to the
company. The appraisal capabilities of commercial banks' staff will be
further strengthened under the TA component of the project.
(para. 3.29 iii).
1.48     Procurement and disbursement procedures vary from bank to bank,
but appear generally satisfactory.  For large, well-known clients,
disbursement is made directly to the beneficiary.  For smaller or less
well-known clients and for foreign goods, funds are directly disbursed to
the supplier or contractor, and other disbursement and procurement
conditions are more thoroughly checked. Under the proposed project,
participating institutions would be required to receive quotations from
three suppliers and to disburse directly to the supplier, except for small
payments of less than US$5,000.
1.49     Practically all bank lending is backed by some form of collateral
(mortgages, floating charges on stocks or other assets, personal
guarantees, overseas guarantees, etc.) even though the enforceability of
some of these guarantees is legally difficult and time-consuming. The
collateral requirement is a particularly important problem for SSEs and
limits their access to institutional credit. (para. 1.27 on Guarantee Fund
and para. 1.75 on Code Fonciere).
1.50     All commercial banks seem to have a fairly sound portfolio
condition and the impact of the non-performing loans is manageable. The
exact situation, however, is difficult to assess because of differences in
the policies followed by individual banks, as the Central Bank provides no
guidance on the treatment of doubtful and contentious loans. Commercial
banks generally apply the standard provisions policies of their parent
companies.
1.51     Banks are reasonably leveraged, with an average debt-equity ratio
as of December 1986 of 9.8:1 and a range varying between 8.5:1 and 18.6:1
(Annex XIV). Banking profits are moderate. Net profJts represented about
12 percent of the capital funds in 1986 but were inflated in one bank by an
exceptional profit of FBu 94 million. The net profits on assets
represented slightly over 1 percent of the average total assets in 1986 and
1.5 percent of the average loan portfolio but fell to 0.3 percent and 0.5
percent respectively if non-recurrent profits are excluded.



- 13 -
1.52     The Development Banks.  Burundi has two development banks, BNDE
and SBF. The Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE),
Burundi's first and principal development finance institution, was
established in 1967 as a limited liability company with a share capital of
FBu 60 million (US$ 0.7 million), subscribed 75 percent by Government and
public institutions and 25 percent by Burundi's three local commercial
banks. BNDE's objectives at its inception were to provide term loan and
equity funds to agricultural, industrial and tourism enterprises and to
finance housing. The institution received strong support from the
international community (the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique - CCCE - provided the general management of the bank until 1970)
and its equity base was expanded four times between 1969 and 1983 to allow
international development assistance organizations (DEG, CCCE, EIB, etc.)
to participate in its shareholding. BNDE's FBu 740 million (US$5.9
million) capital at the end of 1986 is subscribed 40 percent by the
Government and BRB, 46 percent by the EIB, CCCE, DEG and AGCD and 14
percent by the commercial banks and other local public sector institutions,
thus rendering majority ownership to the Government. Although BNDE has
earned reasonable profits (FBu 50.6 million in 1986 but much less in the
previous years), it has preferred to build up its reserves and equity base
rather than pay dividends.
1.53     The strong international support has allowed BNDE to establish
itself as an important institution for development financing in Burundi.
In addition to a DFC-type credit (Cr. 731-BU for US$3.4 million) which IDA
provided to BNDE in 1977, significant institutional and financial support
came from KfW, CCCE, EIB and the African Development Bank. Over the years,
BNDE*s project appraisal and supervision capacity was gradually
strengthened and adequate procedures and policies were instituted. The
number of staff was kept at appropriate levels (as of December 31, 1986
BNDE employed 49 people, 22 of whom were professionals) and staff quality
Improved with the assistance of foreign donors and IDA, who funded experts
for the positions of Chief Financial Officer, Economist/Financial Analyst
and Engineer, and provided training. A Burundi national successfully
assumed the General Manager position in 1979, but the institution will
continue to need the support of some three expatriate assistants until
their counterparts become fully capable of replacing them.
1.54     No Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has been issued on the
IDA credit to BNDE.  A Project Completion'Report (PCR) of January 1987,
however, noted that the two main objectives of the IDA credit - to provide
financing on appropriate terms to well conceived and viable industrial
projects and to strengthen BNDE's project appraisal capabilities and
internal organization - were only partly met at the time. The PCR pointed
out that despite intense political pressure and weaknesses in the legal
system, BNDE did succeed in improving its internal organization and
procedures and in maintaining a relatively sound portfolio. Since its
establisbment, BNDE has financed over 4,400 loan operations for about
FBu 3.9 billion (US$40 million) and five equity participations for FBu 56.5
million. BNDE's operations have always been sectorally diverse and cover
agriculture, manufacturing, mining, handicraft and housing. About two-
thirds of all loans were to enterprises in the capital Bujumbura with the
remainder distributed throughout the provinces. About 82 percent of all
BNDE loans were medium/long term and went to private (36 percent), public



- 14 -
(38 percent) or mixed-sector projects. Over the past 3 years, BNDE's
lending (excluding coffee financing) increased from FBu 480.0 million in
1984 to FBu 826.0 million (US$7.0 million equivalent) in 1986.
1.55     As of December 31, 1986, BNDE had an outstanding portfolio of FBu
3.0 billion (US$25 million equivalent) two thirds of which in medium- and
long-term and counted with US$14 million in foreign exchange resources for
new approvals. About 85 percent of these resources are for specific
operations or have special conditions regarding procurement or type of
projects.   This limits BNDE's financing flexibility, especially as far as
origin and used equipment are concerned. BNDE's foreign exchange resources
come mainly from the European Investment Bank. the Caisse Centrale and the
African Development Bank. The Government has also from time to time
allocated funds to BNDE for specific purposes.
1.56     Since the somewhat unsatisfactory experience with BNDE during
implementation of IDA's Cr. 731-BU (para. 3.03), which was closed in 1983,
the institution has significantly improved its internal procedures with
respect to loan administration and project supervision. BNDE seems to be
the only financial institution which strictly applies clearly defined
policies with regard to non-performing loans. Loans are classified as
overdue as soon as a repayment installment has been missed, an action that
tmmediately triggers a review of the borrower's situation and may lead to
classification of the loan as doubtful. Doubtful loans become
automatically contentious once the file is sent to BNDE's lawyers. As of
December 31, 1986, BNDE's doubtful and contentious loans were 9.7 percent
of the portfolio and are classified below. BNDE balance sheet is presented
in Annex XVa.
BNDE: Doubtful and contentious loans by sector at the end of 1986
(BuF million and in percentage of total loans to each sector)
Doubtful        Contentious          Total
Housing                  0.7   (0.1)      7.4   (0.8)        8.1   (0.9)
Trade and artisanat      9.9   (3.4)     45.6  (15.8)       55.5  (19.2)
Industry               114.0  (18.8)     10.9   (1.8)      124.9  (20.6)
Tourism                 11.2   (6.0)      12.7   (6.8)      23.9  (12.7)
Agriculture             18.6   (4.7)      12.7   (3.2)      31.3   (7.9)
Small equipment         11.7   (4.9)      -       -         11.7   (4.9)
Total                166.1   (6.3)     89.3   (3.4)      255.4   (9.7)
Source: BNDE
BNDE is expected to be one of the largest users of the proceeds of the
proposed project.
1.57     Burundi's other development finance institution, the Socite'
Burundaise de Financement (SBF), started operations in 1982, and is the



- 15 -
country's only financial institution with a sizeable local private
shareholding (34 percent'. The rest of its shares are held by the state (16
percent), the state-owned Fund for Economic Promotion FPE (40 percent), and
SOCABU (10 percent). SBF provides medium- and long-term loans for housing,
commercial and transport equipment and to a lesser extent agriculture,
mainly coffee financing. Total medium- and long-term loans at the end of
December 1986 amounted to FBu 754 million (US$6 million) and together with
coffee financing made up 87 percent of the institution's total credit. Over
the past 3 years, SBF's lending (excluding coffee financing) increase from
FBu 234.0 million in 1984 to FBu 1.1 billion (US$9.0 million equivalent) in
1986. All of SBF's term resources are local and come mainly from the FPE
and the Institut National de Securite Sociale (INSS) (FBu 223.8 and 100
million respectively). SBF balance sheet is shown in Annex XVb.
1.58     Although SBF is young it has a small but competent staff of 21,
including 10 professionals, and has established itself as a quality
institution with appropriate policies and procedures. Its previous
Managing Director was a former Central Bank Governor and he was replaced in
October 1987 by the former Minister of Plan. The nine-member Board of
Directors approves all loans exceeding FBu 50 million, a Board subcommittee
(the Conseil de Direction) is authorized to approve loans of between FBu 10
to 50 million while the Mrnagement Committee, comprising the Managing
Director and two delegate-administrators, has approval authority for loans
below FBu 10 million. SBF has three departments - administration, finance
and projects - which are well suited to its size and functions.
1.59     The SavinRs and Credit Cooperatives (COOPECs).  The most recent
addition to the range of financial institutions have been the COOPECs
(Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit) established with French assistance in
1984. By May 1987 the COOPECs comprised a network of 31 cooperatives in the
central rural areas of the country with over 33,000 members, deposits of
almost BuF 70 million (US$500,000 approximately) and outstanding credits of
about BuF 16 million (US$128,000). The COOPECs are growing at a fast rate
and their operations may be expected to double in volume by mid-1988.
1.60     The COOPECs represent an important development in being the first
financial institutions to operate within these rural areas but are not yet
accredited by the BRB. Their lending volume is small and mostly for
consumption loans. Thus, they have no need at present for additional
financial resources nor for technical assistance which they receive from the
French Credit Mutuel. (See Annex XVIII for further details).
Interest Rates and Resource Mobilization
1.61     Interest rates are regulated by BRB, which determines the maximum
rates (including commissions) the commercial banks and other financial
institutions can charge on their loans and, since 1981, the minimum interest
rates they must pay on deposits, thus setting a ceiling on the gross spread
of deposit taking financial institutions. In October 1981 the maximum
interest rates on deposits were changed to minimum rates and the rate level
raised by 2 to 3.25 percent while lending and rediscounting rates were also
increased significantly. In August 1986 the general level of interefst rates
was raised again and financial institutions were also required to pay a 3
percent interest on demand deposit balances in excess >f FBu 100,000



- 16 -
(US$800). The August 1986 change also simplified and unified the structure.
The number of posted rates went down from 94 to 57 and special deposit and
lending rates for non-bank financial institutions were abolished, all
financial institutions being subjected to the same interest rate structure.
On May 1, 1987 the scale was further simplified and some of tite anomalies in
the previous scale removed. The scale presently in force still has 37
posted rates, but unified agriculture and industry lending rates and treats
all financial institutions alike. Interest rates for non-rediscountable
loans range now between 10 and 16 percent, while rates on rediscountable
loans range between 6 and 13 percent (10-12 percent for term loans), with
the corresponding discount rates set between 5.0 and 9.5 percent (7.5-9.5
for term discount).
1.62     Real interest rates were negative from 1981 to 1984 and turned
significantly positive since then. The increase in 1986 seems to have been
a delayed reaction to the surge in the inflation rate in 1984 which had by
then reached 14 percent but declined since. Infiation is currently about 5
percent. Such a delayed reaction might have occurred again in May 1987
when the rates were lowered at a time when preliminary indications pointed
to an increase in the inflation rate. The latest change kept real interest
rates on deposits marginally positive.
1.63     Despite encouraging improvements, the new interest rate scale still
provides insufficient margin for certain types of operations especially in
the medium term field. Similarly the spread between term lending and
rediscounting rates may be too narrow. Margins are more comfortable for non
rediscountable credits but the liquid assets ratio (para. 1.72) and the
medium-term credit requirement (para. 1.71) severely limit the freedom of
the banks in that area. To make the financial sector efficient, the Central
Bank is currently considering, and should be encouraged, to let the
financial institutions and market forces determine freely their deposit and
lending rates. As a minimum, rates on non-rediscountable credit and on
demand deposits should be deregulated and other rates linked to a central
rediscount or reference rate. Once the auction market for treasury bills is
established (para. 1.65) the resulting rate in this market should be used as
the reference rate.
1.64     Interest rates on Government securities held by financial and
quasi-financial institutions are determined by agreement between the
Ministry of Finance and the purchaser. These securities have been issued to
a few selected institutions at different negotiated interest rates which
seem to bear no relation with the maturty of the securities or the
conditions of the market. Rates on Treasury bills range from 4 to 8 percent
(tax free and not negotiable). Investment bonds with a seven-year maturity
bear interest rates which vary between 4.7 per-ent to 8.5 percent.
1.65     The above system of setting interest rates on Government securities
represents a major obstacle to fair competition in the financial field and a
costly way of subsidizing specific institutions. Moreover, its cost to the
Treasury is substantial in terms of high interest payments and losses of tax
revenues. There is a clear need for reform in this area and the Government
should replace the presently arbitrary arrangements by an open auction
system. As part of the financial sector component of the proposed second
Structural Adjustment Credit, currently under preparation, treasury bills



- 17 -
(3-6 months maturity) would be sold at monthly auctions open to all
financial institutions, would be negotiable and would be granted no tax
advantages. Investment bonds would be sold at a unified interest rate and
would be subject to taxation. The issue of bonds could be enlarged to the
general public, and the commercial banks should be given the option to
purchase the bonds to meet their medium-term credit obligation.
1.66     Financial institutions lend their excess funds to each other on an
informal call money market.  BRB does not participate in the market and
requests no information on the transactions including the interest rates.
Operations on the market are of the overnight nature and the transaction is
automatically extended for another day if neither the borrower nor the
lender signals the other party its intention to clear up the operation.
According to the participants the rates on the market have ranged between 4
and 4.5 percent during the last year.
1.67     Mobilization of resources from the public in Burundi consists only
of deposit taking. While total deposits more than doubled in nominal terms
between 1981-86 (Annex XIV) most of this growth took place during 1982-86 in
a period of rapid monetary expansion. The relatively more rapid growth in
sight deposits enabled these deposits to increase their share of total
deposits from 60 percent at the end of 1981 to 74 percent at the end of
1986. The compulsory interest rate on demand deposits may explain the high
preference for that kind of deposits, as the additional return of time
deposits represents only a marginal benefit to the depositors which does not
compensate them for their preference for highly liquid placement. Given the
inflation rates over the past several years (1982: 5.7; 1983: 8.3; 1984:
14.4; 1985: 3.6 and 1986: 1.8 percent), the above expansion of deposits in
nominal terms was also positive in real terms. The main depositors are
public sector institutions (46 percent) and individuals (37 percent).
Deposits of public enterprises are due to lack of acceptable alternatives
such as a competitive market for Treasury bills. Should this be
established, a significant portion of deposits would be transferred as cash
rich PEs would shift their liquidity to the central budget through the
purchase of Treasury bills.
1.68     COOPECs have allowed resource mobilization to start in the rural
environment. Although the magnitude of the resources mobilized is still
limited, there is significant potential for COOPECs playing an important
role in financial intermediation in the future.
Credit Policy
1.69     Monetary and credit policies include limitations on credit to the
Government and on outstanding credit to the economy. In addition to the
interest rate regulation, policy instruments include (i) a system of a
priori authorization for new loans for clients whose individual credit has
exceeded a certain amount and the classification of rediscountable credits;
(ii) a rediscountable medium-term credit requirement; and (iii) a liquid
assets ratio.
1.70     The Central Bank, through its Credit Department, must approve in
advance any credit extended to any borrower which will bring the total
amount of the loans outstanding to that borrower above FBu 10 million



- 18 -
(US$80,000). Financial institutions keep track of their customer's total
indebtedness through the Risk Bureau (Centrale des Risques) managed by the
Central Bank. In giving prior authorization, BRB also decides whether the
loan can be classified as rediscountable, an important factor In computing
liquid asset ratios and medium term credit requirements. The prior
authorization and classification system is cumbersome, slow and open to
arbitrary judgements.  Under the forthcoming liberalizatioa program, .t is
proposed that, at least for short term credit, prior review be eliminated
with all credits in principle discountable, subject to general rules, with
bank discount quotas, variation of the discount rate and, if needed, credit
ceilings to exercise monetary control. Until now, the easy access to
discount facilities has not posed much danger, as commercial banks have
utilized them only to back up seasonal coffee financing (the cheapest source
of BRB financing for banks is the coffee credit discount rate, currently 5
percent). Instituting a cash reserve/marginal reserve requirement for banks
may also facilitate monetary control.
1.71     Banks are required co maintain a portfolio of rediscountable
medium- and long-term credit equivalent to 8 percent of the average of their
resources and their non-rediscountable credits, a rather unusual
combination. It aims not only to compel the banks to extend term
rediscountable credits but also to deter them from extending non-
rediscountable loans.
1.72     The liquid assets requirement forces banks to maintain at least an
80 to 100 relationship between certain types of assets and liabilities.  The
ratio has been set too high and should be lowered.  Banks at present have no
choice once they have exhausted their credit opportunities, brtt to deposit
in a non-interest bearing account with BRB any additional deposit they may
receive.
1.73     Banks which do not comply with either of the ratios are penalized
for it. Banks have had difficulties in complying with the ratios in the
last few years.
1.74     The main recipients of credit are the trade sector (including
coffee financing), construction (mainly housing loans) and industry, with 42
percent, 24 percent and 16 percent respectively of the total credit
outstanding. The remaining eighteen percent goes to agriculture, transport
and other miscellaneous activities. There is no information about
geographical distribution of credit, but most of the medium and large loans
are approved and granted in Bujumbura.
1.75     An additional factor affecting the availability of term credit has
been the system of guarantees introduced in January 1987 which discourages
the commercial banks to finance development projects. Under the revised
Code Foncier, in effect since January 1987, the Government would have a
prior claim on all guaranteed property (most guarantees in Burundi being
based on mortgages), even when the state had not previously laid claim to
the mortgage. Under this system, a bank may had held a mortgage as a
guarantee on a loan for 10 years, but if the debtor had financial problems
with both the bank and the Government, the Treasury automatically had the
prior claim, with no ceiling. Before 1987, the Treasury's right to preempt
the guarantee was limited to debts towards the state accumulated over a
relatively brief period of time so that, although a guarantee's value was
affected by this right, the banks could still count on a significant portion



- i9 -
of the mortgage. The new system introduced in 1987 had a negative impact on
bank lending, since the banks considered the new situation to be equivalent
to lending without a guarantee. Early resolution of this problem was needed
for the successful implementation of the project. Prior to negotiations,
Government had agreed to revert the system, and by negotiations had already
completed revision of the Code Foncier.
Term Lending and SSEs: Need for the Proposed Credit
1.76     Term lending in Burundi, which only a few years ago was almost the
exclusive domain of BNDE, has experienced some diversification with the
creation of SBF and the commercial banks showing more interest in this type
of lending as a result of both the improved macro-economic environment
(para. 1.04) and, to a lesser extent, the BRB regulations (para. 1.71).
1.77     This development merits to be supported.  At present, commercial
banks only extend term loans with relatively short maturities to larger
companies in Bujumbura, leaving the financing of SSEs to BNDE. Despite
BNDE's commendable efforts (80-85 percent of BNDE's approvals by number and
50-55 percent by value are for small and medium enterprises) one institution
alone cannot satisfy the need of small enterprises, particularly those in
the regions. In addition to the demand assessment based on the mission's
field visits, all 3 commercial banks confirmed their interest in lending a
portion of the US$7.2 million subloan amount over a three year commitment
period.
1.78     While the banks expressed their willingness to participate in the
credit, they need incentives to do so. First, their capacity to provide
term loans is limited and they prefer to finance large operations capable of
generating attractive ancillary business. Second, their credit analysis
expertise is not fully adequate, and is mainly concentrated in Bujumbura,
while a considerable number of SSEs are in the regions. Financing SSEs
would thus require strengthening the credit analysis capacity and improving
coordination between headquarters and branch offices, both of which add
extra cost and make this type of lending less attractive. On the SSE side,
many firms would not be able to meet the commercial banks' guarantee
requirements, nor would be attracted by the conditions of their loans, which
are not adapted to SSE investment projects, given the relatively short
maturities (two to three years) and high cost (17 percent on average, when
commissions and the transaction tax are included).
1.79     The proposed project has been designed to ease some of these
constraints and to provide incentives to commercial baniks to engage in SSE
financing because:
(i)   The government and the IMF agreed that credits extended to SSEs and
financed under the IDA Credit would be outside the IMF overall
ceiling as they are backed by adequate foreign resources and would
be counted towards meeting the medium-term requirements.    The
proposed project would thus bring to participating banks a new
business without limiting their traditional short-term activities;



- 20 -
(ii)   Subloans under the proposed project would not have to receive the
Central Bank's prior authorization in order to accelerate the
approval process by the Project Management Unit (PMU);
(iii)   Technical assistance would be provided under the project to
participating banks to strengthen their capacity to appraise and
supervise SSE projects both at headquarters and at the branch
level, as well as to small entrepreneurs;
(iv) Credits extended to SSEs under the project would be made in local
currency. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Governtmeut; and
(v)   In parallel to the project the establ'.shment of the Guarantee Fund
would be finalized to ease the accrest. to bank credits.
II. BANK GROUP SECTOR LENDING STRATEGY
2.01     The Bank Group's recent objectives in Burundi have been to support
adjustment policies in areas such as trade reform, management of public
expenditure, rehabilitation of public enterprises and institutional
strengthening. To follow up and consolidate the measures already taken,
additional action would be needed to help the diversification of the economy
and the acceleration of growth. In this regard, the Bank has identified the
following priority areas: export promotion, agriculture, employment,
financial sector and SSEs. Prior involvement of the Bank Group in the
industrial and financial sectors included a standard DFC-type US$5.0 million
credit to BNDE to promote the development of the private sector in 1979.
IFC made a loan and capital subscription in 1983 to a glass container
factory, totalling US$5.6 million. The latest Bank Group intervention in
the sector was through a local construction industry pilot project of US$3.3
million in 1982.
2.02     The 1986 macro-economic reforms and Government's determination to
liberalize the economy through policy reforms have created a more suitable
environment for new interventions in the industrial sector. The macro-
economic reforms have been supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit
(US$50 million), an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility Arrangement (SDR 20.1
million) and a stand-by arrangement (SDR 21.0 million), approved by the
Boards of IDA and IMF in May and August of 1986 respectively. A second
Structural Adjustment Credit is under preparation.
2.03     Given the new Government's overall commitment to assist private
sector development, the proposed operation would support this strategy by
making available the foreign exchange required for the importation of
equipment (new and used) and spare parts for investment projects to be
financed through BNDE, SBF and the commercial banks.



- 21 -
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Oblectives and Justification
3.01     The main objectives of the proposed operation are to (1) support
the development of SSEs in Burundi through the provision of term resources
and technical assistance; (il) increase the participation of financial
intermediaries in the financing of productive investments, including areas
outside Bujumbura and, hence, contribute modestly to the decentralization of
economic activity; (iii) help, in coordination with SAC II conditionality,
to improve the efficiency of the financial sector and the SSE policy
framework; (iv) strengthen the SSE appraisal/supervision capabilities of
Burundi's financial intermediaries and (v) generate new employment
opportunities.
3.02     The rationale for IDA's involvement in the project is to assist the
Burundi Government in its effort to stimulate growth and increase
employment. Contributing to this objective is particularly timely as
potential SSEs will benefit from the policy reforms under the adjustment
process of the ongoing SAC I. Term financing to be provided by the project
would help support SSEs, a sector that has substantial employment generation
potential and could become a breeding ground for developing an
entrepreneurial class. Despite the existence of two small credit lines to
BNDE as part of bilateral assistance (KfW and CCCE), there is still a
shortage of term resources to finance SSE projects because these foreign
term resources are channeled through one development bank only and because
most of these resources have restrictive conditions regarding procurement,
nationality of the beneficiary, size, type and geographical location of
projects. IDA's country assistance strategy is in full agreement with the
Government's intention to develop the sector. IDA's main role will be to
support a country-wide technical assistance program in cooperation with the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other donors (para. 3.04). IDA's
involvement can be regarded as essential in helping the Government both in
changing the design of technical assistance to potential as well as existing
entrepreneurs and in encouraging a full range of financial institutions to
have access to IDA foreign exchange term resources.
Lessons Learned from Previous SSE Assistance Efforts
3.03     While IDA has not had an exclusive SSE credit to Burundi in the
past, two previous projects were related to SSE activity. The first credit
line to BNDE (paras. 1.54 and 1.56) covered investments for projects of all
sizes. While the bulk of the financing went to a few large companies,
experience from the eighteen SSE projects which also benefitted from
financing shows that lack of direct and appropriate technical assistance
contributed to the non-success of projects, several of which had to close
down. The importance of technical assistance was also brought to light in
IDA's recently completed local Construction Industry Pilot Project, through
which private construction companies benefitted substantially from expert
advice and training and as a result fared very well. In addition, a review
of general Bank/IDA experience with SSE lending indicates that SSE
assistance programs have often been less than successful mainly because of



- 22 -
(i) the bias against SSEs in many countries' trade and pricing policies;
(ii) the SSEs' difficult access to the benefits accorded under national
investment codes; (iii) the over-reliance on single intermediaries for
channeling financial assistance, thus limiting the chances of reaching small
enterprises in remote regions of the country; and (iv) the lack of working
capital funds for SSEs. In Burundi where the policy reforms undertaken by
the Government have removed many discriminations against SSEs, the proposed
project will build on these lessons to improve the chances of developing a
viable SSE sector.
Project Description
3.04     The project would involve an IDA credit to the Government of
Burundi of US$8.0 million (SDR 5.7 million). It would have the following
components:
(i)   an investment component of US$7.2 million equivalent to finance
development projects promoted by SSEs. The investment component
would be coordinated and monitored by a Project Management Unit
located in the Central Bank; and
(ii)   a technical assistance and training component of US$0.8 million
equivalent to: (a) help small entrepreneurs to prepare and manage
their projects and (b) strengthen the participating financial
intermediaries' capacity to appraise and supervise investment
projects. The technical assistance and training component would be
executed by the SSE Bureau in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
The cost of this Bureau and its activities would be financed in
part by the 0.8 million equivalent of IDA assistance and further by
UNIDO and USAID financial assistance to pay for part of staff
salaries (foreign and local), equipment and operating charges to
cover a five year period. Expenditures for the Bureau
establishment up to US$50,000 incurred between post-appraisal
(October 1987) and credit signing would be financed through a PPF,
(which is being processed).
Credit Comoonent
3.05     Size of the Credit Component.  Based on the SSE project pipelines
of BNDE and SBF and indications given by commercial banks, a credit
component for commitment over three years of US$7.2 million has been agreed
upon. About 60 percent of this amount (US$4.2 million, or US$1.4
million/year) would probably be used by the two development banks. The
remaining US$3.2 million would be utilized by the commercial banks. This
distribution is indicative as no preestablished allocations among
participating institutions would be set.
3.06     Institutional ArranRements.  The credit component would be made
available under an apex arrangement to all sound financial institutions
accredited by the Central Bank (para. 3.08). Funds under the Credit would
be channelled through the Central Bank to the commercial banks and
development banks, which would in turn grant loans to the final
beneficiaries of the project, the small-scale enterprises. The apex
arrangement would be the most suitable for financing numerous SSE projects,



- 23 -
due to the number of financial institutions that would participate, and
would provide Burundian SSEs better accessibility to term credit.
3.07     The Central Bank, through a Project Management Unit (PMU) (pars.
3.36) located in the Credit Department, would act as the apex institution
and administer the line of credit for the Government. The signing of a
Management Agreement between the Government and the Central Bank defining
the functions and responsibilities of the latter, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.08     Eligible Intermediaries.  Any financial intermediary accredited by
the Central Bank which complies with the laws and regulations governing
banking operations in Burundi, and has its financial statements audited
starting with CY 1989, with no qualifications, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, would be eligible for participating under the line of
credit.
3.09     Currently, all commercial and specialized banks would satisfy the
eligibility criteria described in the previous paragraph, except for the
audited financial statements for which special action will be taken under
the project (pars. 3.29 iv). An eligible financial intermediary would be
able to participate in the project provided it has entered into a
participating agreement with BRB. This agreement would, inter alia.
specify that the participants should:
(i)    designate qualified staff to manage the credits financed by the
project;
(ii)    perform satisfactory subproject appraisals and submit required
appraisal reports to the PMU;
(iii)    ensure that resources are used by the final borrowers for the
purposes intended;
(iv)    supervise subprojects according to required schedule and provide
the PMU with periodical reports on the status of subprojects;
(v)    help identify and provide input to the SSE Bureau of the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry about technical assistance needs of SSEs;
(vi)    adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans; and
(vii)    provide the PMU and IDA with such information as they would
reasonably request.
3.10     A draft participating agreement has already been discussed with
the interested parties and appears as Annex I. All of the banks have
stated that they would be prepared and able to comply with these conditions
as needed. Receipt by IDA of at least one satisfactory signed agreement
between BRB and a participating intermediary would be a condition of
effectiveness, the signing of the remaining agreements would be a condition
of disbursement for each respective remaining intermediary.



- 24 -
3.11     The principal participating institutions are likely to be the two
development banks, BNDE and SBF, which would finance SSEs of all sizes
while the commercial banks would tend to concentrate more on relatively
larger SSEs (closer to the US$300,000 ceiling, para. 3.13).
3.12     An important second group of potential intermediaries is
constituted by the savings cooperatives, which would be the key future
intermediaries to reach microenterprises and artisans. However, at present
these coopecatives do not need IDA financial support as they are highly
liquid. In addition, they are not eligible to participate in the project
as they are still relatively new and not yet accredited by the Central
Bank. Also, their financial management is not yet supervised or
controlled by a Government institution. To prepare the savings
cooperatives' eventual participation in a follow-up project, the project
would finance an action program to help BRB prepare legislation regulating
savings cooperatives in Burundi. A dated covenant (June 30, 1990) to that
effect is included in the Project Agreement. It is likely that at some
future time the COOPECs will have exhausted their excess liquidity and will
start to have customers who would require importation of equipment,
machinery and spare parts. In the meantime, the COOPECs are receiving
institutional assistance from the Cr;dit Mutuel of France, including credit
procedures and appraisal techniques which should help over time to employ
the excess resources.
3.13     Eligible Beneficiaries and Subproiects.  Beneficiary SSEs would be
enterprises with net total assets before the project of up to US$300,000.
In the case of a new enterprise, the total investment cost would also not
exceed the equivalent of US$300,000.
3.14     All productive activities, transport, trade and all other services
which contribute to the economic development of Burundi would be eligible
for financing. The only exception would be the financing of land and
housing construction, which would not be eligible. The line of credit
would finance (i) fixed assets and associated permanent working capital for
new operations, extensions and rehabilitations; and (ii) free-standing
working capital for viable existing SSEs in the productive sectors.
However, given that the major objective of the project is to finance
investment, the total amount of subloans financing free-standing working
capital would be limited to a maximum of 25 percent of the credit component
(US$1.8 million).
3.15     The enterprises and their subprojects to be financed would have to
meet the following conditions:
(i)    They would be required to demonstrate viability both financially
and economically (based on indicators such as foreign exchange
savings, job creation, investment cost per job etc.); subloans of
over US$80,000 would be specifically required to have an expected
financial rate of return of at least 10 percent on total
subproject investment;
(ii)    The projected debt servicing capacity should be no less than 1.5
over the life of the subproject and the debt to equity ratio
should be no more than 2.33:1.0, (except for temporary, special



- 25 -
arrangements, para. 3.22), with the ratios calculated on the basis
of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to be incurred
under the subproject; and
(iii)    Total subproject cost should not exceed the equivalent of
US$300,000.
3.16     Terms and Conditions of Financing.  The IDA credit would be made
to the Government, which would relend the Credit component (US$7.2 million)
in local currency through the Central Bank to financial institutions which
in turn would relend it to beneficiary SSEs. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government which has agreed to do so. The onlending
rate to financial intermediaries would be, initially, one half of one
percent below the discount rate for industrial lending (at present 7.0X),
but would be equal to the treasury bill market rate once this market will
be established. The onlending rate would be reviewed annually (para.
3.21).
3.17     The Government would pass on the funds to the BRB at the rate of 7
percent minus an administrative fee of one half of one percent p.a. that
would accru^ to BRB to compensate it for costs incurred and services
rendered for the adequate operation of the project through its project
management unit.
3.18     The Central Bank would receive the funds for a period of 30 years
starting on the date of credit effectiveness. BRB would return the funds
to the Government in twenty equal annual installments starting ten years
after the effectiveness date of the credit, so as to allow recycling back
of the funds, in the same terms, to financial intermediaries. BRB would
relend these funds, through a rediscount mechanism, to the participating
intermediaries.
3.19     Funds onlent under the Credit component to participating
intermediaries would be in local currency, with the same maturities as the
individual subloans to final beneficiaries. Subloans to beneficiaries
would range from a minimum of two to a maximum of ten (twelve for
agricultural projects specially authorized by the PMU) years, inclusive of
grace periods of up to three years (up to six years for special
agricultural projects with proven long gestation periods).
3.20     The participating intermediaries would be free to set their own
final rates to SSEs subject to the maximum spreads agreed between IDA and
the Central Bank. Under the present interest rate structure the maximum
spread would be 4 percentage points for medium term loans (2-7 years) and 5
percentage points for long term loans (7 years and above). It is expected
that during project implementation and in parallel to establishing the
Treasury bill market, lending interest rates would be liberalized in
Burundi. Once this liberalization has taken place, participating
intermediaries would no longer be subject to the ceilings on the spreads
they can charge on SSE loans refinanced under the line of credit. A
covenant to that effect is included in the Project Agreement.
3.21     The Government and Central Bank onlending rates, as well as the
maximum spreads chargeable by participating intermediaries, would be



- 26 -
reviewed at least every 12 months, and modified by agreement between IDA
and the Government as necessary to ensure that they continue to adequately
compensate the Government for assuming the foreign exchange risk and
reflect the cost of resources for financial intermediaries and SSEs.
3.22     Subloans granted under the line of credit could finance up to 80
percent of the total project cost for extension/rehabilitation subprojects,
and up to 70 percent for new subprojects to limit the debt to equity ratio
of new projects to 2.33:1.0.  The maximum size of a subloan would therefore
be US$240,000 for extensions and US$210,000 for new projects. Promoters
would be required to finance a minimum of 20 percent of subproject cost for
extensions and 30 percent of subproject cost for new projects. However, in
exceptional cases, and only if participating intermediaries agree, the 30
percent minimum participation for new projects could be temporarily reduced
down to 10 percent at the beginning of a project if all generated profits
are applied to reach the 30 percent as quickly as possible. In addition,
to encourage co-financing by participating intermediaries with their own
resources, agreement has been sought from BRB that such co-financing be
exempted from the Central Bank's prior approval. However, to minimize the
impact on credit ceilings, co-financing by participating intermediaries
would be limited to 20 percent of subproject cost.
3.23     Subloan ProcessinR and Administration.  Subloan processing under
the project would be coordinated and centralized by the PMU, which would
serve as the principal link between IDA, the participating intermediaries
and the beneficiaries for the project's investment component (para. 3.36 to
3.39). The PMU would send subprojects for approval to IDA.
3.24     Subprojects would be prepared by the beneficiaries, with, if
needed, assistance from the SSE Bureau of the Chamber of Commerce (SEB),
and presented to the intermediaries. The financial intermediaries would
review the subprojects in accordance with their own loan analysis
procedures and internal operating requirements which have been found
satisfactory by the appraisal mission. Thereafter, intermediaries would
prepare a simple appraisal report for presenting the subproject to
refinancing under the line of credit. This appraisal report would be in
the standard format prescribed by the PMU (Annex II), which would vary in
depth and sophistication depending on the size and nature of subprojects.
The report would cover all relevant information about the enterprise and
the proposed investment, including details about its technical soundness,
financial viability and economic efficiency. Financial rate of return
calculations would be required for all subloans over US$80,000. The PMU
would review the appraisal reports to verify that all eligibility
conditions (including, inter alia, those specified in paras. 3.13 and 3.15)
are adequately met. This review would be carried out in the form of a
check-list approach for projects below the free limit (within 5 working
days) and through a more in-depth review for project above the free limit
(within 10 working days). If the subproject is eligible for financing, the
PMU will authorize the intermediary to present the loan documents for
rediscount at the Credit Department of the Central Bank.
3.25     In view of the involvement of untested financial intermediaries,
the first five subprojects from each intermediary would be subject to prior
IDA review and approval. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory standards and



- 27 -
given the small size of subloans (maximum US$240,000), IDA would review a
sample of subprojects on an ex-post basis during supervision missions.
3.26     The Central BAnk will serve as disbursement and collection agent
for the financing granted to intermediaries. The Credit Department, which
is currently responsible for rediscount operations, would execute
rediscount and collection operations upon approval by the PMU. On the
basis of the PMU's instructions and authorizations, the Credit Department
of BRB would debit or credit the appropriate financial intermediary's
account without further intervention in the approval process.
3.27     Financial intermediaries would be responsible for making
supervision visits to SSEs receiving IDA funds, for maintaining records
adequate to monitor the evolution of subprojects, and for reporting to the
PMU on the progress of each subproject and the status of the corresponding
subloan. Supervision reports, in a standard format prescribed by the PMU,
would be required from the intermediaries at least once a year until the
loans are repaid. These intermediaries' supervision responsibilities are
specified in the participating agreement which intermediaries would sign
with BRB.
3.28     In addition, the PMU would conduct its own selective supervision
of SSE subprojects in order to monitor the performance of intermediaries'
supervision activities.
Assistance and Training Component
3.29     Design and Special Features.  The technical assistance and
training component (US$0.8 million) has been designed to build up,
together with the future input of other donors such as UNIDO and USAID, a
dynamic and effective SSE department (Small Enterprise Bureau, SEB) within
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry with a view to create an effective
system of technical assistance to SSEs in Burundi.
(i)   Entrepreneurship Development Program.  The program, which would be
carried out by the CCI together with a foreign consulting firm and
local counterparts, would introduce in Burundi an integrated
program for entrepreneurship development based on successful
experiences in other countries and adapted to the special
circumstances of the Burundi culture and economy. Participants in
the program will be about 30-50 individuals, who have the
potential to expand existing enterprises or start new businesses.
As a pilot program, the objectives would also include to test the
feasibility and impact of the proposed approach and to initiate
the process of transferring to local individuals at the CCI the
capacity to sustain and expand the program over time. Elements of
the program include: (a) a set of selection instruments for
assessing entrepreneurial potential; (b) an 80-hour behavioral
training program; and (c) a scheme which assists participants to
prepare business plans for submission to participating financial
intermediaries under the project and to other potential equity
investors in the country. Given the pilot nature, the program
will build on a small research effort to identify unique
characteristics of successful Burundi entrepreneurs, develop a



- 28 -
msterials development component to create case studies and other
training materials specifically tailored to the local context and
train future trainers who could implement repeater operations if
proven successful.
(ii)   General SSE Assistance.  Building on the above, the general SSE
assistance would be provided over several years by the Small
Enterprise Bureau (SEB) of the CCI together with foreign
consultants and local counterparts. It would focus on project
preparation and execution, including advice on technical matters
such as plant lay-out, selection of equipment, etc., project
mnagement, marketing assistance, basic accounting and other
matters as needed. To implement the assistance, the CCI's SEB
would hire consultants who would help, together with local
counterparts, build up a direct and client needs-oriented service,
with seminars tailored to  actual needs.  SEB staff would also
undertake promotional missions to each of the 15 provinces with
concentration on those provinces where participating banks have
regional branches, to inform potential investors of the existence
of the IDA line of credit, explain to them the commercial banks'
and development banks' procedures and requirements for obtaining
term loans, and advise them on the availability of SEB's
assistance for their projects and bank loan applications. To this
end, SEB staff are available to advise SSEs, assist them in
discussions and negotiations with banks and help them prepare
feasibility studies.
(iii)   Trainint for Banks.  Under the project, training would be provided
to staff of the commercial banks, the two development banks and
the PMU of the Central Bank. Training would be in project
analysis and risk evaluation to ensure that SSE projects would not
only be reviewed based upon their soundness and their meeting the
established requirements, but also that this be done fast and
efficiently.
(iv) Bank Audits. Starting in 1989, the project would also finance the
audits of the participating financial intermediaries for 3 years,
financing 50 percent in each year.
(v)   COOPEC Central Bank accredition.  To bring the COOPECs under the
supervision of the Central Bank, the project would finance the
services of a legal consultant who would prepare appropriate
legislation governing credit cooperative activities.
3.30     A first entrepreneurship development program would be executed
starting February 1988 and would be financed by USAID's Human Resources
Development project (# 695-0121). If successful, program repetition would
later on be financed under the project. Also, the general SSE assistance
to be provided through CCI's SEB would start, prior to credit
effectiveness, with UNIDO's funding contribution for this purpose, which in
principle has been agreed upon.  As a result, specific subprojects could be
ready for submission to IDA for its review soon after effectiveness of the
proposed credit, expected to be May 1988. Draft terms of reference for the
general SSE assistance and content of the course for bankers appear as
Anrex VI (a) and (b).



- 29 -
3.31     Both the entrepreneurship development program and the general
long-term technical assistance are expected to use foreign experts with
*ppropriate local counterparts to be selected. While the two foreign
entrepreneurship development experts would only be present in Burundi for
relatively short intervals each time a program is held or repeated, the
general technical assistance would last at least three consecutive years,
thus requiring the foreign experts' local presence for those three years.
3.32     To carry out the training for banks' staff the SEB would invite
bids for the services of a well qualified training institution.
3.33     The Chamber of Commerce and Industry is in the process of
building a network of representations throughout the provinces, through
which SSEs can be reached. Within the next two years, all 15 provinces
will have an office with staff and basic services. Five of these offices
exist already in the Important provinces. The local CCI representations
would serve as the logistic centers in the regions to collect and channel
information on clients' needs and at the same time disseminate information
about the available assistance services of the Chamber's Small Enterprise
Bureau.
3.34     Estimated Cost.  The technical assistance component would provide
for one repeater module of the entrepreneurship development program (pilot
module to be financed prior to credit effectiveness by USAID) for a total
maxlmum cost of US$80,000; 72 man-months of foreign consultant services for
the general three-year assistance to CCI's SEB; and one month (two modules
of two weeks each) of banks' staff training; for 50 percent of bank audits
cost for three years starting in 1989; and for legal services to prepare
appropriate legislation governing credit cooperatives. The cost of the
various programs, including part of SEB's expenditures, is estimated as
follows over a period of three years.
US$
General SSE Assistance (72 man-months),
including the Bank's staff training and
Entrepreneurship Development Program (repeat)            600,000
Support to SEB (material, equipment, salary supplements)  130,000
Bank audits                                                50,000
Establishment of COOPEC legislation                         3,000
Unallocated                                                17.000
Total                                                   800,000
3.35     Terms and Conditions.  Funds allocated for the technical
assistance component would be passed on as a grant from Government to CCI's
SEB and would be available for commitment until December 31, 1991. The
component would be managed by the CCI on behal' of the Government. The PMU
at the Central Bank would review requests for financing before submitting
them to IDA for approval along with a brief justification and qualification
of the experts. The PMU would also process disbursement requests.



- 30 -
Proiect Manatement Unit
3.36     To help manage the investment component of the project, it is
proposed to establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) which would be
located at the Central Bank and would report to BRB's Administrateur
General (Vice-Governor). The PMU activities would be governed by a
Management Agreement (Annex Va) to be signed, as a condition of
effectiveness, between the Central Bank and the Government. The Central
Bank has agreed to provide offices for the PMU, which would be autonomous,
with own staff, operating policies and procedures.
3.37     The staff of the PMU would consist of a qualified, senior level,
project analyst who would be the unit chief, an accountant/financial
analyst and support staff. The identification of personnel has already
started but is not yet completed. The recruitment of the unit chief was
carried out prior to negotiation of the project. All positicns would be
filled by local staff from the inception of the Unit, which is a condition
of effectiveness.
3.38     The PMU would receive a spread of one half of one  percent p.a. on
the outstanding amount of subloans to cover its administrative expenses.
Even though this spread might not be fully sufficient to cover the expenses
during the first year or two (cost expected to be in the order of US$25,000
p.a.) in which the outstanding volume will be small, the Central Bank has
agreed to absorb any possible cost overruns.
3.39     The functions of the PMU would be as follows:
(i)   ensure adherence of participating intermediaries to established
procedures in selecting eligible subprojects and ensure
application of appropriate standards for subloan appraisals;
(ii)   review the eligibility and authorize financing under the line of
credit for subprojects submitted by participating intermediaries.
For subloans of less than US$80,000 equivalent, the PMU would only
insure that the requests meet the eligibility criteria
(paras. 3.13 and 3.15) and would give its approval within three
working days from submission. For subloans above US$80,000
equivalent, the PMU would review, within a maximum period of seven
working days, the requests in more detail, would give its comments
on the quality of the appraisal to the participating intermediary
and would insure that the eligibility criteria are met
(iii)   administer the Project Special Account (para. 3.48), ensure proper
disbursements of funds (including those for the TA component
implemented by the SEB) and supervise and centralize the
collection and forwarding of supporting documentation;
(iv) supervise the participating intermediaries' compliance with the
various obligations (para. 3.09) tnder the project;
(v)   supervise, on a sample basis, SSE subprojects; and
(vi)   ensure liaison between IDA and the participating intermediaries on
matters related to SSE subprojects.



- 31 -
Small Enterprise Bureau
3.40     To help implemenc the technical assistance component of the
project, the CCI has created, in addition to its two existing departments
(para. 1.33) a special Small Enterprise Bureau (SEB), which is headed by a
director who was recruited locally in January 1988. The SEB staff would
further consist of two additional analysts and have its own small
secretariat. Its annual operating budget would amount to about US$300,000
equivalent, two thirds of which would consist of salaries of two foreign
experts who would become regular staff of the Bureau. The SEB activities
would be governed by a Cooperation Agreement (Am.ex Vb) to be signed, as a
condition of effectiveness, between the CCI and the Government. The
establishment of the fully operating unit is also a condition of
effectiveness.
3.41     The SEB would, in addition to IDA funding, receive grant funds
from UNIDO and USAID (para. 3.30) to cover other expenditures such as the
trial run of the experimental entrepreneurship development program (USAID),
and short-term consulting assignments as needed (UNIDO). Also, other
operating costs for necessary vehicles and office equipment will be
financed from these sources. In addition to the 72 man-months of long-term
expert advice, IDA would finance up to a total of US$50,000 of directly
imported office equipment (up to 100 percent of the c.i.f. price) and
locally purchased materials and supplies (up to 90 percent), and up to a
total of US$70,000 for salaries and operating costs of the SEB (up to 80
percent).
3.42     In managing IDA's TA assistance, the SEB would:
(i)   provide guidance to potential beneficiaries for the preparation of
subprojects to be financed under the line of credit;
(ii)   implement the general SSE assistance program as per the draft
cooperation agreement between the Government and the CCIB and the
terms of reference for SSE assistance; and
(iii)   organize the seminars for bank staff.
3.43     Project Cost and Financing
Total project cost is estimated at US$11.2 million equivalent, of
which US$7.7 million equivalent (69 percent) would be in foreign exchange.
A sumary of the project cost and its expected financing are given in the
table below:



- 32 -
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreixn    Total
--US$ million equivalent--
Estimated Costs
Investments                              3.0      7.0        10.0     89.3
Technical Assistance and Training        0.4      0.6         1.0      8.9
SSE Bureau                               0.1      0.1         0.2      1.8
TOTAL                                    3.5      7.7        11.2    100.0
Financing Plan:
SSE Subborrowers                         1.5      -           1.5     13.4
Participating Financial Intermediaries  1.5       -           1.5     13.4
SSE Bureau                               0.2      -           0.2      1.8
Proposed IDA Credit                      0.3      7.7         8.0     71.4
TOTAL                                    3.5      7.7        11.2    100.0
ProAect Implementation
3.44     Prolect Manazement.  The Central Bank, through the Project
Management Unit (paras. 3.36-3.39), would be the implementing agency for
the credit component and the SEB at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry
would be the implementing agency for the technical assistance component.
3.45     Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for subprojects
financed under the investment component of the Credit would be made on the
basis of current procurement procedures of the participating financial
institutions. These procedures, which require quotations from three
different suppliers, have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.
Procurement of equipment and goods for the SEB would be made on the basis
of at least 3 quotations from reputable suppliers. A statement to that
effect will be included in the Cooperation Agreement between the Government
and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Selection of consultants would
be made in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The table below
summarizes the procurement methods.



- 33 _
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD 4ND DIStURSEMENTS
Procurement
Procurement Element                   Procurement Method
ICB             LCB              Other
- ----(US$ million)-------------
Subloans                           -           -                10.0'/
(7.2)
Equipment/Vehicles                 -           -                 0.2
(O.2)b
Consultant Services and
Technical Assistance             -          _                  1.0
(0.6)cI
TOTAL                            -           -                11.2
(8.0)
I/ Standard commercial practice.
b/ 3 quotations.
cI In accordance with IDA procedures.
3.46     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
SSE subloans: 100 percent of expenditures up to 70 percent of
total subproject cost for new operations;
s 100 percent of expenditures up to 80 percent of
total cost of subprojects for extensions.
Technical Assistance and trainine comuonents 100 percent of the
cost of consultants, assistance and training.
SSE Bureau:    100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of goods directly
Imported, 90 percent of the local cost for
materials and supplies, 80 percent for salaries and
operating expenditures.
Bank Audits:   50 percent of audit expenditures of participating
financial intermediaries in all three years.
COOPEC Central Bank Accreditation: 100 percent of the cost of the
consultant preparing appropriate legislation
governing credit cooperative activities.
3.47     The project disbursement schedule is based on the disbursement
profile for IDF projects in Eastern and Southern Africa.  It is expected
that the investment component would be disbursed in six years and the
technical assistance component over three years. Funds under the credit



- 34 -
component would be available for commitment until December 31, 1991.
Disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1994.
3.48     Special Account:  To expedite disbursement of funds, a special
account would be set up in a credit institution acceptable to IDA into
which IDA would make an initial deposit in US dollars for SDR 300,000
equivalent from the proposed credit immediately after credit effectiveness.
This amount represents an estimated average disbursement of funds over a
four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts
for a minimumn of US$100,000 would be submitted on a monthly basis. The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors and the
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. Disbursements for expenditures for contracts under US$40,000
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The
documentation for withdrawals made under SOEs would be retained by the
Project Unit for ten years and would be reviewed by supervision missions
and audited annually. All other disbursements would be made on the basis
of fully documented applications.
3.49     Auditing and Reporting:  The PMU will have its accounts, as well
as the Special Account and SOEs (para. 3.48) audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified
copies of its audited accounts together with the corresponding management
letter within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The PMU will also
submit to IDA quarterly an annual progress reports on the investment
component. Furthermore, the PMU will review the annual audits of
participating financial intermediaries.  The PMU and the SSE Bureau
together will prepare the required Project Completion Report within 6
months after the closing date of the project. The SSE Bureau will submit
to IDA quarterly and annual progress reports on the technical assistance
component
Proiect Benefits and Risks
3.50     Benefits:  By supporting the growth of SSEs, the proposed project
will help develop a Burundian entrepreneurial class and generate new job
opportunities at a relatively low capital cost. It is expected that the
US$7.2 million investment component would support investments totalling
about US$10 million and create 2,500 new jobs at an average cost of
US$4,000 per job. The impact of the project is also expected to be
appropriately dispersed both geographically and among various groups with
benefits reaching subborrowers in the secondary cities and micro-
enterprises.
3.51     In addition to providing term finance to SSEs, the project will
also play an important role in building up an effective capacity for
financing and assisting small enterprises in Burundi. The entrepreneurship
development program, the technical assistance and the training components
would be a cost effective way to develop within the commercial banking
sector an expertise in appraisal and supervision of development projects
and to strengthen the capacity of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to
provide assistance to SSEs.



- 35 -
3.52     Risks:  As the first apex operation in Burundi, the project
involves institutional arrangements that are new to in.termediaries and the
Central Bank in Burundi. Some initial delays in subloan processing may
occur as the Central Bank needs to familiarize itself with the system and
as participating intermediaries develop their capacity to appraise and
supervise SSE projects. This risk would be considerably reduced by the
rapid implementation of the technical assistance component. In addition,
the banking system in Burundi is relatively developed. Finally, IDA would
closely supervise the initial phase of project implementation.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMEMDATIONS
4.01     Prior to neaotiations, the Government has (i) reconfirmed its
policy concerning the employment status of non-Burundian staff in the
private sector (para. 1.45) and (ii) has completed the revision of the Code
Foncier (para. 1.75).
4.02     During negotiations, the following agreements and understandings
were reached with the Government and the Central Banks
(i)   on lending rates and conditions for the Government, the Central
Bank, the participating intermediaries and the beneficiary SSEs
(paras. 3.16 to 3.20 and 3.22);
($i) use of the Treasury bill market rate as a basis for replacing the
base rate In (i) above after such market rate is established (para.
3.16);
(iii)   annual review of the Government onlending rate (para. 3.21) and
further disbursements under the project, subject to agreement
between IDA and the Government in the case of changes in either the
currently agreed or the future market-determined interest rate
system (para. 3.21);
(iv)   content of the Participating Agreement between financial
intermediaries and the Central Bank (para 3.09);
(v)   appraisal and supervision procedures to be followed by
participating intermediaries (paras. 3.24 and 3.27);
(vi)   obligations of and terms of reference for the Small Enterprise
Bureau of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (paras. 3.29 to
3.31);
(vii)   content of the courses and seminars to be given by a consultant to
staff of banks and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Annex
VIb);
(viii)  establishment of a Special Account at the Central Bank to
facilitate disbursements of the credit funds (para. 3.48); and
(ix)  agreement with IDA on an action program aimed at bringing the
COOPECs into the formal financial system by June 30, 1990 (para.
3.29 v).



- 36 -
4.03     Conditions of Board Presentation:  Recruitment of the PMU director
(para. 3.37) and of the SEB director (para. 3.40). These conditlons were
met on January 16, 1988.
4.04     Conditions of Effectiveness:  Signing of a Management Agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, between the Government and the Central Bank as well as
full establishment of the PMU (para. 3.36), signing of a Cooperation
Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the Government and the Chamber of
Commerce as well as full establishment of the SEB (para. 3.40) and signing
of at least one participating agreement between a flnancial intermedlary
and BRB (para. 3.10).
4.05     Conditions of Disbursement: Signing of the Participating
Agreement between the Central Bank and financial lntermediaries is a
condition of disbursement for each intermediary (para. 3.10), except for
the one which signed the Agreement first (para. 4.04).
4.06     Subject to the above assurances and conditions the project
constitutes a suitable basls for an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent
to the Republic of Burundi.



- 37 -                            ANNEX I
PART I
FORMULAIRE
ACCORD DE PARTICIPATION
Page 1 de 4
BURUNDI
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE PETITES
ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
ACCORD DE PARTICIPATION AU PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DES PETITES ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
Dans le cadre de l'Accord de Credit (Projet de Developpement des
Petites et Moyennes Entreprises) en date du
(ci-aprbs denomme l'Accord de Credit) entre l'Association Internationale
de Developpement (ci-apr&s denommee l'IDA) et la Republique du Burundi
(ci-apras d6nomm0ele Burundi) representee par la Banque de la Rdpublique
du Burundi (ci-apr&s dCnomrJeBRB), l'IDA a mis a la disposition du Burundi
une ligne de cr6dit (ciraprbs denommee Ligne de Credit IDA) destinee a
promouvoir la creation, l'expansion et la modernisation de petites et
moyennes entreprises.
Cette Ligne de Credit sera geree par le Bureau du Projet de
Developpement des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (ci-apras d4nomm4 BPDPME)
aupras de la BRB et servira a refinancer des credits a terme en francs
burundais octroyes par les institutions financibres participantes en faveur
de petites et moyennes entreprises destines a financer des investissements
(a 1'exception des terrains, et de la construction des logements) y compris
les fonds de roulement permanents.
Afin de permettre l'accas de (nom de 1'IFP) en qualite
d'Institution Financibre participante (ci-aprbs denommee IPP) au reescompte
finance par la Ligne de Credit IDA, la BRB, representee par
en qualite de                      , et 1'IFP representee par
en qualite de                      , sont convenus de ce qui suit t
1.        La BRB prend les engagements suivants :
a) La BRB escomptera, sur presentation des piaces justificatives,
tel qu'indique au paragraphe 2 (g) ci-dessous. les credits a terme accordes
par l'IFP pour financer les projets des petites et moyennes entreprises qui
remplissent les conditions prdvues-a cet effet dans le present Accord, dans
les Normes operationnelles et procedures et dans les instructions et
circulaires de la BRB adoptees pendant l'administration du programme.
b) Les credits escomptes au titre du present Accord seront en
dehors de tous les plafonds eventuel de credit etablis par la BRB et
seront comptes pour le calcul du ratio d'emplois a moyen et long terme
mobilisables.



- 38-
ANNEX I
FORMULAIRE           PART I
ACCORD DE PARTICIPATION
Page 2 de 4
c) Les cr4dits escompt6s au titre du present Accord ne seront
soumis I aucune autre forme d'autorisation de la BRB que celle qui resulte
de l'analyse faite par le Bureau du Projet.
d) La BRB donnera & l'IFP l'accas aux devises necessaires pour les
importations relatives aux credits escomptes selon le present Accord, sans
qu'une autorisation particuliere soit necessaire.
2.       L'IFP s'engage pour sa part a :
a) Octroyer des credits a moyen ou long terme ayant une echeance
de deux I dix ans (jusqu'& douze ans pour les projets agricoles de longue
duree qui auraient ete autorises specialement par le BP) aux petites et
moyennes entreprises, et ne rappeler ces credits que dans le cas ot le
Beneficiaire Final (ci-aprbs denomme BF) ne respecte pas les conditions
du credit.  Les frais financiers comprendront seulement l'inter6t sur
l'encours a l'exclusion de toutes autres commissions, frais et charges.
b) Soumettre lesdites operations aux conditions stipulees dans le
present Accord, dans les Normes operationnelles et procedures et dans les
instructions et circulaires adoptees par la BRB pour la Ligne de Credit
IDA, notamment fixer les taux applicables aux BF dont la marge maximum sur
les taux indiques au paragraphe m du present article sera de quatre (4)
points de pourcentage pour les pr#ts de deux a sept ans et de cinq (5)
points de pourcentage pour les prfts de plus de sept ans. Une fois qutun
marche de Titre d'Etat sera etabli au Burundi, les taux appliques ne seront
plus soumis & aucune marge maximum.
c) Designer au moins un cadre qualifie au sein du Bureau du
projet, qui coordonnera les operations de l'IFP avec le BPDPME et avec
les BF, et tiendra en outre un releve exact de chacune des operations
effectuees et de la documentation y afferent.
d) Promouvoir activement l'utilisation de la ligne de credit IDA,
en particulier dans les regions.
e) Donner des conseils aux BF pour la preparation des demandes de
credit, conformement aux conditions requises par la BPDPME.
f)  Evaluer les projets d'investissement qui lui sont presentes
pour s'assurer que seuls ceux qui sont viables financibrement soient
approuves et ensuite presentes au BPDPME pour Atre refinances par
l'intermediaire de la Ligne de Credit IDA.
g) Veiller et slassurer que les fonds du credit soient utilises
par les BF conformement aux conditions auxquelles ils ont ete approuves.
A cette fin, la IFP procedera au decaissement des financements sur
presentation des pieces justificatives par le BF.



39 -                            ANNEX I
PART I
FORMULAIRE
ACCORD DE PARTICIPATION
Page 3 de 4
h) Aider a l'identification des situations ou problemes qui
permettent notamment de determiner les besoins d'assistan^e technique et
pour les petites et moyennes entreprises et pour les IFP.
i) Assumer entibrement le risque lid aux credits octroyes et
escomptes par la BRB.
J)  Fournir au BPDPME tous les renseignements sur les operations
realisees dans le cadre de la ligne de credit IDA qui seront
raisonnablement demandes par BPDPME et l'IDA.
k)  Soumettre au BPDPME ses etats financiars annuels dfment
audites par des auditeurs acceptes par l'IDA et la BRB.
1) Autoriser irrevocablement la BRB tant qu'il existe des
obligations de paiement en faveur de la BRB liees A l'application du
present Accord, a effectuer les ddcaissements et remboursements a son
compte et a sa charge, suivant le systame de debit et de credit automatique
prevu dans les Normes operationnelles et procedures.
m)  Payer & la BRB sur le montant du credit debourse, les taux
suivants:
(i)  s'il n'existe pas de marche des Titres d'Etat au Burundi, un
demi pourcent (Z 0,5) de moins que le taux de mobilization
applique par la BRB au credit industriel I moyen terme;
(ii) si un tel marche des Titres d'Etat existe, le taux d'interet
payable sur les Titres d'Etat emis dont l'echeance est la
plus longue.
n) Rembourser & la BRB le montant du credit debourse sur la Ligne
de Credit IDA selon le mAme plan d'amortissement du client applicable au
credit actroye au BF, mame si l'IFP n'a pas recu en temps voulu les somes
correspondantes de la part du BP.
o) Regler immediatement & la BRB la valeur correspondant & tout
paiement anticipe effectue par le BF a -l'IFP.
p) Effectuer des visites de supervision chez les BF, etablir et
tenir a jour une comptabilite et des documents de controle suffisants pour
suivre l'exdcution des operations realisees et rendre compte au BPDPME de
l'avancement de chaque operation realises et de la situation du credit
correspondant. Les rapports de supervision, conformes aux modeles
prescrits par la BRB, devront etre etablis par les IFP au moins unq fois
par an, jusqu'& ce que les credits soient rembourses.



40 -                              ANNE  I
PART I
FORMULAIRE
ACCORD DE PARTICIPATION
Page 4 de 4
3.       Si l'IFP manque a l'une quelconque des obligations qui lui
incombent en vertu du present Accord, la BRB pourra suspendre temporaire-
ment ou definitivement la participation de l'IFP aux operations de la Ligne
de Credit IDA.
4. Le BPDPME pourra, ind6pendamment ou conjointement avec l'IFP
et/ou l'IDA, superviser l'exdcution et la marche des sousprojets et, 8'il
constate que le beneficiaire final n'a pas utilise les fonds come
convenu, l'IFP devra considerer l'obligation comme annulee et procdder au
recouvrement immediat, en restituant a la BRB les somes correspondantes.
Ce pouvoir devra Otre stupul6 dans l'accord qui sera conclu entre 1'IFP et
le BF au moment de l'octroi du credit.
5.       Au cas oti les parties decideraient d'apporter des modifications au
present Accord, il en sera rendu compte par ecrit, par un Echange de
lettres, ou eventuellement, il sera conclu un avenant.
6. Le prdsent Accord restera en vigueur jusqu'& ce que l'une
quelconque des parties ait manifestd, expressEment ou par ecrit, sa volonte
d'y mettre fin. N6anmoins, lee obligations qui ont ete contract6es avec la
ERB en application du prEsent Accord resteront pleinement en vigueur
jusqu'& ce qu'elles aient 6te entierement ex6cutdes.
En foi de quoi les parties au present Accord, agissant par
l'intermediaire de leurs representants dUment autorises & cet effet, ont
fait signer le preeent Accord et, en tant que partie integrante dudit
Accord, les Normes op6rationnelles et procedures, le           ___,
dans la ville de _
Par la Banque de la Republique                 Par l'nstitution Financiere
du Burundi (BRB)                           Participante (IFP)



ANNEX I
- 4.1 -          NORMES OPERATIONNELLES PART II
Page 1 de 4
BURUNDI
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE PETITES
ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
NORMES OPERATIONNELLES ET PROCEDURES
POUR L'INSTITUTION FINANCIERE PARTICIPANTE
Le present document fait partie integrante de l'Accord de
participation et fize les ragles generales des operations r6alisdes dans le
cadre dudit iccord et du Projet de Developpement des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises.
1.       DEFINITIONS GENERALES ET CRITERES D'ELIGIBILITE
INSTITUTION FINANCIERE PARTICIPANTE (IFP)
Ddsigne la banque ou la societe financiire dOment agrEee  par la
BRB qui a signe l'Accord de Participation.
PETITES ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
Aux fins du present programme, sont definies ainsi les personnes
physiques et morales dont les actifs, & leur valeur commerciale actuelle,
ne depassent pas l1equivalent de US$300,000
SOUSPROJET
Designe un projet d'investissement qui sera mis au point par une
petite ou moyenne entreprise, ou des besoins en fonds de roulements d'une
petite ou moyenne entreprise, qui seront finances dans le cadre de la Ligne
de CrEdit IDA. Le montant total du sousprojet ne pourra pas depaaser
l'Equivalent de US$300,000.
BENEFICIAIRE FINAL (BF)
DEsigne une petite ou moyenne entreprise ayant un sousprojet a
financer dans le cadre de la Ligne de CrEdit IDA.



-42 -                                ANNEX I
NORMES OPERATIONNELLES PAT II
Page 2 de 4
CREDIT
Designe le montant des fonds que 1'IFP octroie au BF et reescompte
aupres de la BRB dans le cadre de la Ligne de Crddit IDA. Ce montant ne
pourra pas depasser 902 de la valeur totale d'un nouveau projet ou 80Z de
la valeur totale d'un projet d'extension.
SECTEURS
Toutes les activites de production, de transport et de services
en general qui contribuent au developpement economique du Burundi sont
eligibles pour financement.
II.      PROCEDURE A SUIVRE
En ce qui concerne les demandes de cr4dit des petites et moyennes
entreprises a *tre financees par la Ligne de Credit IDA, les demarches a
suivre seront les suivantes
1.       Le BF presentera la demande de credit a l1IFP de son choix, sous
la forme etablie par cello-ci.
2.       L'IFP eoaminera la demande et l'4valuera selon les techniques
d'evaluation des projets g4n6ralement utilis6es et conformement aux normes
et procedures etablies a cet effet.
3.       Une fois que la demande sera approuvee par 1'IFP, celle-ci
pr6sentera au BPDPME
(a) Une fiche d'information selon le format etabli par le BPDPME
si le credit est l'dquivalent de US$80,000.
(b) Un rapport d'evaluation du sousprojet selon le format Etabli
par la BPDPME si le credit est superieur a l'equiv'alent de US$80,000.
4.       Le BPDPME verifiera l'eligibilite du sousprojet presente, et le
cas Ocheant, donnera son visa dans les dElais suivants :
(a) Cinq jours ouvrables pour les credits d'un montant inferieur
a l'equivalent de US$80,000.
(b) Dix jours ouvrables pour les credit d'un montant superieur a
l'equivalent de US$80,000.



ANNEX I
43 -                                    PART II
NORMES OPERATIONNELLES
Page 3 de 4
Dans le cas des credits mentionnes dans l'alinea 4(b), le Bureau
du Projet donnera son opinion sur la qualite du rapport d'Xvaluation du
sousprojet.
5.       Les trois premiers sousprojets prdsent6s par chaque IFP au BPDPME
devront atre autorisEs par l'IDA. Dans ce but l'IFP soumettra au BPDPME le
dossier de l'4valuation du sousprojet, qui sera aussi complet que possible.
Ce dossier sera envoye par le BPDPME A l'IDA qui l'4tudiera pour
approbation.
6.       Une fois que le BPDPME, et le cas echeant l'IDA, auront autorised
le sousprojet, l'IFP procedera aux decaisjements en faveur du BF sur
presentation des piAces justificatives. A la suite 1'IFP devra presenter
les effets de commerce correspondants au Credit au reescompte irrevocable
de la BRB avec les pi6ces justificatives soumises par le BF dans un delai
maximum de 30 jours a partir de la date de creation de chaque effet.
III.     SUPERVISION ET CONTROLE DES SOUSPROJETS
Les IFP effectueront la supervision et le contrOle des sousprojets
finances sur les ressources de la Ligne de Credit IDA et devront notamment:
1.       Contr8ler l'exdcution du sousprojet jusqu'& ce qu'il soit
totalement acheve, en verifiant l'apport en fonds propres que doit
effectuer le beneficiaire final.
2.       Verifier que les fonds sont dOment utilises et adopter les mesures
qui s'imposent afin d'atteindre cet objectif.
3.       Suivre la situation economique et financiere du projet pendant
toute la duree du credit octroye, et plus particuliArement dans le cas ou
le BF serait en retard dans ses paiements.
4.       Identifier les aspects susceptibles de b6neficier d'une assistance
technique dans les divers sousprojets finances et en informer le BPDPME en
temps voulu afin quil puisse en tenir compte dans le cadre des programmes
d'assistance technique accordes aux petites et moyennes entreprises avec la
collaboration de la Chambre de Commerce et de l'Industrie.
5.       Informer le BPDPME au moins une fois par an par le moyen de la
Fiche de Suivie de Projet de la situation generale de chacun des
sousprojets finances par l'IP et beneficiant de refinancement sous la
ligne de credit IDA; en outre, presenter une evaluation generale du
fonctionnement du programme une fois par an.



-44 -                                     ANNEX I
NORMES OPERATIONNELLES    PART II
Page 4 de 4
En general, lea IFP pourront faire tous les contrOles qu'ils
jugeront appropri6s, mais ceux-ci seront effectues au moins une fois dans
les six mois suivants le premier d6boursement et une fois des que le projet
sera en operation, pour v4rifier que lea investissements ont ete effectues
comme convenus et que le projet est en fonctionnement.
IV.      SITUATIONS SPECIALES
1.       Informer immediatement le BPDPME de toute situation qui rique
serieusement d'entralner l'annulation d'un credit afin d'adoptew. de commun
accord lea mesures les plus appropriees.
2.       Demander l'autorisation 4crite du BPDPME avant d'introduire des
modifications substantielles aux operations approuvees, comme, par exemple,
la destination du credit ou la vente des actifa acquis au moyen du credit.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
APPRAISAL FORMAT
RAPPORT D'EVALUATION
(Pour des credits sup6rieurs I US$80.000)
1. DonnGes generales
- Nou ou raison sociale du ben6ficiaire final:
- SNES:
- Membre CCIB:
- Slage d'exploitation:                            R6gion:
- Singe social:                                    Region:
- Cadres:
Nom                      Position                   Exp6rience
- D&jA en opEration?
.. Oul, depuis:
... Non, a partir de:
- Activlt6 principale:
- Composition du capital:
- Objectif du projet:
2. Situation financiare (seulement pour des entreprises existantes):
- Dernier bilan disponible (prepar6 selon format a 6tablir,
conforufemut au plan comptable,          et exprime en valeur
commerciale actualisee)
- Dernier compte d'exploitatlon et resultats (m6mes conditions que
pour le bilan)
- Commentaire sur lea etats financiers:



- 46 -
AHNEX II
Page 2 of 5
3.  March&
- Ventes passtes et privues des principaux produits pr&sents et future
de l'entreprise:
- Besoirs des march6s auxquels s'adresse le projet:
- Estimation du volume du marche potentiel accessible:
- SystAme de commercialisation et distribution:
- Concurrence (volume et prix des principaux produits concurrentiels):
4.  Aspects techniques
- Procedure de production (description br&ve):
- Capacit6 de production:
nombre de                 par jour:
nombre de jours de travail par an:
- Capacite totale par an:
Pr4sente            Apris projet
nominale
utilis6e
X utilisation
- Quels sont les facteurs ou &l6euents critiques qui limitent la
capacit6 de production:



- 47 -
AN=E II
Page 3 of 5
S.   Investisseuenta *t leur flnanceent
Present 1/
(date)          ProJet         Total
Iuvestiese.ents (nets):
Terrain
Bltlrents
Equipesents
VEhieales
Autres (prEciser)
Drolts de Douane
Autres lup8ts
Fond de roulement (net)
Total
Equivalent en US$ au taux
de ..-
Financeuast:
CrEdlt ligne IDA propose
Autres credlts MT
(speifier)
Cofinancesent de 12'IP
Autres sources
Fonds propres
Total
Present 2/     Premiare       Annge
|  (date)       ann6e        noruale
6.  Fond de roulement
a) Actif circulant
b) Passlf clrculant
Fond de roulement not (a-b)
1/ MI.. date quo pour les etats financiers prEsentEs.
T/ Mm.e date que pour les Etata financiers prEsentEs.



- 48 -
Page 4 of 5
7.   DonnSes du cridit Propose
a) Coviitlons:
Montant
Terms
Diff6re
Taux d'intSrft
Commission
b) DEboursement estI6:
Dates                   Montant
c) Tableau d'amortissement:
8.   Comnpte d'exploitation et cash-flow Prlvisionuels
Privislons annuelles pour toute la dur6e du projet tant pour
1'ensemble de l'entreprise que pour le projet udi vdduellemnt
considdre.
9.   Capacite de repaiement et prEvisions de trdsorerle
PrEvislons annuelles pour tout. la duree du projet.
10.  Autres resultats du prolet
Emplols crEEs
Valeur des uatAres prouiares Importees
Valeur des matiares premidres locales
Valeur des exportations
11. Taux interne de rentabllltE (TIR)



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of S
12. Evaluation
Opinion sur l'entreprise et la gestion actuelles
Opinion our la capacit4 de gErer le projet:
Quels *oDt leg prinlipaux ufrites du projet:
Quels soot lee principaux risques assoclis aU projet:
Garantles:
Assistance technlque rerue par 1l' aou le BPME de la CCIB pour la
preparation du dossier (prgciser nature et source):
Besols future d'asesltance technique du BF:
Indiquer la/les date(s) de supervision prgvue(s) et lee ralsons du
calendrier:
Autres comental res:
DEtail des lnvestissements
Description              Montant              Fouraisseur            Origine



- so -
ANNEX III
Page I of 5
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
SIMPLIFIED APPRAISAL FORMAT
FICHE D'INFORMATION
(Pour des credits Inferieurs a l'6quivalent de US$80.000)
l   Donnees g4ndrales
- Nom ou raison sociale du beneficiaire final:
- SNEs:
- Membre CCIB:
- Slage d'exploitation:                            Region:
- Siage social:                                    Region:
- Responsables:o
Nam                      Positlon                   Exp6rience
- D6j& en op6ration?
Oui, depuis:
Non, a partir de:
- Activite prlncipale:
- Objectif du projet:
2.   Situation flnanciere (seulement pour des entreprises existantes):
-.Dernier bilan disponible (prgpare selon format A etiblir, d'accord
avec le plan comptable           et exprimE en valeur comuerciale
actualisee)
- Dernier compte d'exploitation et resultats (m8mes conditions que
pour le bilan)



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Pogo 2 of 5
3.   Investlsseuents et leur financement
Pr(sent I/        ProiJet        Total
(dote) -___
Inveetieseemnts (nets):
Terraln
Utltents
Equipewents
VWhIcules
Autres (priclser)
Drolts de Douane
Autres iup8ts
Fond de roulement (net)
Total
Equivalent en US$ au
tau de
Financement:
CrEdit ligne IDA
propose
Autres crEdits MT
(specifier)
Cofinancement de l'IFP
Autres sources
Fonds propres
Total
Present 1/      Prediare       Ann6e
(date)           annee        normale
4.   Fond de roulement
a) Actif circulant
b) Passif eirculant
Fond de roulement net (a-b)
1/ MC..; date que pour lee Etats financiers presentes



- 52 -
ANNEM III
Page 3 of 5
S.   Donnfes du crGdIt propou
a) Conditions:
Montant
Terse
Diffiri
Taux d'lint4rt
Commlision
b) DSbourseuent estiuS:
Dates                    Montant
c) Tableau d'auortisseuent:
6. Co2mte d'exploItation et cash-flow prdvislonnels
et capacIt4 de repa=ement
1 &re annde       Anxe normale
Ventes
- CoOt matires preiudres
- C8ut main d'oeuvre
- CoOt co_rcialisation
- Frais gindraux
- Amortissements                        _
REsultat d'exploitation
- Frais financiers
- ImpOts
REsultat net
+ Auortissements                        _
Cash Flow



-53 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
Reubour eumt des prfts
- Prat proposE
- Autres prtts
Excfdeut
7.  Autres risultats du iroaet
Buplols criEs
Valeur des aatlaree premar
lmporties
Valeur des *atiares preulares
locales
Valeur des export ation
S.  Evaluation
Opinion mar l'e1treprlse et lee responsables (aspects positifs et
nigatifBy
Pmrciser comeut le projet proposE ripond a mun besoin du  rehE
(expliquer en dBtadl):
Quels *ont les prlnlpaux risques msociis at projet:
Gcarantiess
Assistance technique egue par l'IPP ou le BPME de la CCIB pour la
prEparation du dossier (priciser nature et source):
Beeolns future d'mistn et   technique au btiAficiaire:



-54 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
Indlquer la/lee date(s) de supervision prEvue(s) et lee ralsons d. co
caleodrier:
Autres com_ntaires:
Detail des Investisseu_ ts
Description              Montaut              Fournisseur             Origine



-55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
SUPERVISION FORMAT
FICHE DE SUIVIE DE PROJET
1.   Informations gin4rales
- Numfro du projet:
- Non ou ralson sociale du b6nefleld re final:
- SNEs:
- Membre CCIB:
- Stage social:                        Rigi on:
- Activit6 principale:
- Objectif du projet:
- Date de la dernaare visite:
2.   Informations sur le credlt
Originalement          Selon
prevues a           dernlares
l'Evaluation       Informations
Montant du cr4dit octroy4:
Terne/dlffirt: ... .  ..... . 
Ddhemr-seaent (sontant/date): ... .  ..... . 
Montant du reflnancement IDA:       .............
Date du refinaneement IDA:                    .............
Montant cofinancement de 1'IFP:      . ............             00000*.......
Utlllsation du crEdit:
- B tl* ents: n4n,... a...                                 . ..........
- Equlpements:               .. ...........   ....................
- VEhicules:                                .........*....      ............
- Fonds de roulement:           .      . ...........            000000.......
Fonds propres pourvus:                      0............ .. ...........



- 56 -
AMI3U IV
Page 2of 2
3.   Inforutions our le prolet at l'utrerlse
Orlginall.usnt          So1lo
pv6ues a             dornlares
I'Evaluatiom        Informations
Investlssemants du projet:
Terrains
Iltinents
Equip sents
V4hicules
Ponds de roulseent                   .............
Autres (prdciser)
Droits de Douans
Autres Ip8ts.
Operation du projet _/:
Production physlque
CoOt mat. premlares Import6es
Coat mat. presfres locales           .............
Ventes
Valeur des exportations              ............
Emplois criss:
Sltuation de reubourseusnt du
credit:
Assistance technique reque par
Ilentreprise:
4. Autres coim_ntaires
a/  Pour ces valours prEciser la piriode utiliste (noralmnt veleurs
-  annuelles).



- 57 -
ANNEX Va
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Draft Maxaaement Agreement for Project Management Unit
B8QtIAUUBQlI...BAHAE A..LA.YI8EBIE
La presente circulaire d6crit les objectifs assignes au Bureau
charge d'adeinistrer la composante ligne de cr6dit du Projet de petites et
sovennes entreprises (Bureau du Projet) et les principes et n6thodes qu'il
appliquera pour s'acquitter de ses responsabilites au titre du Credit de
d6veloppenent (IDA) pour le projet de petites et eoyennes entreprises (le
Credit).
A.  QUEQIIE2
Le Bureau du projet a pour objectifs
a) de contribuer au developpeoent Oconomique du Burundi en fournissant
une aide financiere aux petites et moyennes entreprises,
particuliereaent A celles qui utilisent le plus de ressources
locales et qui contribuent A la creation d'emplois, a la
decentralisation de l'activite 6conomique, a la realisation de
recettes en devises ou au remplacesent d'importations;
b) d'aider A la cr6ation, 1'expansion et la nodernisation de petites
et moyennes entreprises;
c) de promouvoir le renforcesent des *oyens institutionnels necessaires
au developpeeent du secteur de la petite et *oyenne entreprise,
notamment ceux des intermsdiaires financiers.
B      ( Q oANIplIQUALEMtrEL
(A coepleter)



- 58 -
ANNEX Va
Page 2 of 3
c.  EBhSI3ET"IUQD
Les fonds geres par le Bureau du Projet seront utilis6s conform6eent
aux conditions de !'Accord de cr6dit de developpeeent y relatif et de l'Accord
de projet en vue de:
(a) financer la creation, 1'expansion ou la modernisation d'entreprises
privees economiquement viables, via le refinancesent de prets
secondaires accordes par les inters6diaires financiers
participants. L'eligibilit6 d'un intereediaire financier 3 un
refinancesent est ddtermin6e conforaement 3 l'Accord de crOdit de
d6veloppement relatif au Projet;
(b) financer les audits des banques pour 3 ann6es A partir de 1988 (A
100l pour.la Iere annee, A 501 pour la 2eae annee et a 301 pour la
troisieae ann6e).
Le Bureau du projet verifiera l'eligibilite des sousprojets pr6sentes
par  les  inters6diaires  participants  et en autorisera le financement au titre
de la ligne de credit. Pour les prets secondaires d'un montant inferieur A
l'equivalent de 80.000 dollars, il v6rifiera si les demandes r6pondent aux
crit6res d'4ligibilitO et donnera son approbation dans un delai de trois jours
ouvrables 3 coapter du d6p6t de la demande. Pour les prets secondaires d'un
montant sup6rieur i l'4quivalent de 80.000 dollars, il Proc6dera a un examen
plus detaillI, cohmuniquera ses observations sur la qualite de 1'evaluation a
l'intera6diaire participant en cause et verifiera l'6ligibilit6 de la desande
de refinancement dans un delai de sept jours ouvrables.
Apres les avoir lui-eOme exahines et approuv6s, le Bureau du projet
soumettra a l'exa,en et 3 l'approbation de l'IDA les cinq premiers sousprojets
presentes par chaque interaediaire financier participant.
Le Bureau du projet veillera A ce que les intermodiaires participants
appliquent  syst6aatiqueaent  les  nornes   appropri6es   3   l'6valuation   des
sousprojets.
3.  .ueermi4iQQe   nitiai
Le  bureau  du  projet  veliiea 'a ea cua  les  .n'erAi ae  r artnan+*
s'acquittent des obligations auxquelles ils ont souscrits au titre des accords
de participation.



- 59 -
ANNEX Va
Page 3 of 3
Le Bureau du projet veillera a ce que les intermediaires participants
suivent   p6riodiquesent  les  sousprojets  conforam6ent  aux  dispositions  des
accords de participation et a ce qu'ils sousettent a bonne date les rapports
de  suivi  prevus.   I1  examinera  les  rapports de suivi, en tenant coapte des
rapports d'evaluation initiaux, et prendra, conjointement avec I'intereediaire
concerne, les aesures qu'appellent les sousprojets & problemes.
4. D6g,isseg..v,_y6rification des_ggcotes_ete tabljsgegege
Les d6caissements du Credit de l'IDA et des coeptes sp6ciaux ouverts
par la Banque de la Republique  du  Burundi  seront  regis  par  les  regles  et
methodes  definies  dans  l'Accord  de  credit de developpenent et dans l'Annexe
(3) audit Accord decrivant le fonctionnement du Coupte special.
Le Bureau  du  projet  gerera  (conjointement  avec  le  departement  des
operations  bancaires  etranger  de  la Banque de la Republique du Burundi) deux
Couptes sp6ciaux. Le Coapte sp6cial A qui sera utilise pour les decaissements
pour les sousprojets et le Compte sp6cial B qui sera utilise pour les
d6caissements de la  composante  assistance  technique.   Le  Bureau  du  projet
veillera a ce que les fonds soient decaisses conme il convient, et supervisera
et centralisera la collecte et l'envoi des pieces justificatives.
Le Bureau du projet conservera toutes les ecritures relatives aux
sousprojets et aux actions de formation et d'assistance technique financ6s, y
compris les pieces justifiant les retraits des comptes speciaux.
Le Bureau du projet fera verifier ses comptes, ainsi que les coeptes
speciaux   et   les  releves  des  depenses,  chaque  annee  par  des  reviseurs
ind6pendants juges acceptables par l'IDA et communiquera a 1'IDA, dans les six
mois suivant la cl8ture de chaque exercice, des copies certifiees de ses
comptes verifies et de la note que lui auront adressee lesdits reviseurs.
Le Bureau du projet etablira chaque triaestre et chaque annee, des
rapports sur l'avancement de la composante ligne de credit et en transeettra
des copies a l'IDA.
Lorsque le projet touchera A sa fin, le Bureau du projet etablira un
rapport d'acheveoent.
D.     96Q8M2E   EQRI6EI
La  Bangue  de ia nepublique du Burutu'i et 'iDA puutfrist, par &CIaiige de
lettres, adender le present mandat d'un commun accord.



- 60 -
ANNEX Vb
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Draft Cooperation Agreement for Chamber of Commerce
La pr6sente circulaire decrit les objectifs assign6s a la cellule des
PHE charg6e d'adainistrer la composante assistance technique du Projet de
petites et moyennes entreprises et les principes et aethodes qu'il appliquera
pour s'acquitter de ses responsabilites au titre du Credit de developpeeent
accord6 par l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA) pour le projet
de petites et *oyennes entreprises (le Credit).
A.     QIIEMEL
La cellule des PHE h la Chambre de Commerce et de l'Industrie a pour
objectifs:
a) ae contribuer au d6veloppement 6conomique du Burundi en fournissant
une assistance technique aux petites et sovennes entreprises,
particulierement a celles qui utilisent le Plus de ressources
locales et qui contribuent a la creation d'emplois, a la
d6centralisation de l'activite econcoique, a la realisation de
recettes en devises ou au remplacement d'importations et
b) aider a la creation, l'expansion et la modernisation de petites
et moyennes entreprises;
La cellule des PHE sera dirig6e par un Directeur rattache & la Chambre
de Commerce et de l'Industrie a Bujumbura. La cellule emploiera en outre un
ou deux experts 6trangers specialises dans la promotion de la petite et
moyenne entreprise et deux homologues locaux, et le personnel auxiliaire
approprie.
La nomination du Directeur de la cellule et, le cas 6cheant, de son
succsser   Sr&   Caof6e  V.-  1lTt~A .   a,. 4  Son appnhlAti.Tn   la ihrt4v dil
successeur             &          a                 - Ao l - ^t  .uw     --        --
personnel du Bureau relbvera exclusivement du Directeur de la cellule, qui
consultera l'IDA sur ses projets de recrutement.



- 61 -
ANNEX Vb
Page 2 of 3
Les fonds re;us pour l'assistance technique par la cellule seront
utilis6s conformement aux conditions de l'Accord de Cr6dit de d6veloppesent y
relatif et de l'Accord de Coop*ration en vue de
a) financer un programme de formation et d'assistance technique a
l'intention (i) des petits et moyens entrepreneurs, et (ii) du
personnel des interaediaires financiers participants pour
renforcer leurs capacit6s d'evaluation et de suivi des projets;
b)  couvrir les frais de demarrage et d'exploitation de la cellule des
PHEs y compris la r6muneration de son personnel 6tranger a 1001 et
de son personnel local a 801.
Toutes les depenses engag6es au titre des alineas (a) et (b) ci-dessus
devront etre prealablement autorisees par l'IDA.
2.  erietotim-des-sQuier9iges
La cellule des PtiEs guidera les petites et aoyennes entreprises, en vue
de la preparation des sousprojets devant Otre financ6s au moyen de la ligne de
credit de 1'IDA.
Elte guidera aussi les intereediaires financiers participants dans le
choix de sousprojets 6ligibles et les aidera a se doter des aoyens necessaires
pour evaluer l'impact des sousprojets sur l'environnesent.



- 62 -
ANNEX Vb
Page 3 of 3
3.  Qi   a  l     re  4kgn des sous2roJets
La  cellule  des  PMEs  aidera les petits et eoyens entrepreneurs avec la
preparation des projets et des dossiers en general.  En meee temps,  la  cellule
des   PHEs   veillere  a  ce  que  les  intermediaires  participants  appliquent
systeeatiqueaent les norses appropri6es  &  l'evaluation  des  sousprojets.   En
executant  ce  type  d'assistance,  la  cellule  coordonnera son travail avec le
Bureau du Projet i la BRB  et,  le  cas  6ch6ant,  avec  le  Fonds  National  de
Garantie.
4.  EuVJVJ_ V_ jtQIgJ
La  cellule  suivra  directement les sousprojets financ6s par l'IDA en se
basant sur un echantillon et/ou en se concentrant sur les cas difficiles.
5.  CQu22nsa ue__siS taQe-tfQr3IiQn
La cellule des PHEs gerera cette composante du Projet pour le coapte du
Gouvernesent.   A  cet  effet,  elle  a  la  responsabilitd pour les demandes de
financement au titre de cette conposante, y compris, notamment, le contenu des
cours et s6minaires, le cadre de reference des activit6s de promotion et
d'appui aux petites et aoyennes entreprises, la justification desdits cours et
activit6s, et les qualifications des experts proposes.
Les demandes approuvees par la cellule des PMEs seront sousises a
I'IDA, pour examen et approbation definitive.   A  cet  effet,  la  cellule  des
PlEs comuuniquera A l'avance & 1'IDA le programme de formation et d'assistance
technique lSvant tre financ6 au cours du trimestre & venir.



-63 -
ANNEX VI a
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for SSE Technical Assistance
A. PROMOTION DES NOUVEAUX PMEs
Dans le cadre economigue
1'"elaboration d'un programe d'etudes a realiser et repondre aux
demandes d'intervention adressees au CCIB;
la recherche des donnees de base permettant un jugement preliminaire
sur la rentabilite des projets;
l'elaboration d'une documentation sur les equipements necessaires et la
technologie a utiliser;
la recherche des partenaires techniques et promotion des jointes-
ventures avec des investisseurs locaux;
observation permamente de l'evolution des prix sur le marche mondial
pour lea produits industriels exportables;
l'elaboration des demandes de financement pour les pronoteurs et la
cooperation avec des institutions financieres.
Dans le cadre techniaue
assistance a lelaboration d'un programme d'tude a realiser et
repondre aux demandes d'interventions adressees au CCIB danss
* la recherche des donnees techniques de base permettant un jugement
preliminaire sur les possibilites d'utilisation des techniques
adaptees;
* la recherche des offres pour des equipements et leur depouillement;
* l' laboration des analyses sur les technologies proposees afin de
determiner et justifier la proposition la plus adequate;
* l'elaboration des proportions sur le niveau de formation des
techniciens n'ecessaires i engager pour le fonctionnement des
projets.



- 64 -
ANNEX VI a
Page 2 of 3
Dans le cadre socio-4conomigue
consideration, dans le cadre de la preparation dos projets, de la
protection contre la pollution de lair et de l0eau;
definition d'un plan de le promotion des femmes parmis les
entrepreneurs potentiels.
B. SERVICE DE CONSEIL POUR LES PNEs EXISTANTES
diagnostic des installations techniques des unites PMEs existantes dans
le but de determiner les goulots d'ltranglement dens la production;
definition des programmes de restructuration des PMEs existantes et sea
executions;
elaboration des tableaux de bord pour les cadres techniques des petites
et moyennes entreprises;
assistance dans la resolution des problemes ponctuels;
assistance dans la recherche des equipements adtquats en cas d'une
modernisation.
C. FORMATION
* laboration et execution d'un programme de formation pour les cadres du
Bureau PME a la Chambre dans les domaines specifiques de la promotion
industrielle;
elaboration et execution d'un programe de perfectionnement en gestion
pour les dirigeants des petites et moyennes entreprises industrielles
(cours du soir; sujets : comptabilite de base, production, evaluation
du marche, etc.).



- 65 -
ANNEX VI a
Page 3 of 3
D. ASSISTANCE POUR LES INTERVENTIONS CAS PAR CAS.
Dans l. cadre technique
description des produits et du programme de production;
definition de la qualite du produit fini, sa standardisation et son
emballage exige sur l marche local et sur le marche mondial;
deternmnation de la capacite a installer et du processus de production
a utiliser, avantages du processus de production propose en comparaison
avec d'autres possibilites techniques, liste detaillee des equipements
ainsi que consideration du choix de l'6quipement utilise;
presentation du lieu d'implantation du projet et la superficie du
terrain a prevoir;
elaboration d'un plan pour la supervision de la construction et
l'installation des equipements;
evaluation de la periode de realisation du projet en tenant compte des
delais pour les travaux de genie civil, l'installation des equipements
et la mise en marche de l'equipement.
Dans le cadre des etudes micro-economiques
*  determination des coiuts des investissements fixes sur base de la
conception technique arrAtie;
*  d4finition de la production en quiyt .'t en qualite sur base des
resultats de l'etude du marche et de   _ude technique;
evaluation de la disponibilite, des coats et les conditions
d'acquisition de matieres premieres, de produits intermediaires,
d'energie, d'eau, de pieces de rechange et de services sur base du
programme de production arrAetee;
*  projection des couts d'entretien et de separation en relation avec la
capacite utilisee;
* difinition de la main d'oeuvre, leur nombre et leur qualification.



- 66 -
ANNEX VI b
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Bank Staff Seminar
"E Evaluation financi&re et *uivi de oroiets"
UILZCL: Cadres r4sionaux dos banques commercial*9 en charte des
desand*s de cr*4its d'investiose*ent.
PREDIESUIIS   - Oipl6-m  d'ens*ignesent sug4riour (graduat ou licence)
on finance, commercial ou administration
- Plus do deux ann*es d'experience mrofeesionnelle.
PROGRA""E DE FOR"ATION
- Introduction au concept de projet
- D4finition et analyse des variantes
Evaluation des couts d'un projet
- Analyse financi*re de projets
- Distinction entre l'analyse financi*re so_asire et
l'analyse financ#re* d*tasillh
- Analyse financi4re som_aire
- *ch*ancier do fiux financiers
- analyse de l'6ch4ancier at comparaisom
d'investassements
* techniques qui *vitent le recoures 
1'actualtsstion
* techniques qui utili-nt t'actualisation.
- la prise en co-pte des ri-4ues et
incertitudes.
- Analyse financi4re ditaill4e
- tableau des amortissemente d'investisseaents
- sch*ma de financement
- capacit4 d'autofinancement
- tableau Emplois-Ressources
- olan de tr*sorerie
- l'analyse
* taux de rentabilit* interne du projet
* taux de rentabilit* des capitaux propres.
- Fiscalitt des investissements



- 67 -
ANNEX VI b
Page 2 of 2
- Le suiva dee Projets
- RapproChement r*al itation/Pr*vision
- Analyse des *carts
- Diagnosttc des points forts/points faibles
- Evaluation des actions correctives
- Contr6le des actions
- Rapport du suivi.
flumE Of LA PONawtIo : 10 jouwe : 6 bhurede for-ation par jour.
MOMS   Of SENINAIRE   : Su ivants le  cas 1 diterminer
NOHfW Of PARTCIATSSENAIRE : 15  ersonns noxious
O3JECTfFS : aa*liorer leo c@sotencoe des agents des banqueo
Commercialee dons leur fonction d'*valuation financtire
de projets.
Ce *ont ceu cadres quis en contact permanent avec leurs
clients et l'environnesent 6conomique rgsionals sont lee
uieux plaeCo pour Offectu*r la prsoi*r* #vSluation.
Ces doesiers pr#*valu*s sersaent acheoin*o
*ventuelleuent & Kinshasa pour d4cisions finales.



-68 -
ANNEX VII
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Companies and emplowment in the formal SSE sector in 1986
Number of Companies                         Employment
Metropolitan
ISIC Sector        Ares          Provinces Total     Full-time Part-time   Total
Agriculture             17            7     24          1,724     4,264   5,988
Mining                   2            0      2            172       188     360
Manufacturing           67            6     73         5,006        541   5,547
Public Utilities         1            2      3            775     1,339   2,114
Construction            19            4     23         2,700      4,501   7,201
Comuerce              129            64    193         29172         87   2,259
Transport              29            17     46         1,859         89   1,948
Services               26            15     41         2,691      5,128   7,819
Other                  46           106    152         2,860      1,591   4,451
Totals              336           221    557        19,959    17,728  37,687
Source:  Cross-referencing of official statistics.



- 69 -
ANNEX VIII
SMALL 3NT3M181 AP  PROJECT
rmber of Companies In Employment Range
Subsector              1-10    11-25    26-50    51-100    101-250    251+
Food processing          -        7         10        8          7      2
Textile  d  ClothisW     5        2         3         1          3      1
Wood Products            -         3        i         3          1       -
Paper products           a        4         2         2          -
Chemicals                3        7         5         4          1      -
Class products           1         1        -         1          -
achinehry                8        8         -         1          2      -
Totals                19       32        21        29         14     3
Cuimltiv             19       51        72        92         106    109
Percentaee of total   172      472      662        84Z        972    100X
Sources Mission Researcl.



- 70 -
ANNEX IX
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Expoenditure patterns of rural households
Category of expenditure                Items                      Percentage
of Total
Food                       Condiments and basic staple food
that the household cannot grow          54.8
Farm operating expenses    seeds, fertilizers, vaccines,
agricultural tools and Implements,
equipment rental, rental of
farmland, agricultural workers'
salaries, etc.                          18.6
Clothing                   garments and shoes                         8.4
Education                  school fees, books, uniforms, etc.         2.9
Family events              dowries, births, marriages, funerals       2.7
Transport & Communication  public transport, purchases of
personal transport, spare parts, fuel   2.3
Housing                     light, fuel, construction material,
etc.                                     2.1
Medical                     doctor fees, medicine, hospitalisa-,
tion, traditional medicine               1.9
Household items             furniture, household articles,
domestic services, etc.                  1.3
Leisure                    Radios, cassettes, tape recorders          0.3
Other                       taxes, fines, otherwise not specified   4.1
Source: Mission Research.
Annual Demand oroiection for selected basic consumer Roods of the
total market
Goods                                     Value in BuF        Equivalent
(million)         Value in USS
('000)
Food and beverages                           33,085              264,680
Agricultural products and equipment          11,230               89,837
Apparel                                       5,071               40,571
Construction materials & domestic fuel        1,268               10,143
Motorcycles, bicycles, spare parts            1,389               11,109
Household articles and furniture                785                6,279
Radios, cassettes, tape recorders               181                1,449
Source: Mission Estimates.



- 71 -
ANNEX X
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
BANQUE DU BURUNDI ORGANIZATION CHART
| Conseil General
'IL-~~~~
I    Gouverneur
Vice-Gouverneur               Inspection                Administrateur
l                                       I Operations
Importations__                                             Bancaires
Credit Doc,
Exportations                                             Change, Visas
iOperations   J                                       [  Caisser
I        < ~~inanciAres   ||de lEa 
Credit                                                   Caisse
Etudes     1                                        1  Eission
Inforatique_                                               Personnel
Comptabilite                                               Intendance



-72-
mIRUNDI
SMALL ENTEtRIMS AM  PROCT
LIST AND CHARACIERISTICS OF FINANCIAL I SITUTIONS
Avg.      Avg.
Year of   Total      Loan         Avt ago      No. of     No. of
Cration  Atsst  .l/ Portfoio LJI  Dau    11 EiLevaa  Braneba
BANCOBU           4,684      3,234          3,721        180        7
BCB       1964    5.851      3.683          4,65W        182        5
BBAB              2,124      1.737          1,516         63        1
BNDE      1967    3,909      2,916           na.          49        1
SBF       1981    1,884      1,514           n.a.         21        1
CADEBU 2/ 1964    3,571      1,694          2,937        179       11
CAMOFI    1977    4,559      3,480          4,635         16        1
1/ Average between end 1986 and and 1986 in FSu million.
2.1 As of Decombor 1986.



- 73 -
ANNEX XII
Page i of 2
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Interest Rate Structure
-as of Hay 1, 1987-
(in percent p.a.)
A: Debit (rates indicated are maximum rates)
TAUX D'INTERET DEBITEURS awAXItIA, TOUTES COMMISSIONS COMPRISES,
DES BA4QUES ET AUTRES IUSTITUTIO'.S ?ISlA2CIZRES (en p.c.,par an)
4 IlDBILI -  tzBILI-   'DX DE Mo I-
CREXITS A COKUX  EME                 SABLES        SABLIS    LISATIOJ
1. CRE3ITS D'I.!CRTATIOL4
- Biens W4quipeents                  11           9            7,5
agricole, industriel et
artisanal et matidres
premi#ws
- Autres                             13         11             9,5
2. CRDITS A L'EXiORCATICti             -           6             5
3. CRWITSDE [TESolERIE
- Production agricole,              10          8             6,5
industrielle et
artisanale
- Autres                            13          11            9,5
CusIT A WYMA TI32
- Investissement agrooole,          13          10            7,5
industriel et artisanal
- Construction de logement          14          11            8,5
Autres                             15          12           9,5
CREDIT A IfrxG TE4E
- Investissement agricole
inzustriel et artisanal et
construction de logements          15          12           8,5
- Autres                            lo          13            9,5



- 74 -
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 2
B: Credit (deposit rates indicated are minimum rates)
TAUX DIINTERET CREDITEURS $INIrtA DES BANQUES ET
AUTRSS IiSTrITUTIOkIS FIN4ANCIEP'ES
(en p.c., par an)
DEPOUL'S A VUE
Depots a partir de 100.000 F                                2
CQIPTES SUR CARNETS                                         7
DEPOTS A TERME, BO.S DE CAISSE ST
AUT'JES IASTRUMENiTS D'EPARGiI
kioins o'un mois                              entre    2 et 3
1 mois                                                  3
3 mois                                                  4
6 mois                                                  5
12 mois                                                 7
Plus de 12 mois                               Plus de  7
COtPTES A PREAVIS:  Taux des d6pots a terme correspondants
major6s de 0,25 point.
La r6mun6ration des termes interm6diaires se fera par
r6f6rence au taux du terme ditectement inf6rieur.
*
*            *



- 75 -
ANNEX XIII
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
BRUNDI: DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT TO THE ECONOMY BY TERM STRUCTURE, 1981-86
(In Millons of Burundi Frances)
ITEM                    .191                                   1m       1983      1964     1985
Short-trn                                             e356     7418     a89       0173     9370
of which: Trade                                       763       s 634    5516     647      692
(cofee export)                             4724      8126     3o98     861      4543
Agricloture                                  11e      134      111      207       24
Industry                                     640      60?      719      708     160
Medliu-tern                                           1670     2617     2233      21#1    2S19
of which: Industry                                     538      503      604      651       716
Civil ngineering                            424      642      763      679      S28
Transport and transit                        131       61       94       43       53
Trade                                        26       226      240      256      279
Agriculture                                   21      132      126      127      11?
Long-term                                             1905     2716     3364     3459      3625
of whIch: Civil egineering                            1JJ6     1941     2294     2378      2664
Other servIces                               319      284      294      256      279
Trade                                        0.3      0.6      0.3       12       63
Agriculture                                   56       e1       94      1n       -21
Total                                                11360    1 m 1    13696     13767     lllI
of which: Rediscounted credit                        a394      2518     1219      073         8
(in percent)                               26.6    20.6        3.9      4.9      0.1
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT TO PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Short-term                                                     4111     4655     4266      5204
of which: Export                                        --     3255     3975     3641    4574
Import                                        --      217       69       53      137
For liquidity purposes                        --      640      592      566      493
On Government procurmnt,                      --       --       --       --       --
Long- and meium-term                                    --     2976     1941     1934      1969
Total                                                   -      6187     6597     6195      71?3
Souvre: Dots provided by Burundian Author;tios.



ANNEX XIV
BURUrNDI
SMALL 'ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
SUffltY BALANCE SHEET OF CO
(Fbu Million)
12/84      12/8S       12/86        5/87
ASSETS
Cash, Reserves                     595       2,075        463       1.400
External Assets                    801         587      1,204       1,588
Credit to fin. instituts.          863         68e        224         558
Credit to the 6ovrt.               316         779        775         780
Credit to public instituts       2,552       3,SS?      3,789       2,288
Credit to private sector         4,559      4,792       5,986       6,776
Other assets                       431         473        472         486
TOTAL ASSETS                  10,117     17,888      12,913      13,876
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                  5,898      7,914       8,628       7,459
Time deposits                    2,227      2,432         881       2,325
External Borrowings                984         983      1,391       1.750
Other liabilities                  787         391        926       1,115
Equity                           1,021       1,168      1,195       1,227
TOTAL LIABILITIES             10,117     12,888      12,913      13,876
Sourco: BRB



- 77 -
ANNEX XVa
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
SUMKARY BALANCE SHEET OF BNDE AT END 1986
(BuP million)
Assets
Cash and Deposits with BRB and CCP                       906.4
Financial Institutions                                     33.3
Claims on the Economy                                  3,081.3
Coffee Financing                  463.3
Other Short-Term                  397.1
Medium-Term                     1,687.4
Long-Tenm                         533.5
Fixed Assets and Participations                           148.3
Miscellaneous                                             443.4
Assets - Liabilities                                     4,612.7
Liabilities
Short-Term Liabilities                                 2,042.1
Medium- and Long-Term Liabilities                       1,417.7
Capital Funds                                             770.5
Net Profits                                                50.6
jMNiscellaneous                                           331.8
Source: BNDE



- 78 -
ANNEX XVb
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
SUMMARY BAWANCE SHEET OF SBF AT END 1986
(BuF Million)
Assets
Cash and Banks                                             19.4
Other Financial Institutions                               50.0
Claims on the Economy                                   1,669.0
Short-Term                    915.4
Medium-Term                   628.6
Long-Term                     125.0
Participations                                            269.2
Fixed Assets                                               10.8
Miscellaneous                                              35.7
Assets - Liabilities                                      2,054.1
Liabilities
Financial Institution                                      25.6
Economic Sector                                         1+240.2
Short-Term                    851.0
Medium-Term                   289.2
Long-Term                     100.0
Capital and Reserves Funds                                662.2
Net Profits                                                42.9
Miscellaneous                                              83.2
Source: SBF



- 79 -
ANNEX XVI
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF DEPOSITS BY CATEQORY OF DEPOSITORS
(End of period, FBu million)
1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
SIGHT DEPOSITS
Individuals            1,602    1,577    1,936    2,062    2,627    3,606
Private Companies      1,712    1,725    2,120    1,776    2,351    2,127
Public Institutions   1,412    1,066    1,873    2,884    5,552    6,336
Other                    325       586       399      291       309       259
TOTAL                  5,051    4,954    6,328    7,013   10,839   12,328
TIME AND SAVINGS DEPOSITS
Individuals            1,482    1,516    2,077    2,392    2,263    2,645
Private Companies        137       132       575      698       547       463
Public Institutions   1,550    2,191    2,816    2,258    2,801    1,295
Other                    198        31       132       94       119        34
TOTAL                  3,367    3,870    5,600    5,442    5,730    4,437
TOTAL DEPOSITS          8,418    8,824   11,928   12,455   16,569   16,765
Source: BRB



-80 -
t                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN1NEX XVII
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT BY SECTOR AND TERM
(BuF Billion)
1984                               1985
Short   Medium   Long              Short   Medium   Long
Term     Term    Term   Total      Term     Term    Term   Total
Agriculture             0.2      0.1     0.1    0.4        0.2      0.1      0.1    0.5
Industry               0.8       0.6     0.6    2.0        1.1      0.7     0.6    2.4
Construction,
Public Works         0.6       0.7     2.4    3.7        0.5      0.7     2.5    3.7
Transportation
and Transit          0.1       0.0     0.0    0.2        0.2      0.1     0.0    0.3
Miscellaneous
Services             0.1       0.1     0.3    0.4        0.1      0.0     0.3    0.4
Trade                   5.5      0.2     0.0    5.7        6.1      0.3     0.1    6.5
Cthers                  0.9      0.3     0.1    1.3        1.2      0.3     0.0    1.5
8.2      2.0     3.5   13.7        9.4      2.2      3.6   15.3
Source: BRB
Note: Figures may not add up because of rounding.



- 81 -
ANNEX XVIII
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Savinas and Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC)
In 1984 an agreement was signed between the Ministry of Rural
Development and the Credit Mutuel (CICM) of France on technical and
financial assistance in the creation of a network of savings and credit
cooperatives (COOPEC) in the rural districts of Burundi. The objectives of
the project was to raise living standards in the rural areas where 95X of
the population live through encouraging savings and developing mutual
credit systems. According to the agreement, French assistance would
provide FF 4.9 million of which 501 was for investment and 501 covering
initial operating expenses. The Burundi Government contributed FBu 6
millions. The original agreement was for an initial trial period of 30
months but this has since been extended to 3 years. COOPEC (Cooperatives
d'Epargne et de Credit) started functioning in June 1984 with the arrival
of a French expert from the French Credit Mutuel with headquarters in the
provincial town of Gitenga and a network of autonomous cooperatives.
Each COOPEC - cooperative - takes in savings from members as deposits on
which interest is paid and offers credits to members. The membership fee
for an individual is FBu (approx. $4).
An individual COOPEC is able to lend up to 301 of its deposits and
the COOPEC central office up to 50% of total deposits. After 6 months of
savings each member may borrow up to 5 times the amount of his/her
deposits. Members act as guarantors for each other's credit.
The maximum of a credit to an individual by a COOPEC is FBu 50,000
(approx. $400). The Central Office are permitted to make loAns to a
maximum of FBu 500,000 ($4,000). Loans are generally made for 36 months at
interest rates of between 11 and 141 depending on the type of loan. The
rate for agricultural loans is 11 and 141 for trade.
In general it takes about 1 month for a member to obtain a loan.
The growth of the COOPEC's has been impressive. One reason has
been that members may save with COOPEC in place of the compulsory savings
required with CADEBU (Caisse d'Epargne de Burundi - the state owned savings
bank). Individual COOPEC's are required to deposit funds in excess of FBu
200,000 with the Central Office on which they are paid 3.51. Individual
members receive 31 on their COOPEC savings. The Central Office now
deposits all its fund with CAMOFI (Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de
Financement, - a savings and financing institution for the public sector)
for fixed terms of 24 months at 81.



- 82 -
ANNEX XVIII
Page 2 of 2
Recent figures on COOPEC's growth are given below:
Date                          Total                   In FBu           No of
End of      No. of COOPEC's Members  Capital    Deposits Credit        Credits
Dec. 1986        20           23514     13576000  56162529  7553500   152
Hay 1987         31           33361     18606500  69675702  15861245  485
As can be seen from the above figures while still relatively small
in volume, the savings deposits and the credits given out are increasing at
a fast rate. However the COOPEC organisation both at the headquarters and
at cooperative level remains liquid and still have adequate resources for
lending before reaching the limits set by the operating regulations.
Most credits are for consumption and are small - around Fnu
30,000-40,000 average (approx. $220-300) but some loans up to a maximum of
Fnu 150,000 ($1,200) have been given for income generating activities to
farmers and artisans.
The COOPEC Central Office operates services to assist individual
COOPEC's in the management of their finances. It also offers training and
advisory services for members and has a unit that inspects and audits the
operations of each COOPEC.
So far, the COOPEC's have not been accredited by BRB as recognised
financial institutions but they already represent a significant extension
of the financial system into areas and communities where the formal banking
institutions do not op*rate.



ANNEX XIY
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year             Credit         T.A.                   Cumulative
and Quarter EndinR          Component    Component        Total        X
---------    US$ '000------------
FY 88
June 30, 1988                    10           --            10        --
FY89
September 30, 1988               50           50           100         1.3
December 31, 1988               150          100           250         3.1
March 31, 1989                  200          200           400         5.0
June 30, 1989                  500           200           700         8.8
FY90
September 30, 1989              700          250           950        11.9
December 31, 1989               950          300         1,250        15.6
March 31, 1990                1,220          350         1,570        19.6
June 30, 1991                1,370           400         1,770        22.1
FY91
September 30, 1990           1,820           450         2,270        28.4
December 31, 1990            2,350           500         2,850        35.6
March 31, 1991               2,720           550         3,270        40.9
June 30, 1991                3,010           600         3,610        45.1
FY92
September 30, 1991           3,420           650         4,070        50.9
December 31, 1991            3,790           700         4,490        56.1
March 31, 1992               4,500           750         5,250        65.6
June 30, 1992                5,200           800         6,000        75.0
FY93
September 30, 1992           5,950           800         6,750        84.4
December 31, 1992            6,230           800         7,030        87.9
March 31, 1993               6,470           800         7,270        90.9
June 30, 1993                6,790           800         7,590        94.9
FY94
September 30, 1993           7,000           800         7,800        97.5
December 31, 1993            7,050           800         7,850        98.1
March 31, 1994               7,120           800         7,920        99.0
June 30, 1994                7,200           800         8,000       100.0



