Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17063
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
October 1, 1997
Private Sector and Finance Technical Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Burundi Franc (BF)
US$1.00                   BF 249.53 (December 31, 1994)
SDR 1                     US$1.44897 (December 31, 1994)
at Year End                   US$1=
1985                        BF 111.96
1986                        BF 123.16
1987                        BF 115.19
1988                        BF 149.36
1989                        BF 171.90
1990                        BF 161.71
1991                        BF 162.59
1992                        BF 236.45
1993                        BF 261.96
1994                        BF 249.53
1995                        BF 277.49
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE               National Development Bank
Banque Nationale de Diveloppement Economique
BRB                Central Bank of the Republic of Burundi
Banque de la Republique du Burundi
CCIB               Chamber of Commerce of Burundi
Chambre de Commerce et de l 'Industrie du Burundi
COOPEC             Savings and Loan Cooperatives
Coope'ratives d 'Epargne et de Credit
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
MCI                Ministry of Commerce and Industry
PCU                Policy Coordinating Unit
PFI                Participating Financial Intermediary
PMU                Project Management Unit
PSD                Private Sector Development
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SME                Small and Medium Enterprises
SSE                Small-Scale Enterprises
TA                 Technical Assistance
Vice President      Callisto Madavo
Director            Nils Tcheyan
Manager             Thomas W. Allen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................                             i-iii
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment                   .I
Project Background    ..
1. Project Objectives ..................................2
2. Achievement of Objectives                          .3
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project                    .4
4. Project Sustainability                           .6
5. Bank Performance                               .7
6. Borrower Performance                             .7
7. Assessment of Outcome                             .9
8. Future Operation                               .9
9. Key Lessons Learned .10
Part II - Statistical Annexes
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Project Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A: Borrower's Comments: Project Management Unit
Appendix B: Operational Plan
Appendix C: Map of Burundi
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small Enterprise
APEX Project in Burundi, for which Credit 1889-BU in the amount of SDR 5.7 million
(US$8.0 million equivalent) was approved on March 29, 1988 and made effective on
March 6, 1989.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994 (the original closing date). Final
disbursement took place on April 5, 1995. A balance of SDR 218,296.04 was canceled
on May 11, 1995. Cofinancing for the project was provided by small-scale enterprise
(SSE) sub-borrowers (US$1.6 million), participating financial intermediaries (PFIs),
(US$0.8 million), and the Government of Burundi (US$0.4 million).
T'he ICR was prepared by the Private Sector Finance Group (AFTP 1) in the Africa
Region and reviewed by Thomas Allen, chief of AFTP 1. An ICR mission was scheduled
for the latter part of 1994 but because of the political turmoil which erupted around that
time in Burundi, IDA activities were significantly reduced and the mission did not take
place. A draft ICR was sent to the Government for comments on June 28, 1997 and
additional reminders were sent through the Bank's Resident Mission, on July 22, 1997
and again on September 18, 1997. Attached, as Appendix A, is a letter from the Project
Implementation Unit with its comments on the ICR.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Small Enterprise Apex Project was approved in 1988 to assist the
Government of Burundi in its efforts to stimulate growth, increase employment and
create a favorable business environment. The Project also complemented the
Government's 1986 comprehensive reform program, which was assisted by the IMF and
by two IDA Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC). Small-scale enterprises (SSEs) were
selected by the Government as the focus of this operation because they were more
productive, more labor intensive and less dependent on imports than larger enterprises.
Furthermore, SSEs had no access to training and bank credit. The Project's major goal
was, therefore, to provide assistance to SSEs, building on lessons learned from previous
industrial development projects. Project objectives were consistent with the IDA Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Burundi.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (a)
support the development of SSEs in Burundi through the provision of term resources and
technical assistance; (b) increase the participation of financial intermediaries in the
financing of productive investments, including areas outside Bujumbura and, hence,
contribute modestly to the decentralization of economic activity; (c) help, in coordination
with SAC II conditionality, improve the efficiency of the financial sector and the SSE
policy framework; (d) strengthen the SSE appraisal/supervision capabilities of Burundi's
financial intermediaries; and (e) generate new employment opportunities. In 1991,
project objectives were modified to improve the pace of commitments which had been far
too slow.
3.    The Project had two main components to support its objectives: (a) an investment
component equivalent to $7.2 million to finance SSE investment projects; and (b) a
technical assistance and training component to: (i) help small entrepreneurs to prepare
and manage their projects; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs) in appraising and supervising investment projects.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The Credit became effective on March 6, 1989, a year after Board approval, and
closed on December 31, 1994. Total project costs were US$10.5 equivalent, somewhat
lower than the US$11.2 million estimated at appraisal. The Bank disbursed a total of
US$7.7 million or 96 percent of the original Credit amount. In the early years of project
implementation (1989-91), perfonnance and commitments were slow due to: (a)
economic changes, such as the depreciation of the US dollar, which affected the number
of SSEs eligible for IDA funds; (b) the refinancing mechanism of Central Bank (BRB)
funds and other donors' soft loans which provided cheaper alternatives to the IDA line of
credit; (c) lengthy bureaucratic procedures which caused serious delays in sub-project
review and approval; and (d) the weakness of the Central Bank's Project Management
Unit (PMU) in coordinating and monitoring the investment component.
5.   In order to improve project implementation and accelerate commitments, project
objectives were modified in 1991 to extend technical assistance to Small and Medium-
Scale Enterprises (SMEs) to address their legal, regulatory and technical difficulties as
well as to PFIs. Credit funds were reallocated for this purpose and the IDA Credit and
Project Agreements were amended to increase the size of sub-projects eligible for
financing under the project. Furthermore, the Borrower agreed to strengthen the PMU by
setting up a new dynamic team of staff with experience in banking and business to work
directly with PFIs and entrepreneurs, and to simplify administrative procedures. The
changes in project objectives helped improve project performance, despite the adverse
political and economic environment from late October 1993 to December 1995. The
project helped finance investments in 40 SMEs in industry, commerce and the service
sectors and created 673 jobs. About 90 percent of onlent funds are being repaid and 34
out of the 40 SMEs are in operation.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Overall, the project's  achievements fell short of expectations. This is not
surprising given the political tunnoil that plagued the country during project
implementation. The Project utilized nearly all of the IDA Credit and supported the
development of a significant number of enterprises. However, although it contributed to
the liberalization of the financial system, it did not succeed in materially improving the
efficiency of the financial sector in Burundi. Furthermore, the 673 jobs created were
significantly lower than the 2,500 jobs estimated at appraisal. Given the current uncertain
political/economic environment in the country, the sustainability of project results is
unlikely, The Operational Plan (Appendix B) outlines the following actions to support
further development of SMEs: (a) creation of a favorable business environment by
eliminating obstacles restricting private sector development; (b) greater efforts to build
BRB's capacity in monitoring the private banking system; (c) the provision of adequate
support to entrepreneurs in project management, marketing, and basic accounting after
they receive loans; and (d) appropriate institutional and procedural arrangements to
handle future line of credit projects.



- iii -
7.    There are four important lessons that emerge from the implementation of this
project:
(a)   The design of lines of credit to commercial banks, which more often than
not, lack the institutional capacity to manage the complexities of such an
operation, should be as simple as possible avoiding excessive layers of
review and approval. The PFIs' slow project review and approval
procedures were largely to blame for the sluggish pace of commitments
under this project.
(b)   In  a  complex  project such  as  this  one, the  technical and
regulatory/supervisory capacity of the APEX agency, in this case BRB, is
a critical determinant of project success. In cases where such capacity is
weak, simultaneous remedial action to strengthen the institution should be
an integral part of the Project.
(c)   It is important to find appropriate channels to provide technical assistance
to entrepreneurs in project management, marketing and basic accounting,
to help them run their business profitably. Because of its size, the PMU
focused too much on the appraisal of investment projects and did not
give enough attention to project supervision and follow-up.
(d)   Future lines of credit should incorporate arrangements for acceptable
standards of project management and accounting.  Furthermore, the
responsibility for promoting and managing the line of credit should be
separate from operations of the Central Bank because of the inherent
difference in these activities. Finally, the Project should have had a
special account to ensure availability of funds during the implementation
period.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Background
1.    After a period of relatively good performance and growth, due partly to the coffee
boom in the mid-1970s, Burundi faced serious economic and financial difficulties starting
in 1981. These difficulties led to a comprehensive adjustment program of policy reform,
initiated in June 1986, by the Government in collaboration with IDA and the IMF, aiming
to create an environment more favorable to economic growth and efficient private
investment. A new investment code was promulgated, prices were decontrolled, imports
were liberalized and the exchange rate was adjusted in terms of the SDR. The Small
Enterprise APEX project was appropriately designed to complement this structural
adjustment program and support Government efforts to promote financing of all
productive sectors with specific emphasis on small enterprises.
2.    At project appraisal, small-scale enterprises (SSEs) in Burundi were not a
homogeneous group, varying in sophistication, size and activity. There were formal and
informal establishments. Formal SSEs were mainly active in trade, transport and other
services, and less represented in productive activities. Reliable records of their activities
were not available at project appraisal, but an IDA employment generation study showed
that the informal sector provided twice the number of jobs as did the formal sector in the
capital and the secondary cities.
3.    Unlike large enterprises, most SSEs in Burundi are owned, managed and operated
by Burundian nationals. They are productive, labor intensive and less dependent on
imported inputs compared to large enterprises. As they are less constrained by transport
difficulties and produce basic goods accessible to low-income groups, SSEs in Burundi
have significant development potential. It was confirmed during project appraisal that
there was scope for SSE development in such areas as food processing, agricultural tools,
carpentry, construction materials and repair and maintenance. It was also evident that the
sector faced serious constraints, particularly limited business know-how and access to
bank credit.



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                        -2-         Implementation Completion Report
Project Objectives
4.    Statement of Project Objectives. The project's original objectives were to: (a)
support the development of SSEs in Burundi through the provision of term resources and
technical assistance; (b) increase the participation of financial intermediaries in the
financing of productive investments, including areas outside Bujumbura and, hence,
contribute modestly to the decentralization of economic activity; (c) help, in coordination
with SAC II conditionality, improve the efficiency of the financial sector and the SSE
policy framework; (d) strengthen the SSE appraisal/supervision capabilities of Burundi's
financial intermediaries; and (e) generate new employment opportunities.
5.    The project was designed to offer a package of credit, technical assistance, and
training tailored to the needs of SSEs in Burundi. In line with the above objectives, the
project had two major components.
(a)   An investment component (originally, US$7.2 million equivalent) to
finance development projects promoted by SSEs.  Specifically, this
component would finance: (i) fixed assets and permanent working capital
of SSE investment projects in all sectors of the economy; and (ii) free-
standing working capital for viable existing SSEs in the productive
sectors.  All accredited financial intermediaries in Burundi in good
standing with the Central Bank (BRB) and meeting the capital adequacy
ratio would be eligible to participate, provided they entered into a
participating agreement with BRB. The investment component was to be
coordinated and monitored by a Project Management Unit (PMU) within
BRB.
(b)   A technical assistance and training component (originally, US$0.8
million equivalent) to: (i) promote entrepreneurship development
programs; (ii) help small entrepreneurs prepare and execute their projects
by providing them with assistance on technical matters, basic accounting
and project management; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs) to appraise and supervise investment
projects. This component was to be executed by the SSE Bureau at CCIB.
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. During project appraisal, it was expected that
IDA involvement in SSE development would complement the policy-based lending for
adjustment by supporting the Government's efforts to stimulate economic growth and
increase employment. The package of financial resources and technical assistance (TA)
provided by the project would help the development of SSEs, a sector that has
traditionally had high employment generation potential and has been the breeding ground
for developing a Burundian entrepreneurial class. IDA's country assistance strategy was
in full agreement with the Government's intention to develop the sector. While at project
appraisal some donors were already supporting SSE development as part of bilateral
agreements, IDA's involvement was considered particularly important because the apex



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                        -3-         IWplementation Completion Report
project is much more accessible to SSEs. In the TA area, the Project was to provide
support to the Government in designing a country-wide SSE program, which was
expected to be supported and supplemented by other donors. In the past, the latter had
concentrated their assistance at the artisan level.
7.    Only one major risk was identified at appraisal. Since the project was the first
apex operation in Burundi, it involved institutional arrangements that were new to
intermediaries and BRB. Consequently, it was expected that some initial delays in sub-
loan processing would occur as there was a need for BRB to familiarize itself with the
system, and for the PFIs to develop their capacity to appraise and supervise SSE projects.
It was expected that the risk would be reduced by the quick implementation of the TA
component and close IDA supervision during the initial phase of project implementation.
8.    The total cost of the project was estimated at US$11.2 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$7.7 million, representing 69 percent of project cost. In
addition to the US$8.0 million IDA Credit, financing for the project was to be provided
by the SSE sub-borrowers (US$1.5 million), PFIs (US$1.5 million), and the Government
of Burundi through the SSE Bureau at Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Burundi
(CCIB) (US$0.2 million).
Achievement of Project Objectives
9.   It should be stressed, that the shift in project focus during implementation, from
exclusive targeting of SSEs to inclusion of both small and medium-scale enterprises
(SMEs), was instrumental in improving project perfornance. The need for reorientation
was identified in April 1991, when a Bank mission concluded that: (a) the depreciation
of some important currencies (particularly of the US dollar) was restricting the size of
investment enterprises and projects eligible under the Credit (the eligibility limit was
initially set at US$300,000); and (b) there was no justification for excluding from the
Project medium and large-scale enterprises, many of which had satisfactory economic
and financial prospects and could not access most lines of credit (including those of other
donors). On the basis of the mission's recomnmendations, the Project and Credit
Agreements were amended in May 1991 to respond to the new orientation of the Project.
Sub-loan commitments under the project increased significantly thereafter.
10.   An evaluation of project results must also take into consideration the events that
followed the assassination, in October 1993 of Melchior Ndadaye, the first
democratically elected president, and the subsequent deterioration of the security
situation in the country. The overall macroeconomic and political environment in which
the Bank and the local implementing agencies had to operate was severely affected.
Despite adverse conditions, the Project succeeded in providing much needed support to
SMEs during these turbulent times. It financed investments in fixed assets and
permanent working capital in all sectors of the economy, as well as free-standing working
capital for viable enterprises in the productive sectors. Various projects in the medium-
scale enterprise sector that were financed in Bujumbura and in rural areas, helped keep



Burundi Small Enterprise
Anex Project                        -4-         Izplementation Corptn Report
the sector active during a period of political instability, and strengthen the economy,
moderately, at a time when the security situation discouraged any kind of development
effort. The project also managed to introduce sound sub-project appraisal procedures and
financial discipline in PFIs and improve the entrepreneurial capability of sub-borrowers
by providing them with assistance on technical matters, basic accounting and project
management. Likewise, by providing advice and TA to BRB and the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MCI), the project helped improve the existing regulatory
framework for SMEs, thus contributing towards the creation of an environment which
would be more conducive to private sector development and export-led growth. Another
positive project result that helped improve the business environment in Burundi was the
liberalization of the financial system.
11.   The financial sector did not perform as well as expected. This was mainly due to
the deteriorating macroeconomic situation following the coup of October 1993. Some
financial institutions no longer meet the prudential regulations established by BRB due to
accumulation of arrears. An assessment of the situation was carried out in mid-1994 and
measures were identified to help the banks and other financial institutions remain eligible
for participation in the Credit. The prevailing political and security situation in Burundi
prevented the implementation of these measures. This, however, did not materially affect
the main intermediaries involved in the Project and the Credit continued to disburse
throughout 1994 and 1995.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   The project was made effective on March 6, 1989, a year after it was approved.
The total cost of the project amounted to US$ 10.5 million equivalent and the financing
of the project was similar to what was planned at appraisal. IDA disbursed a total of US$
7.7 million or 96 percent of the planned disbursement of US$ 8.0 million equivalent.
Due to some initial misunderstandings and reluctance on the part of PFIs to use the line
of credit, the project had a difficult start. Contributing factors were BRB refinancing
arrangements and soft loans by some donors that offered more competitive terms and the
unwillingness of PFIs to apply criteria and standards set by the Bank in appraising the
sub-projects.
13.   A Bank supervision in April 1991 identified three main reasons for low
commitments and disbursements under the project: (a) BRB's lengthy and complicated
review procedures; (b) PFIs' equally lengthy and cumbersome loan and disbursement
procedures; and (c) the weak capability of the APEX management unit at BRB. In
addition, the Bank recognized that the continued focus exclusively on SSEs could no
longer be justified. Ample resources targeted to them by other donors kept pouring into
the banking system while medium- and larger-size projects with promising economic
prospects (particularly in the export field) were not be eligible for most lines of credit.
Following an initial request from the borrower in December 1990 and taking into account
the depreciation of some major currencies relative to the SDR since project appraisal, the
following changes were introduced in May 1991: (a) extension of the TA program for



Burundi Small Enterprise
Anex Project                        -5-         Implementation Completwon Report
PFIs for an additional two years; (b) reallocation of credit proceeds to fund the TA
extension; and (c) amendments to Project and Credit Agreements to increase eligibility
limit for productive investment projects from US$300,000 (SDR 210,000 equivalent) to
US$500,000 (SDR 350,000 equivalent). The new TA would focus on helping borrowers
address their technical, legal and regulatory problems, and promoters resolve bottlenecks
in developing industrial areas, such as obtaining land titles, various building and utility
permits.
14.   During negotiations of the Private Sector Development (PSD) Project (Cr. 2359-
BU) held in March 1992, the Borrower confirmed its agreement to establish, staff and
cofinance an integrated PMU comprising the SSE/TA unit at CCIB and of the Credit
Management unit at BRB. The objectives were to set up a dynamic new team of bank
and business oriented professionals to directly deal with private promoters, entrepreneurs
and banks so as to improve project implementation prospects, speed up commitments and
disbursements, improve technical counseling to all parties involved, and streamline
procedures. The Government also agreed to establish a Policy Coordinating Unit (PCU)
in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI).
15.  In January 1993, the units at BRB and CCIB merged into a single PMU. The unit
remained under the direct administrative supervision of BRB, which continued to be the
APEX institution for relending credit proceeds through the banking system. It retained
substantial autonomy and operating flexibility, and integrated both appraisal and project
promotion activities with feedback from project implementation work. Heads of the
PMU and the newly created PCU were appointed. The former became the project
manager responsible for both the investment and the TA components of the APEX
Credit. BRB and most PFIs supported the new project management arrangements which
led to substantially improved project performance. During 1993, the key administrative
and processing obstacles which caused delays in approval and authorization of
commitments and disbursements under the line of credit were removed. This happened
despite the October 1993 coup and the adverse investment climate during the electoral
period that followed the coup.
16.  In June 1993, proceeds of the Credit were reallocated to finance targeted studies
and seminars. The line of credit was reduced from SDR 5.1 million to SDR 4.5 million.
The 1993 coup and the unstable political and security situation in the country led to lack
of confidence on the part of private investors, particularly regarding new investments. In
May 1994 the Bank recommended specific short-term measures aimed at supporting
existing businesses to assist private sector recovery. A short-term action plan was
formulated and was to be carried under the PSD and APEX projects. This support would:
(a) provide short-term technical and trouble shooting expertise to private companies
experiencing difficulties; (b) define measures to strengthen the banks, such as compliance
with banking regulations and auditing requirements, so they could meet the criteria of
eligibility set for the APEX line of credit; and (c) provide long-term resources to
strengthen the liquidity of the enterprises and support their recovery. However, the



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                         -6-         Implementation Completion Report
political situation continued to deteriorate and prevented the implementation of these
measures.
17.   Until mid-1994 the PMU assisted the banks in the preparation of feasibility
studies. However, with SME performance progressively deteriorating, the Bank
recommended that the PMU shift its assistance to helping private firms which were in
trouble. In mid-1994, as a first step, the PMU carried out, in association with the PFIs, an
assessment of the situation of all the sub-projects which had been refinanced through the
line of credit and with a special focus on those which had major difficulties. The Bank
also recommended that an evaluation be made of the overall situation of the banks and
other financial institutions. The assessment was made available to the Bank after project
closing (in January 1995). To date, however, as the country economic and security
conditions continue to be uncertain, the action plan and recommendations proposed in
the assessment have not been implemented. The financial situation of the banks remained
a major concern as some institutions no longer met the eligibility criteria defined in the
APEX Credit. This deteriorating situation was highlighted as a major concern for the
Bank in its country assistance strategy for Burundi, approved by the Board in May 1995,
and the restructuring of the sector to improve financial intermediation was among the
priority actions recommended.
Sustainability
18.   Since the assassination of President Ndadaye in October 1993, political and
economic conditions in the country have steadily deteriorated.  Ethnic violence
throughout the country has caused economic activity to shrink. By 1996, physical
destruction of infrastructure and property outside Bujumbura was estimated to be around
BF 22 billion (US$90 million approximately). In the capital city of Bujumbura, four out
of ten private enterprises were affected, leading to an overall decrease in turnover of
about 30 percent. The banking sector also suffered from sizable nonperforming loans in
their portfolios. The Government has accumulated important domestic arrears, thus
aggravating the situation of private enterprises and the banks. Prospects for rapid
resolution of these problems are uncertain, and the risks of political instability and ethnic
explosion remain considerable.
19.   The sustainability of the APEX project, as with all the other operations in
Burundi, depends heavily on the political and security situation in the country. If the
situation improves, the Government should focus on supporting the creation of an
enabling business environment, including macroeconomic reform, deregulation, and more
efficient financial intermediation. These measures would encourage new investment
opportunities which would help: (a) invite the participation of SMEs in promoting and
carrying out investment projects in all sectors of the economy; and (b) increase the
involvement of financial intermediaries, not only in the financing of these productive
investments but also in appraisal and supervision of projects. The challenge for the people
and Government of Burundi, on the other hand, is to find sufficient common ground to



Burundi Small Enterprise
Aex Project                          -7-         Implementation Completion Report
steer the country towards peace. There are not sufficient indications yet that the country
conditions are conducive to either lasting reconciliation or far-reaching reform.
Bank Performance
20.   Overall, Bank performance over the life of the project was satisfactory. During
appraisal, Bank staff accurately estimated the risk that the project could face when it
introduced a new institutional set-up and new procedures. Difficulties encountered
during implementation can be attributed partly to the fact that this project was the first
apex operation in Burundi and, as such, it involved certain institutional and regulatory
arrangements that were complex and new to both BRB and PFIs. Even though this risk
was identified at appraisal, in hindsight, its manageability through quick implementation
of the technical assistance component and close IDA supervision was overestimated. In
particular, the problem of adequacy of TA through CCIB took time to resolve. Although
there were some delays, Bank staff correctly detected the main problems impeding
project implementation, drew on experience and, together with the Borrower, introduced
the necessary changes.
Borrower Performance
21.   The Borrower's performance during project implementation was deficient. During
the first stages of project implementation, the very slow process of project review,
approval and financing by local banks, which came on top of even slower administrative
approval procedures, was largely to be blamed for the sluggish pace of commitments,
particularly for the investmnent component. There were other mitigating factors, including
in particular: (a) Article 149 of Real Estate Law of Burundi which gave preference and
priority payments to Public Treasury's claims for tax arrears and other dues, thus causing
major problems and delays for the banks in recovering delinquent debts through courts
(removal of this Article, which the Government agreed during negotiations, had still not
occurred by the project closing date, in spite of repeated assurances to that effect from
Burundi authorities); (b) major difficulties in enforcing contractual agreements in
Burundi's institutionally weak and highly centralized legal (and regulatory) system; and
(c) local banks' appraisal capacity which was virtually non-existent as they did not
believe in either the reliability or utility of such appraisal in the Burundi context, relying
instead on borrower's track records and good reputation, and especially on tangible
guarantees covering up to 200 percent of loan risks.
22.   There were other reasons for difficulties encountered during early project
implementation. The CCIB technical assistance unit became truly operational only one
year after effectiveness, i.e., in February 1990, and focused thereafter on countrywide
sub-project promotion, and assistance to promoters (and PFIs to a lesser extent) in project
preparation and appraisal. Actual project implementation was neglected in view of the
substantial demand for the former. This earlier emphasis on project promotion was also
motivated by the desire to advertise the new focus on private sector and SSE development
as called for under the APEX agreements and Government policy. It was only after the



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                        -8-         Implementation Completion Report
contract of the expatriate team of technical advisors was renewed for two years in
February 1991, that the emphasis was shifted to project implementation. Nevertheless,
because of the disconnect between the line of credit and the TA component which did not
provide any incentive to promoters to request its services, and because the TA functioned
in a bureaucratic manner as did the PMU at the BRB, this component was not effective.
23.   As a result of the above and the fact that the CCIB was controlled de facto by a
Minister of Commerce and Industry who did not have the confidence of commercial
bankers and even of some promoters, CCIB proposals did not gamer the necessary
support from the banking community. BRB's interventions were sporadic as the Central
Bank did not want to appear as pressuring the banks into financing sub-projects they
deemed non-viable, or supporting uncreditworthy promoters. The various actions taken
during the early stages of implementation to speed up credit commitments through
clarification of procedures, numerous joint meetings with PFIs and project units, and
Bank missions did not bring the expected result. Following the appointment of a new
Minister of Commerce and Industry in February 1991, bankers were willing to talk more
openly with Bank staff about problems and ways to solve them. The Borrower's poor
performance during this period significantly affected the Bank's decision to reorganize
the project in May 1991.
24.  In February 1993, Bank staff and the new project manager (head of PMU), after a
thorough analysis of project performance, determined that some US$1.5 million should
have been submitted for disbursement while at least $2 million in potential project
commitments was lost. Indeed, BRB staff in charge of the investment component of the
project had no financial or other incentives to diligently manage the investment
component, which they found to be time-consuming and complex. Moreover, BRB
regulations did not allow them to maintain regular and useful contacts with PFIs,
borrowers and promoters. Project restructuring was therefore justified. The situation
improved significantly during 1994 and 1995.  Over those two years of project
implementation, the new PMU and PCU were headed by professionals highly respected
in the financial sector. In close collaboration with the Bank and despite the adverse
political and security situation prevailing at the time in Burundi, these units managed to
introduce sound sub-project appraisal procedures and financial discipline in the PFIs, and
improved the implementation performance of sub-borrowers.
25.   Some structural and institutional changes that took place after mid-1992 also
helped accelerate project commitments and disbursements. Thus, under the Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2376-BU), approved on June 4, 1992, the Government
started to take concrete actions to address several institutional and macroeconomic policy
issues, including capacity-building measures to improve economic management and
analysis. Under the follow-up PSD Credit, the performance of the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry was strengthened significantly, particularly in the areas of investment and
export policy analysis and promotion.



Burundi Small Enterprise
A-ex Project                        -9-         Imnlementation Compietion Rew-i
Assessment of Outcome
26.   The project met some of its objectives and was completed on schedule. In spite of
adverse conditions, it financed 40 SMEs allocated among the various subsectors as
follows: industry (33%); commerce (23%); services (16%); and tourism (13%) and
helped create 673 jobs. This is low compared to the stated objectives which were
somewhat optimistic. The number of firms financed reflects also the changes introduced
in the Project. Despite country conditions, about 90 percent of onlent funds are being
repaid while only 6 of the 40 enterprises that benefited from the project have discontinued
their activities. Private banks became more active in investment financing. On the other
hand, the project did not sufficiently improve the efficiency of financial operations in
Burundi or provide enough technical assistance to entrepreneurs in project operations.
Given the difficult circumstances under which the project was implemented, the outcome
of the project can be rated as marginally satisfactory.
27.   SME development in Burundi still faces with slow bureaucratic procedures.
Despite the reorganization of the project and the new management arrangements, the TA
provided by the PMU remained (until project closing) mostly focused on feasibility
studies because: (a) banks still needed strengthening in this area; and (b) the unit's staff
lacked the capacity to provide support to private companies in other areas.
Future Operation
28.   The sustainability of project achievements depends on political and economic
stability and on the implementation of an operational plan (Appendix B) to: (a) provide a
supportive business environment; (b) strengthen BRB in monitoring the private banking
system; (c) provide the necessary support to entrepreneurs in improving their business
know-how; and (d) in the case of any future line of credit operations, improve the
administrative arrangements. According to IDA's last supervision mission (October
1994) the situation of the banks was deteriorating. Inspections conducted by BRB
showed that some of them no longer met the prudential regulations established by BRB
due to accumulation of arrears.
29.   The Private Sector Development Project, which IDA approved in April 1992 and
made effective in February 1993, is helping to implement some of the elements outlined
in the Operational Plan. The objectives of this project are to : (a) remove institutional,
legal and regulatory impediments to private enterprise development; (b) implement
financial intermediation and policy reforms to promote private investment; and (c)
provide technical assistance to achieve these goals. The Credit for the project amounts to
US$17.0 million equivalent for a line of credit for financing private enterprises,
improvements in industrial sites and services, and technical assistance.



Burundi Small Enterprise
Anex Project                        -10-         IMplementation Completion Report
Key Lessons Learned
30.   The first and most important lesson learned from this project is that the banks'
reluctance to lend to SMEs because of an inadequate business environment was
underestimated. Some of the problems that the project experienced could have been
resolved more quickly through a well-functioning, independent Commercial Tribunal and
the streamlining of cumbersome regulations. Greater attention to these and other aspects
of the business environment will help to promote financing of SMEs by private banks.
31.   The second lesson is the need to strengthen BRB in its capacity to monitor the
financial sector closely and implement sound financial regulations. BRB only adopted
adequate prudential rules toward the end of the project and has implemented these rules
progressively. Monitoring earlier in the project's implementation would have allowed
BRB to identify the financial institutions facing difficulties and would have helped
reduce the scope of the financial sector difficulties following the 1993 coup.
Inappropriate regulations resulted in the creation of numerous banks and other financial
institutions during the project implementation period. The Government owns about half
of these institutions, which have not helped to improve the soundness of the financial
sector.
32.   The third lesson is the need to provide adequate support both to private
entrepreneurs in enterprise management and to the staff of the PFIs in project appraisal.
The project's technical assistance did not support these tasks consistently. PMU staff
focused mainly on reviewing projects before they were submitted to the banks and have
lacked the means to provide training and assistance to the entrepreneurs after they had
received the loans. As a result, sustainability of enterprises that needed support is
questionable.
33.   Any future line of credit operations should improve the arrangements for project
management and accounting. The responsibility for promoting and managing the line of
credit should be separate from that of monitoring the PFIs because of the inherent
difference in the activities. Staff of the Central Bank do not have marketing expertise
while promotion of the line of credit could conflict with their monitoring responsibilities.
This issue was addressed in the follow-up PSD project. Also the project could have
benefited from a special account with sufficient funds in order to honor commitments in a
timely manner and avoid some of the disbursement problems the project experienced.



Burundi Small Enterprise
{nex Priet                          -11-        Implementation Completion Report
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Projects Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Project Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions



Burundi Small Enterprise
A pex Project                               -12-          Implementation Completion Report
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment          Substantial     Partial        Negligible      Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                                  _V
Sector Policies                        _
Financial Objectives                    .___
Institutional development   _
Physical objectives      __
Gender concerns                                                                 i
Other social objectives                                                         V
Environmental objectives                                                        V
Public sector management    .
Private sector development                   i
Other           L
B. Project Sustainability
Likely           I          Uncertain           I          Unlikely
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification        _
Preparation                                          i
Appraisal            J
Supervision          X                               i
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation         I
Implementation         __
Covenant Compliance
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly                            Marginally                            Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory



Burundi Small Enterprise
A=ex Project                                 -13-           Implementation Completion Renort
Table 2: Related Bank Group Credits
Preceding Operations
Title                 Banque Nationale de D6veloppement (BNDE) Project
IDA Credit No.        731 -BU
Year of Approval      1977
Credit Amount         US$ 3.7 million equivalent
Purpose               Assist BNDE in promoting private sector development.
Status                Closed on December 31, 1983. Project performance rated as marginally
satisfactory.
Title                 Local Construction Industry Pilot Project
IDA Credit No.        1230-BU
Year of Approval      1982
Credit Amount        US$ 5.2 million equivalent
Purpose               To promote brickmaking through the financing of two limekilns, technical and
managerial assistance to construction enterprises, and the Ministry of Public
Works, Energy, and Mining.
Status               Closed on March 31, 1987. Project performance rated as unsatisfactory.
Following Operation
Title                 Private Sector Enterprise Development Project
IDA Credit No.       2359-BU
Year of Approval      1992
Credit Amount        US$ 17.4 million equivalent
Purpose               Promote growth by supporting the establishment of an incentive framework for
export-oriented private sector investmnent.
Status               Project is ongoing.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Planned Date                    Actual Date
Identification                              -                 April 1987
Appraisal                      June 1987                      June/July 1987
Negotiations                   June/July 1988                 January 19-21, 1988
Board presentation             September 1988                 March 29, 1988
Signing                                                       June 8, 1988
Effectiveness                                               ' March 6,1989
Project completion                                            August 1994
Credit closing                                                December 31, 1994
Source: Bank Cost Accounting System, project files, and staff estimates.



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                                 -14-           Implementation Completion Report
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
Comparative Indicators        1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Appraisal estimate             0.0    0.7    1.8    3.6    6.0    7.6    8.0    8.0
Actual                         0.0    0.0    0.7    0.8    2.1    3.2    6.0    7.7
Actual as % of estimate         --      --   38.9   22.0   35.0   42.1   75.0   96.2
Date of Final Disbursement: March 27, 1995.
Notes:
1. All US $ figures rounded to the nearest hundred thousand US$.
2. All percentage figures rounded to the nearest one percent.
Source: Bank Project Management System and Bank staff estimates.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable to this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) since there were no indicators
specified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable to this ICR since there were no such indicators specified in the project's SAR.
Table 7: Study Included in the Project
STUDY                         PURPOSE                   STATUS AND IMPACT
Diagnostic study of enterprises    To follow up on the activities and  The Bank believed that the
financed under the apex line of    financial situation of enterprises   project implementation unit staff
credit.                       that benefited from the apex line   could do the diagnosis in concert
of credit and to provide technical  with the participating banks and
assistance to those that need it.    determine the kind of assistance
required by the enterprises. The
study was available after project
closing.
Source: Project files.



Burundi Small Enterprise
Aa  fProiect                                 -15-           Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in US$ million equivalent)
Item                    Appraisal estimate                    Actual or latest estimate
Local       Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign       Total
Costs        Costs         Costs       Costs         Costs        Costs
Investments               3.0           7.0          10.0         2.4           5.6           8.0
Technical Assistance      0.4           0.6           1.0          0.5          1.5           2.0
and Training                                     
Small Scale Enterprise    0.1           0.1           0.2         0.4           0.1           0.5
Bureau
TOTAL COST                3.5           7.7          11.2         3.3           7.2          10.5
Note: All costs rounded to the nearest US$100,000 equivalent.
Source: Bank Project Management System, project files and staff estimates.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source               Appraisal estimate                   Actual/latest estimate
Local     Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign       Total
Costs      Costs        Costs         Costs        Costs        Costs
SSEBorrowers       1.5         --           1.5          1.6           -            1.6
Participating
Financial
Internediaries     1.5                      1.5          0.8                        0.8
SSE Bureau                                  0.2          0.4           -            0.4
IDA                0.3         7.7          8.0          0.5          7.2           7.5
TOTAL              3.5         7.7         11.2          3.3          7.2          10.5
Source: Project Files and Bank Staff estimates.
Note: All fnancing amounts rounded to the nearest US$100,000 equivalent.
Table 9: Project Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
TYP E OF BENEFT| ESTIMATED                                        ACTUAL
Employment creation at low     2,500 new jobs at an average cost  673 jobs at an estimated cost of
capital cost                        of US$ 4,000 per job            US$15,300 per job
SSE diversification            Geographical extension of SSEs
Economic rate of return                Not applicable.                Not applicable.
Source Project files.



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                                -16-          Implementation CompIetion Report
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement/  Type                         Description                          Status
Section
DCA/3.01    E       Borrower commits to project objectives and causes its agents,  Complied with.
BRB and CCIB to perform obligations under the PA.
DCA/3.02    E       Re-lending of credit proceeds to BRB under a management    Complied with.
agreement satisfactory to IDA.
DCA/3.03    E       Agreement with IDA that BRB will ensure compliance with    Complied with.
the general conditions of the loan, pursuant to section 2.04 of
the PA
DCA/3.04    E       To execute Part B of the project, the Borrower is to: (a) enter  Complied with
into a Cooperative Agreement (CA) with CCIB with terms  after project
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, providing for the  recast.
establishment of SEB and definition of its staff functions; and
(b) exercises its rights to protect its interest and that of IDA
and accomplish the purpose of the Credit.
DCA/3.05    E       Borrower to provide IDA, by June 30, 1990 with the action    Not complied
program provided for in Part B (5) of the project.   with. The
political situation
was not
conducive to
fulfillment of
these activities.
PA/2.02      E      BRB to commit to the project objectives set forth in Schedule  Complied with.
2 of the DCA, and establish and maintain a Project
Management Unit (PMU) for the execution of the project.
PA/2.02      E      BRB to enter into participation agreements with participating   Complied with.
financial intermediaries (PFI); charge PFIs interest rates
according to section 3.02 of the DCA; and under the
agreements, exercise its rights to protect its interests and those
of IDA, as well as comply with obligations of the
Management Agreement, and achieve the purposes of the
project.
PA/2.03      E      The aggregate amount lent by BRB through sub-loans for  Complied with.
financing working capital shall not exceed 25 % of the
amounted allocated to Category 1, as stated in Schedule I of
the DCA and such lending is restricted to existing investment
enterprises.
PA/2.04      E      BRB to ensure compliance with the General Conditions with   Not complied
respect of the PA and Part A of the Project.         with at project
start; complied
with at project
closing.
PA/2.05      E      BRB to perform all of its obligations under the Management   Complied with.
Agreement and unless agreed with IDA, not modify it.
PA/2.06      E      BRB to exchange views with IDA, as requested, on its  Complied with.
performance under the PA and under the MA. Also BRB to
notify IDA of any condition that threatens project
performance and achievement of objectives.



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                                 -17-           lmplementation Completion Report
PA/3.01      F       BRB to maintain records adequate to monitor the progress of   Complied with.
Part A of the project in accordance with sound financial
practices
PA/3.02      F       BRB to have independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, audit   Complied with.
project records and accounts annually; furnish IDA with the
report within six months after the end of the year; adhere to
rules for maintaining records of the Credit Account.
Source: Project files.
Abbreviation used as follows: for the agreements, DCA=Development Credit Agreement; PA= Project
Agreement; MA= Management Agreement; for covenant types: E = Execution of the project; F=Financial
operations under the project; and for institutions, BRB = the Central Bank of Burundi (Banque de la
Republique de Burundi); CCIB = Chamber of Comnmerce, Industry, Agriculture and Handicraft of Burundi;
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable to this project.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of
project cycle        Planned 1/                 Revised I/                  Actual
____________  _Weeks       US$          Weeks       000 US$       Weeks        000 US$
Preparation                                                --
24.6         43.5
Appraisal                                                              36.7          62.8
Negotiations
through Board
approval                                                                2.6           5.2
Supervision                                                            63.7         136.3
Completion         -                                    X               12.2         12.4
1/ Planned and revised figures for comparison with actual figures were not available in the Bank's project
reporting system
Source: Bank Project Reporting System data and Bank staff estimates.



Burundi Small Enterprise
ADe-  Project                                -18-           Imniementation ComDietion Report
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project  Month and  Number   Days in          Staff      Performance      Main
Cycle         Year         of      the Field   Specialization   Rating      Problems
Persons
Appraisal         June/July
1987        4          21       IE, SO, BS,
FA
Post-Appraisal I    January
1989        1          7            SO
Supervision I    June 1989       1         7            IE             --            -
Supervision 2    November
1989        2          14         SO, IE           2            2
Supervision 3    April 1990     2          11           SO             2             --
Supervision 4      August
1990        1          19           SO             2            TR
Supervision 5     October/
November
1990        2          22         SO, IE           2            TR
Supervision 6    March
1991           1          13           SO             3         PM, TA,
TR
Supervision 7    November
1991        3          19       SO, IE, BS         2            TR
Supervision 8    May 1992        1         16           SO             2            TR
Supervision 9     January/
February
1993        l          19           SO             2
Supervision 10    October
1993        4          12       SO, IE, FA,
LA             2
Supervision 11   April 1994      1         9            FA             2
Supervision 12    September/
October
1994        1          10           FA             S
Abbreviations:
Staff Specialization: BS = Banking Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; IE  Industrial Economist; LA =
Lawyer; SO = Senior Operations Officer.
Project Ratings: 1 = no problems or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems; S =
satisfactory.
Problem Types: PM = project management; TA = technical assistance; and TR = training.



Bunrundi Small ntEerprise
Aper Project                          19-         imolementazionComyletianReoort
Aypendix A
lMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
Contribution of the Project Management Unit
CELLXULE DE GESTION DU PROJEET  CG             suIumbura, 3La 8/5/97
s.P. 98a TELP: 22 2152  FAX: 22 1700
TELEX:     SllO  CGQ-SDI
tT T  Pt tY R A - -zq  c-              o M T
ERIC 13OvcHzN
FZBAncZAZ. ANAL?ST
ROOM J 7064
WORLD 5ANX
WASHZINGTON D.C.
Aprbs atvoir parcou-u la r4pport d'achavement du projet APEX,
nous voudriona relever un deq!--ommentairs:
NOUs  avona  aot6  les  recommandationa  mentionn6as  ou.
paragraphs 42 : la progra.nse d'activit6a prozos6 pour 1'avanir
"c co&centrera particuli;rement & cette t&iche, coae d6ja discut&
lors de la mission de la revue a mi-parcours de mars 96. Nous
Soulignona cependant que I.aa ituat .on poli nique, soclo 6conomique
ec les probl&mes de sacurit6 nw6taient pas tavorabIles A un plan
inthgrd d'asusitanco techaniqus Our la p6riode de Septe=bre 93 &
D6cambra 94.
Dan  Ilenasemble cependant, ie raccort noua uemble refleter
la d4roulmezn,t correct doe l'exdcution du projet.
Veuillez   agrder,   Mons^i-ur,   L'exuresaion   de   notre
consid6ration tr6s distingu6e.
LS DID  L
_0X  . .



Burundi Small Enterprise
An2ex Project                        -20-         Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SMALL ENTERPRISE APEX PROJECT
(Credit 1889-BU)
Operational Plan
Overview
1.    The following actions comprise the operational plan to support the further
development of SMEs in Burundi, taking account of lessons learned from the project.
These actions include: (a) the development of a favorable business environment, which is
free of distortions and which gives the private sector positive signals to function
efficiently; and (b) the strengthening of the Central Bank in its monitoring of the private
banking system, including (i) the provision of adequate support to entrepreneurs in
project management, marketing, and basic accounting after they receive loans, and (ii)
appropriate arrangements for future line of credit projects.
Business Environment
2.    Given the economic and political uncertainties in the country, PFIs were reluctant
to lend to some SMEs. The main constraints to SME development during the project
were: political unrest and related economic difficulties; the scarcity of developed
industrial sites and services; the long process of acquiring land and obtaining business
permits; excessively long customs procedures for foreign equipment; and difficult road
transportation. As a result, bankers were reluctant to confirm letters of credit for
equipment imports unless building construction was well advanced and the borrower was
able to provide sufficient collateral. Improvement of the business environment requires a
stable political situation, macroeconomic reform, de-regulation, more efficient financial
intermediation and better economic infrastructure. In this regard, IDA is financing the
follow-up Private Sector Development Project, which was approved in April 1992 and
became effective in February 1993. This project includes a component to improve the
availability of industrial sites and services and a policy package of legal, regulatory, fiscal
and financial policy reforms. However, the restoration of political and economic stability
is uncertain at the present time. The project has been suspended since October 1996
(together with the whole Bank's portfolio in Burundi) due to the situation prevailing in



Burundi Small Enterprise
Apex Project                          -21-        Implementation CompletionReport
the country. Partial lifting of suspension is being considered at this date. The project was
performing satisfactorily until suspension.
Banking System Monitoring
3.    Close monitoring of the banking system is important, especially the application of
adequate prudential regulations, to encourage the development of efficient financial
institutions. Given that BRB inspections during the project found that some of the PFIs
were not meeting established guidelines, an evaluation of the financial sector is a key step
toward promoting efficient financial intermediation. Bank assistance will be necessary to
assess the situation of the financial sector. Country conditions permitting, if basic
information is made available, and if the Government is committed to implementing
necessary actions, the Bank will consider an intervention.
Support to SME Entrepreneurs
4.    The lack of sufficient training and assistance to entrepreneurs, by PMU, in project
management, marketing, and basic accounting casts doubt on the sustainability of some
of the investments that IDA helped to finance under the project. The PMU has noted that
the security problems at times during project execution were not favorable to
implementing a full package of technical assistance. Also, as discussed with an IDA
mission in March 1996, the PMU has indicated that future activities will give more
attention to technical assistance and training.
Arrangements for Future Credits
5.    The Central Bank found it difficult to be both the promotion agency for the line of
credit and the monitoring authority. In addition, during project implementation, there
were disbursement problems owing from time to time to the lack of available funds. The
establishment of an independent project unit in the follow-up PSD project has addressed
this problem.






MAP SECTIQ



I



IBRD 28085
CAMEROON    CENTRALAFRI   RTHIOPIA                                                                                                    I                                2
r' /~ ~'             ~             & A                                        3L000                                   3L 30
Z RE    AI4END              A                                                                BURUNDI
% t ~               Loke( L J' U N DI
TANZANIA  10005: 
ZAMBIA              MtOZAMBI       -2                   K/O                                            /
\   tYouQ    -'ICJs                                                                                             f i/SUISA {A                z N
E~TOKi:  N.           R ANDA( KIRUNO                                '~KIRUNDO
*G CIBITOKE                                                                                                U. --
X 7 KAYANZA  NGozI -  -  X  X                                                ANZANiA
3w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
GhZA                                                      (                                                PavedRosYANZA  RUC
Bl                               |R3 -                                               -     Rue RUZI  - -e
;z  \ zalF/ 0t  r >  --                T                  /    <               ~~~CANKUZO              /
tt  \ k': \        g    URAMVYA  -1         
To Mualongie                                                                                                                             Capital
X t  $ t~~UMBURA, MRAMVYA   A                                   I -
-330'   fZ   \  /       <    j                         Z   S                         (g~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUYIGI
9   j    \  UJUMBURA                                                                                    d  Provinc
ZAIRE                                            .    ..7'i
- ~      ~        W I,3                                                                                                            Inentoa  Boundaries "
a  9; A            C          X                     3 ~~~~RUTANA 
'  >A                      '  BUTUTSI                   0 tRTN 
_4.00  ) XS : ;. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ghofi                                                                        Paved Roads 7'
/   t  %   n       /                     <                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Routes RevefOes
--rj    ~ ~  ~ ~ FonI reintern           otionloArpo s
/e boundares, olors denominations  d an-  other infrmatin                            *           10eroport Inte2 0onal
t     on t  mp do                                yotpatoMAKAMBA         l )kPort
oup, any judgmen on the lol its ofyterritororyProvince Capitals
/  /  /   !  |            J                      J                                *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chef-Lieux des Province
kJ   j       \    ;;   %                MA,"A~~~~~~~MBA-                                      *   Notionai Capital
e|dorseme:t or acceptance of hboundrie.Province Boundaries
( .   -I  _   ,   #   ,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Frontieres des Province 
-4n0          i    .            {                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
e   .J     {                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Frontieres Internationales
{            / This m*~~p wspnep.red by the Map Design Unit of the World Bank.
I        t                    / ~~~~~~~~~The boundories, colors denoninotions ond  ony other info-mtion  0  1 0    20     30      40
t        t                    / sho~~~~~~~~lwn on thi mop do not imply, an th. port of Th. World bonk
)       |        .        . / Gr~~~~~~~oup , onLjdgmrnt an the legal stohfu  of any J-rfttry, or any           KiLOMETERS
I                 -         t  en~~~~~~~dorsement or scoeptnone of such boundones.
29-X  /3 .                 35'     j                              3000J 3030
JUNE 1996



IMAGING
Report             10 8TO
Typ      SAR



