Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1889 BU
(Small Enterprise/APEX Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1889 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI ("the Borrower") and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Banque de la Republique du  
Burundi and the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Agriculture and Handicraft   of Burundi 
with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Banque de la Republique du Burundi and to the Chamber of Commerce, 
Industry, Agriculture and Handicraft of
Burundi the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and  conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even  date herewith between the Association 
Page  2
and the Banque de la Republique du Burundi;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions"), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BRB" means Banque de la Republique du Burundi, the Borrower's central 
bank, established pursuant to its Statutes;
(b)
"CCIB" means the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Agriculture and 
Handicraft of Burundi;
(c)
"Cooperation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CCIB, pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Cooperation 
Agreement;
(d)
"Franc Burundais" and "FBu" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"Government Security" means the debt obligation having the longest 
available maturity among those publicly issued by the Borrower;
(f)
"Government Security Rate" means the interest rate payable on any 
Government Security;
(g)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to or for which a PFI (as 
hereinafter defined) has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan and which  meets the 
criteria established for small-scale enterprises set forth in  paragraph 2 of Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i)
"Management Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BRB pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Management 
Agreement;
(j)
"Industrial Rediscount Rate" means the discount rate (taux de  
mobilisation) applied in the Borrower's territory to medium-term industrial credit as 
set from time to time by BRB;
(k)
"Participating Financial Intermediary" and "PFI" mean a commercial or 
development bank or credit institution acceptable to the Association to which BRB 
under an agreement (a "Participating Agreement") with such bank  or institution, has 
lent proceeds of the Credit for relending to Investment Enterprises for Investment 
Projects;
(l)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BRB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to  time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Project Management Unit" means the unit to be established within  BRB 
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of and Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement,  to be 
responsible, inter alia, for the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
Page  3
(n)
"SEB" means the Small Enterprise Bureau to be established  pursuant to 
the terms and conditions of the Cooperation Agreement within  CCIB and to be 
responsible, inter alia, for the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Statutes" means the Statutes of BRB, dated January 3, 1976, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement; and
(q)
"Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by  a PFI 
to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project under a Sub-loan  Agreement out 
of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit made available to such PFI by BRB.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) under Part A 
of the Project by Participating Financial Intermediaries on account of withdrawals 
made by Investment Enterprises under Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for Investment Projects; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the 
Association  shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and  services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and  maintain 
in dollars a special account in a credit institution acceptable to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in  accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and BRB of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account  or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other 
rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the  
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 1998, and ending  November 15, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable  on November 15, 2007, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider  the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent  to the review and, approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association  may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant  element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BRB, acting through the Project Management Unit, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any  action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section  2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations  under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall: (a) cause BRB to carry out Part A of the Project and to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the 
obligations of BRB therein set forth;
(b)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of  funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate   to enable BRB to 
perform such obligations;
(c)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance;
(d)
carry out Part B of the Project through CCIB with due diligence  and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative practices  and the terms 
and conditions of the Cooperation Agreement; and
(e)
as the need may arise, provide promptly the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
Section 3.02. With respect to Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
relend to BRB under a Management Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, the portion of the Credit allocated to and withdrawn under Category 1 in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement at  an interest rate equal 
to: (i) when no Government Security market is  established in the Borrower's 
territory, one percent (1%) below the  Industrial Rediscount Rate; or (ii) when the 
Borrower and the Association are satisfied that such a Government Security market is 
established and operating, one-half of one percent (1/2%) below the Government 
Security Rate, the principal amount of the Credit relent to BRB shall be repaid to  
the Borrower in equal annual installments beginning ten (10) years after  the date of 
this Agreement and ending thirty (30) years after the date of this Agreement;
(b)
cause BRB to onlend the proceeds of the Credit received under paragraph 
(a) of this Section under Participating Agreements to Participating Financial 
Intermediaries at an interest rate equal to: (i) in  the case envisaged under 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, one-half of one  percent (1/2%) below the 
Industrial Rediscount Rate; or (ii) in the case envisaged under paragraph (a) (ii) of 
this Section, the Government Security Rate; 
(c)
review with the Association, any rate established in accordance with 
paragraphs (a) (i) and (b) (i) of this Section whenever the Industrial  Rediscount 
Rate is modified, and adjust such rate, if necessary, so that it  is acceptable to the 
Association;
(d)
review with the Association any rate established in accordance with 
paragraphs (a) (ii) and (b) (ii) of this Section at least every twelve  (12) months 
and adjust such rate, if necessary, in a manner acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
exercise its rights under the Management Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to  accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall  otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Management Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that compliance with 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, and maintenance respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project 
shall be ensured by BRB, pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out  Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
enter into a Cooperation Agreement with CCIB, with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, providing for the establishment of SEB within CCIB 
and the definition of SEB's staff and functions under the Project; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to  accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990, submit to the 
Association the action program provided for in Part B (5) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project of CCIB and 
the departments or agencies of the  Borrower responsible for carrying out Part B of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
Page  6
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BRB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the  
Project Agreement, the Management Agreement or the Cooperation Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BRB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations  or financial condition 
of BRB or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BRB or CCIB or for the 
suspension of the operations of any of them.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and BRB; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Management Unit has been established;
 
(b)
the Small Enterprise Bureau has been established;
 
(c)
the Management Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and BRB, 
respectively;
(d)
the Cooperation Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and CCIB, 
respectively; and
(e)
at least one Participating Agreement has been entered into by BRB and any 
of the Participating Financial Intermediaries, respectively.
Page  7
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section  12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BRB 
and is legally binding upon BRB in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Management Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower and BRB in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Cooperation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CCIB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.O2 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date thirty (30) years after the date of  effectiveness of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for industry is designated  as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Commerce, de l'Industrie
   et de l'Artisanat
B.P. 492
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINICI
5117 MINICI BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
Page  8
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods and ser-              5,100,000       100%
     vices financed
     by Sub-loans under
     Part A of the
     Project
(2)  Consultants' and              440,000       100%
     experts' services,
     training under
     Part B of the
     Project
(3)  (a)   salaries of              60,000       80%
           personnel and
           operating
           costs of SEB
     (b)   goods, sup-              40,000       100% of foreign
           plies and                             expenditures
           vehicles of                           and 90% of local
           SEB                                   expenditures
(4)  PFI Audits                     40,000       50%
(5)  Consultants' services           3,000       100%
     for savings and
     credit cooperatives
(6)  Unallocated                    17,000
                                 _________
          TOTAL                  5,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  9
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of Category (4) above before January 1, 1990; 
 
(b)
in respect of any Sub-loan unless: (i) the relevant Participating 
Agreement has been entered into by BRB and the PFI concerned; and (ii) such Sub-loan 
has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms  and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(c)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support the development of small-scale 
enterprises in the Borrower's territory through the provision  of financial resources 
and technical assistance services; (ii) to increase the participation of financial 
intermediaries in the financing of productive investments and to contribute to the 
decentralization of economic activity in the Borrower's territory; (iii) to strengthen 
the financial intermediaries' small-scale enterprise appraisal and supervision 
capabilities; (iv) to improve the efficiency of the Borrower's financial sector and 
the institutional framework of the small-scale enterprises; and (v) to generate new 
employment opportunities in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Credit to Small-Scale Enterprise
 
The financing of specific Investment Projects through loans granted to  
Investment Enterprises by Participating Financial Intermediaries with the proceeds of 
the Credit onlent to them by BRB.
Part B:
Assistance and Training
 
1.
Carrying out, by the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Agriculture and Handicraft 
of Burundi, acting through the Small Enterprise Bureau, of an Entrepreneurship 
Development Program for entrepreneurs willing to expand their enterprises or to start 
new ones.
2.
Provision of technical support in small-scale project preparation and  
execution, including: (a) technical advice; (b) seminars; (c) promotional   missions 
in the Borrower's territory; and (d) assistance in the preparation of feasibility 
studies and in discussions and negotiations.
3.
Training of management and the staff of PFIs to strengthen their capabilities in 
the appraisal and supervision of Investment Projects.
4.
Carrying out of PFIs audits.
 
5.
Preparation of an action program, including appropriate legislation, aimed at 
bringing the savings and credit cooperatives into the Borrower's formal financial 
system and preparing them for accreditation under BRB.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  10
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means disbursements by PFIs under 
Sub-loans and expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and  services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals or in such minimum amounts as the Association 
shall specify. On the basis of such requests,  the Association shall withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required 
to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments 
made out of such Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have  been justified by 
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 
4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or  at the time of such request, 
such documents other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made  for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining  
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
Page  11
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice  will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
