Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1889 BU
(Small Enterprise/APEX Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
Dated June 8, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1889 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1988, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  
ASSOCIATION (the "Association") and BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI ("BRB").
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Burundi (the "Borrower") and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million seven hundred thousand Special  Drawing Rights (SDR 5,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in  the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that BRB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a management agreement (the "Management Agreement") to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BRB, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement will be made  available to BRB on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Management Agreement; and
WHEREAS BRB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the  
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, 
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General  Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the
Project Management Unit
Section 2.01. (a) BRB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance 
with sound financial standards and  practices, with qualified and experienced 
management and in accordance with its Statutes.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section BRB shall: (i) 
establish and maintain the Project Management Unit with the management and  staff and 
under the terms of reference set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
allocate from the interest it receives from PFIs under  Participation Agreements 
amounts equal to one half of one percent (1/2%) per annum of the principal amount 
outstanding under such Participation Agreements so as to cover the Project Management 
Unit's costs and expenses.
Section 2.02. BRB shall:
(a)
enter into Participation Agreements with Participating Financial 
Intermediaries under which the Franc Burundais equivalent of proceeds of the  Credit 
will be lent to such PFIs for relending in the form of Sub-loans to Investment 
Enterprises to finance Investment Projects; such Participation Agreements to be 
satisfactory to the Association and to provide that Sub-loans be made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b)
charge PFIs under Participating Agreements an interest rate established 
in accordance with Section 3.02 (b) through (d) of the Development Credit Agreement; 
and
(c)
exercise its rights in relation to each Participation Agreement in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and those  of BRB; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and under the Management Agreement; 
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. BRB shall ensure that the aggregate amount lent under Sub-loans 
for working capital financing unrelated to equipment financing not exceed twenty-five 
percent (25%) of the amount allocated to Category 1 in the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, and that such Sub-loans 
be restricted to existing Investment Enterprises in productive sectors.
Section 2.04. BRB shall ensure compliance with obligations set forth in  
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports and 
maintenance) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. BRB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Management 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BRB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of  assigning, amending, abrogating 
Page  3
or waiving the Management Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) BRB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under  the Management Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BRB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BRB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and the Management Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BRB  shall maintain procedures, records and accounts adequate 
to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the Project and of each Investment 
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect, in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound  accounting practices, its operations 
and financial condition in respect of  Part A of the Project.
(b)
BRB shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, BRB shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BRB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BRB of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank of the Republic of Burundi:
Banque de la Republique du Burundi
B.P. 705
Bujumbura,
Republic of Burundi
Telex:
5071 BRB BDI
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BRB or by BRB 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of BRB, or by such other person or persons as such Governor 
shall designate in writing,  and BRB shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the   authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
Page  5
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Project Management Unit
Staff
1.
Project Analyst (Unit Chief).
 
2.
Accountant/Financial Analyst.
 
3.
Appropriate support staff.
 
Functions
1.
Provide guidance to PFIs in selecting eligible Investment Projects.
 
2.
Ensure application of appropriate standards for appraisals of Investment 
Projects.
3.
Review the eligibility and authorize financing for Investment Projects submitted 
by PFIs. For Sub-loans of less than $80,000 equivalent, check  whether the requests 
meet the eligibility criteria and give approval within  five (5) working days from 
submission. For Sub-loans of/or above $80,000 equivalent, review the requests in more 
detail, give comments on the quality of appraisal to the PFI concerned and check the 
eligibility for refinancing of the requests within ten (10) working days from 
submission.
4.
Ensure proper disbursement of proceeds of the Credit, and supervise  and 
centralize the collection and forwarding of supporting documentation.
5.
Supervise the PFIs' compliance with their obligations under the Participation 
Agreements.
6.
Supervise, on a sample basis and/or focusing on problem cases, the Investment 
Projects.
7.
Ensure liaison between the Association and the Participating Financial 
Intermediaries on matters related to the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
PFIs will relend the Franc Burundais equivalent of the proceeds of the  Credit 
to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects, for terms of two (2) to ten (10) 
years, or of two (2) to twelve (12) years for agricultural  projects which shall be 
Page  6
specifically authorized by the Project Management Unit. The Sub-loans may include 
periods of grace of up to three (3) years, or up to six (6) years for agricultural 
projects specifically authorized by the Project Management Unit, and shall include 
rates of interest which may be subject to maximum ceilings agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association.
2.
PFIs shall charge to Investment Enterprises under Sub-loans an interest rate 
equal to the aggregate of: (a) the rate charged to PFIs under Section  3.02 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement; and (b) a margin which, as  long as the situation 
envisaged under Section 3.02 (a) (i) of the  Development Credit Agreement exists, 
shall not be higher than: (i) four (4) percentage points for Sub-loans having a 
duration of up to seven (7) years; and (ii) five (5) percentage points for Sub-loans 
having a duration of more than seven (7) years. The financial charges on Sub-loans 
shall consist of  the above interest only and no other charge, commission and fee 
shall be payable under Sub-loans.
3.
Investment Enterprises eligible for Sub-loans shall be only those  enterprises 
with total net assets not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000, or, if new 
enterprises, those requesting Sub-loans to finance Investment  Projects, the cost of 
which is estimated not to exceed such equivalent.
4.
Sub-loans for any Investment Project for modernization or expansion of small 
enterprises may not exceed eighty percent (80%) of the total cost of  the proposed 
Investment Project nor a total equivalent to $240,000.
5.
Sub-loans for any Investment Project to be carried out by a new enterprise may 
not exceed a total equivalent to $210,000.
6.
Sub-loans may finance up to 90% of any Investment Project to be carried out by a 
new enterprise, provided, however, that any profit generated by  such enterprise shall 
be reinvested in the same Investment Project until the percentage financed by such 
Sub-loan shall have been reduced to 70% thereof.
7.
PFIs may cofinance up to twenty percent (20%) of the cost of Investment Projects 
from their own resources.
8.
No Sub-loan granted by any PFI shall be eligible for refinancing by BRB out of 
the proceeds of the Credit without the prior verification of the Project Management 
Unit as to its eligibility and without the approval of  the Association; once five 
Sub-loans for each PFI shall have been so approved, however, the approval of the 
Association shall no longer be required for the subsequent Sub-loans granted by such 
PFI.
9.
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Association for approval, the relevant PFI and 
BRB shall furnish to the Association an application, in  form satisfactory to the 
Association, together with: (i) a description of  the Investment Enterprise and an 
appraisal of the Investment Project,  including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan; (ii) the proposed terms 
and conditions of the Sub-loan including its schedule of amortization; and (iii) such 
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
10.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI concerned shall obtain, by 
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association, those of BRB and those of 
the PFI including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with  sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency  and reliability of the 
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the 
case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; 
and (ii) such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
Page  7
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Project 
Management Unit, or jointly with the Association, or jointly with both, as the case 
may be, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards  incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed  out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use 
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely 
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, the PFI or the Project 
Management Unit, as the case may be, shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial  condition of the 
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; 
and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the PFI concerned.
