Page  1
May 9, 1991
Mr. Isaac Budabuda
Governor
Banque de la Repubique du Burundi
B.P. 705
Bujumbura (Burundi)
Re:
BURUNDI - Credit No. 1889-BU (Small Enterprise/APEX Project)
Amendments to Project Agreement
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Project Agreement between the International Development 
Association (the Association) and the Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB) dated 
June 8, 1988, in respect of the
above-mentioned project. 
Further to your telex dated February 19, 1991, we are pleased to inform you that 
the Association hereby agrees to your request to amend the said Project Agreement in 
order to modify the criteria and limits for eligibility of sub-projects and to 
denominate such limits in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs).  Consequently, the 
Association proposes the following amendments to the Project Agreement:
A.
TO SCHEDULE I TO THE PROJECT AGREEMENT
 
Paragraph 3 of the Part entitled "Functions" is hereby amended by the deletion 
therefrom of the amount of "$80,000" both times that it appears and the substitution 
each time therefor of the amount.
B.
TO SCHEDULE 2 TO THE PROJECT AGREEMENT
 
1.
Paragraph 3 is hereby amended:
 
(a)
by the addition of the expression "Unless the Association and BRB shall 
otherwise agree" and deletion therefrom of the expression "total net assets" and the 
substitution therefor of the expression "total net fixed assets excluding land";
(b)
by the deletion therefrom of the amount "$300,000" and the substitution 
therefor of the amount "SDR 350,000"; and
(c)
by the addition at the end thereto of the following sentence: "Investment 
Projects eligible for Sub-loans for free-standing working capital financing unrelated 
to equipment financing shall be only those Investment Projects, the cost of which is 
estimated not to exceed the equivalent of SDR 210,000 and which shall be carried out 
only by existing Investment Enterprises in
productive sectors". 
2.
Paragraph 4 is hereby amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount "$240,000" 
and the substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 280,000"; and
3.
Paragraph 5 is hereby amended by (a) the deletion therefrom of the amount 
"$210,000" and the substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 245.000", and (b) by the 
addition of the words: "and Sub-loans for investment in free-standing working capital 
financing may not exceed a total equivalent of SDR 168,000".
4.
Paragraph 8 is hereby amended by the deletion therefrom of the word "five" and 
the substitution therefor of the word "three".
5.
A new Paragraph 11 is added reading as follows: Investment Projects estimated to 
cost the equivalent of SDR 75,000.00 or more shall be eligible for Sub-loans only if 
the investment will generate an expected internal financial rate of return of at least 
10.0 percent in real term; Investment Projects estimated to cost the equivalent of SDR 
215,000.00 or more shall be eligible for Sub-loans only if the investment will 
Page  2
generate an internal economic rate of return of at least 10.0 percent in real terms.
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the form of confirmation below on one of the duplicate originals of this letter and 
returning it to us for our
records.  The amendments shall come into force on the date of countersignature by you.
Yours truly,
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
BANQUE DE LA REPUBIQUE DU BURUNDI
By /s/ Isaac Budabuda, Governor
Authorized Representative
