Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
PREAPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4689 
Operation Name 
PL Second Programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL2) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General education (25%); Health (25%); General public 
administration (20%); Compulsory pension and unemployment 
insurance (20%); Other social services (10%). 
Project ID 
P116125 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 27, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 30, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This is the second development policy loan (DPL) in a program of three lending operations 
supporting a policy program aimed at accelerat
ing Poland’s convergence with average EU living 
standards.  
Although Poland has made impressive progress towards creating a modern, market based 
economy, and has successfully acceded into the EU, constraints to 
the country’s continued rapid 
convergence with its European partners are becoming visible.  The key necessary outcomes identified by 
the Government and the Bank that the program is designed to help achieve are: to enhance the quality 
and efficiency of public financial management and expenditure, to increase the supply and skills of the 
labor force, and to strengthen the business environment. 
The first loan in the program (DPL1) supported a broad range of policy actions to strengthen 
public financial management, increase participation in the labor market, and improve the 
environment for doing business.  
Consistent with the convergence aims of the program, the policy 
actions taken by the Government prior to presentation of the first loan to the Board included: satisfactory 
implementation of the 2008 budget and presentation of the 2009 budget bill consistent with the 
Convergence Program; a reduction in pay-roll taxes to lower the cost of labor; elimination of required 
work permits for foreign workers from neighboring countries to increase the labor supply; tightening 
eligibility requirements for disability benefits; legislation that reduces the minimum capital required to 
start a business; and the approval of a privatization program encompassing the sale of 740 state owned 
enterprises. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The second lending operation (DPL2) will continue to support reforms to public financial 
management, and improvements of labor market efficiency in line with the first loan, as well as 
structural improvements to the finance and provision of health, education and social protection.
 
The second lending operation in the program, has the following objectives: (i) to support structural 
reforms that will ensure fiscal consolidation over the medium-term; (ii) to protect priority programs and 
the up-front fiscal costs of structural reforms critical to meeting Poland’s goals of convergence the rest 
of the EU; and (iii) to mitigate the social cost of the crisis.   
3. Preliminary description 
Page  2
In the months since the first loan was disbursed, the external economic environment has changed 
substantially, causing growth in Poland to slow sharply.  
To better manage the uncertainty that the 
world economic crisis has introduced to Poland's outlook and fiscal targets, as well as pushing ahead 
with reform of public financial management, the Government is now focusing on the part of the program 
specifically targeting the labor market, education, health and social protection.  The second lending 
operation in the program (DPL2) will continue to support reforms initiated with the first loan, and 
include structural improvement and maintaining critical programs in the social sectors. 
Key policy actions will be taken by the Government prior to presentation of the proposed second 
loan to the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors.
 
These are:
 
i. 
Satisfactory continued implementation of the 2009 budget in light of the changed economic outlook 
(including consideration of IMF and EC assessments); 
ii. 
Submission to Parliament of amended Law on Public Finance; 
iii. 
Implementation of Government program to increase labor force participation of older workers, known 
as “50+”; 
iv. 
Reduction in the number of occupational categories eligible for early retirement and introduction of 
actuarial adjustment of early pensions; 
v. 
Open a window for participation of public hospitals in a voluntary program that would convert them 
into corporate entities operating under the commercial code;
 
vi. 
A
dopt DRG-based payments system for 90% of all payments from NFZ to hospitals; 
vii. 
Pass a law to initiate a compulsory pre-primary program for 5 year-old children (Grade 0) starting 
from 2010/11 and begin implementing it on a voluntary basis in 2009/10.  The same law initiates a 
compulsory school program for 6 year-old children from 2011/12.  [Mandatory for 6 year-olds today 
in kindergarten; compulsory in regular primary school in 2011/12.]; 
viii. 
Provision for a reserve in the 2009 budget to protect the vulnerable affected by the economic 
downturn. 
To inform the policy dialogue, a Bank team is preparing the first Public Expenditure Review for 
Poland since 2003
 and since the country’s accession to the EU, in parallel to DPL2.
 
This was a key 
element in the analytical assistance agreed in the negotiation of the first lending operation.
 
The PER 
will not only provide analytical support for the implementation of performance based budgeting and the 
MTEF, but from extensive analysis of the social sectors, also provide the technical foundations for the 
measures supported in DPL2. 
As part of the agreements reached for the second loan, several pieces of analytical and advisory 
assistance (AAA) have been identified by the Government and the Bank.  
To help the Government 
meet some of the triggers for a proposed DPL3 outlined in the matrix in Annex 1, the following 
analytical and advisory  assistance is being discussed with the Government: 
AAA Item 
Ministry/Agency 
a) 
Performance based budgeting and use of a medium term expenditure framework (including 
technical assistance to help design and establish institutional structures for rigorous monitoring 
and impact evaluation as part of the budget allocation process). 
MOF 
b) 
Rationalization of Licensing Activities within Government 
MOP 
Page  3
c) 
Development of a monitoring and impact evaluation protocol for employment assistance and 
social assistance programs 
MLSP 
d) 
Analysis of a incentive-compat
ible subsidy for the proposed “technical leave” scheme 
MLSP 
e
)
Actuarial analysis of the long-term financial stability of the pension system, under different 
macroeconomic scenarios 
M
LSP/ZUS 
f) 
Identifying barriers to closer ties between employment assistance and social assistance (strategy 
to “activate” long term unemployed) 
MLSP 
g) 
Analysis and reform options for Long Term Care 
MLSP/MOH 
h) 
Evidence-based prioritization of health financing (NICE-style evaluation) 
MOH 
i) 
Hospital corporatization good practice;  
MOH 
j) 
Strategic use of accreditation, DRGs, and other reimbursement mechanisms to elicit 
improvements in quality, cost consciousness in delivery of care, and consumer satisfaction. 
MOH 
k) 
Analysis of household vulnerability to the economic slowdown and crisis (to support the 
vulnerability mapping already underway)  
PM’s Office 
4. Environmental 
Aspects 
The proposed policy lending operation does not support any reforms with anticipated direct 
environmental impacts.  The Bank team is verifying with the authorities whether any unintended, 
indirect risks of negative impact to the environment and natural resources will be adequately mitigated 
by Poland’s existing safeguards as a member of the EU. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1250 
 Total 
1250 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Truman G. Packard 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 44-20-7592-8406 
Fax: 614-0832 
Email: Tpackard@worldbank.org 
Location: London, United Kingdom (IBRD)
 
