Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AB4805 
Operation Name 
PL Second Programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL2) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General education (25%); Health (25%); General public 
administration (20%); Compulsory pension and unemployment 
insurance (20%); Other social services (10%). 
Project ID 
P116125 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 19, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 30, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
This is the second policy loan (PL2) in a program of three lending operations supporting a 
policy program aimed at accelerating Poland’s convergence with average European Union 
(EU) living standards.  
Poland has made impressive progress towards creating a modern, market-
based economy.  It has successfully acceded to the EU; however, constraints to 
the country’s 
continued rapid convergence with its EU partners are becoming visible.  Key challenges identified 
by the Government and the Bank that this program is designed to address, are: the need to enhance 
the quality and efficiency of public financial management and expenditure, to increase the supply 
and skills of the labor force, and to strengthen the business environment.  PL2 includes, as an 
elaboration of the public financial management (PFM) and skills agendas, a more complete 
treatment of reforms in social sector spending that contribute to efficient, equitable, and effective 
investments in the Polish population through education and health programs, as well as a more 
robust safety net for the vulnerable to protect their human capital. 
The first loan in the program (PL1) supported policy actions to strengthen public financial 
management, increase participation in the labor market, and improve the environment for 
doing business.  
Consistent with the convergence aims of the program, the policy actions taken by 
the Government prior to presentation of the first loan to the Board included: satisfactory 
implementation of the 2008 budget and presentation of the 2009 budget bill consistent with the 
Convergence Program and personal income tax (PIT); a reduction in payroll taxes to lower the tax 
wedge on labor; elimination of work permits for foreign workers from neighboring countries to 
increase the labor supply; tightening eligibility requirements for disability benefits; presentation of 
legislation to Parliament that reduces the minimum capital required to start a business; and the 
approval of a privatization program encompassing the sale of 740 state owned enterprises. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
This operation, the second loan in the series, will continue to support reforms in public 
financial management, the business environment, and improvements of labor market 
efficiency in line with the first loan, as well as structural improvements to the finance and 
provision of health, education and social protection.
 
The second lending operation in the 
program has the following objectives: (i) to support structural reforms that will ensure fiscal 
Page  2
consolidation over the medium term; (ii) to protect priority programs and the up-front fiscal costs 
of structural reforms critical to meeting Poland’s goals of convergence the rest of the EU; and (iii) 
to mitigate the social cost of the economic crisis.  In the months since the first loan was disbursed, 
the external economic environment has changed dramatically, causing growth in Poland to slow 
sharply.  To better manage the uncertainty that the world economic crisis has introduced to 
Poland’s outlook and fiscal targets, while pushing ahead with reform of public financial 
management and improvements in the business environment, the Government is now focusing on 
the part of the program specifically targeting the labor market, education, health and social 
protection.  The second lending operation in the program (PL2) will continue to support reforms 
initiated with the first loan, and expand its focus to structural improvements and the maintenance 
of critical programs in the social sectors. 
3. Preliminary description 
The second policy loan in the program supports substantial reforms taken with the following 
actions.
 
(i) 
Satisfactory continued implementation of the 2009 budget in light of the changed 
economic outlook; 
(ii) 
Submission to Parliament of amended Law on Public Finance;  
(iii)  Implementation of regulations to unify and coordinate business inspection procedures, 
scheduling and duration among all inspection authorities; 
(iv)  Offer of the first 80 public sector enterprises in the privatization program (or those 
constituting 10 percent of aggregate asset value) for sale on the market (through stock 
exchange or by auction) or via competitive tenders; 
(v) 
Implementation of the government program to increase labor force participation of 
older workers, known as “50+”;  
(vi) 
Reduction in the number of occupational categories eligible for early retirement and the 
introduction of an actuarial adjustment of early pensions;  
(vii) 
Opening a window for participation of public hospitals in a voluntary program that will 
convert them to legal corporate entities; 
(viii)  Adoption by the National Health Fund (NFZ) of a payment system based on 
diagnostically related groups (DRGs) for 90 percent of all hospital services; 
(ix)       Passage of a law to initiate a pre-primary program for 5 year-old children (Grade 0), 
implemented initially on a voluntary basis but on a mandatory basis beginning in 2012; 
and  
(x)       Provision for a reserve in the 2009 budget to protect vulnerable households affected by 
the economic downturn. 
To inform the policy dialogue, a Bank team is preparing the first Public Expenditure Review 
for Poland since 2003 and since the country’s accession to the EU, in parallel to PL2.
 
This 
was a key element in the analytical assistance agreed in the negotiation of the first lending 
Page  3
operation.
 
The PER will not only provide analytical support for the implementation of 
performance based budgeting and the MTEF, but from extensive analysis of the social sectors, also 
provide the technical foundations for the measures supported in PL2. 
As part of the agreements reached for the second loan, several pieces of analytical and 
advisory assistance (AAA) have been identified by the Government and the Bank.  
To help 
the Government meet some of the triggers for a proposed third policy loan (PL3), the following 
analytical and advisory  assistance is being discussed with the Government: 
AAA Item 
Ministry/Agency 
a) 
Performance based budgeting and use of a medium term expenditure framework 
(including technical assistance to help design and establish institutional structures for 
rigorous monitoring and impact evaluation as part of the budget allocation process). 
MOF 
b) 
Rationalization of Licensing Activities within Government 
MOP 
c) 
Development of a monitoring and impact evaluation protocol for employment 
assistance and social assistance programs 
MLSP 
d) 
Assessment and taxation of farmers' incomes 
MLSP 
e) 
Actuarial analysis of the long-term financial stability of the pension system, under 
different macroeconomic scenarios 
MLSP/ZUS 
f) 
Identifying barriers to closer ties between employment assistance and social 
assistance (strategy to “activate” long term unemployed) 
MLSP 
g) 
Analysis and reform options for Long Term Care 
MLSP/MOH 
h) 
Evidence-based prioritization of health financing (NICE-style evaluation) 
MOH 
i) 
Hospital corporatization good practice;  
MOH 
j) 
Strategic use of accreditation, DRGs, and other reimbursement mechanisms to elicit 
improvements in quality, cost consciousness in delivery of care, and consumer 
satisfaction. 
MOH 
k) 
Analysis of household vulnerability to the economic slowdown and crisis (to support 
the vulnerability mapping already underway)  
PM’s Office 
l) 
Analysis of PISA results and implications for policymaking.  Impact of NGO-
managed schools on expenditures, costs of operation, and effectiveness. 
MoE 
m)  Technical assistance and analytics of higher education subsidy allocation options. 
MSHE/MoF 
4. Environmental 
Aspects 
The specific policies supported by the second policy loan in the program are not likely to 
have a s
ignificant impact on Poland’s environment, forests, and other natural resources
.
Risks of unanticipated and unintended adverse impact to the environment and natural resources 
are minor, although acknowledged.  However, Poland has adequate environmental controls in 
place. Poland’s environmental legislation and regulation is reinforced by EU environmental 
directives, including the EU’s guidelines on adoption of environmental assessments at the 
planning and programming level (June 2001) and the EU’s Environmental Liabilities Directive 
setting out liability for damage to properties and natural resources (April 2007). Pre-privatization 
environmental audits are required to determine the existence and scope of any liabilities of 
companies in state hands, manifested as contamination on real property or other conduits. The 
quantification of such liabilities is then used as part of the overall valuation of the state enterprise 
for purposes of negotiating a fair purchase price with the private party. Private sector bidders of 
Page  4
enterprises will be subject to the environmental provisions embodied in Polish and EU law once 
they acquire previous state assets in the process of ownership transfer. 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1250 
 Total 
1250 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Truman G. Packard 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 44-20-7592-8406 
Fax: 614-0832 
Email: Tpackard@worldbank.org 
Location: London, United Kingdom (IBRD)
 
