Document of
The World Bank                  FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3136-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 2, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980                     December 1981
Unit          5    Malagasy Franc (FMG)        -      Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00       -    FMG 213                     -      FMG 278
FMG 1,000     =    US$4.70                     -       S$3.59
FMG 1,000,000 -    US$4,700                    -      US$3,590
(The cost estimates are based on US$1 - FMG 275)
ABBREVIATIONS
BNI       -  The Industrial Bank of Madagascar
BTM       -  National Bank for Rural Development
DEP       -  Directorate of Studies and Programming of MDRRA
FAFIFAMA  -  Livestock Development Agency for Western Madagascar
FOFIFA    -  Center for Agricultural Research and Rural Development
IFAD      -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MDRRA     -  Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
OMBY      -  State Farm
SPA       -  Animal Production Service of MDRRA
SECIAM,
SEVIMA and
SOFIRAC   -  Parastatal meat processing companies
Government and FAFIFAMA Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA)
and the Livestock Development Agency for Western Madagascar
(FAFIFAMA)
Amount:    -    SDR 12.8 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Onlending:       The Government would pass approximately US$11 million of the
proceeds of the credit to FAFIFAMA as a grant.
Project:         (i)  Objectives:  The project would support the Government's
Description          efforts to increase beef production and to improve the
productivity of the sector through animal health programs,
the provision of veterinary inputs, technical assistance
and research.
(ii)  Main Project Components:  The project components are:
(a)  In Mahajanga province, continuation and extension
of the basic animal health program; a pilot animal
production program together with related development
of rural roads and water supply; and management
assistance to FAFIFAMA;
(b)  In the livestock sub-sector, imports of veterinary
supplies and of equipment for producing vaccines;
technical assistance to improve the sub-sector's
organization and institutions; applied research;
studies, documentation and training.
(iii) Benefits: The Project would continue the animal health
program developed in 527 villages in the Mahajanga region
under the first project and extend the program to an
additional 824 villages, leading to a substantial increase
in livestock production. About 120,000 livestock producers
in Mahajanga Province, many of whom are below the relative
poverty level, would benefit directly. Development of
all-weather roads and water supply for villages in the
pilot production area would bring important economic and
social benefits to up to 36,000 people, mostly poor. The
sub-sector components would benefit livestock producers
throughout the country.
(iv) Risks: Project risks mainly relate to the livestock sub-
sector components. They include management and organiza-
tional uncertainties, and the extent of Government com-
mitment to reorganization of the subsector. However, the
Government has recently accorded a higher priority to the
development of the subsector, which augurs well for the
implementation of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:
% of Total
Project Component                         Local   Foreign   Total       Base Costs
($ million)
In Mahajanga province
Basic Animal Health Program            3.6       3.0        6.6          37
Pilot Animal Production Program         1.0      1.0        2.0          11
Road Construction and Maintenance    0.8         1.7        2.5          14
Water Supply Construction and
Maintenance                         0.7       0.5        1.2           7
Support for FAFIFAMA                   0.3       0.3        0.6           3
Sub-Total                           6.4       6.5       12.9          72
In the Livestock Sub-sector
Import of Veterinary Products           -        3.0        3.0          17
Import of Laboratory Equipment          -        0.1        0.1           1
Studies, documentation and
training                             0.5       1.2        1.7           9
Institutional Support,
Applied Research                     0.1       0.1        0.2           1
Sub-Total                           0.6       4.4        5.0          28
Total base costs (no customs        7.0      10.9       17.9         100
duties or taxes applicable)
Contingencies
Physical                               0.6       0.9        1.5           9
Price                                  3.6       2.8        6.4          35
Sub-Total                            4.2       3.7        8.0          44
Total Project Costs                 11.1      14.7       25.8         144
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                           5.3       9.7       15.0          58
IFAD loan                            3.0       5.0        8.0          31
Government                           2.8       -          2.8          11
Total                             11.1      14.7       25.8         100
Estimated
Disbursements:              FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
($ million)
Annual                 0.7    2.7       3.9    3.7    2.5    1.5
Cumulative             0.7    3.4       7.3   11.0   13.5   15.0
Rate of Return:   34 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3482-MAG, January 27, 1982
Map:               IBRD 15637



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar of SDR 12.8
million ($15.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second Village Livestock and Rural Development Project to be implemented by
the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform and the Livestock
Development Agency for Western Madagascar also known as FAFIFAMA. The
project is expected to be jointly financed with the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), with a loan of $8.0 million for 50 years,
with 10 years grace, at 1 percent interest per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report entitled "Madagascar - Economic Memorandum", dated November 3,
1981 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data sheets are
provided in Annex I to this report.
3.      Madagascar, with a population of 8.7 million and a per capita GNP of
about US$290 in 1979, is among the poorest countries in the world. It is a
sparsely populated country (about 14 persons per square kilometer) with less
than 20 percent of the population living in urban areas. Although generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are consider-
able regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the
most economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate, the
south is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils, the
eastern region has a tropical climate and although rich agriculturally, crops
are frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 35
percent of GDP; about 85 percent of the national labor force is engaged in
agricultural activity, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent
of the country-s export earnings.
4.      Madagascar's development over the past decade has been disappointing.
With a population growth around 2.8 percent per annum, real per capita GDP has
decreased by about 1.5 percent per annum; in 1980 per capita real income was
probably about 14 percent below its 1970 level. Even with sluggish and
erratic development, Madagascar-s policies until 1978 had been characterized
by cautious and conservative public finance and balance of payments management.
In 1979 and 1980 Government undertook a very large program of public investment
with a marked shift to dependence on external sources for its financing. The
volume of fixed capital formation increased by about 70 percent in 1979, and
in 1980 was still 60 percent above the 1978 level. The share of investment in
GDP which had been around 14 percent since the early 1970s rose to around 21
percent in 1979 and 1980. The increased investment thrust and the attendant



- 2 -
import needs coincided with almost stagnant export earnings and a deterioration
in terms of trade, so that Madagascar's balance of payments position deteri-
orated very sharply in 1979 and 1980. General Government and state enterprises
accounted for virtually all of the increased investment expenditures so that
the budget expenditures and the overall budget deficits increased dramatically
in 1979 and 1980.
5.      Overall output growth has continued to be very erratic over recent
years.  Real GDP declined by about 2.6 percent in 1978, increased by about 10
percent in 1979 and then increased by less than 1 percent in 1980. The short-
lived spurt of growth in 1979 was due to increased activities associated with
the investment boom and to improved weather conditions benefiting agricultural
production but already in 1980 agricultural and manufacturing production were
adversely affected by inadequate supplies of necessary inputs and raw materiais.
6.      Agricultural output grew on average by about 1 percent between 1977
and 1980, thus continuing the very sluggish development which has characterized
Madagascar's agriculture since the early 1970s. Output in 1978 was seriously
affected by the prolonged drought conditions which had prevailed since 1976 and
declined by about 6.5 percent. With improved weather conditions in 1979 output
increased by about 7 percent but in 1980 is estimated to have grown by only
about 2.5 percent and preliminary indications are that output in 1981 is likely
to show virtually no expansion. Production of rice, the principal staple food,
has virtually stagnated over recent years; production in 1979 was about 5 per-
cent below its 1977 level. Domestic production has failed to keep pace with
domestic needs, especially to satisfy the growing urban population, and imports
of rice have grown rapidly from about 60,000 tons in 1975 to about 250,000 tons
in 1980. Production of coffee, Madagascar's major export commodity, which had
risen steadily during the first half of the 1970s, declined sharply in 1976 and
1977, mainly due to unfavorable weather, and then increased moderately in 1978
and 1979. Production in 1979, about 81,000 tons, was still somewhat below its
mid-1970s level. Production of cloves, Madagascar's second most important
foreign exchange earner, is subject to a four to five year production cycle; the
peak production reached in 1979 showed only a modest increase over the previous
level in 1974. Vanilla production dropped sharply between 1977 and 1979 due to
the combined effects of poor maintenance, prolonged unfavorable weather condi-
tions and competition from synthetic substitutes in international markets.
7.      Growth of manufacturing output has continued to be slow and erratic;
real value added in the sector increased by about 4 percent in 1978, by about
13 percent in 1979 and then decreased by about 3 percent in 1980. Food
processing (including beverages) and textile production are the dominant
activities, accounting respectively for about 35 percent and 21 percent of the
sector's value added. Output of the food and beverage industries grew on
average by about 2 percent per annum over the 1977-80 period. Textile
production, which increased by about 9 percent in 1979, decreased by about 5
percent in 1980, in which year production was affected by reduced raw material
supplies and by machinery maintenance problems. The only industries which
have shown a regular growth of output over recent years were cement, tobacco,
leather goods (mainly shoes) and paper products. The combined share of these
industries in total manufacturing value added in 1979 was just over 15 percent.
The manufacturing sector has been generally operating at a low level of



- 3 -
capacity utilization over recent years. Due to marked scarcities of imported
raw materials and spare parts in 1980 and 1981, the dislocations to production
have become increasingly severe.
8.        Madagascar's fiscal situation has deteriorated dramatically since
1978, due to sharply rising current expenditures and increased Government
spending on capital investment. The current budget surplus, which used to be
substantial, turned to a deficit as revenues failed to keep pace with the
growth of expenditures. Furthermore, as Government intensified its efforts to
raise investment levels and stimulate the economy, public investment expendi-
ture rose from 16 billion FMG in 1977 to 105 billion FMG ($497 million) in
1980. Outlays on the consumer subsidy for rice increased from about 4 billion
FMG in 1975 to nearly 12 billion FMG ($57 million) in 1980. The overall
Treasury deficit increased from about 4.5 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 18.5
percent in 1980. While borrowing from external sources was greatly expanded
in both 1979 and 1980, the budget deficits were financed primarily by borrowing
from the Central Bank, which provided about two thirds of the financing of the
1980 deficit.
9.        Monetary and credit developments over recent years largely reflect
the Government's deficit financing needs. Domestic credit increased from
about 126 billion FMG ($536 million) at end of 1977 to about 329 billion FMG
($1,460 million)at end 1980. Most of this expansion was accounted for by
Government borrowing from the Central Bank, whose share of domestic credit
rose from about 23 percent in 1977 to about 55 percent in 1980. Despite a
significant reduction in net foreign assets, money supply grew by over 20
percent per annum during the 1977-1980 period. Available price information
for Madagascar is fragmentary. There is a wide-ranging system of controlled
prices which appears to have become inoperative with most goods selling at
prices well above control levels. A price index for low income families shows
an acceleration of price increases to about 18 percent in 1980 compared to
about 14 percent in 1979 and an annual average increase of about 4.5 percent
from 1975 to 1978.
10.       Madagascar's balance of payments position deteriorated dramatically
over the 1977-80 period. The current account deficit, which had averaged
around FMG 8 billion ($33 million) from 1975 to 1977, rapidly increased to
about FMG 109 billion ($515 million) in 1980, i.e., from less than 2 percent
of GDP to around 16 percent of GDP. From 1977 to 1980 the import bill virtu-
ally doubled while export earnings increased by only around 3 percent. The
overall balance which had been in surplus by about FMG 3 billion in 1977 was
in deficit by about FMG 59 billion in 1980. Transactions with the rest of the
world have been financed by a total exhaustion of reserves, an unprecedented
increase in foreign borrowing and by incurring substantial arrears on external
payments obligations. The increased import bill has been the most striking
feature of recent balance of payments developments. Average import prices
increased substantially (over 40 percent) during the 1977-80 period and import
volume showed approximately the same proportionate increase. While nearly all
categories of imports increased, imports of capital goods grew at a particu-
larly rapid rate and accounted for approximately half of the increase in the
import bill between 1977 and 1980. The very modest growth in export earnings
between 1977 and 1980 reflected continued inertia in export volume and fairly
stationary world prices for Madagascar's principal exports.



- 4 -
11.       The development of the Malagasy economy has been constrained over many
years by a number of basic weaknesses, e.g. low productivity in agriculture,
slow growth in major primary exports and inadequate domestic savings. The
sharp deterioration in Madagascar s economic and financial situation in 1979
and 1980 reflects these continuing problems. The significant shifts in
government policy through a greater openness to external finance and, also in
pushing vigorously for a higher level of investment have been accompanied by
continued sluggish export performance and deterioration in the terms of trade.
The import bill has been swollen not only by imports of capital goods but also
by a growing import of consumer goods, especially rice, for which domestic
production and distribution weaknesses are a serious problem. The country is
well endowed with natural resources and the administrative cadres are rela-
tively well trained. A more effective use of these resources will depend,
however, on a lasting correction to the serious imbalances which exist on both
balance of payments and government budget accounts.
12.       In June 1980 the Government concluded a Stand-by agreement with the
IMF which aimed to restore balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium.
Some of the individual policy measures in this program were implemented, e.g.
measures to increase government revenues, but efforts to limit government
expenditures were not successful and the program was suspended. A new Stand-
by agreement was concluded in April 1981. This provided SDR 109 million
(US$130 million) to be drawn before end June 1982. The Stand-by agreement
placed limits on public expenditure, government borrowing from the Central
Bank and new external borrowing, and entailed a reduction in external payments
arrears. Implementation of the Stand-by agreement proceeded successfully up
to July 1981, but unanticipated shortfalls in export earnings, due in large
measure to weak world coffee prices and a smaller than expected inflow of new
capital from international commercial banks, made it increasingly difficult
for Madagascar to meet the Stand-by performance conditions. After July 1981
further drawings under the Stand-by were suspended but negotiations with the
IMF have continued to explore ways in which, through supplementary actions on
the part of the Madagascar authorities, a new Stand-by agreement could be
concluded.
13.       These stabilization measures need to be complemented by measures to
enhance the long-term viability of the economy. A Plan for the period 1981-86
is currently in preparation. The Plan envisages a much more vigorous effort
in export expansion and an action program for greater self-sufficiency in food
production and supply of raw materials. Administrative steps have already
been taken to strengthen regional economic planning and the operations of
government enterprises. Priority is to be attached to a rehabilitation and
greater utilization of the existing capital stock with limited new investment
largely concentrated in production sectors. Madagascar has formally requested
non-project assistance from the Worid Bank and discussions have been initiated
to identify a program of structural adjustment and policy reform which such
assistance might appropriately support.



- 5 -
14.       With the shift in government policy to a greater reliance on foreign
financing, Madagascar's external public debt has increased substantially over
recent years. Total external debt (outstanding and disbursed) at end 1980
amounted to about $1,035 million, compared to about $245 million at end 1977.
There has been a greater diversification in sources of external financing but
average terms have hardened significantly. Consequently, the debt service
ratio has risen from around 4 percent in 1977 to about 12 percent in 1980 and
is likely to be around 30 percent in 1981. Madagascar now faces a rising
debt servicing burden in the next few years. A Paris Club meeting took place
between April 29-30, 1981, as a result of which Madagascar obtained debt
rescheduling of about $36 miliion covering the period January 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1982. In view of these developments improved debt management by the
Government would be an essential component of our future dialogue with
Madagascar.
15.       The World Bank group provided about 45 percent of the concessionary
assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over the same
period, however, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has been from
non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a concessionary
basis will be required to support the Government's economic restructuring and
development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external
debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should
continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
16.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$255.15 million and SDR $36
million, and Bank loans total US$31.21 million. Since 1975 about 50 percent
of Bank Group lending has been for transport, 12 percent for electric power,
21 percent for agriculture, 10 percent for industry, technical assistance,
water and petroleum, and 7 percent for education. IFC's first investment was
in 1977 for the expansion of a textile mill. In 1980 IFC made a $1.25 million
loan for the Bata shoe manufacturing company in Antananarivo, and other
projects are under preparation. Annex II contains a sumiary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as
notes on the execution of-ongoing projects.
17.       Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the key
areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure), agricul-
ture, energy and industry. In infrastructure, four projects have been for the
construction of all-weather highway links between the island's different
regions and a fifth project for road maintenance. There have been projects
for improving Madagascar's main port of Toamasina, and to support the railwayIs
modernization efforts. Urban infrastructure development includes a first
water supply and sanitation project for the capital city of Antananarivo for
which a $20.5 miilion credit was signed in May 1980. In the social sectors,
education has been the major recipient of Bank assistance with two credits
totaling $18.8 million. In addition, studies for urban development financed



- 6 -
by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency have led to preparation of a
project for urban development. Support for general industrial promotion is
being provided through a $5.0 million credit for industrial credit (BNI)
signed in May 1980. A credit of SDR 9.4 million for a technical assistance
and training project in accounting and audit was signed in June 1981.
18.       Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of two livestock develop-
ment projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects and an agricul-
tural credit project. A $2.3 million technical assistance credit to prepare a
project in the Plain of Antananarivo area was signed in January, 1981. We
expect agriculture to continue to absorb a large proportion of Bank Group
lending in line with Government strategy to expand agricultural production.
An agricultural institutions technical assistance project and a project to
assist the rehabilitation of rice production in the Lake Alaotra area have
been appraised. Further rural develoment and crop production projects are
being prepared.
19.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention:
IDA is financing part of the cost of the large Andekaleka hydroelectric
project, for which there is also substantial bilateral assistance. A $12.5
million credit for petroleum exploration is supporting the Government's
efforts to develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve planning
of the energy sector. A second petroleum exploration project is under prepara-
tion.
20.       In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included execution delays, cost
overruns, deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of
project agencies. The Morondava irrigation project of June 1972 had to be
substantially reduced, and the Government and the Association agreed on a plan
of action to deal with the management and financial problems affecting the
project. This plan was only partially complied with and the credit has been
closed as of December 31, 1981. The first Village Livestock project was
delayed by institutional problems. The credit was renegotiated in 1977 and
since then implementation has been satisfactory. On the other hand, the first
Mangoro Forestry project was very effectively executed and cost estimates were
in line with forecasts. The road construction component of the fourth highway
project is nearly completed and the maintenance studies have been completed,
although there was a delay in the start of the highway maintenance training
program. The Government has now agreed that training consultants be employed,
and construction of the training facilities has begtm. Construction under the
fifth highway project is ready to start.
21.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976
on the Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally successful.
However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 concluded that
earlier assessments of project performance were overoptimistic, and that the
actual economic rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report No.
1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the
Project had contributed little to Madagascar(paragraph 41).



- 7 -
22.       The Audit Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third
Highway project was well justified and had a good rate of return despite
substantial cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that
the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily
achieved but pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished
during project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the
port authority. With the exception of the port project, the technical assist-
ance components of all four projects were executed satisfactorily.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
General
23.       About 85 percent of Madagascar's roughly 8.7 million inhabitants
live in rural areas, half of them below the poverty level. Agriculture,
contributing about 40 percent of GDP, and about 80 percent of export earnings,
directly supports over 80 percent of the population. Rice is the major food
crop. Coffee accounts for almost half of Madagascar's exports. Cloves,
pepper and vanilla are the other major export crops. Madagascar has a substan-
tial potential for agricultural growth which a combination of policy reforms
and investment could allow it to exploit. However, over the last decade, the
performance of the sector has been poor, with the average rate of growth in
output somewhat less than the population growth rate: from being a net
exporter of rice, Madagascar now imports over 200,000 tons per year. The
livestock subsector which accounts for about 10 percent of agricultural
output is reviewed below.
24.       The Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA) is
responsible for rural development programs. MDRRA's centralized directorates
are largely responsible for planning and supervision, while field staff
are managed by a decentralized hierarchy from the province level downwards.
About 35 parastatal agencies operate under MDRRA, including the Livestock
Development Agency for Western Madagascar (FAFIFAMA), which was established in
1974 to implement the first Village Livestock project in Mahajanga province.
The semi-autonomous Center for Agricultural Research and Rural Development
(FOFIFA) is responsible for all agricultural research, including livestock
research. FOFIFA reports to the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research, which is also responsible for university level training in agricul-
ture, while MDRRA is responsible for secondary level training of agricultural
staff.
The Livestock Subsector
25.       Madagascar has good potential for livestock production, particularly
for cattle. There are an estimated 42,000 km of natural pasture and the
island is free of many cattle diseases common in continental Africa. In 1978
the national herd was estimated at ten million cattle, two million sheep and



- 8 -
goats and one million pigs. Virtually all production comes from the tradi-
tional sector. Despite the potential, the subsector has performed poorly over
the last decade. The size of the cattle herd remained static between 1973 and
1978; the sheep and goat herd showed only a modest increase. Cattle produc-
tivity has not increased and pig productivity is low because of poor genetic
material and insufficient feed supply. Constraints at the production level
have been compounded by the Government's pricing and marketing policies.
The profitable beef export trade has been curtailed to divert beef to urban
consumers and exporting firms have been operating well below capacity.
Sub-sector policies and institutions generally require a major re-examination
if the livestock potential of the country is to be developed.
26.       Cattle Husbandry.  Cattle raising has long been a vital economic
activity in Madagascar, especially in the savannah lands in the west of the
country, the provinces of Mahajanga and Toliary, which have two-thirds of the
country's cattle. Cattle are an important source of nutrition and are widely
used for draft and transport. Great social significance is attached to
livestock ownership. Most livestock farmers have between 15 and 70 head,
although herds of several hundred cattle are known. The total annual extrac-
tion rate is about 9 percent, corresponding to 900,000 head or about 115,000
tons of beef (dressed carcass) a year. Milk production was estimated at 38.0
million liters in 1979.
27.       Cattle production is almost entirely in the private sector, except
for a few state ranches. In general, husbandry remains traditional using
extensive techniques with virtually no movement towards more intensive, higher
productivity methods. Cattle usually graze unherded on communal lands during
the rainy season and are brought close to the villages in the dry season.
More intensive systems are found on the central plateau where cattle, many of
which are brought up from the breeding grounds on the west of the island, are
fattened for the dominant market of Antananarivo. Madagascar is free of many
of the diseases which afflict livestock in Africa. Anthrax, blackleg and
tuberculosis, however, are widespread and veterinary services reach only
around half the herd, while parasitic infection kills about half of all calves
in some regions. Thus, although animal health problems are less intractable
than in many developing countries, controllable diseases go untreated and
more effective animal health programs could greatly improve production.
28.       Cattle trading at the primary and intermediate level is mostly in
the hands of private individuals, beginning with the bush traders. Trade is
governed by licensing to prevent movement of stolen cattle and to raise
revenue. Trade is concentrated on finished animals and immature cattle for
draft and rearing; trade in breeding animals is virtually unknown. During the
1970s the Government became involved in the wholesale trade by nationalizing
the major meat processing and export companies. These parastatals have to
compete with private wholesale butchers but not with each other, as parastatals
may buy only within their own zones, although there are some indications that
the zones as presently drawn may not always promote efficiency, and may limit
the supply of beef for export. This question will be examined further by a
study financed under the present project.



- 9 -
29.       Parastatal involvement in marketing was extended in 1977 when the
Government gave a monopoly for the wholesale meat supply of Antananarivo to a
parastatal, the state farm known as OMBY. However with meat prices fixed at
unrealistically low levels OMBY incurred severe losses, and was unable to meet
demand. The Government abolished the monopoly in July 1980. Wholesale beef
supply to the capital is now shared between the private sector, OMBY and
local community institutions. Elsewhere in Madagascar the wholesale trade
remains in private hands, except for the town of Mahajanga, where FAFIFAMA has
a monopoly. At the wholesale price set by the local government, this supply
has also been unprofitable to FAFIFAMA.
30.       Meat Processing and Retailing.  There is a well-developed network
of slaughterhouses and meat plants in the principal urban areas. However,
some of the existing plants are obsolete and there are major management
problems. Newer plants have achieved higher standards but financial constraints
have kept operations well below capacity. In the capital, attempts to control
retail prices led to the rise of an unofficial parallel market. During 1981
price controls were effectively dismantled. Elsewhere in the country, the
retail meat trade is generally in the hands of private butchers who are often
cattle traders also. Total domestic meat consumption is probably around
110,000 tons (dressed carcass weight), of which some 60,000 tons are traded.
Consumption in the capital, stimulated by artificially low prices, is estimated
at 16,000 tons, equivalent to 10-15 kg per head of deboned beef, which is
higher than elsewhere in Africa.
31.       Prices.  Cattle prices are determined by the market.  There have
been rapid increases over the last few years fuelled by both domestic and
export demand. Meat prices are by law subject to control at both whole-
sale and retail levels. In most areas prices are set at levels sufficient
to allow reasonable margins to suppliers. However, official meat prices in
Antananarivo were kept fairly static throughout the 1970s in the face of
rising production costs. Supplies were insufficient, and a large parallel
market emerged, offering beef at up to double official prices. In 1980 the
Government recognized the need to redefine its pricing policy for the capital.
As an interim measure, official retail prices were doubled. Subsequently the
Government has adopted a pragmatic approach by allowing private butchers to
sell beef at uncontrolled prices in Antananarivo provided that the meat has
been prepared under sanitary conditions. The Government would discuss meat
pricing policy annually with IDA. (Draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 5.04.)
32.       Exports.  The export trade is controlled by the major meat process-
ing firms. Malagasy beef has preferential access to the EEC under the Lome
convention, for 7,500 tons a year, at prices usually above world market
prices. However, competition between export and domestic buyers in the early
1970s caused a steep rise in cattle prices and led the Government-to limit
exports. As a result, exports declined from 9,900 tons in 1972 to 2,000 tons
in 1976. Since then the Government has made a series of increases in quotas,
but exports have picked up only slowly, to reach 5,000 tons in 1979, probably
due to production constraints in the exporting firms. However, two new export
operations have started in the last two years, and beef exports (four percent



- 10 -
of total merchandise exports in 1979) are a central feature of Government
policy for the sub-sector.
33.       Hides.  Hide production is estimated at 250,000 hides yearly,
well below theoretical availability. Proposals for the development of the
industry include a rural training and marketing scheme, and building three
new tanneries to raise processing capacity to 600,000 hides. The viability
of these proposals would depend on a successful reorganization of hide collec-
tion.
Institutions in the Subsector
34.       Numerous institutions operate in the livestock subsector, including
eight administrative services and some 15 parastatal bodies each with separate
statutes. However no one agency has overall responsibility for all subsector
institutions; the subsector suffers from poor management and inadequate
coordination among the agencies involved. MDRRA has two branches responsible
for livestock development at the level of central Government: the Animal
Production Service (SPA) and the Directorate of Studies and Programming
(DEP). SPA, with 43 professionals and about 150 support staff, has responsibi-
lity for: (i) advising on livestock policy and meat pricing, (ii) sanitary
control of meat imports and exports, (iii) investment planning and monitoring,
(iv) providing technical advice to the veterinary service and the parastatals,
and (v) orientation of animal production research. SPA's task of planning and
coordination has been hampered by the fact that certain sub-sector parastatals
are supervised by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, while the research
institution, FOFIFA, comes under the Ministry of Higher Education and Scienti-
fic Research. SPA also faces problems because the DEP, which has responsibi-
lity for project preparation, has not always coordinated its work with SPA.
The Ministry of Finance and Planning assists in price formulation for the
capital, and supervises the financial performance of subsector parastatals.
35.       The MDRRA was reorganized in 1979, when responsibility for livestock
and veterinary services in the provinces was decentralized to MDRRA's regional
services. At field level there is an extensive veterinary system of about 200
units, which are relatively well staffed with veterinary technicians and
vaccinators. The service provides both prophylaxis, especially a cattle
vaccination program, and treatment. The veterinary services face serious
problems: (i) there are serious constraints in the supply of vaccines from the
Antananarivo Veterinary Laboratory, due to shortage of equipment and materials;
(ii) the shortage of foreign exchange has led to critical shortages of
imported veterinary products at the operational level; and (iii) decentraliza-
tion has led to long lines of communication from the SPA through the
decentralized hierarchy to field staff, making coordination of health programs
more difficult, and slowing response to disease outbreaks.



- 11 -
36.       Research.  FOFIFA's livestock research program concentrates mainly
on animal health protection and is particularly directed toward traditional
producers. It is also responsible for the Central Livestock Laboratory,
Madagascar's sole producer of vaccines against cattle diseases. FOFIFA is
carrying out studies on pasture management and fodder crops, and a modest
selection and cross-breeding program is underway. FOFIFA has inadequate
financial and personnel resources, and its research is not clearly directed
towards local needs; it also lacks records of the extensive research carried
out in previous years. A study, to be financed under the project, will locate
and assemble such documentation. A paper setting priorities for livestock
research will be prepared and submitted to IDA by December 31, 1982 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.06). In mid-1981 the Government
announced the formal transfer of FOFIFA from the Ministry of Higher Education
to the MDRRA. This transfer, when completed, should allow the research
program to be satisfactorily reoriented.
37.       Sub-Sector Parastatals.  Much of the Government's direct interven-
tion in the subsector is through the medium of parastatal organizations, some
of which were originally private companies, and others established for specific
purposes. Parastatals are involved mainly in processing, and dominate meat
exports. A few parastatals have a production role, but parastatal involvement
in marketing is limited. The parastatals in the sub-sector share a number of
problems, including the lack of a coherent overall strategy for the sub-sector,
and a shortage of experienced management. Investments have not been planned
properly, the parastatals are loosely organized, their relations with each
other and their supervising ministries are not clearly defined, and their
functions have been frequently changed in response to shifts in Government
policy. Almost all the parastatals run deficits. Studies under the project
will review the role and organization of the parastatals.
38.       Subsector Issues.  Over the last few years a number of serious
constraints on the development of the livestock sub-sector have arisen. At
the same time the Government has recently taken a number of important steps
towards improving subsector performance, particularly in the de facto
liberalization of meat marketing and pricing (para. 31). The importance the
Government attaches to livestock development was underlined in the "Agri-
cultural Policy Paper" produced in 1980 in preparation for the forthcoming
1981-86 national plan. This document gives priority to beef exports, to be
attained by improved animal health and husbandry programs, and by reducing
domestic demand through increasing supply of other types of meat. There is
thus evidence that the Government has begun a basic rethinking of its approach
to the subsector. However in other areas the Government still has to take
major initiatives to remove constraints. These areas include sub-sector
organization, policy formulation and the poor performance of the parastatals.
In order to explore in depth proposed Government policy initiatives and
administrative measures an intensive policy dialogue was conducted during
negotiations which gave evidence of a substantial commitment by Government to
reorganization and restructuring in the sub-sector. Sub-sector organization
is to be improved by reinforcement of the role of the MDRRA and especially of
the SPA in planning for and supervising the sub-sector, and strengthening of



- 12 -
that role by the permanent attribution to the MDRRA of the supervision of all
parastatals in the livestock subsector, including the meat processing para-
statals (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.12). The responsibility
of the SPA for the decentralized veterinary service would be extended to the
vetting of annual work programs and supervision of their implementation. A
five year plan for the veterinary services would be prepared by December 1982
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.05). On the critical question
of the formulation of a coherent policy and investment program, a draft Action
Program prepared by the Government was discussed. This program is aimed at
achieving self-sufficiency in animal protein and expanding beef exports in the
medium-term to 10,500 tonnes annually. Areas to which attention would be
particularly directed include: upgrading of animal health programs, inten-
sificiation of animal husbandry through improved feeding and genetic improve-
ments, and diversification into short-cycle production. Major steps to be
taken to implement the program include: the creation of a number of "develop-
ment centers" which would act as model farms, provide breeding stock, demon-
strate techniques, etc.; action on marketing, particularly the reorganization
of parastatal interventions; reorientation of research toward production;
improvement of credit programs for short-cycle production; and more effective
sub-sector management and supervision of parastatals.
39.       Finally, on the survey of parastatal performance, the consolidation
of supervision responsibility will provide the opportunity for coordination of
parastatals' activities. The specific problems of these organizations and
their role in the subsector as a whole would be the subject of a major study
under the Project. Terms of reference for all studies would be approved by
IDA, and both the reports and Government proposals for action thereon would be
discussed with IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06).
40.       The exchange of views on livestock policy, begun at negotiations,
will continue annually during project implementation, supported by measures
under the Project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.04). The
major policy issues on which IDA and the Government are concentrating include
meat pricing, institutional arrangements for marketing, stimulation of exports,
rationalization of processing capacity, development of hide production, the
organization of the veterinary services, livestock research priorities, the
role and organization of livestock parastatals, and institutional respon-
sibility for subsector planning and coordination.
Prior Bank Group Involvement in the Sub-sector
41.       The Beef Cattle Development Project (Loan 585-MAG) was the first
agricultural project in Madagascar to receive Bank Group assistance. The $2.8
million Loan of 1969 was fully disbursed in 1975. The project was designed to
establish six cattle ranches in areas with proven livestock potential, as the
first step in modernizing the livestock subsector in Madagascar. The Govern-
ment created a parastatal, OMBY, to implement the project. Only four ranches
were set up and, overall, the project achieved only about 65 percent of the
physical targets set at appraisal.   Political, technical and managerial
problems impaired implementation throughout. Audit Report No. 1559 of April
1977 drew a number of lessons: project preparation should have taken greater
account of sociological implications and local conditions; a survey of the



- 13 -
local cattle market was clearly desirable but had not been done; the feasibi-
lity assumptions were too optimistic; greater provision should have been made
for research, training and technical assistance. In addition, the Government
and the Bank had different perceptions of the demonstration value of the
ranching concept and its replicability. Based on this experience, livestock
development in Madagascar now emphasizes rural development and livestock
promotion based on the traditional, extensive system, instead of enclave
ranching.
42.       First Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (Credit
506-MAG). The first Village Livestock project, for which an IDA Credit of
$9.6 million was approved in 1974, sought to improve livestock production
through support services to villagers rather than through state ranches.
FAFIFAMA was established to provide improved veterinary and extension
services, as well as rural infrastructure, in about 500 villages in Mahajanga
province. The project also included pilot livestock development schemes: an
extension program for livestock development and food crops, a village beef
cattle fattening program and a pig development program.
43.       Project implementation initially encountered serious delays, due
largely to problems concerning the power and responsibilities given to FAFIFAMA
by the statutes under which it had been created, and the role it was to play
in the sub-sector. These problems led to a revision of FAFIFAMA's legal
status and a renegotiation of the IDA credit in 1977. As of October 1981, total
disbursements under the project amounted to $6.6 million, about 70 percent of
the total credit. Remaining funds are expected to be fully disbursed during 1982.
Project execution in Mahajanga province is proceeding satisfactorily: revised
construction targets have been met, and in general FAFIFAMA has developed into
an effective institution. The objectives of the animal health component are
being achieved and the cattle vaccination campaign has grown steadily, exceed-
ing project targets. Principal constraints have been a shortage of veterinary
products due to the country-s overall import difficulties, and the inability
of the Antananarivo veterinary laboratory to produce enough vaccine when
needed: in September, 1981 the disbursement schedule was amended to allow the
use of $250,000 for urgent import of veterinary products for FAFIFAMA. The
water and road components have been implemented adequately, although FAFIFAMA
has lacked adequate trained staff, so that maintenance after construction has
been inadequate. The social infrastructure program is virtually complete:
the most successful component has been the construction of schools, most of
which are well built and utilized, although implementation of the rural health
program has been less successful.
44.       The cattle fattening and crop extension programs under the pro-
ject, carried out by OMBY in the Middle West Region between Antananarivo and
Mahajanga, have been poorly implemented mainly due to lack of management
attention. Fewer farmers than planned have participated. Under these
circumstances, Government decided that the component should receive no
support beyond the four-year development period, which ended in 1979. The
pilot pig fattening component finally got underway on a modest scale in 1980.
The future of these programs will be thoroughly reviewed in the context of
the development of the region as a whole as part of the feasibility study
now underway for a possible mixed farming project in the Middle West Region.



- 14 -
45.       The major lesson of the first Village Livestock project has been the
soundness of the design of the animal health program, and in particular the
appropriateness of the village vaccinator system, which has both ensured
acceptance of the program and established good communications between FAFIFAMA
and the villagers. The primary lesson from the pilot programs is that such
schemes require a high level of management and technical input. The failure
of management of these programs was compounded by the lack of a clear develop-
ment policy for the Middle West. The proposed second Village Livestock and
Rural Development project incorporates these lessons by pursuing the successful
animal health program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The Mahajanga components of the proposed Project were prepared by
FAFIFAMA with the help of consultants. The project was appraised in July
1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 7 to 11, 1981;
the Malagasy delegation was led by the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, and included the Secretary General of the MDRRA,
the Director General of FAFIFAMA, and the Chief of the Animal Production
Service. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Madagascar: Second Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project", No. 3482-MAG, is being distributed
separately. A map of Madagascar showing the project area is attached.
47.       The Project Area.  The production-oriented components of the
project would be carried out in Mahajanga province. This is one of the least
developed regions of Madagascar, but potential for livestock development and
increased cropping is good, as the soils are generally rich and the climate
favorable. The area is characterized by a wide variety of production systems
from extensive herding to mixed farming. The area population, about 1.1
million, is scattered. There are few towns, and most people live in small
villages, close to subsistence level. Poor communications are a constraint to
development; few roads are passable year-round, which hampers extension
efforts, limits social and economic services, and makes marketing of crops
difficult. Most families in the area cultivate some rice or cassava on plots
that are typically less than one hectare. There are significant regional
variations within the area: in the north cash crops (rice, cotton, nuts,
tobacco and sugar cane) are becoming increasingly important; in the south,
cattle production is the principal source of livelihood. The area is one of
the principal breeding and fattening regions of Madagascar. It has over 3
million head of cattle, about a third of the national herd. Small herds
predominate, usually about 15 head. The main problems facing livestock
producers are poor animal health, poor quality of fodder during the dry
season, and inadequate drinking water for cattle on rangeland.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The main project objectives are to increase Madagascar's meat
production and thereby both to raise incomes for poor livestock owners and
to increase exports, to strengthen livestock institutions and to support
changes in policy for the sub-sector. The main emphasis in Project design
is on expanding output through maintenance and extension of animal health
programs, both in the region covered by the First Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project and throughout the country, through imports of essential
veterinary products and equipment for the national veterinary service. This
emphasis reflects experience under the first project that animal health
programs have great potential for raising productivity cheaply and simply
under traditional husbandry systems. However, in the long run Madagascar must
turn to more intensive production systems: under the proposed Project several
systems are to be tested, mainly with smallholders who keep most of the
nation's cattle at present and on whose response the success of intensification
efforts in the future will largely depend. Under the Project, assistance
would also be provided to support improvements in the management of the
sub-sector. The Project will also help to develop rural infrastructure in
Mahajanga.
49.       Specifically the Project would comprise the following elements:
I.   At the provincial level (Mahajanga Province):
(a) continuation and extension of FAFIFAMA's basic animal health program;
(b) a pilot animal production program in selected areas;
(c) development of rural roads and water supply for villages involved
in the pilot program;
(d) management and material support for the project implementing
agency (FAFIFAMA);
II. At the national level:
(e) imports of veterinary products and equipment;
(f) technical assistance, studies and training to improve the
organization of the livestock sub-sector and its institutions; and
(g) support for applied research in the livestock sub-sector.
Project costs are shown in the Credit and Project Summary (page ii).
The Mahajanga Provincial Program
50.       Basic Animal Health Program.  The intensive veterinary and extension
service set up under the first project would be continued and extended to
reach the whole of Mahajanga province by 1985. Activities would include



- 16 -
vaccination against blackleg and anthrax, and treatment of parasites in
cattle, as well as animal health services for other livestock. It is expected
that the number of cattle vaccinated each year would increase from 1.7 million
before the project to 2.7 million at the completion of the project. Antipara-
sitic treatment would reach 22 percent of calves from the present 10 percent
in the area as a whole during the project. As under the first project, the
vaccinators at field level would be selected by their community and would
serve their home area, after appropriate training. The main investments would
be for construction of veterinary and vaccination centers; provision of
veterinary equipment and products and vehicles; and financing of incremental
staff salaries and other development costs. As the production increases from
animal health programs are not immediate, the development costs of the con-
tinuing program would also be financed: this would be done on a declining
basis, on the assumption that the development period from first introduction
of the program to first substantial production increase is five years.
51.       Pilot Animal Production Program.  The program would consist of:
(a) A pilot scheme to explore means of intensifying animal
husbandry in mixed-farming areas. The scheme would be
carried out in about 40 communities selected after
socioeconomic and technical surveys, and would use basic
animal husbandry techniques not currently practised in the
area. Monitoring would provide information for a possible
follow-up project.
(b) A steer fattening program based on pasture and locally-produced
fodder to test the technical and economic viability ot tattening
for commercial and small-holder producers. The commercial
scheme would complement the pasture trials undertaken under the
first project. Under the smallholder scheme, FAFIFAMA would
promote the development of a market in unfinished animals,
provide extension services, and subsequently buy the finished
animals at a guaranteed minimum price.
52.       Rural Development.  Up to 100 km of all-weather roads would be
constructed by FAFIFAMA, since the pilot production scheme would require
access from the primary road system to participating villages, and since
the development of a rural road network in the province is an important
priority for rural development. FAFIFAMA would also maintain the roads and
those established under the first project. Lack of year-round access to water
is also a critical constraint to intensification efforts in the region.
Therefore about 35 surface water storage points would be developed in the
communities covered by the pilot scheme. In addition, up to 80 wells would be
developed to provide permanent sources of drinking water for human consumption.
Provision of roads and water supply as part of the project would do much to
enhance the attractiveness of the animal husbandry intensification scheme.
The roads and water supply facilities to be constructed under the project
would be identified in FAFIFAMA-s annual work programs, which would be
approved by the Association (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.05). The
villages benefitting from the component would be required to contribute
20 percent of the total investment and maintenance costs (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.02); their contribution would be made in kind. They
would carry out simple maintenance under supervision of FAFIFAMA. FAFIFAMA
would be responsible for major maintenance.



- 17 -
53.       Management and Material Support to FAFIFAMA.  FAFIFAMA performed
well during implementation of the first project (paragraph 45). Senior
management are generally technically competent. Middle management staff need
strengthening, but field personnel are generally good and adequate for their
levels of responsibility. However, extension of FAFIFAMA'S responsibilities
will require reinforcement of its management and technical capability.
Support to FAFIFAMA would be provided under the proposed project in four
specific areas: (a) a permanent in-house training program would be establish-
ed for administrative and technical staff with assistance from consultants;
(b) a data collection, management information, and monitoring system would be
set up for FAFIFAMA, headed by a sociologist/economist and with assistance
from consultants; (c) specialized training in cattle marketing and in meat
processing and marketing would be provided by a consultant; (d) FAFIFAMA's
public works department would be strengthened by providing twelve staff-
months' services of an internationally recruited hydrogeologist over four
years, by overseas and in-service training, and by purchase of spare parts and
tools.
The National Program
54.       Veterinary Imports.  This component is designed to assist the
national effort to safeguard existing herds through support to the veterinary
service. This service performs an invaluable role through a vaccination
campaign reaching over half the national cattle herd, and through prophylactic
treatments essential to preserving the stock and preventing the spread of
disease, which affects over a million cattle annually (see paragraph 27).
An interruption in animal health cover would create a critically dangerous
situation for the herds outside the area covered by the project animal health
program, and also lead to risk of the transmission of disease to Mahajanga
province itself.
55.       The operations of the veterinary service, however, are constrained
by two critical shortages. First, stocks of veterinary products in Madagascar
are almost exhausted. These products, mainly antibiotics and dosages against
internal parasites, have to be imported and in Madagascar's current situation
very little foreign exchange is available for these imports. The inter-
ministerial committee which budgets foreign exchange has not been able to
allocate more than the equivalent of $700,000 in 1981, compared with needs of
$2.2 million equivalent. For this reason, veterinary product imports costing
up to about $3.5 million would be financed under the Project over three years
beginning in the first year of the project. Each year the Government would
finance a certain initial level of imports, and project support would be
provided above this level, on a declining scale as Madagascar's foreign
exchange management and reserves improve. Government would meet the full
foreign exchange needs for veterinary products from the fourth year (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.11(a) and Schedule 1, category 6)).
56.       A list of veterinary products to be imported during each year would
be sent to IDA for its approval by December 31 of the preceding year, and
disbursements would be made against this component only after approval of the
list. By March 31 of each year, the Government would also submit a report on
utilization of the products imported in the previous year. (Draft Development



- 18 -
Credit Agreement, Section 5.11(b) and (c)). Veterinary products would be sold
to users at a price covering full costs (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 5.07). Second, the local production of essential vaccines has been
severely constrained by lack of certain equipment and materials for the
veterinary laboratory; about $100,000 will be provided under the Project to
finance such imports.
57.       Technical assistance to the livestock sub-sector.  This component,
to be carried out under the supervision of SPA, would assist the Government's
effort to resolve key issues in the organization of the sub-sector through:
(a) a study of the problem of the meat supply to Antananarivo which has long
been a preoccupation in sub-sectoral management; (b) a thoroughgoing review
of the role of key government institutions and major parastatals, and an
examination of their performance, by means of management and financial audits
to be performed by consultants, leading to proposals for rationalization
and restructuring, and to the design and implementation of new procedures;
(c) design and implementation of a training program for managers in the
sub-sector; and (d) provision of material support to reinforce the SPA in
its tasks of planning and supervision for the sub-sector. A total of 60
staff-weeks of internationally recruited consultant services would be provided.
About $500,000 would be provided for other studies in the livestock sector
(including for preparation of future projects), for identifying and assembling
documents on livestock research relevant to Madagascar, and for scholarships
and training in livestock subjects.
58.       Applied Research.  The project would provide funds to support
applied research; cross-breeding experiments carried out by FOFIFA have
shown good potential for producing dual purpose (meat/milk) cattle, and would
be extended. A program for the component would be sent to IDA for approval by
December 31, 1982 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.07).
Project Costs
59.       Total project costs are estimated at about $25.8 million, of which
$14.7 millidn or 57 percent represents foreign exchange costs. Taxes included
in the costs are negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from
import duties. A detailed cost table for the project is given in the credit
and project sumary. Consultant costs have been estimated at $12,500 per
staff month, which is comparable with current experience in the sector.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent were applied to costs other than technical
assistance; price contingencies were calculated at 15 percent per annum for local
costs and at rates varying from 8.5 percent in 1982 to 6 percent in 1986 for
foreign costs.
Financing Plan
60.       The project would be financed by the Government of Madagascar, IDA
and IFAD, in the proportions of 11 percent, 58 percent and 31 percent respec-
tively. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.8 million ($15.0 million equivalent)
would be made to the Government of Madagascar on standard IDA terms. It is
expected that IFAD would contribute, on a joint basis, $8.0 million: IDA and
IFAD together would finance the full foreign exchange cost and nearly 75



- 19 -
percent of local cost. The IFAD loan is expected to be for 50 years, with 10
years grace, at 1 percent interest. Effectiveness of the IFAD loan would be a
condition of effectiveness for the IDA credit (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 7.01). The Government would grant to FAFIFAMA funds necessary
to carry out the Mahajanga components, including about $16.5 million from the
proceeds of the IDA credit and the IFAD loan. Signing of a subsidiary
agreement between the Government and FAFIFAMA, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 7.01).
Implementation
61.       MDRRA would have overall responsibility for the livestock sub-sector
components, which it would implement through SPA. FAFIFAMA would be respon-
sible for implementation of the Mahajanga province components, under general
supervision of MDRRA. The project would be completed by June 30, 1987,
and the closing date for the credit would be December 31, 1987.
62.       Government intends to take action on a number of issues affecting
FAFIFAMA's responsibility for implementation:
(a) FAFIFAMA is at present responsible for animal health and produc-
tion activities throughout Mahajanga province, and will remain
so during project implementation. The Government would review
its decision to transfer this responsibility to the decen-
tralized services of the MDRRA at project completion (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.09).
(b) A number of veterinary workers in the Mahajanga province are
currently employed by the decentralized services of MDRRA.
These workers will be transferred to FAFIFAMA by December 1982
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.08).
(c) FAFIFAMA's structure would be studied under the technical
assistance component. No change in its legal status, structure
or responsibilities would be made without prior consultation
with IDA. However, technical amendments need to be made to
FAFIFAMA's statutes to allow it to carry out the project;
this would be a condition of effectiveness (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Sections 5.10 and 7.01(c)).
(d) A recent law requiring civil servants formerly seconded to
parastatals to resign from Government service to join the
employment of a parastatal has, although not yet implemented,
created uncertainty among FAFIFAMA employees. FAFIFAMA
would review its employment policy with a view to retaining
the services of staff formerly seconded and submit recommenda-
tions to IDA for comment. The Government would take appropri-
ate actions by December 31, 1982 (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.04).



- 20 -
(e)  FAFIFAMA would submit to IDA, for its review, the draft annual
work program for the Mahajanga components and related draft
budget, not later than August 1 of each year preceding the
year of the program. The final program and budget would be
forwarded to IDA by November 1 of each year, for approval by
IDA, as a condition of disbursement (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.05, draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4 (ii)). FAFIFAMA would also submit a program for
staff training by December 31, 1982 (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.08).
(f)  FAFIFAMA has a separate Commercial Department, set up in
1977 to buy cattle and to process them for the local and
export trade. This Department has been quite successful,
processing around 2,500 tons of beef in 1980. However,
the price set by the local authorities for domestic sales
has been too low and the Department has so far traded at
a loss. In 1978 and 1979, funds were transferred from
FAFIFAMA's development operations to cover the Commercial
Department deficit. This practice has now ceased. The
Commercial Department will continue to keep separate accounts,
and, starting July 1, 1983, any balances due will be settled
at the end of each month (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.03).
63.       SPA is responsible for the import and distribution of veterinary
products, and performs these tasks adequately. it would implement the
import component of the project, following its normal procedures, anm would
report annually on the utilization of veterinary imports. It wouio also
import veterinary equipment and materials for FOFIFA's Veterinary Laboratory,
and monitor production and distribution of locally produced vaccines (draft
Development Credit Agreement Section 5.13). SPA would prepare a program for
the meat supply, parastatals and other studies, and terms of reference for
consultant assistance, and submit them for IDA's approval prior to implementa-
tion (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 and 4.06). A detailed
proposal for the applied research program would also be prepared by SPA and
submitted to IDA for approval (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.07).
Procurement
64.       Contracts for the supply of vehicles, equipment and veterinary
products exceeding $120,000 would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such contracts are expected to
total $7.0 million. Contracts for civil works estimated at $0.8 million would
be advertised locally as they are small and unlikely to attract international
firms. Road and water supply works construction and maintenance estimated at
$5.3 million would be carried out on force account by FAFIFAMA's public works
department. Contracts for materials and equipment costing less than $120,000
but more than $40,000 (totalling $2.3 million) would follow local competitive
bidding procedures, which are acceptable, while items costing less than



- 21 -
$40,000 could be procured through local shopping. Where appropriate orders
would be grouped in order to obtain most competitive prices. Consultants
whose cost is estimated at $2.6 million, would be recruited in accordance with
the Bank Group Guidelines and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 and draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.02).
Disbursements
65.       The IDA credit and the IFAD loan would be disbursed jointly in
a proportion of 65 to 35, over about six years, against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures or 90 percent of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment,
veterinary products and agricultural inputs (Mahajanga component); 100 percent
of foreign expenditures on veterinary products (livestock component); 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures on civil
works; 85 percent of total expenditures on incremental salaries, fuel and
other operating costs for components other than the animal health program; on
a declining scale from 85 percent to 55 percent over five years for incre-
mental salaries, fuel and other operating costs for the animal health program,
in order to phase out financing of the ongoing program as the development
period is completed; and 100 percent of total expenditures on technical
services. Disbursements would be fully documented, except for local operating
expenditures for the Mahajanga components which would be disbursed against
statements of expenditure certified by the Director General and the Financial
Director of FAFIFAMA. The statements would be retained by FAFIFAMA and made
available for inspection by IDA in the course of project supervision.
Accounts and Audit
66.       Separate accounts would be kept by FAFIFAMA for the project activi-
ties in Mahajanga and by SPA for the sub-sectoral components. Under the first
project FAFIFAMA's accounts were satisfactorily kept although staff shortages
have led to delays. FAFIFAMA is currently recruiting extra staff and the
proposed Project provides for assistance in developing more streamlined
accounting systems. The project accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles. The present auditors of FAFIFAMA would, under expanded
terms of reference, be acceptable auditors of project accounts. They would be
requested to report on the adequacy of systems of accounting and internal
controls, and to make recommendations for improvement as necessary. They
would also be asked to verify the statements of expenditure under the project.
Benefits and Risks
67.       About 74,000 livestock producers would be expected to benefit from
the effects of the extension of the animal health program, in addition to the
estimated 47,000 who already benefit from the ongoing program. Many of these
producers depend mainly on their livestock, and most are near to or below the
poverty level. Typical smallholder herds are projected to increase by
about 30 percent, to about 30 head per smallholder, by the twelfth year from
the start of the project, due to the reduced mortality brought about by the
animal health program. The road construction and water supply components
would bring economic and social benefits, and would also permit the more rapid
development of extension programs. The import of veterinary products and



- 22 -
equipment should make a major contribution to maintaining and improving
productivity of the national herd. Indirect benefits are anticipated from
the component designed to improve subsector management.
68.       The economic rate of return for the Mahajanga animal health com-
ponent of the project has been calculated from the additional meat production
expected over the life of the project, assumed to be 30 years. On this basis,
the rate of return would be 36 percent. The rate of return to the infrastruc-
ture components is 11.1 percent for roads and 12.7 percent for water supply.
The overall rate of return to all three productive components is 34 percent.
The project is not very sensitive to changes in real costs and benefits: if
benefits were to be delayed by two years or costs were to double, the rate of
return would still be over 20 percent.
69.       The animal health program in Mahajanga is subject to little risk,
as it is the second phase of a program which is already operating success-
fully and its technical value has been well demonstrated. The pilot animal
production scheme is largely founded on well-known techniques, and the socio-
economic risks which may exist are acceptable in a pilot project. The com-
ponents in the sub-sector at national level are exposed to more serious risk.
The poor organization and supervision of the veterinary service might limit
the effectiveness of the veterinary products to be imported. However,
the import component would undoubtedly relieve a very critical situation which
threatens hundreds of thousands of livestock producers, many of whom rely on
their herds as their major productive asset while the implementation of the
new supervision structure for the veterinary service should increase effective-
ness in the field. Finally, the Project as a whole depends for success on new
policy orientations from the Government and the implementation of a coherent
production strategy. The incremental Project production would only be avail-
able for export if the Government maintains its export-oriented policy and
backs it up with practical measures to control domestic demand. The components
designed to improve organization in the sub-sector could only succeed if there
is a high-level commitment to a reorganization. The Government has however
accorded a high priority in recent policy statements to development of the
sub-sector and particularly to its export earning potential. It has backed up
this policy with action on critical constraints. The Project itself would
help to maintain this momentum by practical help to reorganize the sub-sector
and to raise productivity, and by providing a forum for a dialogue on policy.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the Project Agreement between the
Association and FAFIFAMA, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 23 -
71.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this Report. Conditions of effectiveness are (i) the effectiveness of
the IFAD loan agreement, (ii) the signing of a subsidiary agreement between
Government and FAFIFAMA, and (iii) the amendment of FAFIFAMA's statutes to
give it power to implement the project.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 2, 1982






- 24 -                                        AOX I
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                       REFERENCE GROUPS (VEWIEGTED AVW2fS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECtNT RSTIfATI&ik
TOTAL            57. 0                                   MOST RECENT          LOW INCE                KIDDWi lMCH!
AGRICULTURAL     369.3                 1960  /b   1970 /b ESTINATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARA   AFRICA SOUTH Of SAHAR
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    130.0       190.0    290.0 t               238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         40.4        72.5      93.8                 70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    5474.0       6785.0   8480.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   10.6         14.1      17.9                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         15.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           45.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           9.3        11.6      14.4                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        15.0        18.0      22.3                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.6        42.8      43.6                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                            55.2        53.9      53.1                 52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND AbOVE                      3.2         3.3       3.3                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.8         2.1       2.5/e                2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                 4.9         5.0       5.1                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.6        45.2      45.7                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.0        21.7      18.0                 19.3                    15.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0         3.0       3.2                  3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             89.0       102.0      96.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     106.0       108.0    115.0                  90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            60.0        60.0       60.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          18.0        17.0      15.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        41.0        31.3      25.4                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2        42.5      46.9                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       177.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         11.0      26.0                 23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                 ..        67.0      76.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                  -          1.0      16.0                 18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        ..                  26.2
URBAN                                 ..        88.0        ..                 63.5
RURAL                                 * -*                  9.0                20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            8901.1     10172.4   10242.3              31911.8                 1384.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3105.0      3353.9   3470.2                 3674.9                 2896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               469.0       354.4    402.3                1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                               115.0      214.8     239.4                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                              761.0       475.3    517.9                 1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.8       4.7
URBAN                                             5.3       5.0
RURAL                                            5.9       4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          5.0
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..



- 25 -                                      ANNEX I
Paxe 2
TABLE 3A
ADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATO01 DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                   REnRERNCE GOUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  ES
NOST RECENT           LOV INCCHE              KIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   APRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                52.0         88.0      94.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                 58.0         95.0     100.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE               45.0        81.0       87.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 4,0         11.0      12.0                  10.0                     16.2
KALE                  5.0         13.0      14.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                3.0          9.0      10.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  9.0           9.0        ..                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            70.0        65.0      55.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                         24.0         20.0        *.                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..        39.0      50.0                  25.5
CONS LPTION
PASSgNCgR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0          6.8       7.1                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        15.0         79.7     127.0                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.5       1.5                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  8.0          7.8       9.0                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5          0.7       0.4                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3046.1       3619.9    4321.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  46.9         46.1      45.4                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.8        90.0      87.4                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.0          3.0       3.9                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.6        53.4      51.0                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                60.7         58.8      56.6                  54.3                    47.1
FEKALE                              50.9         48.2      45.5                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.9       0.9                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.0/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60. 17         .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.27-d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.07 
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     150.0                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      86.0                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     135.0                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      86.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      50.0                  39.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic meens.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent etimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-66;  /d Population;  /e Recent population growth estimate is 2.81 for 1975-79.
A The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $350 (at 1978-80 prices) and 8714.0 thousands.
May, 1981



-26 -                                                                               ANNEX I
Pass 3
OEpIXITIOMS OP SOCIAL. IMIICATORS
Metes;  Although the date art drew  from  sucsg raly Judged the metauthoritative ted reIilxi, it ehould also be noted thtr they may our be inter-
eationl,ip cemperale because of the lack of eteodrdiesd deieitoes ae _cetpte usd by different o.tuarise Ie tol..leeie  the data.  The date Arc,cos
thelee..s. usful to describe order  of  ageitede, ldirats treede, ada chr..oterise certeo  _aJor dif fer-ee  b.twec  couetriea.
Trhe ref.erectgroPs ere (1) the ea-  couetpgrou o-        f the ebJot)o  c-try sad (2) A to..etry groop with ecmemher highe  eveagslcm   thao the... cutry grouP
of the   bjAot couty (se.ePt fer "Capiasi Surplue oil feportere" grouP whore  Middle Itooso Nlrth Africe red triddl' tact  Is chast  h.c.u.e of etroaer
acto-cultur-al effisities).  In rho ref eosc  grouP deto ths ovo.egs ore populstice vightd arithmetic a-e  fcc each irdicaro  ted shov  cely the
maoIty ofthe cerrios to A grou P has dats fer that tidi.trr.  Slteo the cov-raga ct ocerrios  -ate  the  riccr  depeeds cc the availohility of dare
and ismt -if.-. ceutien met ha emerised ie relatieg ove.ege o- f ceo iedicstr te ecthar.  Trhese  -vArage  ore rely ceef1 ito coprieg the value of
eindicator at a ttma  -ma  the cue..try sad esfaranc  groups.
LAMD AgRA (thougmed eq.he.)                                                                       Pcpcl1rior ret Opia  ted -t coral oche, otd rural - Populatice(otl
Tetal - Total eurfce urn  comrIisin  1uad are  a.d iluld vabr.ura,  .da  rr IdIvided by the                                                :epective uomh   of hosPital htds
Agricultural - te=timt  of sgricultur.. Ites used temprarily or petmarstly                        av1blohi  It pohlit aed private eeralar  epeci.eiiead hospitaladre
fer crops, PAstrs  soke  aed hitch.e gardee or to lie fell; i97g data.                          hbhilitatiotreter . Hpitels are estahlieh-ttr   permecily s,ta.ffed
by rt least ore phyeiciar. Etbtalishcotr pro-idirg priecipally c..to-
GOP Pfl CAPITA (US$  - GRP per caiaesiae    orcrret merhet Pic.e, ca-                               dial rare  r  oct lerlded.  RuraI hospitals, boh-o..  icoude health
calat.d by some          I. acvese   eahode  World Bak Arias (1977-79 basis); 1960,               eud   edre  courses tot petmacetly eef fed by A phyotiar- (bct bya
1970, and 1979 data.                                                                              medical.. usistot, curse,  idwfe, etc.) which offer it-patien  -c-
dance a,da provide a limited ceeg  of medical focilitiee.  Per etti-
OfligY CONSUMPTION PuR CAPITA - Ana1e ronmtorf comrcia1 enery (rea                                  tcIcelpurpret  ohr .hcpitals inclds WHO.  ecialgnrlhospitals,
end Ilgaite, peroem.erur1 gee ada hydro-,  -.lea  ada genthersa  tIer-                            ted rue   haspita1% uI   or. rural hasp ircia ada edica-ad  metero-iry
ericiey) in kflcgram  of cou  equivalent Per capita; 1960, 1970, Ada 1979                         cere S. pecielteed heep itele ar  iecladd cely ceder tetl
data.                                                                                           Adelesi.es Ott Hcecir1 ted - Total tumba  of edisei.o. tc or discharges
ftom hospitals divided bY the rosher of beds.
POPUfLATION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
Tetal Peotlatice. Mid-Tear (thousend.  - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970,. ad 1979                  HfOUSING
data.                                                                                         ARegVSs         f  cehld (percc -Per h-usehld)-  -oa.uhc   da rural-
Rebmo  oenloice (rtesotof tota) - srti  at ucha  tc total poptleti-a                       A houshol  ceitofagupof individuas t:hsoeive   qutre
different defini Ttioso   bohe  area  me pffect cmperebility ef fare                            ada their sic  -.eI..  A bcardrr or lodger may or may mat he macladed to
imeg  octr~ime;ti1960. i970, ted 1979 data,                                                  the ha..eehold for etatietiral purposes.
Populatio  in year 2000 - Curemar PeP.leties ProJectices Are hose.d ce 1900                     he   fP_reu. Par ecm  i   l   re,a rurlccpd  ceetua
total ~pap tic  hyagaesned their mreiyaaftlity -acs                                           dveliege  repeotive1y.  D-el1ies. enclda ec--peteet st-ut-r   end
Prejeatita psramcre for meorlity cotta coepein  of thre  lvsneo-oooPidprs
:Ieg lif  eopectmy or birth iecreaetg  itb  otoury's per capita itoom                      Aoc,,, tc flootricito (peruro  dblia)     oa,  re.a                       I ua
leve,fada feml  life sepacctr..y srbilieing at 77.3 years.  Th  Pe-                         Coaventice d..     lg  eatch   lecltricity       iie   qater  anpercentage
mattes for fertility rare alma hove tb.sa levels aeoieg decli  to i                           of total, oche, cAd r-1e  Oteliets re-p-tivsly.
fertility  ..c.ordieg to Iacom  leve  sod past femily pleeiog parfersatot
Eachfceuctry is the .a...ig.da Oct of thes  t        -ebonitioc  of merraliry            EDUCATION
St    fetlity trends fer projete puepoosP                                                    Adjusted fecul...t Octico
feti_nr  ouretatiom  _ le a  tarionary pcpulatiou there Is -a greeh siee                      Primay eho -  rrl            1sl cud femlecrs  toa,maetd femal
the birth rats Is equa  rethe death rate, end also rho  Ae  t-turrurey-                         etrol_at o   lletea  the primary Ir_1 enpecetags.  of respective
mains ceouset.  Th~~is Isahieved eay After fertility races deoliee to                      primary school-eepplcos   oal    alfscide   gd6l
th   elcmn   sn   fti a          edetica rar, when each un-rriut                        years hut adjusted for differeer lengths uf Primary -dau.atle; for
of   e       trpleoeeitsef eatly.  ,The, sttoeypple                swsootiswth urive..a.. actioc enrollmet may  acned 10f petrect
etimated en the haste of the peJorted ohroaisrice of the pepultanltsneompuinrehsteaveheficlncclg.
inrho year 2000.a.da the rate of decliut of fertility race t rueplacs                         racudary sohaul - total, solo  .da fsm1l  - Computed e  above; s_codary
met level.                                                                                    sd_tiot requioaet leat four years of approvd primary tsrci
Tear staticeat  rouletton is reaocbd - The year  h.e etaticeary pepulotiot                        pro-idre ge..e.al, v-raine.ol  or teacher trainig ieatrcti.e. for pupib
sine hoe been reached,                                                                          usuall  of 12 tc 17 years ci  ge;_crrepondene  ort    t  geesrolp
Pepul tiot Rameity                                                                                  -ccided.
Per s. he. - itd-y-n  pepulccioe pre  sqoore kilomtcr (100 hectrare) of                         Vocet4unlanole  (percect of earCedary) - Vuca ticeal iestituti..e
tcts1 are; 1960, 1970 end 1979 data.                                                            intlud.   ehia,idsra,u   te  pogram   which operate tedaped-
Per se   k. ha   ercircl ad-Copted et ahav  foe egiutoa                   -od                     eatyoradprtetof scnay ietitotie.
eely; 1960, 1970 aed 1979 dote                                                               Poril-teacher ratic p- crmc.  da secodary - Total  trdaste enr1lda ito
PPeolarc  be  Orutens. (tera-e  - Chilidrae (D-14 pyrs), worki.g-asa  (15-                          petIury oud encuedary tavel  divided bp eomhers of tsch.re in rho
64 year),-d retired (65 year  aad over  As perct.tege  of mid-yea  pupo-                          ourr"anig  evl.1
lain   I0O  1970~.end 1979 data                                                            Adult licareor rts fp,rcert .-t li :terataduts (this to read ad orite)
PeaulatietOrceth Rat (earcenti- total - Annua  grcvb rters  ef total mid-                    sper_reerg.ouf tote1 adult poplait   g   15 years and ever.
.year ppuleti.n. 0 c 1950-60. 196.0-70 a.d 1970-79.
Polatice Growh Rate  (Prcnt _            Aube  - Aneul arceh rates cf orhb .e.r.-           CONSUMPTION
latie.. for 1950-6a, 1960-70. cod 1970-79.                                                   P-_ese A re( fea  rhuea.da pouulatien) - Pa.ssege  core cmprisemee
Crude Birth Rts. (e_tc  h_c.and) -  nA-I lIve hirtha Per- rho..ced of mid-year                    caetaIng las  th.r sight per..c.e;  -lrdeseblacs  hearses sed
population; i960, 1970. ee  1979 data,                                                          militar  vhils
Crude DM_s          ..th .ceI .ee homd) - A-nua deaths Per thouaa.da  of aid-year               Radi Raeier (ee  thousand oucuettee) - All typre uf receivers for radin
puueIe;.  1960, 1970, seA 1979 data,                                                        broadAstsc  gnera1 public Per rhasoda ef ppulatiet; seludesen
Gross Rordrad J-io  Rte -Avrg        ooe     f daughters a  ta ill hear In                        Icens  recivers in cetn.e. and Ic years whenrgsrtino                        i
her marm   rapruducIve Perio  if she en Ptee  pr.eta.        spci.        fer-            sets  as ito effect; data fo.r recen   Y-ae  may our be repsrahleic
til =Ityete;usaly .five-yea:aarg.  en: ding ito 1960. 1970,. ed 1979.                         Aet coctreies s.lhc        icnig
Pemily Plsemiea -Accerters. Aaen (touans    A-1Aea  tmbor of acceptosTVRcevr  (pre thousad ecpultrine   - TV rece.ivers fur broadcast te
cf birth-retied   devices ceder auspirse of national femil~ ~  ~~~Yplngperam.   geVaRal puh I       Per thousand populacine; aecides enicenee  TV reaier
Pomily Plennito - Users (eercm r c  married usen)   P_tcnrgs ef maried                   ino    ers and in years whoa registrati.on f TV eats ta  In efft.
woanof ohild-hborig ag 5.              yan  th. use birth--et-r1 devices te                  " Neee Circl          ie fet thausnad r.oelatioe  - Sftew  the  veag-       ir-
elI meried wome  ito -em  eg  groYp.                                                            coleti.Ce of  deiygmaa  iTers   eaae"  defined at aprdaical
publicatice dscted primarily to cecrdiag genera  Tes.  It Is cons idered
PRM AND NMTITION                                                                                    to ha "daily" if it appears at leas.t four time  A seek.
lade of Pedroductio  ptt= pita (1969-7~1-tl0G( - Index of per -cpita  -eJa                      Ciea"ealAtneo eec Cenits per Tea  - heed en the aenhe  ef
pr.ducc  of Allfn    edce.Peuciesde   eda fftendo and                                          inhresldd duin  the year, including daiseicto te driv- in t.em.
Is on  Alander year hears.  Cuaditiescever primr"ea  (e.g.&sgr sad   eietts
instea  of sua)wihAre edible end c-otain etrienes (e.g. rcff. us ad
tea ar  elded).  Aggregate prodatice ef each coutry Is base.d on                           LABOR PORICE
eatitoo., aegeproducer price n Igt; 1961-65, 1970,.ed 1979 data.                             Tetal Labor PrrsW Itho.. !ndt- ttmialyative peesoes  incldieg
Per carrie enerir of olm  (trrent of ruieat)-Computd froe                                       armed f_eco  andotmp0yd  but mlAding hooseviv-, etdetta,er,
eeg qeivelent of mar foud supplies aveilahlr in reentry Per ..pir.                       revring pupulutice of all age.t    ef leitl... in veour        ruins  t
prday.  Available spplies comprise domeetir prductice, imparts lees                        net cepa-ble; 1960. 1970 ada 1979data.
eperta, end changes in stck.  Het euPPlina  _.I. animal feed, seeds,                       Pale frrse) - 1Pea  labor force as Perrentag  of tetl lhr ferre.
qentities udIt fend p...e.sieg,  n   cssi   itrh e.Rqia                                    Agrcutue  ne ta) - Laher fcrce Ineing, frestry, benting end
met aeetimated by PAO based ce physingicl needs f or tona  eotn-                       fishing sa Per..eetage of coral labor furce; 1960. 1970 AMd 1979 data.
nipy "d health cetoidering  beicste   eprtr   ody weights, age                              Industry (pernt) - Labor f.r.e in mining,  entrrnmwfacturieg
and sm  distributi-on  f popultin, and a11wieg 10 peren  for .E ve ts or                       d elcririop, eater and tog        s  eraug  of rural labor force; 1960,
huoeAhald level; 196!1-6, 19)0, and 1977 dars.                                                1970 AMa 1979 daca.
Per o.Pit. euralr of Prcrta (seemP..pe  dar       rrl   et           fpecpia                  PriialyRr  rret) ptt1-   ttl   ae.aatl -Peetlcipatle  or
es  spply of fend per day.  get sapply of forod Ie defled as shov.Ru.                       activity  ae r optda t.tetal.male  end femal  eber ferc.Ass
qoiem tr  for all oun..tries   atablishd hy RSDA erevide for minie                          pecnaeof totel, male ad f ale  popelatine ef all ages respectively;
elvnsof h0 Veem  of total p-ctee par dey sad 20 Arem  of  tomal -an                     1960. 1970,. ada1979date.-These are hasd en Ito's pa-ticiptiot, reiss
poise protein, of which 10 grac  shoud ha animal prutei.  Thaa eud-                           reflecting age-sntrucur  of the  ppletie..  ted leg time trend.  A
arder  lse  then thoes of 75  rAma of total protnia end 23 sAtsoef                            fem estisett  are fr  omatiteal  -.urce.
anima  ptrie As an ovoueg  fee the world,I proPosed hy lAO It the Third                    oEn2-ic ReeD"    ncy Ratic -.Ratir of pupuleelce ceded 15 usd 65 sadcs
World Food Survy; 1961-65. 1970 ada 1977 dare.                                                tc  rho tota  lhJr, force
Par cait pretsia enl frm _im_l sa  ous_ - Prutcie eapply of fend de-
C1rived from animals Andpoises It gr     par day  1961-65, 1970 and 1977.dsta.             I2MrOf DISTRCIIIOs
Childleans1-6) arrmlty Rae for thoe-d) - dAtal darhe per thoumad it                      Pa -etee ofrivte I-tm   (both in  ...h ed kind) - Ra..iv-d hy riohast
.g. group 1-4 years, te rhildre ito this age gruep; for meet developing true-                   5 Perrr _trices  20p et' pourest 20 peret, end pooret 60 percent
tries date derived from life thlea; 1960, 1970 end 1979 date,                                   of housho1ds.o'tOP
MSA2.TH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GPROUPS
lf Enrer1tesa at glirth (yearn) - Averag  nobr of years of life remaining                       The fl11ain  satietee are vary appreao aa   so-             of preerty level,
athrh  1960, 1970 en  t1979 data.                                                          end ehnuld be iute"rprtrd with coeciderable cmtia..
indent Mortality RAts fre  chaused) - Ane1 deathe of iefatis under toneya                       Eeimetod Aboluts Povrty Iecom    Lvel (00   e   aia)-ubnad rurl 
ufae  a    tl,uaa  live:_ births..                                                           Aboelute povrty ittm   lew1 is that incm   eve  heln which a miiAel
Acest    aeWtr(tercentb- of  -er.-I)tithi coe.so. a   ua  -ft-tritinally Adequate diet pluaaseta   --o-rd require tnt  In eat
ma tar e rely (includes ctreated suface mtacre or  etrntda hot cecett ntad               affordable.
Eatimated Raativ- Povety I-om  Lav-l (U  Per  ,Rentl - urban an  rurl1
mata  such aefthatifree prtcted berhales, springs, and eaitry malls) as-ura  relative paverty Incom   ie  Ie no-third of  -vrgs Per caPita
pe...etagno of their.. r1epetiveo p rputarir2s.  It an   frhe   am   a- p i                     personal i-m  ef rho reentry.  Urbn reve  Is derived fro  the rura
feoisied ur  btadpes  lacthied -b.-. ourmr     then20mter  from.  a. --I mah-lvo  witb adjuamet1for higher oest of living in urban are.-                                  b
reamas-ableoc-es woud imply chat tho housewife or masher  of the h-cehld                        en   ua       ecerc   uuain(crbanan  rua)th   r                      raalte
dc ect hove to sPeed a dipreportiete purr of rho day ito fetching the                             -`
A..sa. to Ea..rera Direousl (Orret ofpoltle      url  rhc!ndma
Sthr ofpel   rce.ubn   d  rural)serve 1by srrt  dicurn  a
percentages of the ir -ep-c tire  Rpopltin  E .. tatet  diepesl may iacluds
th   uleeiaad dipama1, sith or erthaut uetmtet, of homa  -arrte                                                             Sonec  n        -uia1 Rera Drisis
.d ete-vtot by eater-hares system   or the use of pit pririne  .da 5tl                                                      toeemic Analysis sAd PoeciesDpartmnt
P     Pulti  ea yyicia   - Ppuletien dividedby  utbec qf practicing physi-                                                                      May 1961
oleas qualified  tee   a  aia.cot   toiesty lvl
2Perlarn te               Atrin   ere  - Popelatiot divided by etbte of prac.ticing
male and tale  graduate  uee  practical  aree...n.d as.sistentnus.



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 4
MADAGASCAR - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH 1/
US$ Mln.          _                1975-79
GNP at Market Prices                 2,768.0          100.00               1.5
Gross Domestic Investment              619.1           22.4                4.6
Gross Domestic Saving                  281.6           10.2              -17.5
Current Account Balance               -434.8          -15.7                -
Exports of Goods, NFS                  482.3           17.4               -7.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                  819.9           29.6                5.4
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value added 2/             Labour Force 3/          VA Per Worker
US$ Mln.         Z         US$ Mln        X          US$ Mln       %
Agriculture                            961.4           34.2        3.79       88.8         253.7       38.5
Industry                               551.0           19.6        0.19        4.4       2,900.0      440.2
Services                             1,134.8           40.3        0.29        6.8       3,913.1      594.0
Unallocated                            165.9 4/         5.9
Total                                2,813.1          100.0        4.27      100.0         658.8      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
FMG Bln           X of GDP
1979     1980            1979    1977-79
Current Receipts             114.1    126.3            19.1       20.1
Current Expenditures         131.8    148.8            21.6       20.5
Current Deficit              -17.7    -22.5            -2.5       -0.4
Capital Expenditures          55.0    105.7             9.6        6.1
Foreign financing (net)       30.9      42.3            5.2        2.8
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1976          1977           1978            1979          1980
(Million FMG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Money and Quasi Money                  100.2         122.0         143.0             180.6         207.8
Bank Credit to public sector            19.5          29.0          49.9            100.5         186.0
Bank Credit to state enterprises
and private sector                   82.2           95.8         100.7            120.6         139.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as X of GDP    23.7             26.5          29.8.            30.1            -
GDP Price Deflator (1978 - 100)         88.1          93.7.0       100.0.8          112.9
Annual percentage changes in
GDP Price Deflator                      11.4           6.41          6.7.8            12.9           -
Bank Credit to public sector            58.5          48.7          72.1            100.4           85.1
Bank Credit to State enterprises
and private sector                  4.8           16.5           5.1             19.8          15.4
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/ Based on 1978 prices seeries
2/ At market prices
3/ Total labour force
4/ Import duties
February 4, 1982



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 5
MADAGASCAR - TRADE PAYMENT  AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
1978   1979   1980 1/                                   US$ mln.      X
(US$ Million)
Coffee                           156.1       44.8
Vanilla                            27.1       7.8
Cloves                            46.2       13.2
Meat and meat products              9.8       2.8
Exports of Goods, f.o.b.       405.5  411.8  420.7    Fish and shellfish                   15.6        4.5
Imports of Goods, f.o.b.       404.2  674.1  723.1    Sugar                                 7.3        2.1
Resource Balance                 1.3 -262.3  302.4    Petroleum products                   11.2        3.2
Chromite                          10.7        3.1
Services (net)                -144.4 -248.2 -286.8    Other commodities                    64.7       18.5
Freight and insurance          -81.1 -137.7 -144.3             Total                      348.7      100.0
Others                         -54.4  -87.9 -102.7
Investment income               -8.9  -22.6  -39.8    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Transfers (net)                 60.7   70.0   72.9                                       US$ Mln.
Private                          8.4    7.0    7.1
Public                          52.3   63.0   65.8    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1.035
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current account balance        -82.4 -440.5 -516.3    Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1.035
Direct foreign investment       -6.2   -6.6   -6.6    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 4/
Net MLT borrowing:              22.6  145.2  199.2
Disbursements                 27.5  154.2    -
Amortization                  -4.9   -9.0    -        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   12.4
Other capital (net)2/           59.0   95.9  100.3    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt           -
Change in reserves               7.1  206.0  223.4    Total outstanding & Disbursed   12.4
(increase   -)
IERD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1981)
MEMO ITEMS                                                                       US$ million   SDR million
SDR allocation                   -       4.7    4.7                             IBRD    IDA   IBRD       IDA
Foreign assets (net)3/          64.0    -       -
Outstanding &                        .        4 4.8
Disbursed            30.94 150.37.  -         -
RATE OF EXCHANGE      1978        1979       1980       Undisbursed              0.27  99.40.  -        36.2
Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = FMG        225.64      212.72    211.30         Undisbursed           31.21 249.77   -        36.2
FMG   1 = US$          0.0044      0.0047       .0047
1/ Provisional estimates from the Central Bank of
Madagascar.
2/ Includes SDR allocations, state and private
short-term capital, and errors and omissions.
3/ Net foreign assets of the banking system.
4/ Debt service payments as % of exports of goods
and services.
February 4, 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS UF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A.  Statement of bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981) 1/
Loan or                                                             US$ Million
Credit                                                           (net of cancellations)
Number        Year   Borrower            Purpose            Bank   IDA         Undisbursed
Seven Credits and four Loans
have have been fully disbursed                              25.83  64.25           --
CR   322-MAG   1972   Madagascar  Morondava Irrig.                     15.30          1.19
Ce   5Ub-MAG   1974                   Village Livestock                 9.60          3.00
LN  1065-MAG   1974                    Forestry I               6.75                  0.27
CA   o41-MAG   1976                   Highways IV                      22.00         10.49
CR   663-MAG   1976                   E.ducation 1I                    14.U0 2/       7.05
Ci   817-MAG   1978                   Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                43.00 3/    18.66
CR   d81-MAG   1979                   Mangoky - Agriculture            12.0U          6.41
CR   9U3-MAG   1979                    Railways II                     13.00          1.80
CR   938-MAG   1979                   Highways V                       24.UU        24.00
CR   977-MAG   1980                    Industrial Bank - BNI            5.00          5.00
CR  1UU2-MAC    198U                  Water/Sanitation                 20.50        20.50
CR  1U16-MAG   19d0                    Petroleum Exploration           12.50        11.3U
TOTAL                                32.58 255.15         1U9.63
of which has been repaid              1.37   5.38
TOTAL now outstanding                31.21 249.77
Amount sold
of which nas been repaid              -       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA   31.21 249.77             249.77
TUTAL undisbursed                      0.27 109.63         99.67
B.  SDR denominated IDA Credits (as of September 3U, 1961) 1/
Amount less cancellation
(SDR million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower        Purpose                 Amount           Undisbursed
1Ub4-MAG    19d1   Madagascar  Agricultural Credit           8.7                8.5
1U86-MAG    19d1   Madagascar  Plain Antananarivo TA  1.8                       1.8
1155-MAU    1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit   9.4 4/                    9.4
libl-MAG    1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                  16.3 4/            16.3
TOTAL                                 36.2               36.0
of which has been repaid             -
TOTAL now outstandin6                 36.2               36.0
Amount sold
of which has been repaid             -
fOTAL now held                        3b.2               36.0
TUTAL undisbursed                       -                36.0
C.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
Loan      Equity     Total
(USS Million)
1977     Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga         11.00      0.29        11.29
19dU    Bata - Snoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                             1.25       -           1.25
12.54
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Including a Norwegian grant participation of USS7.0 million.
3/ Including a supplemental credit of USE10.U million of 1980.
4/ Nut yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 3Qa 1981 1/
Credit No 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million Credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date: December
31, 1981.
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irrigation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-farm
development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied research
station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and health facilities.
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara and the North Canal, construction of
secondary irrigation and drainage canals and construction of the 8.1 km road
between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are completed satisfactorily.  However, SODEMO,
the agency responsible for on-farm development and agricultural services,
faces serious management and financial problems and as a result, agricultural
production is poorly organized, and yields are very low. The Government and
IDA have agreed on a plan of action to clarify SODEMO's responsibilities. A
financial plan and measures to improve its overall management have also been
adopted, but this will require careful monitoring in the coming months.
Significant progress has been made in updating of accounts. Audit of past
accounts by consultants has been completed and submitted to the Government.
The closing date was extended to allow SODEMO time to carry out the project as
revised and to permit land development, of which less than 50 percent has been
completed.  The closing date will not be further extended.  The credit account
will remain open until March 31, 1982 to receive disbursement requests for
expenditures/commitments made before December 31, 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit No 506-MAG:   Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:  US$9.6
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
June 17, 1975; Closing date: June 30, 1982.
The project encountered serious problems in the initial years and,
principally because of legal and organizational difficulties, little progress
was made. Following significant changes in institutional and management arran-
gements, the credit agreement was extensively amended; the Amended Agreement
became effective September 1, 1977.
The project's main situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the
principal project implementing agency, is now well-established, fully staffed
and operational. Implementation of the project's most important component -
the development of veterinary and livestock services for village producers -
is proceeding well. Pasture improvement experiments are being undertaken.
Schools and health centers are being constructed, and the Ministry of Health
is preparing a utilization plan for the health centers. The development of
water points and road improvement continue satisfactorily. Cooperation with
fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is good. In the
middle west, OMBY continues to provide services to villages surrounding the
ranches established under the IBRD-financed Beef Cattle Development Project.
The pilot program and cattle share fattening programs have begun but action is
limited to construction of some buildings. Financing and administration
arrangements have been worked out. The study of cattle marketing and meat
prices has been completed and submitted to Government for review. To assist
the Government in financing emergency imports of veterinary products, the
Association has agreed to reallocate credit funds and to extend the closing
date by six months to June 30, 1982.
Loan No 1065-MAG:    Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 milion Loan and US$6.75
Credit No 525-MAG:   million Credit both of December 23, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness. July 8, 1975; Closing date: December 31,
1981
The project supported the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which will eventually
supply a forest products industry in the Mangoro Valley. The planting program
is ahead of schedule and cost estimates are in line with forecasts, despite a
reorganization of the project which entaiis more building and infrastructure
than originally estimated, and the need for more intensive soil preparation
than foreseen at appraisal. Technical difficulties which occurred in the
early stages of the project have been resolved. The project was closed on
December 31, 1981, but withdrawal requests will be accepted until March 31,
1982, on commitments made before December 31, 1981. (See also Second Mangoro
Forestry Project, page 8 of this Annex).



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Credit No 641-MAG:      Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million Credit of June
23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country-s road maintenance administration. Project implementation
is satisfactory. However, start of the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been delayed due to lack
of training facilities. Bids for construction of these facilities were
received and the contract has been awarded to the lowest bidder, SARD. Con-
struction works are expected to start shortly. Part of the consultant's team
(Louis Berger) has already arrived and training has started, although at a
reduced scale at the existing training facilities.
Credit No 663-NAG:   Second Education Project; US$14.0 million Credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
the educational system and to improve the quality of basic education. It
incldes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships. Norway took a 50 percent participation
in the proJect under an agreement signed on December 16, 1977.
Architectural design work on all proect nstitutions is now complete.
Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production Centre
is being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre, pro-
vided by the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training have been in
Madagascar since September 1977. The second thase of the ORT program is under
active preparation. ArcHitectural work has generally been well executed
although this has taken much loger than expected. Construction of one of the
project's regional education centers is now completed and the remaining four
centers are also nearing completion. The teaching aid production center is
expected to be completed within six months. Progress has also been made with
respect to the software components of the project including the completion of
evaluation of the educational system, decentralization of education administra-
tion and a sector survey. The credit closing date has been postponed to
December 31, 1982 to allow additional time for project completion.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Credit No 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million Credit
of June 19,.1978 (including a Supplementary Credit of
US$10 million of May 8, 1980); Date ot Effectiveness:
May 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is financed by nine co-lenders, and represents the largest
single project ever undertaken by Madagascar. The project would meet the
growth in electricity demand until 1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide
for strengthening of JIRAMA, concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a
4-km tunnel, underground power house, tail-race and access tunnels; two
turbines and two generators; electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmis-
sion line to Antananarivo; engineering services; preiiminary investigation and
design for a storage resevoir; and technical assistance and training for
JIRAMA staff.
Contracts have been awarded for the civil works and all major
equipment and supplies. Total project costs are now estimated at about 20
percent higher than at appraisal. However, even at the higher cost, the
project is still the least-cost solution for the supply of power in Madagascar.
The civil works were temporarily halted in March 1981 by contractor Skanska
due to a lack of supplies caused by the unrealiability of the railways.
An interim co-lender's meeting was held on May 4, 1981 during which an
emergency plan of action was adopted. It is envisaged that the project will
be completed by July 1982.
Credit No 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
Credit of May 17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 11,
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project will support the development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky
Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These invest-
ments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately
to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production The project will be imple-
mented over a five-year period and will comprise: development of irrigation
and drainage networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including produc-
tion of concrete canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha
of traditional rice fields; consultant services for design and supervision;
applied agricultural research; social infrastructure; training and project
preparation for agriculture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing
about 25 percent of the total project cost.
Civil works have been delayed because of lack of cement, delays in
land-levelling and grading due to breakdown of equipment, and lack of spare
parts; low output of the concrete canal factory is due to poor management,
past cement shortage and lack of reinforcement steel.  The quality of SAMANGOKY
management has deteriorated, due to strikes and other labor problems, precipit-
ating the resignation of the General Manager in December 1980. SAMAMGOKY has
been unable to obtain a foreign exchange allocation for importation of equip-



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
ment and materials due to shortage of Government foreign exchange. However, a
new Director General and a Technical Director for the project have been
appointed. Both are acceptabie to IDA.
Credit No 938-MAG:      Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million Credit of July 30,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 17, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The project will help prevent further deterioration of the paved
highway network, thus reducing transport cost and avoiding early and costly
reconstruction works. It would also increase the maintenance capacity to the
Ministry of Public Works and provide for an all-weather road connection
between the regional district of Antomboka and the capital, Antananarivo.
Co-financing is provided by a European Economic Community Special Action
Account credit of US$10 million. Due to inefficiencies at the highway admini-
stration progress so far has been slow, implementation is already about 2
years behind schedule. However, the contract for construction of bridges and
approaches is about to be awarded and physical execution of the project is now
getting underway. High bids for this contract have resulted in a cost overrun
of US$6 million. The African Development Bank has indicated interest in
financing the cost overrun.
Credit No 903-MAG:    Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million Credit of June
25, 1979 Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the project are to help the Malagasy railway
company renew and modernize its facilities improve the reliability and
efficiency of its operations and improve its financial management and account-
ing methods. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided
US$20.5 million in co-financing.
The railway has been experiencing major difficulties for some time
due to: i) fuel problems; ii) Government intervention in Railway operations;
iii) increased derailments; iv) deteriorating financial situation; and most
recently, v) Government dismissal of the Director General and the Technical
Director of the railway company.
A recovery program including short-term technical assistance for the
railway has been adopted, following discussions with Malagasy officials.
Credit No 977-MAG:      Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million Credit
of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project supports Madagascar's industrial sector and BNI's
crucial development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign exchange
requirements to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and medium-scale
enterprise sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through technical assistance.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Credit No 1002-MAG:    Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project; US$20.5
million Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. Detailed designs of the
water supply works has been completed and tender documents have been issued.
Detailed design of the sanitation component is expected to be completed by the
end of 1981. Construction work on the water supply component will commence as
soon as bid evaluation is completed and the contract awarded.
Credit No 1016-MAG:    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$12.5 million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: August 20
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector.
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Geological and
legal consultants were employed to assist the Government in preparing data
with a view to promoting exploration by interested oil companies. Two oil
companies have signed an agreement to undertake exploration. Two mere are
actively negotiating. Other studies and technical assistance provided in the
project are proceeding satisfactorily, including preparation of a second project
to study the feasibility of exploiting the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits,
Credit No 1064-MAG:    National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of January 7, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: August 17, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project supports the Government's policy to extend credit
for smallholder agricultural development through BTM. However, the reluctance
of smallholders to request loans, and the inability of BTM to make further
loans due to previous loans not having been repaid, have slowed the granting of
loans to smallholders. Unless some remedial action is taken, it is unlikely
that BTM will be able to utilize the full amount of the credit before the
closing date of June 30, 1984. BTM has tentatively suggested that part of the
credit be used for the importation of fertilizer. If fertilizer were made
available, smallholders would be more willing to take out credit and BTM to
reschedule old loans if the reason for previous late payment has been caused
through no fault of the smallholder, e.g. drought. Procurement for mobile
banks and recruitment of consultants for two studies are proceeding slowly.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Credit No 1086-MAG:    Plain of Antananarivo (Technical Assistance) Project;
US$2.3 million Credit of January 30, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: October 16, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would support the Government s efforts to institute a
multisectoral approach to an integrated flood control and development program
for the Plain of Antananarivo area; it would also contribute to strengthening
the coordinating role of the Directorate General of Planning of the Ministry
of Finance in the development of the Plain of Antananarivo.
Credit No 1155-MAG:    Audit and Accounting Project; US$11.5 million Credit of
June 11, 1981; Expected Date or Effectiveness: April
12, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project includes measures to develop a suitable legislative
framework for the accounting and auditing sector and aims to increse the level
of expertise in these professions through training.
Credit No 1161-MAG:    Second Mangoro Forestry Project, US$20.0 million Credit
of October 29, 1981; Expected Date ot Effectiveness:
March 1, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will continue the reforestation program begun under the
first project, and will assist the Government's efforts to establish a forestry
industrial complex in the Mangoro Valley. Recently problems have arisen due
to indications that plantation yields are substantially below expectations.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           1-1/2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                     Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:             September 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:          July 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                            December 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1982
Section II - Special Implementation Action:
None.
Section III - Special Conditions:
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) Effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement (paragraph 60).
(ii) Signing of the subsidiary agreement between the Government and
FAFIFAMA (paragraph 60).
(iii) Amendment of FAFIFAMA-s statutes (paragraph 62 (c)).
B.   Other Major Conditions:
(i) The Government would discuss livestock sub-sector policy and
meat pricing policy annually with IDA (paragraphs 31 and 40),
(ii) A policy paper for livestock research would be sent to IDA
for comment by December, 1982 (paragraph 36).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) FAFIFAMA would prepare and submit to IDA an annual work program
and budget not later than August 1 of each year (paragraph 62(e)),
starting in 1982.
(iv) FAFIFAMA's status and structure would not be modified without
prior consultation with IDA (paragraph 62(c)).
(v) The Government would finance full needs of veterinary imports from
1985 (paragraph 55), and ensure that pricing of veterinary
products would be based on full cost recovery (paragraph 56),
(vi) The Government would establish a system of cost recovery for
road and water supply works through a minimum 20 percent user
contribution towards the capital and maintenance costs
(paragraph 52).






IBRD 15637
4   441                         4b'                             4il                             5S          MARCH 1981
MADAGASCAR                                                           12'
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK                                                                       $       NTSERANANA
AND RURAL DEVELMENT PROJECT
DEUK/EE MPOJET `'EFA'GF VILL'EOIS
ET D   VLCPPMENT k(Ae4L
MAHAJANGA FARITANY I FAR/TANY OE MAHAJAANGA                                         NOSSI-8E SAEn lobe
FIVONORONANA RECEIVING INTENSIFIED VETERINARY SEIWICE UNDER CR3EDIT 50W. MAG I,I 
YFIVOtNDRONANA AVANT rENEFICIE D'ENCADREMENr vErrRhINARE INTENIF )ANS Le                                               + VoIW-O1
CADRE DUI CRED/r 5CE - MAG
PILOT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS - MIDDLE WEST UNDER CREDIT S06- MAG /
PROGRAMMES PILOTES DUI MO YEN - QUEST DANT LE CADRtE DUI CREDIT 506  MAC
*  ODMBY STATE RANCHES I RANCHES DE LA FERMES DET  DAIR* Y
I' POPOSED PAIFAM  CATTLE FATTENING FARM OF AEELIETSTE MARIE I                                                                                 4
FERVED'ENGRAISSEMENT DE ErTAIL DE FAFIFAMA PROPoSEE  AHAELIESTIEF MARIE                                                   - S 3e   ba14
_ BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS/ ROUTES A SURFACES EIrUAEEE
ALLWEATHER ROADS /ROUTESPRATICABLESTOUTE L'ANNEE
RAILROADSYCHEMINSDE FER                                        4ealonor,
-     FARITANY BOUNDARIES / LIMITES DES FARITANY                                   Anol ,o
- FORMER PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES /  MIIITES DES ANCIENWES SDUS' PREFECTURES                       4                        Andopo
FIVONDRONANA BOUNDARIES (SHOWN IN MAHAJANGA FARITANY ONLY)I!                      UsFIy           -Allh
LIMITESDES FIIRONDRONANA (MONTREES URNIUEMENT DASRLEALFARITANY DE MAHA.Af AlGA 
4  ALL WEATHER AIRPORTS I AEROPORTS OUVERTS TOUrE LAMNEE                                              Eefondoon\
CAPITAL!I CARl TALE                                                                               Md
C3  FARITANY CAPITALS I CAPITALES DES FARITANY
O  CHIEF TOWN IN FIVONDRONANAf                          M                .-
CHIEF TOWNS IN FORMER PiEFECTURES/                                                                    Mo-dr.'o     1 
PRINCIPALE VILLE DES ANCIENAIES SDUS PREFECTURES
IN"   " ' "  4  SeCHve
Mozambique
i8'                     Mcaintirono                                                          Vo,dolo                                               lB
C   h   o   n   n   e   /   %   0               Mon'k TOA                     MASINA
%\,  A \5) g0 ondqana|A , ...          $
T-                                                     ~~~~~~~~~n a ,n
srbha  3BeTOGI
-20                                                                     AntsOrae                                                                    2 0
M MoronkJ   f "                                                                                        c e a_  n
A   o1  ooI0                           0    1251
'Ank.or-                                                                              100        100 MILES
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TI n.Mk.4..b WMr,<                           W,,IIa.nk,so   /., io.pF,
IOAYf                                          ____FAARNSO  f   
%   J   Ankozoaba    y   hosyv    g    \      3   SM~~~~~~~nantiSta t      010lO IE
0,,I  I
42' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~/d
9  /  Sokarahe r ~~~~\1 ia X Vondro A\l-h
\(  r  r     \  <  FaraZn,jf,ana~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAOGACA
44'ARY                    47,           eto  



