Document of
The World Bank
AtI fkfV'i'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                A          ¶
Report No. 3482-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 27, 1982
Eastern Africa Projects
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =    Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US$1.00                 =    FMG 275  1/
FMG 100                 -    US$0.36
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
J                    Metric System
Metric                                             British/US Equivalents
1 hectare (ha)                      =              2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2            =              0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )            =              0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)                     =              2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                         =              0.26 US gallon
=              0.22 Imperial gallon
1 metric (tonne)                    =              2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
DDR                 Directorate for Rural Development
DEP                 Directorate of Studies and Programming, MDRRA
FAFIFAMA            Livestock Development Agency for West Madagascar
FOFIFA              Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research
MDRRA               Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (Ministere
du Developpement Rural et de la Reforme Agraire)
ODEMO               Development Agency for the Middle West
OM4BY               Beef Cattle State farm
S:DR                Rural Development Service
S.PA                Animal Production Service of the MDRRA
Fokonolona Institutions:
Fokantany = village level local government
Firaissam-pokonolona = second tier local government (former canton)
F:ivondronan-pokonolona = third tier local government (at former sub-prefecture level)
Faritany = fourth tier local government (at former province level)
FISCAL YEAR
Government and FAFIFAMA          January 1 - December 31
1/   The exchange rate between the US dollar and the Malagasy franc used in
this report is based on an average of the rates obtaining during the
second half of 1981.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT BACKGROUND  .........................................                  1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................................    2
A.    Background ............................................                  2
B.  Institutions ..........................                                    4
C.   Government Strategy .........................                  .          5
III.  THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR ....................................                     6
A.    General  ...............................................                 6
B.    Cattle ..........          ......................................        6
C.    Other Livestock .......................................    12
D.    Institutions in the Sub-sector ........................   13
E.    Issues for the Development of the Livestock Sub-sector.    18
F.   The Beef Cattle Development Project (Ln. 285-MAG) ......   20
G.    The First Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project (Credit 506-MAG) ...............................   21
IV.    THE PROJECT AREA AND FAFIFAMA ..............................   24
A.    The Project Area ......................................   24
B.    FAFIFAMA ..............................................    25
V.    THE PROJECT ................................................   27
A.    General Description ...................................    27
B.    Detailed Features .....................................    28
C.    Project Costs .........................................    36
D.    Financing  .............................................    38
E.    Procurement ...........................................    39
F.    Disbursements .........................................    40
G.    Accounts and Audit ....................................   41
H.   Project Completion Report .............................   41
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission composed of
D. Lallement, D. von Samson, Y. Gazzo, M. Schneidman, D. Coyaud (IDA), T. Root
and J. Houdry (Consultants) which visited Madagascar in June/July 1980. A
post-appraisal mission composed of D. Lallement and N. Tcheyan took place
in November 1980. C. Ward participated in the preparation of the appraisal
report in Washington.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................  42
A.   Project Organization and Staffing .....       ................  42
B.   Project Implementation Schedule .......................  45
VII.   TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS ........... ..     ..............  45
VIII.   MARKETS AND PRICES .........................................  47
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................................  48
X.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................  52
Supporting Annex, Tables and Charts
Annex 1   List of Principal Institutions in the
Livestock Sub-sector .......      ........................  55
Table 1  Summary of Project Costs .58
Table 2    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .59
Table 3    Government Project-Related Cash Flow .60
Table 4    Benefit and Cost Streams for Economic Analysis .61
Chart 1   Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform -
Organization Chart .62
Chart 2    Animal Production Service - Organization Chart .63
Chart 3    FAFIFAMA - Organization Chart .64
Chart 4    Project Implementation Schedule .65
Index of Material Available in Implementation Volume ....      .............  66
MAP - IBRD 15637 ...........      ..........................................   67



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Madagascar has requested IDA assistance in finan-
cing a Second Village Livestock and Rural Development Project at an estimated
cost of US$25.8 million over five years. The project proposal was prepared by
the Livestock Development Agency for West Madagascar (FAFIFAMA), the project
implementation agency in Mahajanga faritany under the First Village Livestock
and Rural Development Project (Credit No. 506 MAG). FAFIFAMA was assisted in
the preparation of the feasibility study by SEDES, a French consulting firm.
Several discussions between FAFIFAMA, SEDES and IDA were held during project
preparation. The Government forwarded the final preparation report to IDA
in October 1979.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Madagascar in June/July 1980. The mission was composed of
Dominique Lallement, Dieter von Samson, Yves Gazzo, Miriam Schneidman (IDA),
and Ted Root (Consultant); Daniel Coyaud (IDA) and J. L. Houdry (Consultant)
participated in part of the mission. The mission took place well before
completion of the first phase project largely because of the need to complete
field work during the dry season. A post-appraisal mission composed of
Dominique Lallement and Nils Tcheyan took place in November 1980, to review
the sectoral issues and the institutional arrangements for Project implementa-
tion, and further discussions were held in Madagascar in June/July 1981. In
Washington, Christopher Ward participated in the preparation of this report.
1.03      Significant changes in project design were agreed at appraisal.
First, the Project was reviewed in the overall context of the sub-sector, in
order to identify the relationship of the proposed components with the eco-
nomics of livestock production throughout Madagascar and, in particular, to
clarify the implications of Government policy and management of the subsector.
As a result components were added to the Project to support the Government's
initiatives in redefining policy for livestock and improving management of
the sub-sector. Second, the proposed village animal husbandry intensification
and commercial steer fattening programs were reduced to the scale of pilot
components, on the grounds (i) that too little information and technical
experience were presently available to justify a large-scale village animal
husbandry intensification program; and (ii) that the technical experience and
managerial capability readily available in Madagascar to develop and manage
the proposed fattening farms were too limited.
1.04      Further changes in the Project description were agreed upon during
the post-appraisal mission, largely as a result of the rapid deterioration
in the economic and financial situation of the country in the second half of
1980. The pilot component for village animal husbandry intensification was
further reduced and a program to import veterinary products to maintain the
national animal health program was introduced. Finally, Project implementation



- 2 -
arrangements were modified to take into account the implementation of the
recent reorganization of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
(para 2.07).
1.05     To date, the Bank Group has supported eight agricultural development
projects in Madagascar. One credit and one loan are fully disbursed: the
Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project (US$5.0 million), and the Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Project (US$2.8 million). Two projects, the First Forestry Project
(US$13.0 million) and the Morondava Irrigation Project (US$15.3 million) have
recently been completed. Four other projects are under implementation: the
First Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (US$9.6 million); the
Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (US$12.0 million); the Agricultural
Credit Project (US$10.0 million) and a technical assistance project to identify
means of developing the Plain of Antananarivo (US$2.3 million). An Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project and an irrigation rehabilitation
project for the Lac Alaotra area have been appraised and a Second Forestry
Project was approved by the Board in June 1981. Several other projects are
under preparation for mixed farming, irrigation and various cash crops.
Experience with past projects has been mixed. The Lac Alaotra Project was
implemented quite successfully, although the Project Performance Audit Report
of December 17, 1976 (Report No. 1622), emphasized that shortcomings in
implementation, notably the failure to levy adequate water charges, were
offset by a fortuitous rise in the price for project rice production. The
Impact Evaluation Report of August 1981 (Report No.3600) concluded that
earlier projections of project performance were over-optimistic and that the
actual rate of return was probably negative. The Beef Cattle Development
Project encountered many serious problems; this project and the First Village
Livestock Project are reviewed below (paras. 3.29-3.37). The Morondava
Project also encountered serious problems, mostly managerial, while the First
Forestry Project has been carried out efficiently. The Mangoky Project got
off to a good start technically, although some institutional problems have
arisen. The First Agricultural Credit Project became effective only in August
1981.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      The economy of Madagascar is predominantly rural, with roughly 85%
of the nine million inhabitants living in the countryside.   The population
growth rate is about 2.8% per annum and about half of the population lives
below the poverty level. Agriculture, including forestry and fisheries,
dominates the economy, contributing about 40% of GDP and 80% of export earnings,
and supporting about 80% of the national libor force. About two thirds of
Madagascar's total land area of 592,000 km has some agricultural potential.
Due to the wide range of ecological conditions found, the country has developed
a very diversified agricultural production pattern. Rice is the predominant
foodcrop, cultivated over an estimated 1.0 million ha, and accounting for
an estimated 30% of the total value of agricultural production. The other
major foodcrops include cassava, maize, groundnuts, sweet potatoes and beans.
Coffee is Madagascar's foremost export crop, accounting for about 40-45% of



- 3 -
export earnings in recent years. After a substantial increase in the culti-
vated area and production in the early 1970's, coffee production and exports
have stagnated during the last five years. Cloves are the second export crop
in terms of production and earnings, followed by pepper and vanilla, contribu-
ting together another 20% to 25% of export earnings. Cocoa is cultivated on a
limited area, and exports are not yet very significant. The major industrial
crops are sugarcane, cotton and tobacco. Cotton production expanded rapidly
up to 1977 but has since declined to the level of the early 1970-s. Livestock
production is important throughout Madagascar and accounts for about 10% of
agricultural output. The livestock herd is mainly beef cattle although the
pig herd appears to be on the increase. The livestock sub-sector is reviewed
in Chapter III.
2.02     On the whole, the performance of the agricultural sector has been
poor during the past decade, particularly since 1975, with an average rate of
growth somewhat below the population growth rate. This performance largely
reflects: (i) the stagnation of the most important agricultural commodities,
paddy at about 2.0 million tons a year, coffee at 80,000 tons (green), sugar-
cane at 1.4 million tons, and beef at 115,000 tons; and (ii) the decline of
other agricultural commodities, mainly vanilla and cotton. As a result of
these production problems, Madagascar has now become a major importer of rice.
Yet agricultural performance is far short of potential; many commodities now
produced offer scope for expansion, while intensification of production in
virtually all parts of Madagascar could significantly increase output. In
addition, large areas of undeveloped yet fertile land are still available.
Reasons for the slow growth of the agricultural sector are complex, but among
the key contributing factors are: (i) inadequate producer prices compounded
by inefficient marketing; (ii) limited agricultural services, including
research, extension, and input delivery; (iii) low credit availability; and
(iv) limited sectoral planning and management capacity. The impact of poor
export performance and increased reliance on imported agricultural commodities
was softened during the late 1970's by favorable terms of trade. However, the
stagnation of agricultural output was a major factor in the economic crisis
that developed during 1980 and which still persists, characterized by severe
budgetary problems and an acute foreign exchange shortage.
2.03     Agricultural systems in Madagascar are quite complex and diversified.
Smallholder farming is predominant almost everywhere on the island, with most
holdings averaging between one and three hectares. Rice is cultivated in most
areas as a subsistence crop. Depending on the region, other crops are culti-
vated: fooderops on the Central Plateau, sugarcane on the north-west and
south-east coasts, and export crops along the north-west and east coasts,
usually in association. Cotton is cultivated in limited areas in the western
half of the country. A number of large irrigation schemes, plantations, and
farms also exist, mainly for rice, sugar and cotton. Cattle are raised
extensively on the western rangelands (Mahajanga) and in the south (Toliary),
and in association with crops in the rest of the country.
2.04      Farming techniques vary according to region and crop, ranging from
simple spade cultivation (angady) to use of draught oxen and tractors. Water
control systems are well developed. Inputs such as improved seeds, fertilizer,
and chemicals are little used by smallholders except in a few areas where a



-4 -
well-structured extension program operates. More sophisticated production
techniques are confined to a few state or privately-owned large farms.
2.05      Agriculture, as a predominantly smallholder activity, is largely
in private hands. Complex systems of land ownership, land rent or usufruct
rights exist for these smallholdings, with wide regional variations related
to ethnic traditions. In general, however, paddy land is heritable. Pasture
land is generally held in common. Government intervention in smallholder
agriculture has been limited to the work of extension services. Attempts have
been made to encourage smallholders to form cooperatives but the response has
been very slow. Government intervention has been on a much larger scale with
plantations and large farms, most of which have been nationalized since 1975
and are now operated by parastatals. It is in marketing and processing of
agricultural commodities that the Government plays its largest role, inter-
vening at many stages for different commodities from primary collection
through the local administrative bodies, to final sale on the domestic or
export market.
B. Institutions
2.06      Fokonolon-a institutions.  Since 1972 the Malagasy Government has
undertaken a major reorganization of local administration and government.
This reform involves the establishment of representative institutions at four
levels, replacing the territorial administration of provinces, prefectures,
sub-prefectures and cantons. The "fokonolona" system reflects an effort to
associate traditional institutions and practices with a more representative
and responsive local government, and to provide a vehicle for decentralization
of power as part of Madagascar's socialist revolution. The reform has been
implemented gradually, and many details of the new system, notably regarding
local finance, the role of cooperatives within the fokonolona system, and the
role of fokonolona institutions in the control of industry and parastatals,
are still being considered by the Government. However, the new entities are
assuming important responsibilities, notably for agricultural credit, market-
ing of rice and other agricultural products, and planning and implementation
of small-scale development projects. The hierarchy of fokonolona institutions
comprises the fokontany, which coincide roughly with traditional village
units (about 11,400 in all), the firaissam-pokonolona, at the former canton
level (about 1,250), the fivondronan-pokonolona, at the former sub-prefecture
level (about 100), and six faritany, at the former province level. The
Ministries of the Interior and of Information and Ideology have primary
responsibility for supporting the fokonolona institutions.
2.07      Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform.  The Ministry of
Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA) is responsible for rural develop-
ment programs. Up to 1979, the Ministry had four major operating departments,
which functioned quite autonomously and were organized separately at a regional
level. In 1979, a far-reaching reorganization of MDRRA (see Chart 1) was
introduced, with the principle objective of providing better support to the
fokonolona institutions through decentralization. Centrally, the structure
of the Ministry has been simplified: it consists of the Minister's office,
the Secretary General's office, and two directorates: (i) the Directorate of



- 5 -
Rural Development which supervises the technical services of the Ministry; and
(ii) the Directorate of Studies and Programming (DEP) which includes all other
services: statistics, project preparation, supervision of parastatal manage-
ment. The decentralization process involves increased responsibilities for
the local services of the MDRRA; there are six Directorates for Rural Develop-
ment (DDR), with headquarters in the faritany capital cities. In each DDR,
there is provision for one Rural Development Service (SDR) per fivondronana,
and one Rural Development Zone per firaisana. The DDRs report direct to
the Director of Rural Development. The effect of this reorganization is
to eliminate the functional line of authority between the central technical
services of the Ministry and field staff, who are now organized under the DDR.
There is a procedure for a decentralized budget under which the MDRRA makes
the general budgetary allocation to the DDRs, which in turn allocate the funds
between the various SDRs. However, the implementation of the reorganization
of the Ministry is proceeding quite slowly. Only the DDRs and the SDRs, which
replaced the agricultural/veterinary "circonscriptions" in the former sub-
prefectures, have been established. The major staff appointments have been
made, but many positions in the SDRs and below are still vacant, and likely
to remain so for some time, as the Ministry of Finance has established tight
restrictions on the hiring of new staff. Thus although the beginnings of
the new structure are in place, much of the detail of the activities of the
decentralized institutions and coordination between them and the technical
advisors of the MDRRA, the extension agencies and parastatals remains to be
thought through. In the meantime there is a risk to the effectiveness of the
MDRRA's operations, especially at field level.
2.08      Other Institutions.  There is a large number of parastatal organiza-
tions active in the agricultural sector under the umbrella of either the MDRRA
or of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. These organizations include
regional or crop specific extension agencies, regional development authorities,
input procurement and distribution agencies, and marketing and processing
companies. The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research is cur-
rently responsible for agricultural research through the Center for Agricultural
Research and Rural Development (FOFIFA), and for university level agricultural
education. However, a proposal to transfer the research function to MDRRA has
been approved and is now being implemented. The National Bank for Rural
Development (BTM) is responsible for extending credit and mobilizing savings
in the agricultural and rural sector.
C. Government Strategy
2.09      The Government-s broad objectives for agriculture and rural develop-
ment were articulated in the 1977 Development Plan. Three major goals were
set:  (a) self-sufficiency in food and in inputs for agro-industries; (b)
decentralization of economic activities through the fokonolona institutions;
and (c) improvement in the distribution of incomes and in regional economic
development. To date, the specific growth rate objective of 4.3% per annum
for agriculture for 1978 - 80 has not been achieved. The MDRRA has



- 6 -
recently prepared, as a discussion document in preparation for the forthcoming
1981-85 plan, an Agricultural Policy Paper which restates the leading role of
agriculture in development efforts in Madagascar. The paper defines the long
term goals as self-sufficiency in agricultural products; expansion of agri-
cultural processing for export; the raising of rural incomes; and the creation
of rural employment. To these ends emphasis is placed on establishment of a
rational pricing system and the development of infrastructure and marketing.
III. THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
A. General
3.01      Livestock represent a major national resource for Madagascar.  The
country has good potential for livestock production, particularly cattle.
There are an estimated 42,000 km of natural pasture and the island is free
of most of the major cattle diseases common in continental Africa. A major
census was taken in 1978 as part of an extensive review of cattle marketing and
pricing issues carried out by SEDES and financed under the First Village
Livestock Project. This census estimated the national herd at 10.1 million
cattle, 1.8 million sheep and goats and 1.1 million pigs. Virtually all
production comes from the traditional sector. Beef and meat products are
important export commodities, earning some US$16.6 million in foreign exchange
in 1979. Yet, despite its excellent potential, the subsector has performed
poorly over the last decade. The size of the cattle herd remained static
between 1973 and 1978, and the sheep and goat herd showed only a modest
increase of 6% during the period. Cattle productivity has not increased and
pig productivity is low because of poor genetic material. Constraints at the
production level have been compounded by the Government-s pricing and marketing
policies (paras. 3.06-3.12). Meeting the domestic demand for cheap meat
products, which on a per capita basis is one of the highest in Africa, has
been a constant preoccupation of the Government and cost the country about
$6.0 million in subsidies for Antananarivo alone in 1979. The profitable beef
export trade has been curtailed to divert beef to urban consumers and exporting
firms have been operating well below capacity (para 3.13). There are thus
some major issues and constraints in the subsector. However, the Government
has recognized the need for action to increase production and has, over the
last two years, taken a number of positive steps to remove major constraints.
B. Cattle
Socio-Economic Significance
3.02      Cattle husbandry has long been a vital economic activity in Madagascar,
and great social significance is attached to livestock in many parts of the
island where cattle are associated with rituals surrounding death and memorials
to ancestors. The curved horns of the Zebu steer (the distinctive local breed)
are the most common symbol of Madagascar, appearing on both the national flag
and the currency, and the possession of cattle is an important source of
prestige. The importance of cattle in village economics is undisputed. They



-7-
are a valuable source of nutrition, play a major role in the traditional diet,
and are widely used for draught and transport. They also function as a store of
value and savings account.
Distribution, Herd Size and Productivity
3.03      The principal regions for livestock are the south and west of
the country, known as the cradle of the Zebu. Most animals are bred in the
faritanys of Mahajanga and Toliary (Map IBRD 15637), which are characterized
by savannah lands well suited to extensive cattle raising. Two-thirds of the
national herd are found there. The faritanys of Antananarivo and Fianarantsoa
account for a further quarter of the total cattle population. Herd size
varies up to several hundred head but over half of the cattle population
is in herds from 15 to 70 head. Overall there is a far higher proportion
of males (47%) than is necessary for breeding purposes, reflecting owners'
reluctance to cull unproductive animals and, in some areas, the important role
of cattle for draft purposes.  For the same reasons steers are usually sold at
between seven and nine years, which is older than usual practice in livestock
rearing.  First calving occurs at four to five years and the interval between
calvings is from 18 to 24 months.  The total extraction rate is about 9%,
corresponding to 900,000 head or about 115,000 tons of beef (dressed carcass)
a year.  Milk production was estimated at 38 million liters for 1979.
Cattle Husbandry
3.04      Cattle are almost entirely in private hands; the only exceptions
are a few State Farms engaged in ranching (para 3.23). In the private sector
husbandry practices are overwhelmingly traditional, a wide range be-'L-t found.
In the most common form, cattle graze mainly unherded on communal lands during
the rainy season and are brought close to the villages in the dry season, when
they can graze on post-harvest residues and overnight in kraals. In parts of
Mahajanga a very extensive form of husbandry - "malia" - occurs, under which
cattle are allowed to roam wild on the range until slaughter. More intensive
systems are found on the Central Plateau where cattle, many of which are
brought up from the great breeding grounds in the west of the island, are
fattened before continuing their journey east to the dominant market in the
capital. On the plateau, cattle are grazed on the hillsides during the rainy
season, and on residues and natural pasture during the dry season. Bullocks
are stall-fed and some limited pasture improvements and forage production have
been introduced under various projects; steer-fattening is also common in
this area. However, in general, it is true that, despite wide differences in
practices, husbandry remains extensive and little movement away from centuries-
old practices towards more intensive, higher productivity husbandry techniques
has taken place. This is due to a number of factors,amongst which land tenure
and the traditional role of cattle in life in Madagascar are important.
Animal Health
3.05      Madagascar is free of most of the diseases which afflict livestock
in Africa. Anthrax and blackleg, however, are widespread and vaccination
campaigns, although extensive, have not yet reached more than half the national



- 8 -
herd on a regular basis. The main cause of cattle death, however, is prob-
ably parasitic infection; gastro-intestinal parasites, mainly ascarids and
strongyloids, kill an estimated 50% of all calves born in Mahajanga and
Toliary during their first year. Research has shown that about 75% of calves
are infected with ascarids and the practice of confining calves with other
stock in a common night paddock fosters infestation. Treatment with anthel-
mentics is indicated. Tuberculosis is also common, occurring in 30% of all
cattle. Liver fluke is becoming widespread but could again be controlled
by appropriate prophylaxis, in this case, drenching. Cattle ticks are very
common but are not as great a hazard as in continental Africa. Parasitic skin
infections have an adverse effect on the quality of the hides. Thus, although
animal health problems are less intractable than in many developing countries,
there are many diseases going untreated which are controllable by modern
methods. Performance of the subsector could be improved by a more extensive
provision of veterinary services at village level, and there is no doubt that
effective animal health programs like the one being carried out in Mahajanga
faritany under the First Village Livestock Project (para. 3.37) lead to sub-
stantial productivity increases.
Marketing, Processing and Prices 1/
3.06      The Wholesale Trade.  Bush traders are the principal extractors
of cattle from the tnajor breeding areas and are the first link of a chain
in which the animals may change hands three or four times. One parastatal,
FAFIFAMA in Mahajanga faritany (para 3.08), has set up buying posts in produc-
ing areas for direct buying from producers and bush traders, but otherwise
cattle trading at the primary and intermediate level is mostly in the hands
of private individuals. However trade is governed by location and licensing
requirements: trading outside the market is forbidden except at the farm gate
and collectors require a license which costs FMG 10,500 (US$38) annually while
market buyers require a license costing FMG 98,000 (US$356) annually. These
controls were designed in large part to prevent movement of stolen cattle and
to raise revenues. Various market taxes are payable to the fokonolona institu-
tions and a permit costing FMG 200 (US$1) per head is needed for movement of
cattle outside the locality. Trade is concentrated on finished animals and
immatures for draught and rearing; trade in breeding animals is virtually
unknown. A large proportion of animals for slaughter pass through primary
and intermediate markets to the great wholesale markets of Tsiroanomandidy,
Ambalavao and Mandoto (Map IBRD 15637), whence they are trekked to the cities
for slaughter. Antananarivo is by far the largest terminal market. Markets
are generally large open spaces, meeting places where cattle are traded; at
only a few markets are enclosures and a branding or innoculation crush provided.
Sales are rarely made on scales, although the use of these is being gradually
introduced in the Mahajanga region in FAFIFAMA's buying posts.
3.07      During the 1970s, the Government began to get directly involved in
the wholesale trade through the nationalization of the major meat processing
and export companies (para 3.09). These companies have to compete in the
1/   This section draws on the SEDES report (para 3.01) and on appraisal
mission analysis.



-9-
wholesale markets with private exporters and wholesale butchers but not with
each other, as marketing zones were established in 1977 in order to ensure all
the parastatals involved in cattle marketing a minimum supply. Parastatals
may procure cattle only within their own zone. It is not clear overall
whether these zones have acted as a constraint or whether they have succeeded
in their object of ensuring a rational allocation of supply without adverse
pressure on prices. However there are indications that the zones as presently
drawn do not always promote efficiency. Cattle from the southern fivandronana
of Mahajanga faritany, for instance, are trekked to Tsiroanomandidy whence
they are taken by truck to Antananarivo for processing and subsequent transport
to Toamasina for export.  Now that an export operation out of Mahajanga has
started up (para. 3.13), it might prove cheaper to process these cattle
directly at Mahajanga.
3.08      Government involvement was extended to the domestic wholesale trade
in 1977 when OMBY State Farm was given the wholesale meat supply monopoly in
Antananarivo. In this move the Government was influenced by its view of the
importance of maintaining supplies to this sensitive market at stable prices,
and by its general belief that trade intermediaries had been profiteering.
However, this monopoly was coupled with the fixing of wholesale and retail
meat prices at levels that were unrealistic in relation to upward moving
production costs, particularly cattle prices. As a result, the operation was
hopelessly unprofitable for OMBY, which never managed to supply more than 70%
of the market and incurred severe financial losses (US$6.0 million in 1979
alone). Recognizing the failure of this policy, the Government abolished the
monopoly in July 1980. Since then, the Government has pursued a more realistic
pricing policy (para. 3.12). The study of cattle marketing (see footnote to
page 8) found chat margins in private sector cattle trading generally were
reasonable, and the Government has subsequently adopted a pragmatic attitude
to the beef supply to the capital. The nominal responsibility for the whole-
sale beef supply has been passed to the fokonolona institutions (para. 2.06);
however, these institutions do not possess the resources to market cattle and
beef on the scale required, and do not supply more than 10% of the total
market. OMBY has continued to supply about a third of the market from its own
herds and buying network. The balance of the market has been supplied by beef
channelled through private wholesalers to the parallel retail market (para.
3.10). However in September 1981 the Antananarivo abattoir was opened to
private butchers and the sale of beef butchered under these sanitary conditions
was allowed throughout the capital. As a result the volume of meat available
through official channels within the capital has increased to around three
quarters of total consumption. Means of further improving the meat supply to
the capital, which has been a central preoccupation in Government policy
towards the sub-sector, are to be examined by a study financed under the
Project (paras. 3.29, 5.14). Elsewhere in Madagascar the wholesale trade
remains in private hands, except for the town of Mahajanga where, following a
butchers strike in 1979, the faritany established a monopoly over the whole-
sale supply, and entrusted the monopoly to FAFIFAMA (para. 4.03). FAFIFAMA
has been able to meet this requirement by procuring cattle through the buying
posts set up for its export operation. However at the wholesale price set by
the faritany this supply has been unprofitable and FAFIFAMA's Commercial
Department incurred a net loss of US$440,000 in 1979, equivalent to 27% of



- 10 -
turnover. Two price hikes during 1981 eased this situation considerably but
FAFIFAMA's production cost of around FMG 380/kg is still above the wholesale
price of FMG 360/kg.
3.09      Processing.  As a result of a long-standing Government policy of
expanding processing industries and trying to establish a regional equilibrium,
there is a well-developed network of slaughterhouses and meat plants in the
major urban areas. Slaughterhouses are mostly public enterprises under the
supervision of the MDRRA. Of the eight meat processing companies, five
(SECIAM, SOFIRAC, FEV, SEVIMA and FAFIFAMA) are parastatals (see para 3.22)
and three (MANIVICO, SOVIAMA and Lachaize) are in private hands. The combined
processing capacity of the major slaughterhouses and meat plants is about
350,000 head per year, of which 310,000 head in the public sector. However,
some of the existing plants are obsolete and operate below international
hygiene standards, while up-to-date plants like SECIAM at Morondava and
the Antananarivo and Mahajanga abattoirs operate below capacity. Technical
operational standards are generally very low in the older plants and there are
major management problems; installations are overstaffed, and record keeping
and maintenance are poor. The newer plants, however, have achieved higher
standards; the Mahajanga abattoir, for example, is inspected and licensed
annually by the West German health authorities. Financial constraints have
also had a critical impact on the operations of these plants, which are
generally underutilized and rely heavily on the banks to finance their seasonal
buying operations. Due to indifferent performance, the plants have found bank
finance increasingly hard to find. The problems of the parastatal meat
processing plants are addressed under the Project (para. 3.30).
3.10      The Retail Trade.  In the capital, some two thirds of the official
retail trade is handled through private butchers supplied either by the
private wholesale trade or by the fokonolona marketing network. The rest of
the official trade is supplied from OMBY's network of 15 retail shops (para
3.08). The margin on the official retail trade, which in December 1981 was FMG
30/Kg on a retail price of FMG 450/Kg, has been generally adequate. However,
retailers have been unable to obtain sufficient meat at official wholesale
prices to supply demand and a parallel market has operated for some years just
beyond the city limits to supply the shortfall at uncontrolled prices. Until
late 1981, the volume passing through this market was estimated to vary
between 30% and 50% of the total supply to the capital. As the trade was
unofficial, animals were slaughtered under primitive and unhygienic conditions
while the modern facilities at the Antananarivo abattoir, which were
constructed to handle all the capital½s meat processing needs, were under-
utilized. However, price differentials between the official and unofficial
markets fell to as little as 10% with the round of price increases in 1980,
while supply constraints on official wholesale channels relaxed greatly in
September 1981, once the Government allowed the resale at parallel market
prices of the meat butchered for private vendors at the Antananarivo abattoir.
The size of the insanitary market beyond the city limits has quickly dwindled
and by December 1981 was accounting for no more than a quarter of the total
Antananarivo trade. Elsewhere in the country, the retail meat trade is
generally in the hands of private butchers who are often cattle traders also.
Domestic beef consumption is estimated at around 110,000 tonnes dressed
carcass annually, of which about half is traded. Consumption in the capital
is estimated to be about 16,000 tonnes of dressed carcass a year.



- 11 -
3.11      Cattle prices.  Cattle prices are, in virtually all cases, determined
on the open market and there is considerable seasonal and regional variation.
Overall there has been a rapid upward movement over the last few years fuelled
by both domestic and export demand. Domestic urban consumption has remained
at an average annual level of 10 - 15 kg of deboned beef per head in Antananarivo,
and reaches 30 kg in some income groups, figures which are high for Africa and
which reflect the leading role beef plays in the traditional diet. The Govern-
ment's beef price policy (para 3.12) appears to have fuelled demand by keeping
down the beef price both in absolute terms and in relation to relative prices
for other meats. Export demand has also been responsible for some pressure on
cattle prices. In the early 1970s, exporting firms eagerly competed for
supplies and sharp price increases resulted, leading the Government to step in
to control exports (para 3.13). The Government also allocated the marketing
zones (para 3.07) in order to reduce competition and relieve pressure on
prices.
3.12      Beef prices.  Meat prices are officially controlled at both wholesale
and retail levels by the fokonolona institutions, although in the capital
prices are in practice subject to the ratification of the central government.
In most areas prices are set at levels sufficient to allow reasonable margins
to suppliers. However, in the capital, in the pursuit of stable prices in
this most sensitive market, meat prices were kept fairly static throughout the
1970s in the face of rising production costs. The failure of the private
sector to provide sufficient meat at the controlled price led the Government
to institute in 1977 the marketing monopoly of OMBY (para 3.08). The failure
of OMBY to supply the market and the size of its deficits demonstrated the
weakness of this policy. The situation was compounded by the growth of the
parallel market offering meat at prices up to double the official price. The
Government recognized in 1980 the need to redefine its pricing policy for all
agricultural commodities, including meat. A working group was set up within
MDRRA and a draft report has been produced which will be considered by the
Government in 1982. The main recommendations are that the MDRRA should have
primary responsibility for proposing prices of agricultural products and that
pricing would be based on production costs and include adequate margins. In
the meantime, a series of step increases in meat prices toward parallel market
levels have been made as an interim measure. Retail prices were increased
from FMG 230/kg (US$0.84/kg) in September 1980 to FMG 410/kg (US$1.49/kg) for
bone-in meat, and were raised again at the end of the year to FMG 450/kg
(US$1.64/kg). In calculating the last price recommendations, Government
officials based their calculation on the actual cost of production that OMBY
is experiencing. This price is about equal to world market prices. A further
rise in official beef prices is likely early in 1982, which should bring
official prices up to parallel market levels, currently around FMG 500/kg. In
addition to these measures, the Government has adopted a pragmatic approach to
the parallel market. Private butchers may now in practice sell beef at
uncontrolled prices in Antananarivo, provided that the meat has been prepared
under controlled conditions (para. 3.10). The impact of price controls
in Mahajanga is discussed above (para 3.08).
3.13      Exports.  The export trade is in the hands of the major meat process-
ing firms (para 3.09). Beef from Madagascar has privileged access to the EEC
under the Lome Convention, with an export quota of 7,500 tonnes a year, at
prices that have in the past been up to double world market prices. Malagasy
beef is readily marketable in Europe as the island is free of foot-



- 12 -
and-mouth disease. France and Germany are the main customers. However since
the early 1970s, when competition between buyers led to spiralling cattle
prices and concern that supplies to the capital might be reduced, the Govern-
ment has imposed an export quota on each firm. Initially this quota acted as
a restraint on the activities of the exporters and Madagascar's beef exports
declined from 9,900 tonnes in 1972 to 2,000 tonnes in 1976. Since then the
Government has made a series of step increases in the quotas allocated, which
reached 9,400 tonnes in 1978. However, exports have picked up only slowly, to
reach 5,000 tonnes in 1979 and indications are that they are still running
around this level. This disappointing performance has been due to technical
and financial constraints in the exporting firms (para 3.09). However two new
export operations have started up in the last two years (SECIAM and FAFIFAMA),
and increasing beef exports, which already accounted for 4% of total merchan-
dises exports in 1979, is a central objective of Government policy for the
sub-sector. The constraints in the exporting firms would be examined by the
study of sub-sector institutions to be financed under the Project (para.
5.15).
Hides
3.14      In recent years some 250,000 hides have been processed annually,
almost exclusively for the domestic market. This performance represents a
decline from the level of the early 1970s when over 400,000 hides were processed
and a substantial export trade existed. Theoretical availability of hides is
more than three times present traded production. The major constraint appears
to be the tax burden on collection; since 1973 there has been a permit fee of
FMG 36,000 (US$130). This is a substantial amount for a bush collector,
representing the value of about 60 hides. The price paid for hides (FMG 600,
US$2.20) by the single tannery now operating in Madagascar--Barday, a private
company located near Antananarivo--is lower than that paid for similar hides
in Ethiopia or Somalia. At this price, many collectors and suppliers find
operations uneconomic.  However quality of the raw hides is very poor as they
have been disfigured by gouging and branding. Proposals for the development
of the industry include:  (i) a rural hides training and marketing scheme
developed by Bata which has had worldwide experience with such schemes; and
(ii) a plan under review by the Government to construct three new tanneries,
which would increase processing capacity from the present 250,000 hides to
600,000. The viability of these proposals would depend on a successful
reorganization of hide collection that would probably include a reduction or
elimination of collection taxes and an increase in the price paid to collec-
tors. As the hide industry has important employment and income-generating
potential and could earn substantial foreign exchange, the formulation of
a coherent policy for the development of the industry should be a priority.
C. Other Livestock
3.15      Pig production comes largely from the traditional sector.  Small
farmers keep one or two pigs, which typically scavenge their own feed.   In
these conditions, it is difficult to arrive at precise figures for the pig
population but it is generally thought to be about 1.1 million with an off-
take of about 400,000 head per year corresponding to about 12,000 tonnes of



- 13 -
meat (carcass). The potential for commercial pig production is excellent,
particularly around Lac Alaotra and in the Middle West region and the pig herd
is thought to have grown in recent years - by about half between 1973 and
1978. More market-oriented pig production units are already developing near
the capital. Profitability is high due to the plentiful supply of cheap
cassava, while the climate reduces shelter requirements to a minimum. However,
the poor genetic quality of the herd has adverse effects on productivity,
while all the common diseases that affect pigs are present in Madagascar.
Teschen disease causes high mortality in unvaccinated animals. Although an
effective vaccine against Teschen is produced locally, veterinary service
coverage has been inadequate to meet needs, especially those of small farmers.
Most subsistence farmers keep a few scavenging chickens. Some commercial
poultry farming has developed near the larger urban centers but large-scale
poultry farming is constrained by the difficulty of obtaining feed for the
birds. Sheep and goats are kept largely in the south of the country and are
estimated to produce around 3,000 tonnes of meat (carcass) annually.
D. Institutions in the Sub-sector
3.16      Although there is a large number of institutions operating in the
livestock sub-sector (Annex 1), no one body has overall authority for all
sub-sector institutions and the sub-sector has been characterized by weak
management and poor coordination between the activities of the various agencies
involved.  The Government has proposed an Orientation Council for Livestock to
supervise and coordinate the sub-sector but this proposal has not progressed
beyond the outline planning stage.
Government Services
3.17      Centralized Services of the MDRRA.  The Animal Production Service
(SPA) of the Directorate of Rural Development is responsible within the MDRRA
for livestock development at the level of central government. The role of the
SPA is defined in broad terms by the formal document attributing respon-
sibilities within the MDRRA as "formulation of development strategy for the
sub-sector and promotion of animal production". In practice, the SPA,
with 43 professional and about 150 support staff, has had responsibility
for: (i) advising on livestock policy; (ii) running the inspection and
import/export sanitary supervision services; (iii) monitoring sectoral
performance and project implementation; (iv) acting as technical adviser to
the veterinary service; (v) investment planning in the subsector; (vi)
technical supervision of certain subsector parastatals; (vii) orientation of
animal production research; and (viii) advising Government bodies on meat
pricing. The SPA has performed its responsibilities quite well. Its staff
are well qualified and able, especially in traditional technical areas like
animal health. However, to date the SPA's capacity in planning for the
sub-sector) in particular production-oriented planning, and in statistics, has
not been as effective as in its more strictly technical functions, and
support for these disciplines is provided under the Project (para. 5.17).



- 14 -
3.18      The SPA has faced three specific problems which stem from the lack
of clarity in the definition of its role in the sub-sector: (i) the SPA-s
capacity in investment and production planning has been handicapped by the
fact that a number of meat processing parastatals are supervised by other
ministries (para. 3.22), and by the fact that other ministries plan and
promote new livestock investments without reference to the SPA. For example,
the Ministry of Economy and Commerce is currently promoting a new poultry
investment, similar to one being carried out under MDRRA auspices, but has not
coordinated the planning or preparation of the project with the SPA. Measures
necessary to resolve this weakness were defined and agreed at negotiations
(para. 3.28); (ii) project preparation for the sub-sector has been carried out
not by the SPA but by the Directorate of Studies and Programming (DEP - para.
2.07) within the MDRRA. 1/. The DEP has not always referred closely back to
the SPA in preparing projects for the subsector with the result that the SPA
has encountered some problems in implementation. This issue was reviewed at
negotiations (para. 3.28) when the primary role of the SPA in planning and
designing projects in the subsector was defined; and (iii) the role of the SPA
in relation to the decentralized services has been poorly defined. This issue
is dealt with below (para. 3.19).
3.19      Veterinary and Livestock Services.  With the 1979 reorganization
of the MDRRA (para 2.07), veterinary and livestock services in the provinces
which had previously been directly managed by the former Livestock Department
of the MDRRA came under the management of the decentralized DDRs and SDRs.
The SPA retained the effective role of technical adviser to the decentralized
services in the implementation of animal health and production programs. In
each of the six DDRs there is at least one veterinarian who is responsible for
supervision of animal health programs throughout the faritany and for coor-
dinating contacts between the decentralized livestock services and the SPA.
The veterinarian is responsible to the Director of the DDR who in turn reports
to the Director General of Rural Development. At the operational level there
are usually three SDRs reporting to each DDR. The livestock services form one
of the four technical services in each SDR and are normally headed by a
livestock specialist. Finally there is an extensive system of almost 200
veterinary posts, staffed by technicians and vaccinators. Total staff of the
decentralized services includes 10 veterinarians, 19 livestock specialists,
and 570 technicians and vaccinators. The program of the veterinary service is
based on extensive research and field trials into disease in Madagascar.
Activity is concentrated on prophylaxis, especially a cattle vaccination
program which included 5.2 million vaccinations against blackleg and anthrax,
and 2.5 million against colibacillosis in 1980. Poultry and pig campaigns are
not so significant but are growing in importance. Clinical treatments include
anti-parasitic treatments (140,000 in 1980) and treatments of liver fluke in
cattle (940,000 in 1980). The problems currently faced by the veterinary
service are numerous. It appears that the decentralization has led to longer
lines of communication from the SPA through the decentralized hierarchy to
field staff. There is no longer a direct hierarchical link between the SPA
1/   The DEP also plays a limited role in the supervision of parastatals in
the sub-sector through its Management Advisory Service, which was set up
to provide technical support to management and to play a monitoring and
evaluation role. To date this service has acted mainly as an information
clearing house.



-15 -
and the veterinary services, and communications have to be channelled up from
the SPA to the Director General of Rural Development and then down again
through the hierarchy of the decentralized services. It is too early to say
whether technical standards are likely to drop but coordination of health
programs has become more difficult and response to disease outbreaks is slower
than formerly. Under these circumstances, there is a risk of deterioration in
veterinary services. Measures to resolve this weakness were defined and
agreed at negotiations (para. 3.28).
3.20      The services have also experienced serious constraints in the supply
of vaccines due to shortage of equipment and materials at the Central Livestock
Laboratory that produces them. The laboratory is run by FOFIFA, the agri-
cultural research organization (para. 3.21) but produces vaccines for distri-
bution to the national veterinary service according to a program agreed
annually with the SPA. The constraint at the laboratory is addressed under
the Project (para 5.20). The shortage of foreign exchange for veterinary
product imports has led to critical shortages of products at the operational
level. The Pharmacie Centrale Veterinaire, which is the division of the SPA
responsible for the import and distribution of both vaccines and veterinary
products, has virtually no remaining stocks of veterinary products and many
SDRs have been compelled to abandon clinical treatments altogether. This
constraint, too, is addressed under the Project (para. 5.19). Finally, the
current economic crisis in Madagascar has affected the operating budget
allocated to the service which in 1981 amounts to only FMG 41 million
(US$150,000) in addition to salary costs, a reduction of some 18% below 1980
levels.  Fie'    peratic.as have been severely constrained by this reduction;
many vaccinao(, s  bicutiles are out of use from lack of spares and there are no
funds to compensate staft ror nights away from home.
3.21      Other Ministries.  Although the MDRRA has primary responsibility for
the subsector, a number of other ministries are also concerned with aspects of
it. Research in Madagascar is entrusted to the Ministry of Higher Education
and Scientific Research which supervises FOFIFA (para 3.22) the national agri-
cultural research organization. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce has
responsibility for the technical supervision of those livestock parastatals
classed as agro-industrial units, including some of the processing plants, and
is involved in several new sub-sector investments (para 3.18). The ministry
also monitors exports. The Ministry of Finance and Planning also has primary
supervision responsibility for one meat processing plant (SECIAM), assists
with meat price formulation for the capital (para 3.12), supervises the
financial performance of livestock subsector parastatals, and controls exports
through the Customs Office. The Ministry of the Interior supervises the
fokonolona institutions and hence has an indirect responsibility for the meat
supply to urban centers. The fokonolona institutions themselves are directly
responsible for ensuring the meat supply to towns. In most areas this role is
restricted to supervision of prices but extends in the case of the capital to
the operation of a marketing network (para 3.08). The fokonolona institutions
also are involved, through the Faritany Popular Assemblies, in studying all
new investment proposals within their jurisdiction in the context of regional
development goals. The full agreement and support of the fokonolona institu-
tions is a prerequisite to implementation of development programs.



- 16 -
Research
3.22      FOFIFA is responsible for all agricultural research including
livestock research. It has four technical divisions dealing with livestock:
animal production, animal nutrition and agrostology, infectious pathology and
parasitology. The national research program concentrates mainly on animal
health protection directed toward traditional producers. The Central Livestock
Laboratory (para. 3.20) produces vaccines against anthrax and enteritis and
some research on liver fluke is under way. In addition studies are being
carried out on pasture management and fodder crops; a modest program of
selection has produced some selected Zebu bulls for the OMBY State Farm and a
cross-breeding program is underway. There is very little research carried out
on pigs and poultry and virtually none on sheep and goats.  FOFIFA has suffered
from a number of constraints: (i) research policy has not been coherently
defined and initiatives have tended to lack coordination. In mid-1981 the
Government announced the formal transfer of FOFIFA from the Ministry of Higher
Education to the MDRRA, and it is expected that this transfer, once complete,
will enable the research program to be satisfactory reoriented. The MDRRA is
setting up a working group which will arrange the mechanics of the transfer.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that SPA would prepare a new
program of practical, production-oriented research for the livestock sub-
sector (para. 3.29); (ii) FOFIFA does not have sufficient skilled-personnel
and lacks the operating and investment budget to enlarge its programs. The
MDRRA will be reviewing FOFIFA's needs in relation to its redefined tasks, and
will present proposals to Government; and (iii) FOFIFA does not have adequate
records of the results of research previously carried out, and there is a need
to identify and reassemble documentation on this research. This need is
addressed under the Project (para. 5.22).
Parastatals
3.23      Much of the Government's direct intervention in the sector is
through the medium of the parastatals, which are involved mainly in production
but also in marketing and extension. The major livestock parastatals and
their activities are listed in Annex 1. Each parastatal is supervised by a
ministry which is responsible for overseeing its general performance, ensuring
that its management, financial and technical needs are met, and guiding its
development in line with Government policy. In addition the Ministry of
Finance has a brief to supervise financial aspects of parastatal operations,
but in practice this is confined to a review of investment spending financed
by Government. The parastatals do not have a uniform structure; those in the
sub-sector are of three main types: State Farms, Companies in Public Owner-
ship and Public Enterprises. The State Farms (Fermes d'Etat) come under the
National State Farm Committee, which is chaired by the MDRRA; there is no
Board of Directors and in theory the General Manager reports direct to the
Committee. In practice, State Farms enjoy a very close relationship with the
MDRRA, which is primarily responsible for their supervision. In concept State
Farms are production oriented and financially viable, and most of the State
Farms in the sub-sector do have a primary production role. An exception is
FAKIFAMA, the implementing agency for the First Village Livestock Project
(para. 4.03), which is primarily a veterinary service; FAFIFAMA was recon-
stituted as a State Farm in 1976 expressly to take advantage of the relative
autonomy in day-to-day management and financial matters that is delegated to



- 17 -
the General Manager of State Farms. On the other hand, the Government has on
occasion substantially altered the role of State Farms in order to implement
changing policies. The major example of this process is OMBY State Farm
which was established as a ranching agency for the Bank-financed Beef Cattle
Development Project (para. 3.32) but subsequently acquired a substantial role
in procuring cattle for supply to the Antananarivo market and has, since 1980,
been directed to produce rice. Recently the Government announced a plan for
the production of soya by OMBY. The character of FAFIFAMA too was altered
when the Government added a cattle marketing and processing division in 1978.
Companies in Public Ownership (Societes) are usually former private sector
companies that have been either wholly or partly nationalized. They are
administered by a management selected and supervised by the Board of Directors.
The composition of the Board reflects the proportion of shares held by the
Government and the private sector. Government respresentatives are normally
appointed by the supervising ministries. Most of the parastatal meat
processing and exporting firms are Companies in Public Ownership. The Ministry
of Economy and Commerce, and, in the case of SECIAM, the Ministry of Finance,
have had primary supervision responsibility for these firms. The Public
Enterprises (Etablissements Publiques) are institutions providing a service to
the community, for which the principle of subsidy is accepted; the municipal
slaughterhouses are set up like this.
3.24      The parastatals share a number of problems, of which the most
important is that their operations reflect the lack of a coherent overall
strategy for the sub-sector, and, since they are designed to serve as instru-
ments of Government policy, this detracts from their effectiveness. Invest-
ments have nct been made on the basis of an overall livestock plan and
there is a need to rationalize the use of present capacity, particularly in
the processing industry where capacity utilization is currently low. In the
absence of an overall strategy, the role of parastatals has sometimes shifted
ad hoc in response to shifts in Government policy, and in some cases, a number
of functions has been acquired piecemeal over time which are difficult to
coordinate; OMBY's rice growing activities for example compete for resources
with the original ranching operation. One reason for the poor sectoral
planning has been the intervention of two ministries (MDRRA and Ministry of
Economy and Commerce), both with investment programs and supervision responsi-
bilities in the sub-sector. The failure to coordinate investment programs
has, for example, led to the parallel investment in new poultry facilities by
both ministries without any joint study of markets or production means.
Finally, the financial situation of most parastatals is poor and almost all of
them run deficits. In the case of OMBY and FAFIFAMA, the basically unprofit-
*          able supply of the local market is identifiable as a major cause of the
deficit, but in other cases, as there are no norms or targets set by which to
judge the efficiency of their operations, it is difficult to distinguish
deficits which arise from running activities that require subsidy from deficits
due to inefficiency. During negotiations the problems of mediocre parastatal
performance and viability and poor coordination of the subsector were discussed
and measures to resolve these problems outlined (para. 3.28 to 3.30).



- 18 -
E. Issues for the Development of the Livestock Sub-sector
3.25      Major Issues.  It is clear from the description above (paras. 3.01
to 3.24) that over the last few years a number of critical constraints to
development of the livestock sub-sector have arisen. At the same time there
are clear indications that Government policy towards the sub-sector, which had
for years been imperfectly articulated, resulting in a series of uncoordinated
interventions, has become increasingly pragmatic during the last two years.
This is particularly the case in meat marketing and pricing, where the attempt
to establish a supply monopoly and maintain a low consumer price in the face
of escalating costs was disastrously expensive and failed in its basic aims
(paras. 3.08 to 3.12). Government actions over the last year have effectively
dismantled both the supply monopoloy and, de facto, the retail price controls.
A study to be financed under the Project (para. 5.14) should define options to
allow the resolution of the remaining difficulties in the meat supply to the
capital, which has long been a major preoccupation of the Government. It was
agreed at negotiations that the Government would consult annually with IDA on
the future development of meat marketing and pricing policy.
3.26      In other areas the Government has still to take major initiatives to
remove constraints. These areas include: (i) sub-sector organization, which
has been haphazard with poorly defined supervisory responsibilities and lack
of coordination between institutions. Critical constraints are the uncoordi-
nated intervention of different ministries in investment and production
and, within the MDRRA, the blurred lines of authority over the veterinary
service (paras. 3.16 to 3.24); (ii) policy formulation and production planning,
which have been weak, characteristically resulting in ad hoc responses to
problems, poorly planned investment and production, failure to meet export
targets and unfocussed research (paras. 3.13 and 3.16 to 3.24); and (iii) the
parastatals, which suffer from low productivity and lack financial viability.
3.27      Policy Dialogue at Negotiations.  The proposed Project runs some
risk from these constraints, and this risk is discussed in Chapter IX. The
adverse effect on the Project itself would probably not be very great, while
the specific improvements already made are encouraging. Nonetheless the
constraints are serious and inevitably affect the development of the sub-sector
as a whole. For this reason an intensive policy dialogue was held during
negotiations in order to explore in depth future Government policy initiatives
and proposed administrative measures for improving the management and product-
ivity of the subsector. During this dialogue significant assurances were
received on critical aspects of Government policy. The understandings reached
were incorporated in a signed aide-memoire which will form the basis for the
continuing policy dialogue which, it was agreed at negotiations, will be held
annually throughout the Project period.
3.28      On the question of sub-sector organization, a series of initiatives
was detailed which, together, demonstrate that the Government has recognized
the need to improve sub-sector organization and is taking necessary administra-
tive steps to implement improvements. These initiatives comprise: (i) the
issue of an administrative order, tabled for early 1982, which would define
the MDRRA's lead role in planning and coordinating investment, production and
marketing in the agricultural sector as a whole; (ii) direct reinforcement of
the role of the MDRRA in the livestock sub-sector by the transfer of the meat



- 19 -
on this were received at negotiations; (iii) definition, by administrative order
within the MDRRA, of the key role of the SPA in planning for and supervising
the sub-sector, and strengthening of that role by the permanent attribution to
it of the supervision of all parastatals operating in the livestock subsector,
including the meat processing parastatals. The SPA's supervision capacity
would be reinforced by material support under the Project (para. 5.17); and
(iv) redefinition and extension of the SPA's responsibility for the decentral-
ized veterinary service by the permanent attribution to it, within the MDRRA,
of the right to vet the annual work programs of the service and to supervise
their implementation. Specific assurances were received that the Government
would submit to IDA by December 31, 1982, a five year plan for the veterinary
D      service.  This plan would set quantified targets for increasing the coverage
provided by the service over the period and indicate the proposed allocation
of budget funds for the implementation of the plan.
3.29      On the critical question of the formulation of a coherent policy and
investment program for the subsector, a draft Action Program prepared by the
Government was discussed. The Program will, when finalized in early 1982,
form the production strategy on which the investment program would be built.
The Program is aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in animal protein and
expanding beef exports in the medium-term to 10,500 tonnes annually. Areas to
which attention would be particularly directed include: upgrading of animal
health programs, intensification of animal husbandry through improved feeding
and genetic improvements, and diversification into short-cycle production.
Major steps to be taken to implement the program include: reinforcement of
the veterinary service, the creation on a pilot scale of "development centers"
which would act as model farms, provide breeding stock, demonstrate techniques,
etc.; action on marketing, particularly the reorganization of parastatal
interventions; reorientation of research toward production; improvement of
credit programs for short-cycle production; and more effective sub-sector
management and supervision of parastatals, which would be centralized under
the SPA and based on the annual work program system. A detailed medium-term
investment plan, listing proposed projects in order of priority, will be
prepared once the Program has been finalized. Thus the Government has taken
steps to set out the major lines of a workable policy, and the SPA at working
level will be charged with defining that policy in the real terms of the
investment plan and, eventually, the allocation of resources. The complementary
task of production planning and setting export targets, which is presently the
joint responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce and the MDRRA,
would in the future be concentrated on the SPA, in line with the leading role
defined for this organization (para. 3.28). This together with the reorganiza-
tion of parastatals (para. 3.30) should allow realistic plans to be set and
supervised. On the issue of research, a reorientation towards production -
based themes in line with the thrust of the Action Program is currently being
discussed at a series of working meetings between FOFIFA and SPA. Specific
assurances were received that a policy paper specifying research priorities in
order would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1982.  The topics to be
covered would be production-oriented and practical.
3.30      Regarding the parastatals, the consolidation of supervision respon-
sibility (para. 3.28) will provide the opportunity for coordination of their
activities. However, the specific critical management, technical and financial
problems which these organizations suffer from, as well as their role within



- 20 -
the sub-sector as a whole, would be the subject of a major study to be financed
under the Project (para. 5.15). The conclusions of this study would present
to the Government recommendations for change, including the possibility of
liquidation, management reorganization and financial rehabilitation. In
addition the study would draw up management and technical standards for use by
management and during supervision. Terms of reference for the first part of
this study, dealing with the meat processing parastatals, were discussed
during negotiations. Specific assurances were obtained that the program
for the rest of the study would be submitted by December 31, 1982, for IDA's
prior approval and that the Government would consult with IDA prior to imple-
mentation of any proposals resulting from the study.
3.31      Conclusion.  The aide-memoire signed by the Madagascar delegation
at negotiations, combined with the specific assurances received, represents a
considerable commitment by the Government to reorganization and restructuring
in the livestock sub-sector, in line with the actions already undertaken. The
objective thinking on policy that these statements and assurances exemplify
would be strengthened by the studies and support under the Project. The
resulting actions are likely to help to resolve, within the medium term,
constraints critical for the development of the sub-sector and to provide the
context within which productive investment can be made. The major issues that
will be covered in the dialogue during Project implementation (para. 3.27)
include a review of progress in implementing these policy initiatives, and
an examination of options resulting from studies under the Project, particularly
regarding institutional arrangements for marketing, the rationalization of
processing capacity and the role and organization of sub-sector parastatals.
Other issues to be examined include policies for stimulation of exports and for
development of the hide industry.
F. The Beef Cattle Development Project (Ln. 585-MAG)
3.32      The Beef Cattle Development Project (Ln 585-MAG) was the first
agricultural project in Madagascar to receive Bank support. It was appraised
in May 1968, the Agreement for a US$2.8 million Loan was signed in February
1969, became effective in October of that year, and closed fully disbursed,
one month ahead of schedule, in May 1975. The project was designed to esta-
blish six cattle ranches in areas with proven livestock potential and was
seen as the first step in modernizing the livestock subsector in Madagascar.
The Government created a State Farm, OMBY, to implement the project.
3.33      Project Performance:  In the event, only four ranches were set up
and, overall, the project achieved only about 65% of the physical targets set
at appraisal.   An unfortunate conjuncture of social, political, technical
and managerial problems impaired implementation to an unusual extent and
caused this to be regarded as a difficult project throughout almost the entire
project period. Poor herd management was reflected in high cattle mortality
and low cow fertility. OMBY's ambivalent status, dependent on Government and
yet without clear lines of communication or authority leading to it, detracted
from its effectiveness as a development agency. Expatriate assistants,
essential to the project as designed, were employed in line positions rather
than in advisory or training capacities and seem, on the whole, to have been
ill-suited to their assignments by reason of qualifications, background and,
in some cases, temperament. Conflicts arose with villagers over use of land
which had wrongly been supposed to be vacant and these led to cattle rustling,
pasture burning and fence cutting.   Virtually all the exotic cattle, in



- 21 -
particular the imported Brahmans, were seriously affected by diseases and
this problem was exacerbated by the reluctance of local producers to sell
young females to OMBY and the scarcity of suitable animals for purchase. The
project was also troubled financially; accounting was poor, there were cost
overruns and the cash flow was inadequate. Finally, in 1972, a Government
came to power which was less sympathetic to the introduction of ranching on
a foreign model.
3.34      Lessons from the Project:  The Project Performance Audit Report (OED
1559, April 1977) draws a number of lessons from the project. Some elements of
the preparation design which were abandoned at appraisal should, with hind-
sight, have been retained; more consultation with the preparation mission team
was indicated. Both preparation and appraisal would have been improved by the
inclusion of members with a greater awareness of applied sociology and local
conditions. The tenure and land use issues should have been apparent to a
trained observer. Prior investigation of the local cattle market was clearly
indicated but Government and research station assurances on its behavior were
too blithely accepted. Closer investigation of the socio-economic background
into which such projects fit was indicated. Assumptions concerning the feasi-
bility of having expatriate managers set up 20,000 ha of viable ranches and
turn them over after three years to counterparts with no previous exposure to
ranching were clearly too optimistic; provision should have been made for
project-specific research, training and advisory activities. Furthermore, a
fundamental difference of perception between the Bank and the Government over
the demonstration value of the ranching design and the replicability of the
project was overlooked at appraisal. Appraisal design was never seriously
reconsidered during implementation, although new information suggested that
modification might be necessary. The tenure issue, for example, was discussed
but no systematic review of village issues was ever undertaken. Overall, the
lessons of the project were expensively learned both by the Bank and by the
Government, but have had a lasting impact on the approach to cattle development
projects in Madagascar. In particular the focus has switched from enclave
ranching to rural development, and from the implanting of a developed intensive
production system to development from the traditional extensive system. The
Bank's approach to development in the sub-sector has since been characterized
by an awareness of the importance of understarnding the socio-economic environ-
ment.
G. First Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (Credit 506-MAG)
3.35      The project was approved in 1974, and received an IDA credit of
US$9.6 million. The project design was a major departure from the Beef Cattle
Development Project and reflected the lessons learned from that project. The
emphasis was put on improving livestock production through villagers rather
than through state ranches. The project aimed to assist the Government's
livestock and village development programs through the provision of improved
veterinary and extension services as well as rural infrastructure in over 500
fokontany in Mahajunga faritany. The program was originally designed to be
implemented by the provincial veterinary service and public works departments,
suitably strengthened, but the Government determined, following discussions,
that a special development agency should be established to handle all aspects
of the project in Mahajanga. This agency, the Livestcek Development Agency



- 22 -
for West Madagascar (FAFIFAMA), was set up in 1974. In addition, the project
included three pilot development schemes in the Middle West region to be
implemented by OMBY and by ODEMO, the development agency for the Middle West:
an extension program for livestock development and food crops (OMBY); a
village beef cattle share fattening program 1/ (OMBY and ODEMO); and a pilot
pig program (ODEMO).
3.36      Project implementation initially encountered very serious delays,
principally due to institutional problems, namely: (i) the relationship
between FAFIFAMA and the provincial livestock service; (ii) the need to change
FAFIFAMA's status from Public Enterprise (para 3.23) to State Farm in order to
reduce administrative delays to implementation; and (iii) FAFIFAMA's assump-
tion of responsibility for livestock marketing and processing. In view of the
change to FAFIFAMA's status, the Credit was renegotiated in early 1977, and
the amended Credit Agreement became effective in September 1977.  By September
1981, total disbursements amounted to US$6.47 million or about 67% of the IDA
Credit. The closing date of the Credit, originally set for December 31,
1981, was extended to December 31, 1982, primarily in order to allow studies
being financed to be completed.
FAFIFAMA Program in Mahajanga Province
3.37      Implementation of the FAFIFAMA program in Mahajanga province is, in
general, proceeding satisfactorily. The project objectives for the animal
health component are being achieved, in particular with respect to veterinary
infrastructure, staff training, and implementation of livestock vaccination
campaigns. FAFIFAMA has successfully adopted a program of recruiting vacci-
nators nominated by villages. The vaccinators return, after training, to the
villages. The vaccination campaign has shown steady growth, and cattle
vaccinations against anthrax reached 1.3 million by mid-1980, in excess of
project targets of 1.1 million by 1981. The pig and sheep/goat campaigns have
also done well, but the poultry campaign has dropped from a high point in
1977/78. While the program has thus done well, there are constraints, notably
the country's overall import difficulties which have resulted in a serious
shortage of vaccines and veterinary products. The pasture improvement component
has been partly redesigned to include applied field trials which are being
executed by FOFIFA (para 3.22). These trials have however been poorly designed
and managed, and are to be discontinued. Implementation of the water points
and road components has been adequate, although it encountered many problems,
not least those resulting from the extremely difficult nature of the terrain
and the difficulty in recruiting experienced staff. Maintenance after con-
struction has been poor. Strengthening of FAFIFAMA's Public Works Department,
including a provision for a maintenance brigade, has been included in the
proposed Project (para 5.10). Implementation of the social infrastructure
program is virtually completed. The most successful element has been the
construction of schools at the request of the fokonolona; with only a few
exceptions, these schools are well built and are immediately utilized upon
completion. Teachers have been made available. Implementation of the rural
health program has been less successful; seven health units have been built and
construction is generally of good quality. However, some of the units are not
well situated, and others have no water supply, with the result that they have
1/   Share fattening or dabokandro is a traditional Malagasy institutition.
Owners leave cattle with villagers for fattening, and profits are shared
when the fattened beasts are sold.



- 23 -
not been well used. The construction of the Agricultural Training Center at
Tamborahano, some 70 km north of Maintirano (Map IBRD 15637), has been com-
pleted; however, the site chosen is very remote and there are likely to be
major communications problems. The MDRRA has recruited teaching personnel but
no training program has yet been established, and there is no clearly defined
aim for the center. The MDRRA is considering utilizing the center as a pilot
"Training Center for Progressive Farmers."
3.38      FAFIFAMA, as the implementing agency for a major part of the present
Project, is discussed in more detail in Chapter IV. In summary, it has
developed into a satisfactory institution. Senior management are generally
technically competent and hard-working. The ability of middle management
staff is limited, but field personnel are good and adequate for their levels
of responsibility.
Middle West Pilot Programs
3.39      OMBY's cattle share-fattening and crop extension programs.  OMBY's
role as a production unit and more recently, a procurement agency has tended
to take up most of its managers' time and the pilot schemes entrusted to it
have received a very low priority. The cattle share fattening program is
being run with only about 100 participating farmers and the crop extension
program has been implemented on only a modest scale. In addition, OMBY
suffers from chronic managerial problems and its financial situation is
generally poor. Under these circumstances, it was agreed by the Government
that the component should receive no support beyond the four year development
period, which ended in 1979. ODEMO's pilot pig fattening progron started in
1980; a Technical Support Center has been completed, some pig breeding
stock procured and the first production sold to peasant producers. The cattle
fattening program has not been implemented. As ODEMO's extension work is of
poor quality, it was agreed by the Government in 1980 that further disburse-
ments should only be made for pig imports. However, a thorough review of
the future of both OMBY's and ODEMO's programs and the potential for further
development based on their experience will be made as part of the feasibility
study currently underway for the proposed Middle West mixed farming project.
Lessons from the First Project
3.40      The major conclusion arising from an assessment of the first project
at this stage has been the soundness of the design of the animal health
program, and in particular the appropriateness of the village vaccinator
system, which has ensured both acceptance of the program and good communica-
tions between FAFIFAMA and villagers. The preparation study for the follow-up
project carried out by SEDES in 1978/79 (para 1.01) contained a preliminary
evaluation of the first project, which concluded that the animal health
program had good potential for significantly increasing production. However,
attempts to quantify the production impact are premature as the benefits of an
animal health program are slow to come about. In addition data have hitherto
not been collected on a systematic basis and the establishment of an adequate
data collection system is a key feature of the proposed Project. The research
program has demonstrated that careful design and thorough supervision with
consultant assistance are essential in the context of FOFIFA-s limited capacity
to carry out such trials. The infrastructure program, although extremely
popular, has demonstrated some of the problems of including in the project
components not directly related to production. The role of local political
influence in determining the siting of health units and the training center is



- 24 -
one example. Another example is the difficulty of coordination and supervision,
due to the number of agencies involved in setting up and operating these
diverse installations. The weakness of the local services of the Ministry of
Public Works has also been apparent, leading to the reluctant conclusion that
FAFIFAMA should undertake its own road development activities. The primary
lesson from the OMBY and ODEMO pilot programs is that the level of management
and technical input required for such schemes is higher than either institution
was able to provide. However although the failure of these programs is mainly
a management failure, the role of the Government in diverting OMBY management
energy into ad hoc developments is a significant factor that reflects the lack
of a clear development policy for the Middle-West. The feasibility study for
the area (para. 3.39) should assist in the redefinition of goals. The proposed
Project would incorporate these lessons by continuing and extending the animal
health program and by tying further infrastructure development to a pilot
production component. The model of the village vaccinator system would be
extended to the recruitment of extension workers.
IV. THE PROJECT AREA AND FAFIFAMA
A. The Project Area
4.01      The production-oriented components of the Project are to be carried
out in Mahajanga faritany in the northwest of Madagascar. This area covers
about one sixth of the country's surface and is one of the least developed
regions of Madagascar. However, the potential for livestock development
and for increased cropping is good, as the soils are generally rich and the
climate favorable. The climate is tropical with average summer temperatures
ranging from about 230C to 270C. On the whole the area is drier than the
rest of the country (rainfall about 1500 mm annually), with pronounced wet
(November to March) and dry (April to October) seasons. The area is
characterized by a wide variety of production systems from extensive herding
to mixed farming. The population of about 1.1 million is relatively sparsely
scattered at a density of around 10 people per square kilometer. The ethnic
composition of the population is very diverse, as many inhabitants are settlers
from other parts of the country and retain close links with their original
homes. There are few large towns or villages and about 90% of the population
lives in rural villages, close to subsistence level. Poor communications are
a critical constraint to development, since few roads are passable year-round
and the rural population is often cut off completely from other parts of the
country for six to eight months of the year. The rugged topography, numerous
rivers and streams, and high rainfall concentrated in a few monthfs all make
road construction and maintenance difficult and expensive. Difficulties of
access hamper extension efforts, limit both social and economic services, and
make marketing crops difficult outside the producing villages. Social services
also are very limited. There are few doctors or health centers in the rural
areas: fewer than 20% of the population have access to medical care of any
kind. School facilities are inadequate; fewer than 50% of school-age children
attend primary schools, and only a small percentage of the population is
literate.
4.02      The Project area is one of the principal cattle breeding and fatten-
ing regions of Madagascar. It contains over 3 million head of cattle, around



- 25 -
a third of the national herd. Small herds predominate, usually about 15 head,
and only a handful of herds number more than a hundred. The main problems for
producers are poor animal health, poor quality of feed during the prolonged
dry season, and inadequate drinking water for cattle on range land. In
addition to keeping cattle, most families in the Project area cultivate some
subsistence crops (rice and cassava) by hand or using teams of oxen; the total
area cultivated per family is usually about 0.5 to 1.0 ha. There are signifi-
cant regional variations within the Project area: in the north, cash crops
are becoming increasingly important--notably rice, cotton, tobacco, peanuts,
cashewnuts and sugar; in the south, the climate is drier and cattle production
is the principal source of livelihood of the vast majority of the population.
B. FAFIFAMA
4.03      Background.  FAFIFAMA (the Livestock Development Agency for West
Madagascar) was established in 1974 to carry out the components in Mahajanga
faritany under the first project. It immediately ran into difficulties over
its status as a Public Enterprise (para 3.22), which apparently caused delays
in getting expenditures authorized. As a result, implementation of the
project was delayed, but in 1976 FAFIFAMA was reconstituted as a State Farm
(para. 3.22) and has since operated quite effectively, although, strictly,
its extension and rural engineering activities are not in line with the
nominal production objectives of a State Farm.
4.04      ReDorting Lines.  The primary supervision responsibility (para.
3.23) for FAFIFAMA belongs to the MDRRA and is delegated to the SPA. The
management of FAFIFAMA and the SPA enjoy a good and responsive working
relationship. The decentralization of the MDRRA (para. 3.19) has created a
new structure in Mahajanga faritany of a DDR and three SDRs (Antsohihy,
Mahajanga and Maintirano). FAFIFAMA has responsibility for animal health and
production activities in the area covered by its program but the MDRRA has
announced its intention to keep livestock experts in the DDR and SDRs in a
liaison role.  It is not expected that this would alter the present excellent
relationship of FAFIFAMA with the decentralized services or its lines of
communication with the SPA.
4.05      Organization and Staffing.  FAFIFAMA is organized in three depart-
ments (Chart 3). The Animal Health and Production Department is responsible
for the veterinary program and the Public Works Department carries out the
road and water supply developments. The Commercial Department, which is
described below (para. 4.07), is treated separately for accounting purposes,
as its operations are revenue-earning and have not been supported by the first
project.
4.06      The Director General is an enthusiastic and capable manager.  The
Animal Health and Production Department under a Director employs four vete-
rinarians and 80 village vaccinators; in addition there are around 50 former
staff of the provincial veterinary service working under the Department's
direction. The Public Works Department is headed by a competent public works
engineer, and a water supply technician and a road engineer are responsible
for the respective programs. The Commercial Department employs an administra-
tive staff of 12; there are 60 staff working at the abattoir in packing and
sales, and the buying operation employs around 50 staff. The majority of
FAFIFAMA senior staff are seconded from the MDRRA and were on a civil service



- 26 -
pay scale. However a new law, which has not yet been implemented, requires
seconded staff to transfer to the employment of the parastatal, which then
determines their conditions of employment.
4.07      FAFIFAMA's Commercial Department.  This Department was added to the
organization in 1977 in order to exploit the export potential from the newly
established Mahajanga abattoir. The Department has set up a livestock buying
organization on generally sound lines, taken over the entire wholesale beef
supply to the town of Mahajanga and is making exports of boneless frozen
beef to France and Germany. However, several question marks hang over these
operations. The department has to date traded at a loss (US$440,000 in 1979),
due to two main factors; low domestic prices for its production (para. 3.08)
and high abattoir fees.  The abattoir is independently managed and fees has
been set at a high level due to low capacity utilization.  However FAFIFAMA's
overall production costs are currently competitive by international standards,
and as FAFIFAMA's commercial operations expand, abattoir fees are expected to
fall.  FAFIFAMA is expecting to process 29,000 head of cattle in 1981 (abattoir
capacity is 45,000 head) of which two thirds, equivalent to 2,800 tonnes of
beef, for export. Indications are that export profits will be sufficient to
allow FAFIFAMA's commercial activites to at least break even in 1981. However,
as FAFIFAMA's commercial operations grow, the restriction of its buying
operation to its own zone (para 3.07) may soon have a limiting effect on the
supply of cattle available to FAFIFAMA and the value of the restriction should
be re-examined.
4.08      Financing.  FAFIFAMA's development operations and the initial
capital for the commercial operations have been funded from the national
investment budget. Each July FAFIFAMA presents a request for its budgetary
allocations for the subsequent year for approval by MDRRA, and, in the context
of the first project, IDA. This budget, once approved by MDRRA, becomes part
of the ministry-s submission for the national investment budget. Once an
allocation under the investment budget has been made, FAFIFAMA draws down
funds against it in quarterly tranches on a grant basis. FAFIFAMA's balance
sheets for 1979, the latest year available, are summarized below:
FAFIFAMA Balance Sheets at 31 December, 1979 (FMG millions)
Development       Commercial
Operations       Operations       Total
Net fixed assets                   567.3             49.6          616.9
Net current assets                 359.8            157.8          517.6
Accumulated deficits               730.5            264.9          995.4
Liaison account                    244.3           (244.3)          -
1,901.9            228.0        2,129.9
Financed by:
Government                         485.4            228.0          713.4
IDA                              1,105.6             -           1,105.6
Treasury advances                  310.9                           310.9
1,901.9            228.0        2,129.9



- 27 -
Working capital for the development operations is available through Treasury
advances. To date the losses of the commercial operations have been funded
from the national investment budget and, partly, through the liaison account
with the development operations. The liaison account has also been a channel
for what is effectively a loan of working capital from the development to the
commercial operations. This practice has now ceased and the Commercial
Department has negotiated overdraft facilities of FMG 350 million (US$1.27
million) to finance the 1981 export campaign. A covenant under the proposed
Project has been designed to prevent the loan of funds between the development
and the commercial operations in the future (para. 5.28).
V. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
5.01      The objectives of the proposed Project are to increase Madagascar's
meat production, thereby raising incomes for poor livestock owners and increas-
ing exports, to strengthen livestock institutions and to support changes in
policy for the subsector. The main emphasis in Project design is on expanding
output through maintenance and extension of animal health programs, both in
the region covered by the First Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project and, through imports of essential veterinary products and equipment
for the national veterinary service, throughout the country. This emphasis
reflects experience under the first project that animal health programs have
great potential for raising productivity cheaply and simply under traditional
husbandry systems. However, in the long run Madagascar must turn to more
intensive production systems and under the proposed Project several systems
are to be tested, mainly with small farmers who keep most of the nation-s
cattle at present and on whose response the success of intensification efforts
in the future will largely depend. Infrastructure components continue the
road and water supply programs, essential to rural development, which were
begun successfully under the first project.
5.02      Project design takes account of the difficult conditions that exist
in the livestock sub-sector at present. Economic management has been in
general weak while the marketing and pricing policies pursued have resulted in
distortions. The technical and financial performance of many existing programs
and institutions has been poor. The technical assistance component provides
services to review the organization of the sub-sector and its institutions,
in support of Government initiatives to address critical policy issues and to
ensure that the recommended IDA financing will be effective in the development
of the subsector and of the Malagasy economy.
5.03      The proposed Project would comprise, over five years, the following
components:
In Mahajanga faritany
(a) Continuation and extension of the basic animal health program.
(b) A pilot animal production program.
(c) Road construction and maintenance.



- 28 -
(d) Water supply.
(e) Management and material support for the Project implementing
agency.
In the livestock sub-sector
(f) Technical assistance to improve the organization of the
subsector and its institutions.
(g) Import of veterinary products, equipment and materials for
veterinary services.
(h) Applied Research.
(i) Studies, documentation and training for the subsector.
5.04      The Livestock Development Agency for West Madagascar (FAFIFAMA),
established to implement the first project, would be responsible for the
components to be implemented in Mahajanga faritany. The Animal Production
Service (SPA), which is part of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian
Reform (MDRRA), would implement the subsector components.
B. Detailed Features
(a) Continuation and extension of the basic animal health program in
Mahajanga faritany
5.05      The comprehensive veterinary service set up by FAFIFAMA in 16
fivondronana of Mahajanga faritany under the first project (para 3.33 ff.)
would be continued and intensified, and the coverage of the service would be
extended to all 21 fivondronana in the faritany (Man IBRD 15637). The animal
health program would thus be extended from the present 527 fokontany to reach
all 1,351 fokontany in the faritany by Project Year 4. This rate of expansion
is reasonable as the area to be covered by the extension of the program is less
exclusively a livestock area and the concentration of cattle is lower. The
service would continue the vaccination programs against blackleg and anthrax,
and would pursue treatments of endo-parasites in cattle. The treatment of
ektoparasites, which has been limited under the first project, would be
promoted. The service would also continue to provide animal health services
for other livestock. It is expected that the number of cattle vaccinated
would increase from 1.7 million covered under the ongoing program to 2.7
million after five years. Antiparasitic treatments would increase from 10%
to 22% of calves; pig and poultry vaccinations would increase from 9,000 and
50,000 to 20,000 and 120,000 respectively. In addition, the program would
promote simple extension themes during vaccination campaigns, especially
supplemental feeding with minerals and crop by-products.
5.06      The extension of the program under the Project would require the
construction and equipping of an additional 80 veterinary centers and 20
vaccination crushes. An additional 115 staff members would be recruited,
including six veterinarians, for primary veterinary centers (at the fivon-
dronana level), 30 veterinary assistants for secondary centers, and 56 village
vaccinators; the latter would be recruited in accordance with the procedure
designed under the first project, i.e. they would be selected by their com-
munity and would return, after appropriate training, to serve their home



- 29 -
area. All village vaccinators would benefit from an in-house training program,
oriented towards updating their knowledge and initiating them in improved
animal husbandry techniques suitable as extension themes. The Project would
also include the development costs of part of the ongoing program established
under the first project for areas where the program is still in the development
period. The development period would be defined for this purpose as the
period from first introduction of the program until the production impact is
shown by significantly increased offtake. This period is estimated as five
years and the costs of the ongoing program have been included in Project costs
on the basis that the program was introduced evenly over the five years 1977
to 1981. Project costs in the first year would therefore include 100% of the
cost of the ongoing program, in the second year, 80%, and so on. The ongoing
program includes the services of the Director of the Animal Health and Produc-
tion Department, four veterinarians, 80 village vaccinators and a small
administrative and support staff; no further capital investments would be
required apart from the provision of more vehicles. The main investments under
the Project would be in buildings, veterinary equipment and products, vehicles,
and salaries and other operating costs.
(b) Pilot animal production program in Mahajanga faritany
5.07      The objective of this program would be to explore means of inten-
sifying animal production through tests of several systems with different
types of producers, including small farmers and a commercial enterprise.
The program would include an animal husbandry intensification pilot scheme
in mixed farming areas and steer fattening schemes on both a smallholder
and a commercial scale.
5.08      Animal husbandry intensification in mixed farming areas.  This
scheme would test intensification methods in mixed-farming systems where
the relative shortage of land gives intensification methods a better chance
of being accepted than in extensive animal husbandry systems. Moreover,
as mixed farming is very widespread, the possibilities of replication are
excellent. The scheme would be carried out in about 40 fokontany selected
in two fivondronana close to the town of Mahajanga. Selection would be done
after thorough socio-economic and technical surveys. Selection criteria would
include the proximity of the fokontany to an all-weather road, a preliminary
indication of the willingness of the fokontany to adhere to the program,
and to make a contribution to the cost of construction and maintenance of
access roads and water points, and a thorough interest in improving their
animal husbandry system. The scheme would be based on the application of a
number of basic animal husbandry themes not currently practiced in the area.
The themes appropriate to each fokontany would be determined on the basis of
the surveys and are expected to include: complementary feeding of minerals,
growing of fodder crops, introduction of stud bulls, bullock selection,
pasture improvement, elimination of unproductive animals and improved traction
techniques. As the farming systems currently employed are quite diverse, the
pilot scheme would cover as wide a range as possible. A careful monitoring of
adoption rates and the comparative profitability and productive potential of
the themes would permit a good data base to be built for a possible follow-up
project. A special team would be set up to implement this program. It would



- 30 -
be headed by an agronomist and a zootechnician, and there would be one extension
worker in each fokontany. The Studies, Programming and Monitoring Division to
be established under the Project (para 5.12) would carry out the socio-economic
survey and be responsible for monitoring and evaluationf Other investments
would include consultant services to help in the design of the surveys and
subsequent extension packages, vehicles, a working capital fund for equipment,
and operating costs.
5.09      Steer fattening.  The technical and economic viability of fattening
schemes would be tested on a small scale with two different types of production
system, commercial scale and smallholder. The final design of this component
would be prepared by FAFIFAMA. The objectives of the commercial scale scheme
would be (i) to complement pasture trials undertaken under the first project
with an animal production program; and (ii) to define and demonstrate least-
cost production systems which could be adopted by any production entity (State
Farm, cooperative or individual farmer). The scheme would focus on the
development of two parallel fattening experiments at the FAFIFAMA-owned farm
of Amelie-Sainte-Marie, one on natural pasture, and one on improved pasture.
Results of the experiment would be closely monitored. A smallholder scheme
would be set up and the results compared with the commercial scale scheme.
Farmers in the vicinity of Mahajanga already practice such steer fattening;
however, they need support with commercial credit, and with the purchase of
unfinished animals. Through the development of its marketing activities,
FAFIFAMA would promote the development of a market of unfinished animals;
credit would be made available to farmers. Finished animals would be con-
tractually sold to FAFIFAMA, at a guaranteed floor price and FAFIFAMA would
arrange for BTM, the agricultural credit bank (para 2.08), to introduce and
manage a credit scheme. Weight gains and profitability would be monitored by
the extension service. Under the Project the main investment items for the
steer fattening schemes would be: for Amelie-Sainte Marie, vehicles and
equipment, farm buildings, and staff and other operating costs; and for the
smallholder scheme, a working capital fund for FAFIFAMA's purchase of steers.
(c) Road construction and maintenance
5.10      The Project would provide for the construction of a number of short
all-weather roads, aggregating 100 km and adequate for vehicles of one tonne
capacity, to provide year-round access from the primary road system. The
component, which would be the continuation of the program initiated under the
first project, would be designed to alleviate one of the major constraints to
development in the region, the poor communications resulting from the severe
rains in the wet season and from the rugged topography (para. 4.01). In order
to derive maximum benefit from the component, road construction would be
concentrated in the areas where villages are participating in the pilot animal
husbandry intensification scheme (para. 5.08), at once making participation in
the pilot scheme more attractive and enabling year round access by extension
workers.  These areas would be mixed farming areas where villagers are closer
together than elsewhere in the faritany and which are relatively populous,
thus enhancing the benefits of the road component. To minimize costs of road
construction, villages participating in the intensification program would
ideally be no further than 10 km from one of the two permanent main highways



- 31 -
in the region. As experience under the first project demonstrated that the
local services of the Ministry of Public Works did not have the resources to
perform works of this kind in a timely fashion, FAFIFAMA established a Roads
Division of FAFIFAMA's Public Works Department. This division has built up
staff and expertise adequate to carry out the continuation of the program.
FAFIFAMA would therefore implement the roads program itself, with the advice
of consulting engineers during design and execution, and would be responsible
for subsequent maintenance. One construction brigade would carry out the
program, with a capacity of 20 km a year. A maintenance brigade would maintain
roads established under this Project and the first project. A minimum contri-
bution to capital and maintenance costs would be required from villages (para.
6.08). Equipment purchased under the first project would be adequate for the
proposed development. Investments under the Project would therefore be in
staff and other operating costs, in materials and in consultant services.
(d) Water supply
5.11      Lack of year-round access to water is a critical constraint to
development efforts in the region. The long and pronounced dry season (para
4.01) limits the carrying capacity of grazing lands to the herd size that can
be supported from permanent water points. Therefore up to 35 surface storage
units (ponds and small dams) would be constructed. As for the roads component
(para. 5.10), these units would be concentrated in the areas where villages
are participating in the pilot animal husbandry intensification scheme,
enhancing the impact of both the pilot scheme and the water supply component.
In addition water points would be developed for human consumption as in
response to surveys of village opinion carried out during preparation and
appraisal the need for a permanent supply of drinking water was constantly
reiterated by villagers and its provision would do much to enhance the
attractiveness of the animal husbandry intensification scheme. Up to 80 wells
would be constructed for this purpose. The FAFIFAMA Public Works Department s
Water Supply Division, which would be strengthened under the Project (para.
5.12), would develop the water points through two teams, one for construction
and one for maintenance. The number and location of both wells and surface
storage units would be determined in a survey to be carried out with the aid
of a consultant hydrogeologist. After construction, surface storages and
wells would be taken over by the fokontany which would designate and pay an
attendant to prevent vandalism and to ensure proper operation and simple
maintenance of the facilities. As for the roads component, villages would be
required to contribute to costs (para. 6.08). The maintenance brigade would
be responsible for major maintenance of water points established under this
Project and the first project. Investments under the Project, in addition to
staff and consultant costs, would be in materials, equipment and operating
expenses.
(e) Management and material support for FAFIFAMA
5.12      FAFIFAMA has in general performed well during implementation of the
first project (paras. 3.31 ff and 4.03 ff). However, the extension of its
responsibilities under the proposed Project would require a strengthening of
its management and technical capability, and support would be provided under



- 32 -
the Project in four specific areas. (i) A permanent in-house staff training
program would be established for both administrative and technical staff,
mostly in financial and managerial disciplines, with assistance from consult-
ants. Staff from the Mahajanga DDR would also have access to this program.
In addition, a program in technical disciplines to favor technical exchanges
within FAFIFAMA and between FAFIFAMA and other institutions in the livestock
subsector would be designed. The program would also allow FAFIFAMA staff to
obtain further practical training in Madagascar or overseas, either through
short-term periods in enterprises or institutions with comparable responsibi-
lities, or through participation in international seminars and conferences.
(ii) A monitoring system would be set up. During the first Project, data
collection has been rather unsystematic, with the result that after five
years, little information is available, either on the livestock herd in
Mahajanga Faritany, or on the various pasture trials carried out under the
project. A simple but comprehensive data collection and monitoring system
would be set up. In addition a management reporting system, to include an
improved cost accounting system, would be designed for all of FAFIFAMA's
activities, with assistance from consultants. The systems would be maintained
by FAFIFAMA's financial and technical staff under the supervision of the
Studies, Programming and Monitoring Division, which would be established under
the Project (para 6.06). (iii) Assistance would be provided to develop
FAFIFAM4As export operation. FAFIFAMA staff would receive training in cattle
marketing and in management of meat processing and marketing; a consultant
would design and implement this training program. In addition, the Project
would provide an overseas trip to prospect export markets. (iv) Assistance
would be provided to develop the capability of the Public Works Department.
The Head of the Water Supply Division would visit handpump manufacturers in
Europe and Africa and ongoing rural water supply projects in Africa. During
these visits he would study means of providing basic public health education
relating to the use of water and ways of organizing and motivating villagers
in their contributions towards construction and maintenance of water points.
In-service training for key staff would be conducted by the consultant hydro-
geologist retained for the water supply scheme (para. 5.10). The component
would also provide for the purchase of a stock of spares and tools for the
Department. Under the Project the main investments would be in personnel and
other incremental operating costs for the Studies, Programming and Monitoring
Division; the stocks provided for the Public Works Department, and consultan-
cies and study trips.
(f) Technical Assistance to improve organization in the sub-sector
5.13      The objective of this component is to provide assistance to the
Government in its efforts to resolve key issues in the organization of the
sub-sector through: (a) a study of the problem of the meat supply to the
capital which has long been a preoccupation in sub-sectoral management (para.
3.08); (b) a thorough going review of key institutions, whose role in the
sub-sector, management and procedures all need to be re-examined (para. 3.16-
3.23); (c) the design and implementation of a training program for the sub-
sector; and (d) material support to the SPA to reinforce its planning and
supervision capability.



- 33 -
5.14      The study of the Antananarivo meat supply would examine the present
structure of cattle and meat marketing and processing in the supply of the
capital, with particular emphasis on the constraints and anomalies resulting
from marketing zones, the supply monopoly and the pricing system; and would
make recommendations for restructuring in order to improve supply and minimize
the adverse aspects of the parallel market. The study would be fitted into
the context of the Government's policy and production strategy and would take
particular account of the need to augment quantities available for export.
A number of alternative supply options might be considered, including the
possibility of supplying only forequarter meat to the domestic market,
releasing superior hindquarter meat for the export market; the feasibility
of importing cheap beef for the domestic market to increase availability of
domestic production for export; and the potential for diversification into
alternative meats with a shorter production cycle. The Government would con-
sult with IDA on proposed policy changes resulting from the study (para. 6.12).
5.15      The study of parastatals and governmental institutions would be
carried out by consultants with a view to assessing their role in the sub-
sector, performance, problems and options for future development. The study
would comprise: (i) a review of all sub-sector institutions in the context
of their intended and actual activities in the sub-sector as a whole, in
particular in relation to Government policy and the production and development
potential of the sub-sector; and (ii) the examination of individual institu-
tions and the links between them through management and financial audits. The
management audit would include an analysis and assessment of legal status,
objectives, and mandate; a review of organizational and fulnctional structure,
managerial, technical and financial procedures and the financial and logistical
means available to the institution; and an assessment of personnel training
needs and conditions of employment. The financial audits would cover the
financial situation and performance over the last five years; examine the
impact of exogenous factors on the institution-s financial position; assess
the financial structure of the institution; and review financial management
and accounting procedures. The consultants would make recommendations on
necessary changes including if necessary, proposals for restructuring indivi-
dual parastatals, merging them, or, where circumstances warrant, reducing the
scope of their operations or terminating them altogether. Where necessary
the consultants would be responsible for the design and implementation
of new procedures, including the preparation and monitoring of performance
indicators appropriate to each institution, and the establishment of an
appropriate information system so that remedial action could be taken. The
consultants would provide supervision of the new structures and procedures
once every quarter during the first year of implementation, in association
with the employees of the SPA and DEP responsible for the supervision of
parastatals; this would serve as on-the-job training for these supervisory
staff. The study would cover the main supervising agencies in the MDDRA -
the SPA (para. 3.17); the Management Advisory Service of the DEP (para 3.18);
and the Studies and Laboratories Division of the DEP, which is responsible for
preparation of investments. All major parastatals in the sub-sector would be
covered. 1/ In addition, the study would cover the services in the Ministry
1/   State Farms:  OMBY, FAFIFAMA, FESA and BCL; and meat processing and
marketing companies:  Antananarivo and Mahajanga Abattolrs, SEVIMA, FEV,
SOFIRAC and SECIAM.  For more detail on these institutions, see Annex 1.



of Finance and Planning responsible for financial supervision of parastatals
(para 3.18).  The Gover=mert Qwoud C-nsult with 1D0  on propo,sed changes
resulting from the study (para, 6.12).
5.16       A training program w-uled  be designed and implemented under the
Project with consultant assistance to awaken marnagers in sub-sector institu-
tions to critical issues, to ginve appropriate practical training in basic
management and to create a sense of commitment to th-e develovme nt and per-
formance of the sub-sector.  Professional exchar-,ges .o,uld be encouraged
between Malagasy managers and technicians2 and wr'th the inter!oational profes-
sional communi ty.  Provision wouLid be made for compleenz:ary practical training
for technicians (eeg. data collecti-o.n and            3 accounting, financial
analysis, cattle and meat marketing and prcrne-- s-irg,
5.17      Material support for the SPA would be made a-.7ai lable through a
provision of vehicles, orfrice equipment and incremental staff; this would
be designed to reinforce the SPA's planning and surervision capability.
5.18      Under the Project, the main investment for the Techrical Assistance
component would be in consultanr  sei ,ices.  The Malagasy capability in these
specialities is limited but would be utilized as much as possible.  Consultants
would be recruited irternationl  v  to compleonent t fi r rocal capability,
particularly in the ,fields of c       "porate manpge`tlic administration and
management training, a.d such techlcal fieldz Cas -an l,n management, meat
processing and marketing, and mtub production,   .- total of 60 man-months has
been provided, at an estimLated average cost per masmonth of US$12 500,
including salaries, interna-tiron   arse, locKal travel, ciper dr'ems, and training
materials.  Terms otf referenre would be suib ec5c   -£ IDL, approval (para 6.12).
Other investments would be for materials anud furds for the training program
and for seminars , both domeso -  ard internr"Ll onaie
(g)  Import of vererare             s  equipmenr       r aterials for the
veterinary services
5.19       Import of vPrcr   o cd  L5.  The -ve_teri½ary service in Madagascar
is performing an indispensable Job in safeuarding herds w-hich are a major
national asset.  Through i^s staff of 600 and a network of 200 veterinary
posts it carries out a vaU"c½nat"o-ln  campaig, agalnst major dlseases that
reaches over half of tcce catt-e herd each years    T e sei-vcs performs extensive
anti-parasitic treatmerts annd intervenes to sup'ress disease outbreaks. The
service, which is described in mnore detail in C'na,ter ITI (paraa  3.19), is
facing a serious crisis orought about J-n large meaE.1ure bY hth  ec onomic diffi-
culties that Madagascar is experiencing.  Foreigr,  exclange is in critically
short supply and the Govermment 's introducing a rat rnng system.  Under this
system the veterinary service has been accorded a high priority yet its quota
for 1981 of FMG 200 million (US$730,000) is on),y one third of its import
requirements, which were estimated  et FYMG 600 million (US$2.2 million) for the
year.  Moreover under the rationing system t-he veerirnary service has received
licenses to draw against its que--ra for only  MW; `7 mill'on (US$60,000) during
the first six months of 1981- R.s a result no C 'fs veterinary
products have been received since December 13,8C a-d stocls of most products
are dangerously Low or exhausted.  In these circ'_m5tances there is a serious



- 35 -
risk of deterioration in veterinary coverage; the veterinary service's ability
to fight disease outbreaks has been eroded by lack of essential drugs with the
consequent increased risk of transmission of disease. The suspension of
anti-parasite treatments is also likely to have a serious adverse impact
on mortality. An interruption in animal treatments would create a dangerous
situation for the herds outside the area covered by the Project animal health
program and also lead to the risk of transmission of disease to Mahajanga
faritany itself. In response to this crisis, a component has been designed
that would support the veterinary service over three years through the import
of a certain volume of veterinary products. These products would be largely
antibiotics, fasciolocides and anthelmintics. The Government would be required
to finance a "base level" of imports each year and finance would be provided
under the Project in excess of this base level. The base level would be
increased in the second year of Project support and again in the third year as
the foreign exchange shortage eased and the system for allocating foreign
exchange resources improved. Project finance would be available as follows:
-----------------------FMG millions------------------------
(current values adjusted for expected inflation)
Estimated
Base level    Project finance       Total Imports
PYl           200              500                  700
PY2           380              370                  750
PY3           590              210                  800
PY4          850                -                   850
The Government would provide funding for the base level of imports and arrange-
ments would be made for the supervision of the import and distribution of the
necessary products (para 6.12). The implementation and development of the
veterinary service's programs would be discussed in the annual dialogue
between the Government and IDA (para. 3.27). The employment of products
supplied under the Project would be closely monitored by IDA and financing of
these products in any year would be contingent on the proper use of products
already supplied (para. 6.13). Veterinary products would be sold to users at
cost, including transport and distribution, plus a 15% margin for storage
losses. Assurances on these measures were obtained at negotiations.
5.20      Equipment and materials for the veterinary laboratory.  Madagascar
produces many of the vaccines required by the veterinary service but recently
the Central Livestock Laboratory (para. 3.19) has been unable to keep up with
the demand. The major constraint is the lack of several pieces of equipment
and a few chemicals.  Since the timely production and delivery of vaccines is
key to both the maintenance and the expansion of the national vaccination
programs, these items, estimated to cost about US$100,000, would be provided
under the Project.
(h) Applied research
5.21      There is great potential in Madagascar for the development of dual
purpose (milk/meat), or even triple purpose (milk/meat/draft) animals in the



- 36 -
plateau. Preliminary cross-breeding experiments between the local Malagasy
Zebu and Brown-Swiss at the FOFIFA Research Station at Miadana seem promising,
and could be replicated on the plateau. If successful, these trials could be
promoted on a larger scale in a follow-up mixed farming project. An indicative
budget of US$200,000 has therefore been provided to initiate a cross-breeding
program in the plateau.
(i) Studies, Documentation and Scholarships for the Sub-sector
5.22      US$500,000 has been included in the Project for various studies
in the livestock subsector, for documentation, and for scholarships. The
studies, which would be carried out with consultant services, would include
feasibility studies for further livestock projects and ad hoc studies in
the livestock sub-sector. The need to identify and reassemble documentation
on research in the sub-sector (para 3.21) would be assessed and a proposal
submitted to IDA for approval on the basis of a thorough inventory of exist-
ing documentation. Short and medium term scholarships in livestock dis-
ciplines and/or in disciplines related to the livestock subsector would be
funded under the Project. The programs and, for the studies, terms of
reference would be subject to IDA's prior approval (para. 6.14).
C.  Project Costs
5.23      Total Project costs are estimated at FMG 7.11 billion (US$25.83
million), of which US$14.66 million or 57% represents foreign exchange costs.
Project costs are summarized below and detailed in Table 1:



- 37 -
% of Total
Project Component                    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Base Costs
--- (FMG million) ---   --- (US$ million) ---
In Mahajanga faritany
Basic Animal Health               1001.0   817.7   1818.7   3.64    2.97    6.61            37
Pilot Animal Production
Intensification Scheme         163.0   185.8    348.8    .59         .68    1.27          7
Fattening Schemes               106.9    92.0    198.9    .39        .33      .72         4
Road Program                       227.1   466.5    693.6    .82    1.70    2.52            14
Water Supply Program               202.8   145.3    348.1    .74         .53    1.27         7
Support for FAFIFAMA                72.9    81.7    154.6    .26        .30      .56         3
Sub-Total                1773.7  1789.0   3562.7   6.44    6.51   12.95            72
In the Sub-sector
Technical Assistance             109.0   208.5    317.5    .39        .76    1.15          6
Support to Veterinary
Services
Veterinary Products            -     821.0    821.0       -      2.99    2.99        17
Laboratory Equipment          -       27.5      27.5      -       .10      .10         1
Applied Research                  25.0    30.0      55.0    .09       .11      .20         1
Studies, documentation &
scholarships                   17.5   120.0    137.5    .06         .44      .50         3
Sub-Total                 151.5  1207.0   1358.5    .54    4.40    4.94            28
Total base costs              1925.2  2996.0   4921.2   6.98   10.91   17.89            100
Contingencies
Physical                        175.2   254.0    429.2    .64        .92    1.56          9
Price                           976.9   779.2   1756.1   3.55    2.83    6.38            35
Sub-total                     1152.1  1033.2   2185.3   4.19    3.75    7.94             44
Total Costs                   3077.3  4029.2   7106.5  11.17   14.66   25.83            144
Project costs were estimated at late 1981 prices.  A physical contingency of
10% was applied to all costs except for technical assistance.  Price contin-
gencies were calculated on a cumulative basis, at 15% per annum for local
costs, and, for foreign exchange costs, 8.5% for 1982, 8% for 1983, 7.5%
for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986. Taxes included in Project costs are
negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from import duties.



- 38 -
D. Financing
5.24      The proposed financing plan for the Project would be as follows:
IDA    IFAD    Government    Total
------      US$ millions----------
Components in Mahajanga faritany
Vehicles and equipment                 1.51    0.82         0.07         2.40
Buildings                              0.48    0.26         0.13         0.87
Veterinary products and agri-
cultural inputs                      2.00    1.08        0.95         4.03
Operating costs                        6.37    3.32         1.65        11.34
Technical services and study tours   0.51    0.28            -          0.79
10.87    5.76        2.80        19.43
Components in the Sub-sector
Vehicles and equipment                 0.19    0.10          -           0.29
Veterinary products                    2.55    1.38          -           3.93
Operating costs                        0.10    0.06         0.03         0.19
Technical services and study tours   1.29    0.70            -           1.99
4.13    2.24        0.03         6.40
Total                              15.00    8.00        2.83        25.83
Percentage of total                    58        31          11          100
5.25      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.8 million (US$15.0 million equi-
valent) would be to the Government of Madagascar on standard IDA terms. The
Credit would finance about 58% of total costs, representing 65% of the foreign
exchange costs and 49% of local costs. It is expected that IFAD would co-
finance the Project on a joint basis, contributing US$8.0 million, about 31%
of Project cost. It has been assumed for the purposes of this report that
the IFAD loan would provide for repayment over 50 years with a 10-year grace
period, at 1% interest. Effectiveness of the IFAD agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness for the IDA Credit. It is thus expected that IDA
and IFAD would together finance US$23.0 million, representing 89% of Project
costs. The Government contribution would be US$2.83 million, or 11% of
Project cost. The Government would make available to FAFIFAMA all funds
necessary to carry out those components to be implemented by FAFIFAMA. The
proceeds of the IDA Credit so made available would be passed on to FAFIFAMA as
a grant. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on these procedures,
which would be reflected in a subsidiary financing agreement between the
Government and FAFIFAMA. Signature of this subsidiary agreement approved by
IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 39 -
E. Procurement
5.26      Contracts for the supply of vehicles, equipment and veterinary
products exceeding US$120,000 would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such contracts are expected to
total about US$6.7 million. Contracts for civil works (about US$0.8 million)
would be tendered locally as they are small and unlikely to attract inter-
national firms. Road and water supply construction and maintenance (about
US$5.3 million) would be done on force account by FAFIFAMA's Public Works
Department which has developed its ability to carry out this type of work
under the first project. Contracts for materials and equipment costing less
than $120,000 but more than $40,000 (about US$2.3 million) would be placed
under local bidding procedures, which were examined during appraisal and are
acceptable; supplies are adequate and competition between firms is satisfac-
tory. Purchases of materials and equipment costing under $40,000 (about
US$2.0 million) would be made in accordance with regular local procurement
procedures. Consultants (about US$2.6 million) would be recruited in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA. Invitations to bid and proposed awards and
final contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review for all contracts over
US$100,000. Assurances as to these procedures were obtained during negotiations.



- 40 -
F. Disbursements
5.27      The IDA Credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
Mahajanga   Subsector
Components Components Total
---------SDR millions-------
(1)  65% of foreign expenditures (IFAD 35%)
or 60% of local expenditures (IFAD 30%,
Government 10%) on vehicles and equipment            1.11          0.18       1.29
(2)  65% of eligible foreign expenditures
(IFAD 35%) or, for Mahajanga components
only, 60% of local expenditures (IFAD 30%)
on veterinary products and agricultural
inputs (Government 100% of local expendi-
tures for subsector components and 10% of
local expenditures for Mahajanga components)          1.53         1.96       3.49
(3)  65% of foreign expenditures (IFAD 35%) or
55% of local expenditures (IFAD 30%,
Government 15%) on construction                      0.39           -         0.39
(4)  55% of total expenditures (IFAD 30%,
Government 15%) on incremental salaries,
fuel and other operating costs for all
components other than the Mahajanga
animal health program                                2.80          0.09       2.89
(5)  For total expenditures on salaries, fuel
and other operating costs for the Mahajanga
animal health program, on the following
basis:
Project year 1 55% (IFAD 30%, Government 15%)
2  50% (  "  25%              25%)
3  45% (  "  25%              30%)
4  40% (  "  20%              40%)
5  35% (  "  20%              45%)      2.08            -       2.08
(6)  65% of total expenditures on
technical services and study
tours (IFAD 35%)                                     0.39          0.98       1.37
(7)  Unallocated                                                                   1.29
Total                                                                   12.80



- 41 -
Disbursements for certain components would be subject to the conditions
summarized in Chapter X (para 10.05). To avoid disbursement problems, the IDA
share of the operating cost of the animal health program, nominally 55% of the
full cost of the incremental program and 55% of the cost of the ongoing
program during the development period (para 5.06), has been expressed in terms
of a single declining percentage of total program costs. Under the categories
where 100% of foreign expenditures would be financed jointly by IDA and IFAD,
it is expected that most disbursements would be by direct payment or under
agreements to reimburse. Disbursement applications would be fully documented,
except for the Mahajanga components under (4) and (5), where disbursements for
local expenditures would be made against statements of expenditure certified
by the Director General and the Finance and Administrative Director of FAFIFAMA.
Full documentation would be retained by FAFIFAMA and made available to IDA for
inspection in the normal course of Project supervision. The auditor of
FAFIFAMA's accounts (para 5.28) would be required to verify statements of
expenditure and report separately to IDA on these statements. It is expected
that the Credit would be disbursed over about six years. This is slightly
faster than historical experience for projects in Madagascar (seven years) but
appears reasonable as this is largely a follow-up project. An estimated
schedule of IDA and IFAD disbursements is given in Table 2.
C.  Accounts and Audit
5.28      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:  (i) SPA would
maintain separate accounts for the subsector components and have them audited
annually by an auditor acceptable to IDA; (ii) FAFIFAMA would maintain
separate accounts for the Mahajanga faritany components and would have these
accounts audited annually by an auditor acceptable to IDA; (iii) that balances
due between FAFIFAMA-s development and commercial activities (para 4.08) would
be settled by cash transfer at the end of each month beginning July 1, 1983,
by which time FAFIFAMA would be producing regular monthly accounts. Prior to
July 1, 1983 balances would be settled on a quarterly basis; and (iv) that the
auditors' reports would be submitted to IDA within six months after the close
of each fiscal year. Under the first project FAFIFAMA-s accounts were satis-
factorily kept although staff shortage have led to delays. FAFIFAMA is
currently recruiting extra staff and the proposed Project provides for
assistance in developing more streamlined accounting systems. Balance sheets
under the first project were prepared by an independent accounting firm but
this firm did not carry out a full audit. Under adequately expanded terms of
reference this firm would be an acceptable atuditor of the accounts for the
Mahajanga components. The auditor of the FAFIFAMA accounts would be required
to report on the adequacy of systems of accounting and internal control, to
make recommendations for improvement, and to verify and report on statements
of Project expenditure (para 5.27).
H. Project Completion Report
5.29      The SPA would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) no later
than six months after the Project closing date. The PCR would summarize



- 42 -
Project performance, evaluate its successes and problems, and draw lessons
to be taken into account in the future design and implementation of similar
projects. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Staffing
General
6.01      FAFIFAMA, under the supervision of the MDRRA, would be responsible
for implementation of the Mahajanga components.  The SPA within the MDRRA
would have specific responsibility for the implementation of components
supporting the livestock sub-sector as a whole.
Mahajanga Faritany Components
6.02      The Mahajanga faritany components would be implemented by FAFIFAMA,
which is described in Chapter IV (paras. 4.03 to 4.08). There are several
issues relating to FAFIFAMA-s status that were reviewed during negotia-
tions: (i) The Government has stated that FAFIFAMA would be responsible,
under the direction of the SPA, for animal health and production activities
throughout Mahajanga province and would be responsible for implementing the
Mahajanga components of the Project. The capacity of the decentralized
services of the MDRRA to assume management responsibility for these activities
would be reviewed at the completion of the project and a decision taken on
future responsibility at that time. Assurances that these procedures would be
adhered to were received at negotiations; (ii) A number of veterinary workers
in the faritany, employees of the former provincial veterinary service,
are currently employed by the SDRs. Assurances were received at negotiations
that the services of these workers would be made available to FAFIFAMA by
December 31, 1982; (iii) FAFIFAMA's organizational structure (see Chart 3)
would remain largely unchanged. This structure would, however, be examined
under the institutional review (para 5.15). Assurances were received at
negotiations that no change in the legal status, organizational structure or
responsibilities of FAFIFAMA would be effected without prior consultation
with IDA; and (iv) some technical modifications to FAFIFAMA's legal instruments
are necessary to enable it to carry out the Mahajanga components. The implemen-
tation of these amendments would be a condition of the Credit effectiveness
and appropriate assurances were obtained at negotiations.
6.03      The recent law (para 4.06) requiring civil servants formerly seconded
to parastatals to resign from the civil service and to join the employment
of the parastatal has, although not yet implemented, created uncertainty
among FAFIFAMA employees. Assurances were received at negotiations that a
review of FAFIFAMA-s employment policy would be carried out; the recommenda-
tions of the review would be submitted to IDA for comment by June 1982 and
appropriate measures implemented by December 1982.
6.04      The Director General of FAFIFAMA would be responsible for the overall
implementation of the Project. He would participate in the management training
program included in the technical assistance component (para 5.16). He would
supervise the preparation of annual work programs for the Project (para 6.10)



- 43 -
and would be responsible for the preparation of a detailed program for the
management and material support component (para. 5.12). Assurances were
received at negotiations that the program and terms of reference for consultant
services under this component would be presented for IDA's prior approval by
December 31, 1982. The Director General would coordinate the preparation of
the final design of the steer fattening component (para 5.11), which would be
submitted, also by December 31, 1982, for IDA's approval prior to implementa-
tion. Assurances on this were received at negotiations. The Director General
would be assisted by the Studies, Programming and Monitoring Division, headed
by a socio-economist, to be established under the Project (para 5.12). Its
initial responsibility would be, with consultant assistance, to design and
supervise the execution of the socio-economic surveys for the pilot intensifi-
cation program, in cooperation with the Animal Husbandry Intensification
Division.  Subsequently, the Division would work with consultants on the
design of data collection and monitoring systems and a management information
system (para. 5.12), and would supervise the implementation of these systems.
Proposals for the monitoring system would be presented to IDA by December 31,
1982 for review and approval prior to implementation; assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
6.05      FAFIFAMA proposes that the Finance and Administration Division,
presently part of the Director General's office, should become a separate
department, reinforced on the financial side, by an experienced chief
accountant and extra staff. Under the first project, FAFIFAMA's development
activities (Animal Health and Production, and Public Works Departments) have
been treated separately from the commercial operations for accounting purposes.
Under the proposed Project, this practice would continue and the costs of
the Studies, Programming and Monitoring Division would be included in the
development activities. On the administrative side, the department would be
strengthened by a staff member recruited under the Project to be specifically
responsible for the training program (5.12). The successful candidate should
have training and, preferably, practical experience in corporate management
and would, if necessary, be sent overseas for complementary short-term prac-
tical training.
6.06      The Animal Health and Production Department would be reorganized
into the Animal Health Division responsible for the basic veterinary program
throughout the Faritany, and the Animal Husbandry Intensification Division
which would be established under the Project to manage the pilot animal pro-
duction program (para. 5.07 ff). The director would continue to direct the
animal health program now extended throughout the faritany. He would have
direct responsibility under the Director General for the design and supervi-
sion of the pilot animal production program, but would delegate day-to-day
execution of the animal husbandry intensification scheme (para. 5.08) to
the zootechnician and agronomist to be recruited, and of the commercial
steer fattening operations to the farm manager.  This farm manager should be
recruited and sent for six months overseas training during 1982 to avoid
implementation delays.
6.07      The Public Works Department would carry out the road and water
supply developments. The proposed location of both roads and water points
would be specified each year in the annual work programs (para 6.09).



- 44 -
During implementation, FAFIFAMA would be responsible for maintenance of
roads and water points established under this Project and the first project.
After Project completion, the Government would be responsible for ensuring
the maintenance of these roads and water points either through FAFIFAMA or
the local services of the Ministry of Public Works. Assurances on this
were obtained at negotiations. As it is unlikely that FAFIFAMA could attract
a qualified water engineer, it is proposed to send the present head of the
Water Supply Division, who is of technician level, for further training
overseas during 1982 (para 5.12), and to provide short-term consultant
services during Project implementation. For road construction, design and
supervision would be carried out by consulting engineers recruited through
local bidding; local firms with appropriate capability are readily available.
For the construction and maintenance of both roads and water points, villages
would be required to contribute a minimum of 20% towards costs either in cash
or in kind - for example, in the form of labor for simple maintenance,
according to agreements, to be concluded before the start of construction,
between each village and Project management. Assurances were received at
negotiations that an appropriate system to collect these contributions would
be established.
6.08      The Commercial Department would continue to be responsible for
FAFIFAMA's livestock marketing, and meat processing and export activities.
The department would be responsible, under the Project, for organizing the
marketing aspects of the smallholder steer fattening scheme (para. 5.11).
The department is to be supported by limited technical assistance under the
Project.
6.09      Annual work programs, which played a major role in the management
and supervision processes under the first project, would continue to be
prepared. The main objectives of these programs would be (i) to facilitate a
full annual review of Project implementation progress by both the Government
and IDA, (ii) to make possible adjustments and modifications as experience is
gained, and (iii) to serve as a planning, implementation and monitoring tool.
Work programs and budgets would be submitted to IDA and the SPA for review,
and subsequently to IDA for approval. Assurances would be sought at negotia-
tions that annual work programs and budgets would be submitted to IDA for
its review no later than August 1 of the year preceding the year of the work
program and budget, and for its approval no later than November 1. IDA's
approval of the annual work program and budget would be a condition of
disbursement for the activities undertaken during that year.
6.10      Reports.  Assurances were received at negotiations that quarterly
reports would be prepared by FAFIFAMA and submitted to the Government and IDA
showing actual expenditure against approved budget, statements of progress
achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter.  In addition, the annual
report furnished by FAFIFAMA should show actual expenditure against budget
and discuss the variances.
Livestock Sub-Sector Components
6.11      The SPA within the MDRRA would have responsibility for implementation
of the livestock sub-sector components. It would coordinate the implementation
of the technical assistance (para 5.13). The SPA would be responsible for pre-
paring the tender documents for the consultant assistance and for establishing



- 45 -
the short list, in coordination with the DEP. The detailed program would be
submitted by December 31, 1982 for IDA's prior approval, and the Government
would consult with IDA prior to implementation on the changes proposed as a
result of the studies. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
6.12      The SPA would carry out the import and distribution of veterinary
products (para 5.19). The SPA has a revolving fund account at the Central
Bank into which receipts from sale of veterinary products and the proceeds of
Government budgetary allocations are paid and out of which the local cost
equivalent of veterinary product purchases is paid. Under the Project, these
practices would continue although it is expected that purchases to be financed
100% jointly by IDA and IFAD would be paid for under direct payment procedures
or through agreements to reimburse (para. 5.27).   The Government would be
required to make available sufficient budgetary and foreign exchange allo-
cations to finance the base level of imports (para 5.19) during the period of
Project support, and to continue to make such allocations thereafter. A side
letter would specify the agreed base level of finance to be provided by the
Government in each year of Project support and thereafter. Assurances on
these procedures were obtained at negotiations. The detailed list of
veterinary products would be drawn up by the SPA each year and submitted by
December 31 of the year prior to procurement. IDA's prior approval of this
list would be a condition of disbursement against each annual tranche of IDA
finance for this component. The SPA would prepare a statement, for submission
to IDA by March 31 each year, on the utilization of these products in the
preceding year. Assurances on these procedures were obtained at negotiations.
The import of equipment and materials for the Central Livestock Laboratory
(para. 5.20) would be handled directly by the SPA. The SPA, as part of its
regular agreement with the laboratory for the production of vaccines, would be
responsible for monitoring the timely production of vaccines and their
distribution. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a detailed proposal for the applied research
program (para. 5.21) would be drafted by the SPA and submitted to IDA by
December 31, 1982 for approval prior to implementation. The SPA would specify
the proposed arrangements for implementation.
6.13      The SPA would coordinate proposals for the studies, documentation
and scholarships component. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
detailed proposals for the scholarships and, for the studies, terms of
reference would be submitted for IDA's approval prior to implementation.
B. Project Implementation Schedule
6.14      It is expected that the Project would be implemented over a five
year period from 1982 to 1986. Chart 4 shows the Project implementation
schedule which was agreed at negotiations.  FAFIFAMA and the SPA are currently
working on an agreed program to facilitate Project start-up, including
construction of veterinary centers, purchase of equipment, the selection of
staff and the preparation of terms of reference for studies.
VII. TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
7.01      Constraints on livestock production in Madagascar include disease
(para. 3.05), inadequate husbandry and feeding, and the limited genetic



- 46 -
potential of the indigenous breeds. The productive components of the Project
concentrate on combatting disease through the continuation and extension of
the animal health program begun under the first project in Mahajanga faritany.
This program appears to have had success in increasing production within a
short time through reduced mortalities. The other constraints are addressed
through pilot components to demonstrate the value of various improved produc-
tion techniques which may then form the basis for subsequent projects.
7.02      The animal health program (para 5.05) would include the control
of diseases in cattle (anthrax, blackleg and endoparasites), pigs (teschen
and pest), and poultry (cholera, pest and pox). Diseases would be controlled
through vaccinations and treatments. Adequate vaccines would be produced in
the Antananarivo Veterinary Laboratory with Project support (para 5.20).
Veterinary products, both locally manufactured and imported under the Project
(para. 5.19), would be available at the Pharmacie Centrale Veterinaire in
Antananarivo. FAFIFAMA would buy veterinary products, arrange for transport,
storage and distribution to the vaccinators and then charge the livestock
owner with the cost, including transport and distribution costs, plus 15% for
losses. On this basis, treatment would cost about FMG 10/Kg (US$0.04/kg)
liveweight sold. Adult cattle would be vaccinated once a year against anthrax
and blackleg; young stock would be drenched twice a year against endoparasites.
FAFIFAMA would also review possibilities of utilizing a new cost and labor
saving vaccine against anthrax, which has been developed in Madagascar.
7.03      FAFIFAMA's low cost and highly effective veterinary program of the
past five years has been well received and farmers demand for its expansion is
high. Each of FAFIFAMA's village vaccinators would be vaccinating about 15,000
head of cattle annually by Project Year 4 by which time the whole of Mahajanga
Faritany would be covered by the program. Over two thirds of adult cattle
would then be vaccinated annually and 22% of calves treated against endo-para-
sites. Production estimates from the animal health program have been based on
a forecast reduction of calf mortality from 34% to 25% within eight years of
the introduction of the program; adult cattle mortality is expected to decline
from 7% to 3% over the same period.
7.04      The pilot animal production program (paras. 5.07 to 5.11) would
test various degrees of intensified production. A survey of farmer opinion
carried out by the appraisal mission indicated that the adoption rates for
the various themes under the mixed farming intensification program would
range from 15% to 30% of participating villages for improved nutrition down
to 5% for increased offtake. The steer fattening schemes would complement
the pasture trials undertaken under the first project and demonstrate the use
of agricultural by-products. Being pilot schemes, these activities are not
expected to result in significant incremental production during the Project
period.  The commercial scale scheme would be carried out at the FAFIFAMA-
owned farm at Amelie-Sainte Marie which has about 2,000 ha of natural pastures
readily available. Two production systems would be developed: one on
natural pastures, and one on improved pasture. The first production system
would experiment, on about 600 ha, with a herd of 50 steers, at an average
carrying capacity of one animal unit per 12 ha (IEMVT research data). The
management system would consist of limited fencing for paddocking, rotational
grazing, maintenance of firebreaks, and periodic pasture burning. Electric
fences with solar powered batteries would be used for paddocks. Assuming an



- 47 -
average daily weight gain of 300 grams, annual liveweight gain would reach
about 9 kg/ha. The improved pasture management system would be carried out
over 400 ha of natural pastures sowed with strips of stylosanthes, at a
density of 3-5 kg of seeds/ha. The estimated stocking rate would average
one animal unit per 8 ha, and daily weight gains could reach 350 grams. If
so, liveweight gains would reach about 16 kg/ha annually.
VIII. MARKETS AND PRICES
8.01      Marketing Project Production.  The structure of livestock marketing
in Madagascar is described in detail in Chapter III (paras. 3.06 to 3.08).
The impact of marketing zones in the context of the supply of the major market
in the capital would be reviewed in a study to be financed under the Project
(para. 5.14). It is expected that incremental production from the Project
would be marketed through FAFIFAMA's Commercial Department (para. 4.07).
8.02      Domestic Demand.  The ability of Madagascar to export all of the
incremental production from the Project depends on the Government's ability
to restrain the growth of the domestic market for beef through appropriate
policy measures. In fact, estimates of urban per capita consumption indicate
a relative stability since the early 1970's at a level that is already compara-
tively high for a developing country (para. 3.10). Per capita consumption of
beef is likely to decline with the movement toward market prices (para. 3.12)
and with the projected increase in the supply of alternative meats; it is
expected that aggregate domestic consumption would expand by less than the
population growth rate during the 1980's. Assuming a 1% annual rate of expan-
sion of domestic demand, the domestic market would account for an additional
11,000 tonnes of beef by 1990. It is expected that this would be supplied
from productivity increases or other expansion of production and that incremen-
tal Project production would be available for export.
8.03      World Demand for Beef.  World beef consumption in 1979 was 48.2
million tonnes. The USA accounts for some 26% of world consumption and the
EEC for 13%. Growth rates for beef consumption during the 1970's averaged
2.4%, the industrialized and oil exporting countries showing more buoyant
growth. In the 1980s world demand for beef is expected to continue to grow
at around 2.3%, but with a lower (1.8%) growth in the industrialized countries
and a more vigorous (3.2%) rate in the developing countries. By 1990 world
demand is expected to total 60.6 million tonnes, 13.3 million tonnes more than
in 1979.
8.04      Supply of Beef.  Industrialized countries produce about half of the
world beef output and the developing countries about 30%. The USA accounts
*         for about 25% of world production and the EEC about 14%; other large producers
are Australia, Argentina, Brazil and the USSR. World beef production is
expected to increase at a long term rate of 2.2% in the 1980's to reach 60.8
million tonnes in 1990, an increased production of 13.4 million tonnes over



- 48 -
the decade. Major production increases are expected to occur in Argentina
and Sudan. Madagascar's 1979 production was around 115,000 tonnes or 0.2% of
the world total. If projected production increases occur Madagascar would
increase its production to 145,000 tonnes in 1990.
8.05      Beef Trade.  Only 6% (3.2 million tonnes) of world beef production
was traded in 1979. Major exporters include Australia, New Zealand, Argentina
and the Central American countries; major importers include the US, Japan and
Middle East countries. International trade takes place largely among neigh-
boring countries, often on the hoof, and from the southern hemisphere to the
northern hemisphere.  Developing country exporters suffered from trade and
sanitary restrictions imposed by the major importing countries in the 1970s
and saw their exports drop from a third to a fifth of world exports. They
have since been able to diversify their markets among the centrally planned
economies, oil exporters and newly industrialized countries. In the 1980s
world beef exports are projected to grow at over 5% annually to about 5.3
million tonnes by 1990. Madagascar's current export trade of around 5,000
tonnes (0.2% of world trade) has been almost entirely with the EEC, although
there has been some trade with Japan and la Reunion. With the likelihood
that the EEC will maintain a very high degree of self-sufficiency, and with
continuing restrictions in other industrialized countries, Madagascar will
be forced to prospect other export markets. However, Madagacar's projected
exports in 1990 of 24,000 tonnes would account for no more than 0.5% of
projected world trade, so that growth in its exports is unlikely to affect
the market. Fast growing markets within reach of Madagascar include South
Africa, Nigeria, Ivory Coast and the Middle Eastern Countries. Unlike many
comparable producers on the African continent, Madagascar does not suffer
from disease problems that affect the acceptability of its meat. Moreover,
meat quality in general is good, and preparation standards in the newer
plants have shown rapid improvement.
8.06      Beef Prices.  Prices of internationally traded beef fluctuate
quite widely. Real prices which are around 132 i/kg I/ in 1981 are expected
to ease by the mid-1980s and then trend upwards as slaughter rates decline.
By 1990 the price is expected to be 147 k/kg. The current price earned by
Madagascar's exports to the EEC is around market levels at about 248 #/kg for
deboned meat in current terms. Expanded exports would have to compete on the
world market. Present production costs experienced by FAFIFAMA of around 200
U/kg for deboned meat are well below export parity levels. The small volume
of Madagascar's trade would not have any impact on world prices.
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
9.01      Producer Benefits.  The proposed Project would continue the animal
health program developed under the first project in 527 fokontany and extend
it to an additional 824 fokontany in the Mahajanga region, generating sub-
stantial increases in liveweight and meat production as a result of improved
herd health. About 47,000 livestock producers would benefit directly from
1/   EPDCE Commodity Price Forecasts in constant 1977 terms.



- 49 -
the continuation of the present program and an additional 74,000 producers
would benefit from the extension. Many of these producers are largely
dependent for their livelihood on their herds and most are near to or below
the poverty level.  After twelve years of participation in the program,
a typical family's cattle herd should increase by about 30% to an average
of 30 head from an original 23. In the area covered by the ongoing program,
where livestock is usually the sole or dominant production activity, cash
incomes of some producers would double as two animals could be sold each year
instead of one. An important indirect benefit to the island's cattle produc-
tion in general would be a greatly reduced transmission of cattle diseases
*        and, in particular, of anthrax and blackleg because of their generally decreased
incidence. The Project also provides for investment in road construction and
water supply for an additional 40 fokontany, generating immediate social
benefits for some 36,000 people living in these fokontany.  Many other inhabit-
ants of neighboring fokontanys would also derive benefit from the roads. The
import of veterinary products to be financed under the Project is necessary to
maintain the national herd during a period of severe budgetary and foreign
exchange constraints. The major items to be imported are antibiotics essential
to combat disease, and dosages against internal parasites which have a signifi-
cant impact on mortality. The proper application of these products by the
veterinary service throughout the country would make a major contribution to
maintaining and improving herd productivity.
9.02      Government Benefits and Cost Recovery.  Although the Project would
create substantial income benefits for producers, these benefits would not
accrue to the Government. This is because the major investments are either
in institutional or physical infrastructure, or are directed at raising the
incomes of the rural poor who are largely outside the tax net. However, the
Government would benefit indirectly from the growth and profitability of
FAFIFAMA, and from the foreign exchange generated by exports. The Government
could also expect indirect fiscal benefits from improved sectoral management,
leading to higher parastatal productivity and the elimination of subsidies.
The increase in cattle supply should relieve pressure on producer prices and
allow greater capacity utilization in processing plants; this would also have
a favorable budget impact. The direct receipts of the Government in respect
of the Project are through cost recovery, from the sale of veterinary products
financed under the Project, which would be sold at cost, including a margin
for storage losses (para. 5.19). FAFIFAMA would arrange for the fokontanys
to provide a contribution of a minimum 20% towards the capital and maintenance
costs of the road and water developments (para 6.07).
9.03      Economic Analysis and Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return
of the Project has been calculated taking into account only the costs and
benefits of additional beef production expected to result from the Mahajanga
animal health component and the costs and benefits associated with the roads
*        and animal water supply components.  The volume of incremental production
attributable to the animal health component has been calculated on the basis
of a herd model for a single fokontany extended for the number of fokontanys
participating in the Project. On the basis of the projected decline in
mortalities (para. 7.03) and after allowing for only two thirds of the produc-
tion increase projected by the herd model in order to provide a contingency
for lower than anticipated adoption rates or other eventualities, the



- 50 -
program would be expected to reach a steady output of 95,000 cattle for
slaughter annually by 1997 (Project Year 16). This is equivalent to additional
annual production of beef carcass of 17,000 tonnes, of value US$28.4 million
(1981 border prices). On the assumption that all Project production was
exported, the net gain in foreign exchange would thus be of the order of
US$28.4 million (1981 values) annually by 1997. Production increases from
pigs and poultry are not likely to be significant as they are not very numerous
in the faritany. Incremental beef production was valued for the economic
analysis at a farmgate price based on the estimated export price, reflecting
Madagascar's position as a net exporter of beef and the expectation that
Project production would be largely exported (para. 8.02).  The export
price was calculated on the estimated free market price, as projected production
would far exceed Madagascar-s quota under the Lome convention. As the component
represents the second phase of a continuing program of which the benefits can
only be related to the program as a whole, both costs and benefits for the
component have been projected over the whole program life, assumed to be
thirty years. Costs were calculated on the assumption that financial values
of program inputs represent their economic value. No incremental costs other
than program costs were calculated, as the predominant husbandry system
practiced is extensive herding on open pasture, of which the carrying capacity
is adequate for the total projected herd. Labor costs are unlikely to increase
as most animals will go to swell existing herds while the opportunity cost of
the small amount of usually juvenile incremental labor required is negligible.
However, a sensitivity analysis on various assumptions about labor cost was
carried out (para. 9.06).
9.04      The roads component would create substantial benefits as access to
markets and services would promote the development of areas previously isolated
for much of the year. About 18,000 farm families would benefit from this
access and it is expected that road development will induce crop production
for market. Rice has been taken as a proxy crop for the calculation of
induced benefits. The water supply component would increase the productive
potential of grazing lands and would, through the provision of water points
for human consumption, improve health and living standards. No detailed data
are available for the production impact of this component and the monitoring
of production increases attributable to improved water supply would be a key
task under the Project. The rate of return for the component has been cal-
culated on the basis of a conservative assumption about increases in carrying
capacity and weights resulting from the animal water points. The import of
veterinary products would have a positive production impact and would be a net
earner of foreign exchange through the maintenance and expansion of beef
exports.  However, this benefit is not easily quantifiable as the impact of
the products on herd mortalities is insufficiently known and changes in
productivity are likely to come about at different paces in each area.
Additional benefits would accrue from the pilot animal production program but
these benefits are not quantifiable due to the pilot nature and scale of the
program. The benefits expected from the institution building components are
similarly unquantifiable.



- 51 -
9.05      On t:he bases and assumptions above, the economic rates of return
would be as follows:
Estimated
ERR (%)
Animal health program                    36
Roads comiponent                         11.1
Water supply component                   12.7
All three components                     34
The cost and benefit streams used are shown in Table 4.  Although the rate of
return to the infrastructure components is somewhat low, and below the estimated
opportunity cost of capital, there will be significant unquantified benefits
to the pilot animal production program from these components.
9.06      Sensitivity.  The rate of return is sufficiently high that it
is not very sensitive to changes in real costs and benefits. Real costs would
have to increase by over 300% or benefits diminish by 75% to reduce the
economic rate of return of the productive components to 12%, which has been
taken to represent the current opportunity cost of capital. If benefits were
delayed by two years, due to slower than anticipated production increases but
there was no delay in costs, the rate of return would be 25%.  A sensitivity
analysis was carried out for the incremental labor cost associated with
production increases under the animal health program. On the assumption that
two thirds of additional animals require separate herding and pricing the
small opportunity cost of labor at a quarter of the estimated shadow wage, the
ERR of the animal health program would drop from 36% to 35%.
9.07      Risks.  The animal health program iTI Mahajanga is not very subject
to risk. The component would be executed by FAFIFAMA which is a well-estab-
lished agency to which management support would be provided under the Project.
The component is the second phase of a program which is already operating
successfully and its technical value has been well demonstrated. The economic
rate of return of the program is not very susceptible to changes in costs,
which are based in any case on adequate experience under the first project and
so are not likely to overrun very much. Benei,its from the component are more
tentative as no exact figures for increased weights and numbers have emerged
from the first project. The popularity of the animal health prograLm, however,
indicates its economic value, and even if only half the conservatively-esti-
mated benefits were realized, the rate of return to the program would still
be 24%. The price forecast takes account of a projected real decline in world
beef prices during the 1980s. There is, however, a risk that domestic consump-
tion of beef would expand faster than anticipated. Although this mrould not
affect the rate of return so long as Madagascar remains a net exporter of
a         beef, it would seriously reduce the value of the Project in terms of foreign
exchange earnings. The animal production experiment is largely founded on
techniques which are well-known from an earlier period of Madagascar's history
or from application in other countries and the risks which may exist are
socio-economic risks acceptable in a pilot program.



- 52 -
9.08      The components in the livestock sub-sector are exposed to more
serious risk. The organization and supervision of the veterinary service
remains an issue that may affect the effectiveness of the import of veterinary
products, while information on the impact of these products is insufficient
to allow a quantification of benefits. Offsetting these risks however are
two factors: first, SPA-s role in supervision is being more clearly defined,
and regular exchanges will take place between IDA and the Government on
the performance of the veterinary service; and second, the component would
undoubtedly relieve a very critical situation which threatens hundreds of
thousands livestock producers many of whom rely on their herds as their major
productive asset.  Finally, the other components in the sub-sector, and the
Project as a whole, depend for success on new policy orientations from
the Government and the implementation of a coherent production strategy.
The incremental Project production would only be available for export if the
Government maintains its export-oriented policy and backs it up with practical
measures to control domestic demand. The components designed to improve
organization in the sub-sector could only succeed if there is a commitment at
the higher level to a reorganization. The Government has however accorded a
high priority in recent policy statements to development of the sub-sector and
particularly to its export earning potential and has backed up this policy
with action on critical constraints. The Project itself would help to maintain
this momentum by practical help to reorganize the sub-sector and raise produc-
tivity, and by providing a forum for a continuing dialogue on policy.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
subjects:
(a)  That the Government would consult annually with IDA on meat pricing
(para. 3.25).
(b)  That IDA and the Government would exchange views annually on
Government policies related to the livestock subsector (para. 3.27).
(c)  That the primary supervision responsibility for the livestock sub-
sector parastatals currently supervised by other ministries
(SECIAM, SEVIMA and SOFIRAC) would be transferred to the MDRRA by
December 31, 1982 (para. 3.28).
(d)  That the Government would submit to IDA by December 31, 1982 a
five-year plan for the veterinary services (para. 3.28).
(e)  That the Government would submit to IDA by December 31, 1982 a                    4
livestock research policy paper (para. 3.29).
(f)  That pricing of veterinary products would be on a full cost recovery
basis (para. 5.19).
(g)  Onlending, procurement, accounting and audit arrangements (paras.
5.24 to 5.28).



- 53 -
(h) That the SPA would prepare a Project: Completion Report no later
than six months after Project closing date (para. 5.29).
(i)  That the services of the staff of the former provincial veterinary
service in Mahajanga faritany would be made available to FAFIFAMA by
December 31, 1982 (para. 6.02).
(j)  That FAFIFAMA would implement the Mahajanga faritany components
and its status and structure would not be changed without con-
sultations with IDA (para. 6.02).
(k) That a review of FAFIFAMA's employmesnt policy would be ca,rried out
by June 30, 1982, the recommendations submitted to IDA fcor comment,
and appropriate measures implemented by December 31, 1982,
(paLra. 6.03).
(1) That the program for the management and material support component
and the final design of the steer fattening component would be
submitted by December 31, 1982 for IDA-s prior approval (para. 6.04).
(m)  That proposals for FAFIFAMA-s data collection, monitoring and
management information systems would be presented to IDA by
December-31, 1982 for review and approval prior to implemientation
(para. 6.04).
(n) Arrangements for maintenance and cost recovery for roads and
water points (para. 6.07).
(o)  That annual work programs and budgets for all the Mahajanga
components would be submitted by FAFIFAMA to IDA for review
by August 1 and approval by November 1 each year (para. 6.09).
(p) That FAFIFAMA would submit quarterly reports to the Government
and IDA (para. 6.10).
(q) That the detailed program for the technical assistance component
woujld be submitted by December 31, 1982 for IDA's prior approval, and
that the Government would consult with IDA prior to implementation of
any proposals resulting from studies under the component
(paras. 3.30 and 6.11).
(r) That the Government would make all budgetary and foreign exchange
allocations necessary to finance imports of veterinary products
during the period of Project support, and would continue thereafter
to make such allocations (para. 6.1]2).
.
(s) That the SPA would report by March 31 each year to IDA on the utili-
zation of veterinary products procured under the Project in the
preceding year (para. 6.12).
(t)  That the SPA would monitor the prodluction and distribution of
vaccines by the Central Livestock Laboratory (para 6.12).
(u) That the detailed proposal for the applied research program would be
submitted by December 31, 1982 for IDA's prior approval (para. 6.12).



- 54 -
(v)  That the detailed proposals or terms of reference for the studies,
documentation and scholarships component would be submitted for
IDA's prior approval (para. 6.13).
10.02     Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  Effectiveness of the IFAD financing agreement (para. 5.25).
(b)  Signature of the agreement between Government and FAFIFAMA
(para. 5.25).
a
(c)  Amendment of FAFIFAMA's legal instruments to empower it to
carry out the Project (Para. 6.02).
10.03     Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  Against the FAFIFAMA components, that the annual work
program and budget be approved by IDA (para. 6.09).
(b)  Against the import of veterinary products component, that the
SPA submit by December 31 each year for IDA's prior approval the
list of veterinary products to be procured the following year
(para. 6.12).
10.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 12.8 million (US$15.0 million).
Eastern Africa Projects
Central Agriculture Division
January 27, 1982



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
LIST OF PRINCIPAL INSTITUTIONS IN THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR.
A. Administrative Services
Institution                                  Responsibilities
MDDRA
Animal Production Service 1/            Detailed policy planning; investment
(SPA)                                   planning and project identification;
data collection, preparation of
statistics; monitoring sectoral per-
formance and project implementation;
animal health and production
programs; technical supervision of
most subsector parastatals; sanitary
control of slaughterhouses, and
exports; orientation of arLimal
production research; meat pricing
proposals.
Directorate of Studies and              Managerial supervision and. monitoring
Programming                             of parastatals; preparation of
feasibility studies.
Ministry of Finance                           Control of exports and imports; meat
pric,e formulation for AntaLnanarivo;
financial supervision of Eubsector
parastatals.
Ministry of Economy and Commerce              Export monitoring; technical super-
vision of some "agroindust:rial"
subsector parastatals
Fokonolona institutions                      Meat pricing and setting of slaughter
fees; supervision of local. meat
supply; cattle and meat maLrketing
(Antananarivo).
Ministry of Education and                    Agricultural research
Scientific Research
1/   Part of the Directorate of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform.



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
B. Parastatals 1/
Production
OMBY (Middle West)                     Beef cattle breeding, fattening
and marketing
SAKAY (Middle West)                    Pork and dairy products
FEV (Vohimasina)                       Pork
TOPIFA (Faharetana)                    Chickens
Processing/Export
SEVIMA (Antananarivo)                  Slaughterhouse and exports (frozen
and canned beef
FEV (Vohimasina)                       Slaughterhouse (frozen and canned
beef, pork, lamb)
SOFIRAC (Ambalavao/Fiana)              Export of frozen beef
SECIAM (Morondava)                     Slaughterhouse and exports (frozen
and canned beef)
FAFIFAMA (Mahajanga)                   Exports (frozen beef)
BCL (Antsirabe and Faratsiho)          Milk
Antananarivo abattoir            )
Mahajanga abattoir               )     Slaughterhouses
Municipal Slaughterhouses        )
(about 20)                    )
1/   Grouped by principal responsibility.



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
Extension
ODEMO (Middle West)                   Extension service to farmers
and cooperatives (cattle and pigs)
FIFAMANOR (Antsirabe)                 Extension service
FAFIFAMA (Mahajanga)                  Veterinary and extension service
(cattle and pigs)
Androy Operation (Toliary)            Veterinary and extension service
(cattle, goats and sheep)
Research
FOFIFA (Miadana, Mahajanga            Livestock research
and Kingasoa)



MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  DEUXIEME PROJET D' ELEVAGE VILLACEOIS ET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS                                                                    RESUMAE DES CO3UTS DU PROJET
(FMG '000)                                                                                    (milliers de FEIG)
Foreign
Project Year/Annee  ___                        Tat5l     Exchange/
1           2            3            4            5         Total        Devises
in Mahanianga faritany                                                                                                                         Dans le faritany Mahaiang
Basic Animal Health Program                        439,115      364,090      353,835      369,040      292,595   1,818,675       817,660        Programme de sante animale
Pilot Animal Produccion Program                                                                                                                Programme pilote pcur la production animale
Animal Husbandry Intensification                 84,235       72,345       65,965       60,340       65,925      348,810      185,8j(           llt  .(f i,.ation production antmale
Steer FatLtening                                115,930       22,145       22,145       22,165       16,545      198,910       91,960          Embouche des bouvillons
Road Contrrcction and Maintenance                  141,415      138,055      139,055      138,055      138,055      693,635      466,500       ConIstructir,        , r -?'ctien des routes
Water Supply Construction and Maintenance           97,765       95.980       54,010       54,010       46,365      348,130      145,350       Construrtion et entretien des points d'ea,
Support for FAFIFAMiA                               47,635       43,230       40,230       11,750       11,750      154,595       81,735       Appui :a la FAFIFAMA
Sub-total                                          926,095      735,845      674,240      655,340      571,235   3,562,755   1,789,055         Total partiel
In the Sub-sector                                                                                                                              Dens le sec        }eI
Institutional Support                              207,300       88,000        7,385        7,390        7,385      317,460      208,455       Appui technique                                      U_
Support to the Veterinary and Research Services                                                                                                Appui aux services veterinaire et recherche           I
Veterinary Product Imports                      402,000      275,000      144,000                                821,000      821,000          Importation des produits veterinaires
Support to Veterinary Laboratory                 27,500                                                           27,500       27,500          Appui r, laboratoire veterinaire
Applied Research                                    11,000       11,000       11,000       11,000       11,000       55,000       30,000       Recherche appliquee
Studies, Documentation and Training                 27,500       27,500       27,500       27,500       27,500      137,500      120,000       Etudes, docuir-ntation et formation
Sub-total                                          675,300      401,5(00     189,885       45,890       45,885   1,358,460   1,206,955         Total partiel
Total Base Cost                                     1,601,395   1,137,345       864,125      701,230      617,120   4,921,215   2,996,010   Cout de base
Contingencies  -  physical                             130,930      97,535       78,340       64,9(00      57,555      429.260      254,030   Impre'vus  -  physique
-  price                               178,510     270,810      348,660      445,710      512,430   1,756,120       779,245               -  hausse des prix
309,440     368,345      427,000      510,610      569,985   2,185,380   1,033,275
Total Project Cost                                  1,910.835   1,505,690   1,291,125 _1,211,840   1,187,105   7,106,595   4,029,285   Cout total
August 21, 1981                                                                                                                                le 21 aout 1981



- 59 -
Table 2
MADAGASCAR
Second Village Livestock                  Deuxieme Projet d'Elevage
and Rural Development Project           Villageois et de Developpement Rural
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/ Calendrier estimatif des decaissements 1/
Cumulative disbursement at
IDA fiscal year                 end quarter/Decaissements              Exercise et
and quarter                           cumulatifs                    trimestre IDA
*
IDA                IFLD
(US$     (SDR      (US$      (SDR
'000)    '000)    '000)    '000) 2/
1982/83                                                               1982/83
September 30, 1982 3/          -         -         -          -       30 septembre 1982 3/
December 31, 1982             45        40        25                  31 decembre 1982
March 31, 1983               360       300       200                  31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983                700       600       350                  30 juin 1983
1983/84                                                               1983/84
September 30, 1983         1,300    1,100        650                  30 septembre 1933
December 31, 1983          1,800    1,500        900                  31 dgcembre 1983
March 31, 1984             2,600    2,200    1,400                    31 mars 1984
June 30, 1984              3,400    2,900    1,800                    30 juin 1984
1984/85                                                               1984/85
September 30, 1984         4,300    3,700    2,300                    30 septembre 1934
December 31, 1984          5,300    4,500    2,800                    31 decembre 1984
March 31, 1985             5,900    5,000    3,300                    31 mars 1985
June 30, 1985              7,300    6,200    3,800                    30 juin 1985
1985/86                                                               1985/86
September 30, 1985         8,200    7,000    4,400                    30 septembre 19135
December :31, 1985         9,200    7,800    4,900                    31 decembre 1985
March 31, 1986            10,100    8,600    5,400                    31 mars 1986
June 30, :1986            ll,G00     9,400    5,800                   30 juin 1986
1986/87                                                               1986/87
September 30, 1986        11,600    9,900    6,200                    30 septembre 1986
December 31, 1986         12,300   10,500    6,500                    31 decembre 1986
March 31, 1987            12,900   11,000    6,900                    31 mars 1987
June 30, 1987             13,500   11,500    7,100                    30 juin 1987
1987/88                                                               1987/88
September 30, 1987        13,900   11,900    7,400                    30 septembre 1987
December '31, 1987        14,300   12,200    7,600                    31 decembre 1987
March 31, 1988            14,700   12,600    7,800                    31 mars 1988
June 30, 1988             15,000   12,800    8,000                    30 juin 1988
1/ Disbursements have been estimated on the basis of an implementation period of
five and a half years/Les decaissements ont 6te estime sur la base d'une periode
d'impl6mentation de cinq ans et demii.
2/  SDR equivalents for IFAD loan to be determined/DTS Aquivalent pour pret IFAD A
d6terniner.
3/  Expected Date of Effectiveness - July 1,1982/Date prevue pour entree en vigueur -
ler juillet 1982.



MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND                                      DEUXIEME PROJET D'ELEVAGE VILLAGEOIS ET DE
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    DEVELOPPEFENT RURAL
Government Project-Related Cash Flow                                   Cash-Flow du Gouvernement pour le Projet
(FMG millicOspsrce of Funds                           Application of Funds
IDA                Cost  1/                                                               Annual    Cumulative
Project Year           Credit    IFAD    Recovery    Total    FAFIFAMA    MDRRA    IDA    IFAD    Total    Deficit               Deficit
1                      192       96        480         768       1,099        772       -       -    1,871        1,103         1,103
2                       742     398        356       1,496         975        517     13        9    1,514           18         1,121
3                    1,072      550        200       1,822         975        369     40       28    1,412         -410           711
4                    1,017      550                  1,567         965         70      69      49    1,153         -414            297
5                       687     357                  1,044         987         79     92       65    1,223          179           476
6                      412      247                    659         799               107       76       982         323           799
7                                                                  774               112       80       966         966         1,765 C
8                                                                  942               112       80    1,134        1,134         2,899
9                                                                1,215               112       80    1,407        1,407         4,306
10                                                                1,205               112       80    1,397        1,397         5,703
11                                                                1,338               261      278    1,877        1,877         7,580
12                                                                1,404               260      276    1,940        1,940         9,520
13                                                                1,205               259      274    1,738        1,738        11,258
14                                                                1,338               258      272    1,868        1,868        13,126
15                                                                1,404               257      270    1,931        1,931        15,057
16                                                                1,205               256      268    1,729        1,729        16,786
17                                                                1,338               255      266    1,859        1,859        18,645
18                                                                1,404               254      264    1,922        1,922        20,567
19                                                                1,205               253      262    1,720        1,720        22,287
20                                                                1,338               252      260    1,850        1,850        24,137
1/  Cost recovery on imports of veterinary products imoorts          1/  Le recouvrement des depenses pour les produits             A X
is shown as accruing to the Government.  Other cost                  v6terinaires importes sera effectue par le                 a 5
recovery will be effected by FAFIFAMA, not the                       Couvernement.  Le recouvrement des autres depenses         p -
Government.                                                          sera effectue par FAFIFAMA.
)~~~~~~~ 4



- 61 -
Table 4
MADAGASCAR
Second Village Livestock and Rura:L Development Project
Benefit and Cost Streams for Economic Analysis
(FMC millions)
Benefits                                 Costs
Net
Project        Animal              Water             Animal              Water             benefit
year         health   Roads   supply   Total   hea:Lth   Roads   supply   Total    stream
1977                _-                          -       450        -         -      450       (450)
1978                 7       _         -        7       425        -         -      425       (418)
1979               41                  -       41       442        -         -      442       (401)
1980              138                  -      13R       450        -         -      450       (312)
1981              407        _         -      407       477      159        27      663       (256)
PY  1              780        _         -     780       '539     155        57      751          29
PY  2           1,14R        35         -   1,183       487      152        54      693        490
PY  3           1,552       70          1   1,623       528      152        29      7ng        914
PY  4           1,35Q       105         3   1,467       602      138        29      769        698
PY  5           1,:R08     142          9   1,959        553     138        24      715      1,244
PV  6           2,408      142         16   2,566        5PO      46         13     639      1,927
PY  7           2,913      142         24   3,071       ';80      46         13     639      1,432
PY  8           3,420       142        29   3,591        580      46         13     639      2,952
PY  q           7,335      142         55   7,532        580      46         13     639      6,R93
PY 10           6,555       142        50   6,747        580      46         13     639      6,108
PY 11           6,990       142        5Q   7,191        5R0      46         13     639      6,552
PY 12           7,293       142        63   7,49.        590      46         13     639      6,859
PY 13           7,585       142        72   7,799        5RO      46         13     639      7,160
PY 14           8,111       142        74   8,327        580      46         13     639      7,698
PY 15           8,270       142        71   8,483        580      46         13     639      7,846
PY 16           8,095       142        73   8,310        580      46         13     639      7,671
PY 17 - 30      8,162       142        73   8,376        580      46         13     639      7,737
ERR 34%



- 62 -
Chart 1
MADAGASCAR
Ministry for Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
Minister
Cabinet
Secretary General
Administration and                 Legislation                           External Relations                   OPS
Finance                       and Claims                           and Documentation                   Services
Director General of
Rura! Development.                                                                                        Director of Studies
Agrarian Reforr and                                                                                        and Programming
Co-operative Development
Agrarian R       eorm                                                                                      Agricultural
_   and Go-operative                                                                             _           Statistics
Development
Support to       L         Regional De-
Management                   velopment
-  Crop Productiori                                 Directors of                                          ol Enterprises                Authorities
Rural Development                                                                    and Parastatais
1                    ~~~~~~~of the Faritany (6)
1                                                                              |    Programming and    1
_           Irrigation      j                                                                                         Finance
Rural Development 
Services for the                                    Studies and
-      Water and Forestry                                       Fivondronana                                        Laboratories
i                  |     ~~~~~~~~(Currentty 181     
Education andc
Agricultural     ]
Animal Production                                      Local Extension                                        Training
_     Services for the
Firaisam-pokontany
Agricultural                                       or the Fokontany
1   Industrialization 
Agricultural
Equipmnent



MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIGRAM OF THE ANIMAL PRODUCTION SERVICE (SPA)
MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND AGRARIAN REFORM
rANIMAL PRODUCTION SERVIC
Planningn iagnd|         InoCenete     nl38distation1 jel                 r          n
Procuren_et                      Fpriculture                 Sericultur                    niaal Production                 nimal Healt                    Sea Fishing                quaculttr
|and Su  oiesl1                        ,      IIIII                                                                                                   
I l  <   gras             raw         |Cultivated                                                                     raditional                        h    F Rir
Pharmacy   Equipment        th          and        Promotion|    Sil            ilk d te e ed   att                 Poultry   |ophylaxy    Imort-               and    |      nd al 1i adtn
Pra'edurea                    mu~~~lbetry tree                                                 Exot          ArtisanalL.
cutvtion
PD
rt
January Z1, 1981



MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FAFIFAMA - Chart of Proposed Organization
;Director General
Studies, Programming and
Monitoring Division
Finance and                 Animal Health and                Public Works                     Marketing Department
Administration             Production Department               Department
Department
Animal          Animal         Roas        Wtr      Maintenance!  Livestock         Meat     Export
Health         Husbandry      Dison   Supply                        Marketing   Processing
Division     Intensification             Division                     Division    Division
Division
Commercial
Farm



MADAGASCAR
SECOND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Year                            0                                              4           5           6
ACTIVITY                               1982        i8                                   1986        1987      1988
IDA CREDIT                                                                      i-
Completion
Closing                                                                                                                   4
REVIEW OF SUB-SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
Preparation of terms of reference
Selection of Consultants
Audit and preparation of recommendations
Review and implementation
VETERINARY PRODUCTS IMPORTS -                               __
MAHAJANGA SUB-PROJECT                                      I J
Buildings - %                                                                 63                      931 1
Equipment - %I
Roads km annually                                      1 T  I                                                     9 |  |
Fokontany covered by animal health compo-        |
Management support component          nent
PILOTS AND STUDIES
Cattle Cross-Breeding                    |                             I        I
Sub-Sector Studies
Animal production experiment                                                                   H      IV
Agricultural Sector Studies
'-I0



- 66 -
Index of Material in Implementation Volume
Annex 1  -  Detailed Financial Tables
Table  1  -  Continuation  )  Basic Animal Health Program
Table  2  -  Extension       )
Table  3  -  Animal Husbandry Intensification                                          &
Table  4  -  Road Construction and Maintenance
Table  5  -  Water Supply Construction and Maintenance
Table  6  -  Steer Fattening
Table  7  -  Management and Material Support for FAFIFAMA
Table  8  -  Technical Assistance to Improve Organization in the
Sub-sector
- Detailed Economic Tables
Table  9  -  Streams                     )
Table 10  -  Calculation of Benefits  )  Basic Animal Health Program
Table 11  -  Sensitivity Analysis        )
Table 12  -  Roads Component
Table 13  -  Water Supply Component
Annex 2 - Technical Tables
Table 1  -  Veterinary Products Imports
Table 2  -  Equipment and Materials for the Veterinary Laboratory
Table 3  -  Fokontany Herd Model
Table 4  -  Sale of Production from One Fokontany
Table 5  -  Incremental Live weight Production
Annex 3 - Study of Sub-sector Institutions - General Outline and Draft
Terms of Reference for Study of Meat Processing Plants
(in French)
Annex 4 - Mixed Farming Intensification Program
Annex 5  -  Road Construction and Maintenance
Annex 6  -  Water Supply Construction and Maintenance
Annex 7  -  Animal Health Program
Annex 8  -  Pilot Animal Production Scheme



I BR D 15637
4I2                             4                                 E'                             48                               5C'        MARCH 18
I12                         MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                2
SECOND VILLA(E  LIVESTOCK                                                                              ANTSERANANA
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
D)EU4YIEME F PROJET LYFIEVAGE VILLAGEOIS
EFT DF DEVELOPPEMENT7 RfURAL
MAHAJANGA FARITANY / FARITA NY1 DE M4-AHAJANGA                                      NOSI !8 K-
FIVONDRONANA RECEIVING INTENSIFIED VETERINARY SERVICE UNDER CREDIT5EI6 MAG 
Ft VOE,VDRDNA IVA A YA N'T BERVEFICIE 'ENVCAD RERENT VE TERINA IRE IN TENSI F DA NA LA  Ir!- I+
CADRE DU CREDIr 5I6 - MAG                                                                  I ~
PILOT DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAMS - MIDDLE WEST UNDER CREDIT 580- MAC!                                   Aon
PROGRAMMES PILOTES DU MOYEN - OJEsT DAAVSLE CADIREODI CREDIT 500  MAG
U  OMBY STATE RANCHES i RANCHES DE LA FERMfE D'EITAT OM6Y
IS4    PROPOSES FAFIFAMAk CATTLE FATTENING FARM OF AMELIE-STE MARIE I                                                                                 14.
FERME D'ENVGRAISSEMRENT DE8RETAIL DE FAFIFAMA PRORDAFEA AMELIEATrE MARIE                                                     Srbe
-BITU MINOUS SURFACED ROADS! ADRUTES A SURFACES 617TOMEES
___ALL WEATHER ROADS / ROUTESFRA 7/CABLES TOUTA C'AAANEE
RAILRCAGS!/CHEM/NASDE FER
- FARITANY ROUNDAFUIES /LIMITES DES FARtTANY                                     AEooO
___FORMER PFREFECTURE BOUNDARIES / LIMITESADESANSCIENNES SOUS-PREFECTURES 
FIVON/ORONANA ROLINDARIES !SFIOWN IN MAHAJANGA EARITANY ONLY)        ~            nsos                                         AtaIloEc
L/MITES DES Ft VNDRDRNANA iMONrTREES UNIDUEMENT DANA LE FAR/TARNYDE M4AHA/ANGA) <     , 
A   ~ ~ ~~~ +ALL WEATHERi AIRPORTS I AEDROORTS OUVERTS TOUTE L'ANNEE                                                     eEN00
®CAPITAL / CAPITALE                                                          /OSiO                                      Sra er
e  FARtITANY CAPITALS / CAPINTALES DES F'ARITANY'
o  CHIEF TOWN IN F/IVINDRONANA/                         MAHAJANGSr                                     ~-
CHIEF TOWNS IN FORMER PREFECTURES!/-  ele-- 
PRINVC/1ALE V/LLE LIfS AVCIENVES ADUS PR'EFECTUR9E~  A,;,
-  S,,r-0 n IO     ,'I/reoUo1k1y                                               m- m -n
Maintirano o                                                                                                   le-~5'Eo lolfl  $o een r-nc 
Moeeolo.anq/'                           -~~~~TOA,6IN
0~~~~~IIeAe r
a n n e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Vo rl
Morondava ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I  oodrne
A.b.
\  A'rrsolooo  '',1eeO    ,~~~~~~1_                     N.) .4
A~~~~~~~~S  oi
Sr Er I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                 Eo         1~               IE
FaraanVao~(MSrr
SE'                                                                                                            Ocean               20~~~~~~~~~eT
TOLI   1dS
Mmech onSoo
Ifor cooro    MSO2IjOE
Moro Ee~ ~~~~~~  k
Q ~ ~ ~ ~ 5             5       OS    10     20     20E
4OLAR  .//                            6'                             le5' 



