CREDIT NUMBER 1211 MAG
OFFICIA
Development Credit Agreemht
(Second Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       4i          /           , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1211 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for
a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between
the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association has
accepted such appointment;
(D) Parts A through E of the Project will be carried out by
the Livestock Development Agency for Western Madagascar (herein-
after called FAFIFAMA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to FAFIFAMA
parts of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the, General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and FAFIFAMA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(c) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FAFIFAMA pursuant to Section
4.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(d) "First Livestock Project" means the Village Livestock
and Rural Development Project (Amended), dated May 25, 1977
(Credit Number 506 MAG), as agreed upon by the Democratic Republic
of Madagascar and the Association;
(e) "MDRRA" means the Borrower's Ministere de DAveloppement
Rural et de la Reforme Agraire;
(f) "SPA" means the Animal Production Service of the
General Directorate for Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
within the MDRRA;
(g) "Pharmacie Centrale Vet6rinaire" means the institution
within SPA responsible for the import and distribution of
veterinary products;
(h) "FOFIFA" means the Centre Nationale de Recherche Appli-
qu6e pour le Dgveloppement Rural;
(i) "Central Livestock Laboratory" means the laboratory
within FOFIFA responsible for the production of vaccines;
(j) "SECIAM" means the Soci6t6 d'Exploitation du Complexe
Industriel et Agricole de Morondava;


﻿-3-
(k) "SEVIMA" means the Sociftf d'Exploitation de Viande
A Madagascar in Antananarivo; and
(1) "SOFIRAC" means Sociftg des Viandes de Madagascar in
Fianarantsoa.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12.8 million).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service chargej shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1992, and ending December 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in -Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time to time pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
service6 required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form
and containing such statements and agreements as the Association
or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether
before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c). Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds to
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by
the Association, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 65:35, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Association
and the Fund; provided, however, that, if such application shall
be made in respect of expenditures that shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan only, such application
shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,


﻿-6-
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to
pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
for Parts F through J of the Project shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts F
through J of the Project through SPA with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause FAFIFAMA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FAFIFAMA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit available to FAFIFAMA under a subsidiary agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and FAFIFAMA (the Subsidiary
Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of


﻿-7-
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower sh411 not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agraement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts F through J of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants or experts whose selection, qualifications, exper-
ience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association in accordance with the principles and pro-
cedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the World Bank in August 1981.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund
Loan for Parts F through J of the Project against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to be used
exclusively for Parts F through J of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, all reports,
contract documents and procurement schedules for Parts F through
J of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts F through J
of the Project, to identify the goods and services for Parts F
through J of the Project financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's accredited
representatives to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan for Parts F through J of the
Project and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall


﻿-8-
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts
F through J of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the ezpenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan for Parth F through J of the Project
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall through SPA prepare and
furnish to the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.05. By December 31, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree the Borrower shall, in carrying out Part
G (ii) of the Project, furnish the Association for its approval:
(i) a r6sum6 of each candidate proposed to be sent overseas
for training; and (ii) an outline of the training program to be
followed by each candidate.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, in carrying out Part F of
the Project: (i) by December 31, 1982 or by such other date as the
Association may agree furnish the Association for its approval a
program for the studies to be carried out under Parts F (i) and
F (ii) of the Project; and (ii) exchange views with the Associa-
tion on the findings and recommendations reached in such studies,
as such findings and recommendations become available to the
Borrower and the measures to be undertaken for the implementation
of such recommendations.
Section 4.07. By December 31, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree the Borrower shall, before carrying out


﻿-9-
Part I of the Project, furnish to the Association for its approval
a detailed program for the carrying out of such Part of the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through SPA, maintain
or cause to be maintained separate records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of Parts F through J of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts F
through J of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall through SPA: (i) have the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by an auditor acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall undertake all measures
necessary to ensure that the villages benefitting from the roads,
surface water points and wells established under Part E (i) and
(ii) of the Project shall contribute in cash or in kind not less
than twenty per cent (20%) of the total investment and maintenance
costs thereof.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, starting July 1, 1987,
cause its services and agencies charged with road maintenance and
maintenance of public utilities to maintain all roads and water
supply facilities related to the Project in Mahajanga Province, to
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof promptly, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering and financial practices
and make appropriate financial arrangements therefore.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, annually, exchange views
with the Association and the Fund: (i) on key issues of the


﻿- 10 -
Borrower's policy related to the livestock subsector and the
Borrower's plan of action for the development of such sub-
sector; and (ii) on the pricing of meat, including the criteria
that should be applied to establish reasonable meat prices such as
production costs, adequate profit margins, prices for different
products and international price levels.
Section 5.05. By December 31, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree, the Borrower shall prepare and submit
to the Association a five-year plan for the Veterinary and
Livestock Services within the MDRRA; such plan shall contain: (i)
quantified targets for the activities of the Veterinary and
Livestock Services that are projected for such period, including
any increase of coverage to be provided by the Veterinary Ser-
vices; and (ii) a projection of the budgetary allocations needed
for the implemrentation of such plan.
Section 5.06. By December 31, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree, the Borrower shall prepare and transmit
to the Association a policy paper which shall define the major
aims of livestock research in Madagascar and specify the topics of
research to be undertaken over the period 1982 through 1986.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that all veterinary products sold by the Pharmacie
Centrale Vgtgrinaire shall be sold at prices covering all
costs incurred by the Borrower for such veterinary products,
including transport and distribution cost and a margin of fifteen
per cent for storage losses.
Section 5.08. By December 31, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree, the Borrower shall make available to
FAFIFAMA the services of all employees who were formerly employed
by the Livestock Service in Mahajanga Province.
Section 5.09. By June 30, 1987, the Borrower shall: (i)
review all arrangements made for the continuation of the Veteri-
nary and Livestock Services in Mahajanga Province; and (ii)
take all financial and organizational measures appropriate
to ensure the continuation of such services.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall inform the Association of
any measure planned to change FAFIFAMA's management or capital
structure sufficiently in advance of effectiveness of such measure
to enable the Association to comment upon such measure.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.11. (a) The Borrower shall, annually while the
Project is being executed, make sufficient budgetary and foreign
exchange allocations for the purchase of veterinary products.
(b) By December 31 of each year while the Project is being
executed but only as long as Part H (i) of the Project is partly
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and Fund Loan, the
Borrower shall prepare a list of veterinary products to be
imported by the Borrower during the following year and their
prices and furnish a copy of such list to the Association for its
approval. Such lists shall exclude veterinary products to be
distributed to FAFIFAMA for the Mahajanga component.
(c) By March 31 of each year while the Project is being
executed but only as long as Part H (i) of the Project is partly
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and Fund Loan, the
Borrower shall prepare a report on the distribution of the
veterinary products imported by the Borrower during the previous
year and furnish a copy of such report to the Association for its
comments. -
Section 5.12. The Borrower shall ensure that MDRRA shall
exercise, at all times, the authority for technical and management
supervision of SECIAM, SEVIMA and SOFIRAC.
Section 5.13. During all times while the Project is being
executed the Borrower shall ensure that SPA shall assure the
timely production of adequate quantities and qualities of vaccines
produced by the Central Livestock Laboratory and the distribution
thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
covenant, agreement or obligation on the part of FAFIFAMA under
the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower's legislation concerning fermes d'etats or
FAFIFAMA's Cahier des Charges and its Annex dated March 1, 1977,


﻿- 12 -
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of FAFIFAMA to carry out any of its obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FAFIFAMA or for the suspension of the operations of
FAFIFAMA;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that FAFIFAMA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement; or
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Fund Loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Fund Loan
Agreement; or (B) such loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply unless the Borrower shall establish to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
maturing is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (e) (i) (B)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur;


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower
of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental action and all other conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the
Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment) have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund has appointed the
Association as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b) the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed and
authorized by the Borrower and FAFIFAMA in compliance with the
provisions-of Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(c) FAFIFAMA's Cahier des Charges has been amended to
empower FAFIFAMA to carry out Parts A through E of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association: (a) that the Subsidiary Agree-
ment has been duly executed and authorized by the Borrower
and FAFIFAMA and is binding upon both parties pursuant to its
terms; and
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by
FAFIFAMA and is legally binding upon FAFIFAMA in accordance with
its terms.
Section 7.03. The date      -4      /6/ I        is hereby
specified for the purposes of Secti   12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.07 and 5.10 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 15 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.05. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement


﻿- 14 -
shall have failed to come intr force and effect by the date
specified in Section 7.03 of this Agreement or a later date
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions; or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or
to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.06. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated; or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the case described
in the foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall apply only
to the responsibilities of the Association as such Cooperating
Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministre auprs de la Prfsidence de la
R4publique chargg des Finances et du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupras de la Prfsidence
de la R&publique chargg des
Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              22339
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By      b-0g CT-u
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By~
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in SDR      (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Veterinary pro-       1,530,000       $880,000    100% of for-
ducts and agri-                                  eign expendi-
cultural inputs                                  tures and
under Parts A                                    90% of local
and B of the                                     expenditures
Project
(2) Vehicles and          1,110,000       $610,000    100% of for-
equipment for                                    eigh expendi-
FAFIFAMA                                         tures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3) Civil works             390,000       $220,000    100% of for-
under Part E                                     eign expendi-
(iii) of the                                     tures and 85%
Project                                          of local ex-
penditures
(4) Consultants'            390,000       $220,000    100%
services under
Parts B, C and
D of the Project
and training
under Part C of
the Project


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in SDR      (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(5) Operating costs:
(i) of FAFIFAMA      2,800,000    $1,530,000     85%
under Parts
B through E
of the Pro-
ject, in-
cluding civil
works under
Part E (i)
and (ii) of
the Project
(ii) of FAFIFAMA      2,080,000    $1,140,000
under Part A
of the Pro-
ject during
each calendar
year of the
execution of
the Project
(i) year one                                85%
(ii) year two                                75%
(iii) year three                              70%
(iv) year four                               60%
(v) year five                               55%
(6) Veterinary                                        100% of for-
products under                                   eign expen-
Part H (i) of                                     ditures
Project during
the following
calendar years of
execution of the
Project:


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed      Allocated    Expenditures
in SDR      (Expressed in     to be
Category            Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(i) year 1        850,000       $460,000
(ii) year 2        680,000       $370,000
(iii) year 3        430,000       $230,000
(7) Equipment under          60,000        $30,000    100% of for-
Part H (ii) of                                   eign expen-
the Project                                      ditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(8) Equipment for           120,000        $60,000    100% of for-
SPA under Part J                                 eign expen-
of the Project                                   ditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(9) Operating costs          90,000        $50,000    85%
of SPA under
Part J of the
Project
(10) Consultants'           980,000       $530,000    100%
services under
Parts F through
G and I of the
Project and
training under
Part G of the
Project
(11) Unallocated          1,290,000       $670,000
TOTAL        12,800,000     $7,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of .the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, proeurement .or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on-or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases
or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as. required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of.the Association and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be m.de in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to NATCr 3 O /9 ?Z ; (ii) for expendi-
tures under Categories (1) through'(5) of the table in paragraph 1
above during each year of execution of the Project prior to the
approval of the annual work program for such year pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of the Project Agreement including
the approval of the first annual work program; and (iii) for
expenditures under Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 above
during each year of execution of the Project while such Part of
the Project is being partly financed by the Association and the
Fund, prior to approval of the list of veterinary products by the
Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.11 (b) of this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the


﻿- 20 -
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower,. cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan
as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have beeti eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following components and parts:
I.   Mahajanga Component
Part A
An intensive animal health program in Mahajanga Province.
Part B
(i) A program to test different animal husbandry intensifi-
cation methods in mixed farming systems in about 40
selected fokontany in Mahajanga Province; and
(ii) Preparation and carrying out of a steer fattening
program in Mahajanga Province.
Part C.
(i) Preparation of a permanent in-house training program
for FAFIFAMA's staff in financial and managerial disciplines.
(ii) Training of FAFIFAMA's staff in management of meat
processing and marketing; and
(iii) Training of key staff of FAFIFAMA's Public Works Depart-
ment.
Part D
Setting up of a data collection and monitoring system to
gather and organize information concerning Project activites in
Mahajanga Province and the setting up of a management reporting
system.
Part E
(i) Construction and maintenance of about 100 km of all-
weather roads adequate for vehicles of up to one ton
capacity to be determined in the annual work programs
and maintenance of the roads constructed under the First
Livestock Project;


﻿- 22 -
(ii) Construction and maintenance of about 35 surface water
points to be determined in the annual work programs
and of about 80 wells in Mahajanga Province to be
determined in the annual work programs; and
(iii) Construction of 80 veterinary centers and 20 vaccination
corridors to be determined in annual work programs.
II. Livestock Subsector Component
Part F
(i) Studies to examine the structure of cattle and meat
processing and marketing in the supply of Antananarivo;
(ii) Studies to examine the roles, methods of operation,
organization and financial status of parastatals and
governmental institutions of the Borrower in the live-
stock subsector;
(iii) Studies for further livestock projects.
(iv) Identification and collection of research material
available on the livestock subsector in Madagascar.
Part G
(i) Preparation of a training program for managers of
institutions in the livestock subsector; and
(ii) Training, including training overseas, in livestock
disciplines.
Part H
(i) Procurement and distribution of imported veterinary
products including antibiotics, fasciolocides and anthelmintics;
and
(ii) Procurement of equipment and materials and supply of
such equipment and materials to the Central Livestock Laboratory.
Part I
A research program on the development of dual or triple
purpose cattle on the Central Plateau.


﻿- 23 -
Part J
Strengthening of SPA's monitoring and supervising capacity
by the hiring of additional staff and by the supply of vehicles
and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition to the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward, or
shall cause FAFIFAMA to prepare and to forward, to the Association
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide, or shall cause FAFIFAMA to provide,
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the- ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offer   _ i auch bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Madagascar if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
-   Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Madagascar equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 26 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C  iich as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
- 1.  Contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $120,000 but more than $40,000 may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $40,000 may be awarded on the basis of
local shopping in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Civil works under Part E (i) and (ii) of the Project may
be carried out by FAFIFAMA on force account in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Civil works under Part E (iii) of the Project may
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with procedure/, acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisio s by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish,
or shall cause FAFIFAMA to furnish, to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifica-
tions and other bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 27 -
(b) After bids have been rec,ived and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform,
shall cause FAFIFAMA to inform, the Association of the name of
che bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and/or FAFIFAMA and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause FAFIFAMA to
furnish, to the Asspciation, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal f/f funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis 'd the re ipective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and/or FAFIFAMA and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and/or FAFIFAMA and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the,original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /LL. day of
198F                          E     T
FOR SECRETARY


