Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15429-APR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA,
AND THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR THE
LAKE VICTORIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 18, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya (KSh), Tanzania (TSh), and Uganda Shillings (Ush)
US$1 = KSh58 (une 1996); US$1 = TSh615 (June 1996); US$1 = UShl,000 (une 1996)
SDR1.0 = US$1.44424
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ACRONYMS
ASARECA       Association for Strengthenling Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa
CBO           Community-Based Organization
CIFA          FAO Committee for Inland Fisheries of Africa
EAFFRO        East African Freshwater Fisheries Research Organisation
EU            European Unioni
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organisation (of the United Nations)
FIRI          Fislieries Research Institute (Uganda)
FY            Fiscal Year
GD)P          Gross Domestic Product
GEF           Global Environnmenit Facility
IAPSO        Inter-Agency Procuremenit Services Office
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
II)A         International Development Association
IPM          Integrated Pest Management
ISP           Internlational Shopping Proced ures
IMF           Internationial Monetary Fund
IUCN         International Unioni for Coniservationi (World Conservation Union)
KENIFRI       Kenya Marine Fisheries Research Institute
LVEMIP        Lake Victoria Environmiiienital Management Project
LVIFO         Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization
M IS()        Mlanagement Information Systems Officer
NITR          Mid-Term Review
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NENIA         National Fnvironimenital Managenmenit Authority (Uganda)
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NSP           National Shopping Procedures
NWSC          National Water and Sewerage Corporation (Uganda)
OPO           Operations Officer
PDO           Procurement/DisbIursenment Officer
PIC           Project Implementation Committee
PIP           Project Implementation P'lan
RPSC          Regional Policy and Steering Committee
SAP           Strategic Action Plan
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
TAFIRI        Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute
TECCONILE   Technical Cooperation for the Promotion of Dev't. and Env. Protection of the Nile Basin
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNEP         United Nations Environment Programme
WNMO          World Meteorological Organisation



CONTENTS
GRANT, CREDIT, AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................................i
1. BACKGROUND ................................................1
A. The Macroeconomies ................................................1
B. Lake Victoria and its Surrounds ................................................5
C. Major Threats to the Lake ................................................6
2. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK ...............................................                                                                         10
A. Project Preparation ...............................................                                                                      10
B. The Lake Victoria Region in the Future ...............................................                                                  11
3. THE PROJECT ...............................................                                                                                 12
A. Objectives ...............................................                                                                               12
B. General Description ...............................................                                                                     13
C. Project Details ...............................................                                                                          14
D. Project Priorities ...............................................                                                                      24
E. Project Costs and Financing ...............................................                                                             24
F. Rationale for GEF and  IDA  Involvement ...............................................                                                 26
G. Lessons Learned and Technical Review ...............................................                                                     28
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................                                                                       28
A. Management Structure ...............................................                                                                     28
B. Implementing Agencies ...............................................                                                                    29
C. Specific Implementation Arrangements ...............................................                                                     30
D. Implementation Review ...............................................                                                                    32
E. Procurement ...............................................                                                                             32
F. Disbursement ...............................................                                                                            34
G. Accounting and Audits ...............................................                                                                    35
H. Sustainability and Participation ...............................................                                                        36
I. Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................................                                                               37
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................                                                                  39
A. Benefits ...............................................                                                                                 39
B. Environmental Analysis ...............................................                                                                  44
C. Risks ...............................................                                                                                    47
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................................                                                        48
Annexes
1.          Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
2.          Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (GEF and IDA)
3.          Project Implementation Plan
4.          Project Performance and Impact Indicators
5.          Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
6.          Supervision Plan
7.          GEF Incremental Costs






KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GRANT, CREDIT, AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:  The Republic of Kenya, United Republic of Tanzania, and the
Republic of Uganda
Beneficiaries:           Fisherfolk, smallholder farmers
Amounts:   (a) GEF       Kenya SDR8.0 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
Tanzania SDR7.2 million (US$10.3 million equivalent)
Uganda SDR9.2 million (US$13.2 million equivalent)
(b) IDA     Kenya SDR8.9 million (US$12.8 million equivalent)
Tanzania SDR7.0 million (US$10.1 million equivalent)
Uganda SDR8.4 million (US$12.1 million equivalent)
Terms (GEF):             Grant
Terms (IDA):             Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Charge (IDA): Standard
Onlending Terms:         Grants to communities for microprojects
Financing Plan (US$ m):
GEF    IDA   Governments  Totals
Local        15.9    18.4        7.6        41.9
Foreign      19.1    16.6        0.0        35.7
Total        35.0    35.0        7.6        77.6
Economic Rate of Return:   No ERR calculated, as project benefits are not readily
quantifiable. The major direct economic benefit for which
the project lays the foundation is avoidance of collapse of
the lake fisheries, which is estimated to have a present
value of US$270-520 million to the lake community.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 15429
Map No.:                IBRD 27780
Project ID No.:          F2-PA-44135






LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A.   THE MACROECONOMIES
Kenya
1.1   Kenya remains a low-income country. Even though its population growth rate,
which historically has been very high (averaging 3.4 percent per annum as recently as
1987-91), dropped to about 3 percent in 1993, and although Kenya is one of the few
countries in Africa that experienced a decline in fertility in the eighties (from 7.7 in the
early 1980s to 5.2 in 1993), a significant and sustained increase in per capita income has
proved to be an elusive goal in Kenya during the past decade. In spite of a few years of
relatively good growth during the second half of the 1980s, the performance of the
economy has been particularly inadequate in generating new jobs, and there has been
no significant improvement in the incidence of poverty. Overall, the economy has
generated only marginal increases in per capita output over the past decade; during the
last four years, per capita income has actually declined - from $340 in 1991 to $260 in
1994 (at current prices and exchange rates).
1.2   The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which employs 70 percent of
the labor force and contributes about one quarter of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Coffee, tea and horticultural crops account for over 50 percent of merchandise exports.
Between 1991 and 1993, Kenya's macroeconomic performance was poor. In April 1992,
the Government agreed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), on a program of
actions necessary to re-establish a sound macroeconomic framework which included
deficit reduction and liberalization of the foreign exchange regime. Until mid-1993, the
implementation of the actions required was unsatisfactory: although fiscal targets were
met, monetary targets were exceeded and the liberalization of the foreign exchange
regime proved to be unsustainable.
1.3   Sustained Government effort since mid-1993 to tighten fiscal and monetary
policy has resulted in effective economic stabilization and the revival of economic
growth. The fiscal deficit (exclusive of grants) has been sharply reduced over two years
from over 11 percent of GDP in FY93 to about 2.5 percent in FY95. Combined with a
generally tight monetary stance, these policies have resulted in the reduction of
inflation. Measured month over month, inflation peaked in January 1994 at 62 percent
and declined steadily to 6.6 percent in December 1994. The three-month annualized
inflation rate was reduced to 2.8 percent by the third quarter of 1995. Exchange rate
movements, after the initial inflation-induced depreciation to KSh 82 per US dollar in
June 1993, have reflected the interest rate response of short-term foreign capital flowing
in and out of Kenya. High interest rates led to the capital inflows which contributed to
a reserve accumulation and caused the shilling to appreciate to about KSh 45 per US
dollar by October 1994. The recent decline in domestic interest rates and the subsequent
capital outflow, as well as the gradual recovery of import demand, resulted in the



2
shilling depreciating in the second quarter of 1995 to about KSh 55 per US dollar where
it has since stabilized. In parallel with the improvement in inflation has been a
resumption of real economic growth. GDP growth (at factor cost) for 1994 is estimated
at 3 percent, the first significantly positive growth in three years, and it was projected at
around 5 percent for 1995.
1.4   Rising population pressures, migration and rapid urbanization have increased
the need for urgent actions to address Kenya's environmental problems. The more
critical problems are related to soil and land degradation, water resource management,
biomass and household energy issues, and the protection and management of fragile
ecosystems, including national parks. Rapid urbanization and inadequate physical
planning have also caused a significant deterioration in the urban environment. The
Government adopted a comprehensive National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in
June 1994. The challenge since its completion has been to translate the NEAP's broad
concerns about environmental management into an operational program of effective
policy, legislative and institutional action. Areas for priority action include the
development and adoption of a comprehensive environmental policy, the establishment
of an effective institutional and legal framework, and the formalizing of a requirement
for environmental impact assessments for all development projects.
Tanzania
1.5   By the early 1980s, Tanzania had come to be a heavily state-controlled economy,
whose rigid economic system was battered by numerous shocks, and whose inadequate
policies led to economic stagnation and a fall in per capita income lasting almost a
decade. Beginning in 1986, the Government embarked on a program to reform and
fundamentally change the existing approach to economic development by dismantling
the system of pervasive economic controls and encouraging more active participation of
the private sector in the economy. Structural reforms, particularly relating to traditional
exports and the parastatal and financial sectors, were not fully completed, and
macroeconomic stabilization remained elusive. Nevertheless, the economy responded
well to the reforms that were implemented (notably, liberalization of food crop
marketing and progressive improvements in foreign exchange management) and the
accompanying increased availability of external resources. Official estimates indicate
that GDP growth averaged about 4 percent per year and exports grew by more than 4
percent per year during 1986-94 (versus a 5 percent p.a. decline during 1979-85), with a
marked increase in food production, increased sales of traditional exports, and a
doubling in non-traditional agricultural exports since 1985.
1.6   Recent household surveys have shown that the adjustment program has been
successful in reducing the incidence of poverty. The devaluation of the shilling and
removal of restrictions on the marketing of food crops boosted production and incomes
of smallholder agricultural families. The increased availability of consumer goods as a
result of liberalization directly benefited the rural poor (as well as the urban poor who
also benefited from increased supplies of food from liberalized agricultural marketing),
and liberalization opened new earnings opportunities for rural women and for off-farm
employment. Sample surveys for the preparation of a Poverty Profile suggest that the
percentage of poor declined from about 70 percent of the rural population in the early



3
1980s to about 50 percent in the early 1990s. The liberalization program increased the
access of small-scale enterprises to production inputs which facilitated expansion of
low-wage employment in the informal sector.
1.7   Progress has been made in reforming the foreign exchange and trade systems
over the last two years. Tanzania has moved to an interbank market and has abolished
all export retention and import licensing, except for items related to health and national
security. Excessive monetary expansion has been fueled by worsening fiscal
management. The fiscal deficit (including grants) was about 6 percent of GDP in FY93
and 5 percent in FY94, after broadly balanced positions in the previous four years. This
reflected widespread and increasing customs duty exemptions, an increasingly
inefficient tax administration and the failure of the expenditure control system. Efforts
are being made in the current fiscal year (among then a public sector hiring freeze, and
reduced transfers to parastatals) to reduce the fiscal deficit below 4 percent of GDP.
Inflation, which had accelerated above 25 percent p.a. is targeted by efforts to bring it
down to 22 percent within the next fiscal year. Real GDP growth averaged about 3-4
percent per year during FY92 to FY94. Growth in FY94 was seriously compromised by
weak economic management, and severe power shortages caused largely by less-than-
average rainfall. These developments limited the scope for generating employment
and, in particular, the high inflation rates resulting from macroeconomic
mismanagement continue to erode the real incomes of the poor.
1.8   The recently completed National Environmental Action Plan focused on the
need for action in the key areas of land degradation, water supply, environmental
pollution, marine and freshwater resource management, habitat conservation and bio-
diversity, and deforestation. The action program for implementation includes revision
of the legislative framework to enable local participation in environmental management
more fully. Policies will support the environment in various ways, including applying
the forest and wildlife protection acts; developing the means for assessing
environmental quality, including water and air pollution; and strengthening
environmental awareness programs. Some Government policies are oriented towards
using incentives, such as implementing the new land policy to enhance the security of
tenure; pricing policies for fuel, including oil; and water rights to encourage efficient use
and environmentally sensitive practices.
Uganda
1.9   With a per capita income of about US$200, Uganda is one the poorest countries
in the world. Its weak economy and poor social indicators are the legacy of nearly 15
years of political turmoil and economic decline. Since 1987 the Government has been
implementing an economic reform program supported by a large number of donors.
The program aims to promote prudent fiscal and monetary management, improve
incentives to the private sector, reform the regulatory framework, and develop human
capital through investment in education, health and other social services. Economic
recovery and stabilization have been successful; hard-won macroeconomic stability has
been maintained for the past three years. The stability is precarious, however;
continuation of good policies and further improvement are therefore required.



4
1.10  A number of the structural reforms are now well advanced and appear to be
accepted in Uganda. Nonetheless, the reform program has its detractors, and is still
very fragile. Achieving higher investment, growth, and increased employment
opportunities are critical for the sustainability of the program. Macroeconomic stability
remains fragile also, notwithstanding the progress that has been made in curtailing
public spending and strengthening the Shilling. With widespread poverty and massive
unmet public needs, it will be difficult to maintain expenditure constraints. The key is
to mobilize additional tax revenue, which is a very low proportion of GDP in Uganda.
Doing so has not proven easy. A large part of the economy is in the informal sector and
thus escapes taxation. Better tax administration, fewer exemptions and stronger
enforcement can help in the short run, but any significant gains in revenue will come at
best only in the medium-term. Uganda's current balance on the external account is also
fragile. While internal price and exchange rate stability, together with good prospects
for extended political calm, has generated a substantial inflow of private capital over the
past several months, these flows could be reversed quickly if inflation or exchange rate
volatility were to reappear. The dilemma facing policymakers is to get the economy
moving ahead more rapidly, without generating inflation which could unravel the
entire adjustment program.
1.11   Uganda's economic growth since 1987 has been good, but not spectacular. Real
GDP grew by an average of 5.4 percent per annum from FY87 to FY93, a gain of about
2.5 percent per annum in per capita terms. To a large extent this growth was the result
of bringing land and capital back into production, made possible by increased peace
and security. More recently growth has also been fueled by some private investment
and by the impact of trade, exchange rate and crop marketing liberalization.
Preliminary indications are that real GDP rose by 5 percent in FY94, mainly due to
strong performance by the manufacturing and construction sectors. The point has now
been reached where further growth will depend on increased private investment.
1.12 The NEAP was approved by the Government in January 1994. The National
Environmental Policy that was adopted subsequently calls for re-aligning sectoral
development strategies so that they address priority environmental concerns relating to,
among others, land degradation, deforestation, loss of wetlands, and dwindling fish
stocks, several of which are directly related to environmental management of the Lake
Victoria basin. The policy also emphasizes strategies cutting across sectors such as the
need to control population growth and enhance security of land tenure. It also
advocates environmental education and a system of environmental impact assessments
as essential means of promoting rational resource use. The National Environmental
Management Authority (NEMA) established recently will serve as the central policy
advisory body on the environment, and coordinate implementation of the NEAP.



5
B.    LAKE VICTORIA AND ITS SURROUNDS
Physical Description and Setting,
1.13   Lake Victoria (Map Number IBRD 27780), with a surface area of 68,800 km2 and
an adjoining catchment of 184,000 kM2, is the world's second largest body of fresh
water, and the largest in the developing world, second only to Lake Superior in size.
Lake Victoria touches the Equator in its northern reaches, and is relatively shallow,
reaching a maximum depth of about 80 m, and an average depth of about 40 m. The
lake's shoreline is long (about 3,500 km) and convoluted, enclosing innumerable small,
shallow bays and inlets, many of which include swamps and wetlands which differ a
great deal from one another and from the lake itself. Because the lake is shallow, its
volume is substantially less than that of other Eastern African lakes with much smaller
surface area. Lake Victoria holds about 2,760 km3 of water, only 15 percent of the
volume of Lake Tanganyika, even though the latter has less than half the surface area.
1.14   Some 85 percent of the water entering the lake does so from precipitation
directly on to the lake surface, the remainder coming from rivers which drain the
surrounding catchment. The most significant of these rivers, the Kagera, contributes
roughly 7 percent of the total inflow, or one half of that over and above direct
precipitation. The Kagera River, which rises in the highlands of Burundi and Rwanda,
forms the border between Rwanda and Tanzania before turning to the east, and flows
for at least 150 km completely in Tanzanian territory. It discharges into the lake just
north of the border between Tanzania and Uganda. Some 85 percent of the water
leaving the lake does so through direct evaporation from its surface, and the remaining
15 percent largely by way of the Victoria Nile, which leaves the lake near Jinja in
Uganda, and flows via the Owen Falls, Lake Kioga, and the Murchison Falls to join the
outflow from Lake Albert; these two outflows are the main sources of the "White Nile".
1.15   The lake's origins are still the subject of scientific dispute, but it seems likely that
it is much more recent than the other great lakes of eastern Africa. Many of the rivers
now flowing east into Victoria (including Kagera) once flowed west, at least in the
Miocene, Pliocene, and part of the Pleistocene eras (within the past 2 million years),
possibly eventually into the Nile system, and a more recent upthrust of the western side
of the basin is thought to have reversed these rivers, and caused Lake Victoria to form
by flowing eastwards. It is possible that the lake could have formed as recently as
25,000 to 35,000 years ago, and recent evidence suggests it may have dried up
completely between 10,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Biological and Environmental Significance
1.16   Although there are many features of Lake Victoria which are of intense interest
to biologists, it is fish that receive the most attention. Most of the fish species now in the
Much of the information for the description of Lake Victoria and its workings was drawn from the
following: Beadle, L.C., The Inland Waters of Tropical Africa: An Introduction to Tropical
Limnology, Longman, London & New York, 1981,475 pp.



6
lake also lived in the preceding, west-flowing rivers, but the cichlids, in particular, had a
remarkable burst of speciation in response to the change from river to lake conditions.
Similar things happened in the other great lakes, but in Lake Victoria it happened much
more recently, more rapidly, and with, at first sight, fewer opportunities for ecological
isolation in different types of habitat. The cichlids are capable of rapid genetic change,
and more prone to speciation than other groups of African fish. There are more than
200 endemic species and 4 endemic genera of cichlids in Lake Victoria, more than 150
species of which are of the genus Haplochromis. Another major lineage is the tilapiines.
From the primitive insect-eating types, mouths and pharynxes have evolved to allow
feeding on plants, molluscs, fish, and even the eggs and young larvae carried in the
mouths of brooding females of most cichlid species.
1.17  The non-cichlid fishes have also changed, and there are at least 50 species, of
which 29 are endemic, and one endemic genus. The non-cichlids show much less
divergence from the riverine stock than is the case with non-cichlid fish in Lake
Tanganyika, which has had a much longer time for them to diversify. While most of the
species remain year round in the lake, there are a number (at least 13 species) of
anadromous (ascending) fish, especially cyprinids, characids and siluroids, which swim
up the rivers when they are in flood, breed in a suitable place, and return with their
young fish to the lake as the level drops.
Economic Significance
1.18   Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda control 6,49, and 45 percent of the lake surface,
respectively. The gross economic product of the lake catchment is in the order of US$3-
4 billion annually, and supports an estimated population of 25 million people at
incomes in the range of US$90-270 per capita p.a. The lake catchment thus provides for
the livelihood of about one third of the combined populations of the three countries,
and about the same proportion of the combined gross domestic product. With the
exception of Kampala, the capital of Uganda, the lake catchment economy is principally
an agricultural one, with a number of cash crops (including exports of fish) and a high
level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. In Kenya and Uganda the areas of coffee
and tea in the catchment are a significant part of those nations' major agricultural
exports. The quality of the physical environment is therefore a fundamental factor in
maintaining and increasing the living standards of the growing population. Although it
is not possible to put a single estimate to the global value of the lake in sustaining the
regional economy, it can be seen that if the deterioration of the lake resulted in a (say) 5
percent reduction in productivity of the region, the consequent loss would be of the
order of US$150 million annually.
C.    MAJOR THREATS TO THE LAKE
1.19   The lake basin is used as a source of food, energy, drinking and irrigation water,
shelter, transport, and as a repository for human, agricultural and industrial waste.
With the populations of the riparian communities growing at rates among the highest in
the world, the multiple activities in the lake basin have increasingly come into conflict.
This has contributed to rendering the lake environmentally unstable. The lake



7
ecosystem has undergone substantial, and to some observers alarming changes, which
have accelerated over the last three decades. Massive blooms of algae have developed,
and come increasingly to be dominated by the potentially toxic blue-green variety. The
distance at which a white disc is visible from the surface, (a transparency index
measuring algal abundance), has declined from 5 metres in the early 1930s to one metre
or less for most of the year in the early 1990s. Water-borne diseases have increased in
frequency. Water hyacinth, absent as late as 1989, has begun to choke important
waterways and landings, especially in Uganda. Overfishing and oxygen depletion at
lower depths of the lake threaten the artisanal fisheries and biodiversity (over 200
indigenous species are said to be facing possible extinction). Scientists advance two
main hypotheses for these extensive changes. First, the introduction of Nile perch as an
exotic species some 30 years ago has altered the food web structure; second, nutrient
inputs from adjoining catchments are causing eutrophication. Thus although the lake
and its fishery show the evidence of the dramatic changes in the lake basin over the past
century, the lake is not the source of the problem. The problems have arisen in the
surrounding basins through human activity.
Lake Biota and Fisheries
1.20   One of the main events of importance to the lake system in the past thirty years
was the introduction of new species of fish in the lake. The first were four species of
tilapia (Cichlidae), which were introduced in the early 1950s. In 1955 the Nile Perch
Lates niloticus (Centropomidae) was introduced into Lake Kioga, and when a few years
later it was found in Lake Victoria, steps were taken to ensure its establishment there.
Until 1978, Nile Perch remained a very small proportion of the commercial catch, less
than 5 percent. Then in 1978 a very rapid expansion of the proportion accounted for by
Nile Perch took place, with the result that by 1990 the commercial catch had a totally
different composition, dominated by Nile Perch (almost 60 percent) and Omena (most
of the remaining 40 percent). The haplochromines, and the mixture of other fish had
virtually vanished from the commercial catch.2
1.21   It is important to note that the size of the fishery also exploded from 1978 on,
perhaps by a factor of five or more. From Kenyan waters alone the recorded catch
climbed from around 25,000 tons in 1978 to more than 175,000 tons in 1990. In the years
preceding introduction of the Nile Perch, the total fisheries yield from the lake may
have been in the vicinity of 100,000 tons, while in more recent years yields have been
estimated in the range of 300,000 to 500,000 tons.3
2 Data from Kaufman, Les, Catastrophic Change In Species-Rich Freshwater Ecosystems: The Lessons
of Lake Victoria, Bioscience, Vol. 42, No. 11, December 1992, 846-858.
3Data from Kitchell, James F., Richard Ogutu-Ohwayo, and Peter M. Reinthal, The Nile Perch in Lake
Victoria: Interactions Between Predation and Fisheries, draft paper 1995, forthcoming in Eco.
Appl.



8
Water Hyacinth
1.22  Water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) is a flowering plant, whose origin is thought
to be the Amazon areas of Brazil. It appeared in Lake Naivasha in Kenya in 1982, and in
Lake Kioga in Uganda in 1988. In Tanzania, it was first reported in 1990. Its first
recorded appearance in Lake Victoria was in Ugandan waters in 1988. Since then it has
been reported in many locations, all around the lake, in the waters of all three riparian
countries. It is especially concentrated in Ugandan waters, possibly because the
prevailing southerly winds blow mats of the weed all the way from the mouth of the
Kagera River, down which the mats flow from lakes far up in the catchments in Rwanda
and Burundi. The hyacinth also flourishes in nutrient-rich waters, as those along the
Uganda shoreline of the lake are believed to be. The area between Entebbe and the
Uganda/Kenya border has widespread floating mats of water hyacinth, some of which
reach more than 1,000 ha in size.
1.23  The main detrimental effects of the spreading mats of water hyacinth are as
follows:
(a)   reduction in fish in the lake through de-oxygenation of water and
reduction of nutrients in sheltered bays which are breeding and nursery
grounds for fish, particularly tilapia;
(b)   physical interference with fishing operations, especially in the bays
where fish are brought ashore to piers or landing beaches;
(c)   physical interference with commercial transportation services for people
and goods on the lake;
(d)   physical interference with access to water supply from the lake, for both
urban and rural communities, together with additions to the cost of
purifying water with higher concentrations of suspended, decaying
organic matter as a result of the hyacinth presence;
(e)   threats to the intakes at the Owen Falls hydroelectric power station in
Uganda; and
(f)   provision of a preferred breeding habitat for the alternative host for
Schistosomiasis (bilharzia), namely the Biomphalaria snail, a home for the
vector mosquito for malaria, and a haven for snakes.
Eutrophication
1.24 Water quality in Lake Victoria has declined greatly in the past few decades,
owing chiefly to eutrophication arising from increased inflow of nutrients into the lake.
Nutrient inputs have increased two to three-fold since the turn of the century, mostly
since 1950. Concentrations of phosphorus have risen markedly in the deeper lake
waters, and nitrogen around the edges. Stimulated by these and other nutrients, the
five-fold increase in algal growth since 1960, and the shift in its composition towards



9
domination by blue-green algae, is causing deoxygenation of the water, increased
sickness for humans and animals drawing water from the lake, clogging of water intake
filters, and increased chemical treatment costs for urban centers. Aside from the near-
total loss of the deepwater species, the deoxygenation of the lake's bottom waters now
poses a constant threat, even to fish in shallower portions of the lake, as periodic
upwelling of hypoxic water causes massive fish kills. The increased nutrient loads have
also spurred the water hyacinth infestations.
1.25   The nutrients represent a transfer of materials at an increasing rate from the
terrestial basin to the lake. Among others, these transfers comprise organic and
inorganic suspended solids and dissolved nutrients carried by streams, terrestrial dust
from wind erosion, inorganic compounds in the smoke produced by combustion (in
cooking fires or forest burning), and direct additions along the lake shores of human
and animal waste associated with domestic water use. Preliminary estimates suggest
the increased nutrient inflows are coming largely from rural areas, but although the
main causes of the eutrophication are known, the rates of enrichment, its sources, and
its numerous effects are not well quantified. Since many of the farms in the area apply
no fertilizers, or use very small quantities, these are not likely to be a major source of the
nutrients, nor will they be until fertilizer application rates reach substantially higher
levels than currently seen. Rather, the nutrients may be released from soil partides
washed or blown off the land surface by erosion, from burning wood-fuels, and from
human and animal waste from areas surrounding the lake. From the urban areas, the
main source is untreated sewage, which beside providing additional nutrients, also
increases the disease risk from water borne pathogens. Thus the water quality problems
of the lake arise in the watershed, not in the lake, and it is in the catchment that the
solutions must be found.
Water Pollution
1.26  Some areas of the rivers feeding the lake and the shoreline are particularly
polluted by municipal and industrial discharges. Some information has been collected
by local and national authorities on the scale and location of polluting industries, and
there are a number of basic industries that are common to most of the major urban
areas, for example, breweries, tanning, fish processing, agroprocessing (sugar, coffee)
and abattoirs. Some of these have implemented pollution management measures but in
general the level of industrial pollution control is low. Small scale gold mining is
increasing, in Tanzania in particular, and this is leading to some contamination of the
local waterways by mercury which is used to amalgamate and recover the gold. Some
traces of other heavy metals, such as chromium and lead, are also found in the lake,
although the problem has not yet reached major proportions.



10
2.   STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
A.   PROJECT PREPARATION
2.1   Attempts at fisheries collaboration among Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda are
among the oldest on the continent. As early as 1928, it was recommended that a unified
lake-wide authority for regulation and for collection of fisheries statistics be set up.
Establishment of the East African Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization
(EAFFRO) in 1947 solidified collaboration, and it was boosted further with formation of
the East African Community in 1967. In the early 1970s, all three countries became
members of the FAO Committee for Inland Fisheries of Africa (CIFA). After the
disappearance of this coordinating mechanism with the ending of the East African
Community in 1977, the need for collaboration was felt so strongly that a special CIFA
Sub-Committee for Lake Victoria was set up in 1980. Although this was a useful forum
for the three countries, the difficulty of implementing management measures on a lake-
wide basis due to the lack of a strong inter-governmental mechanism for harmonization
of such measures, led to the design of proposals for the Lake Victoria Fisheries
Organization (LVFO), whose establishment the current project would support. Most
importantly, the current project would, for the first time, ensure that regional fisheries
management would operate within a regional framework for environmental action,
rather than having only a commercial orientation.
2.2   Each of the three riparian Governments has prepared a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP). All three NEAPS acknowledge that Lake Victoria demands urgent
attention through regional cooperation. The NEAPs focus on problems such as water
pollution, biodiversity loss, land degradation, deforestation, and damage to wetlands,
all central concerns for the lake and its catchments. Scientists and resource managers
have increasingly warned that the absence of a regional management framework may
threaten the future viability of the lake basin. Discussions to broaden regional
environmental cooperation covering the Lake Victoria Basin started in late 1992. In May
1994 the three Governments decided to enter into an agreement jointly to prepare and
implement a Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program. A Tripartite
agreement to this effect was signed August 5, 1994. The essential soundness of this
agreement has been proven during project preparation, and its main institutional
arrangements, which have worked well, will continue into project implementation.
2.3   The Tripartite Agreement of 1994, as enhanced by the government preparation
report, constitutes a framework for action fully responsive to the requirement for a
Strategic Action Plan (SAP). This SAP, whose preparation included extensive
stakeholder consultation, was reviewed thoroughly during appraisal. It identifies,
acknowledges and analyzes the transboundary water-related environmental concerns
which the three governments share in common. Furthermore, it expresses their
determination jointly to build the capacity of existing institutions, and establish new
ones, in order that they may adopt a comprehensive approach to addressing the shared
transboundary concerns, and implement measures to deal with the priority concerns as
identified, with a particular focus on community stakeholder involvement and
measures to raise public awareness.



2.4   Preparation of the LVEMP took into account ongoing activities funded by the
Global Environment Facility under the project Institutional Support for the Protection of
East African Biodiversity (UNO/RAF/006/GEF), implemented by FAO and UNDP.
The first phase of that project is coming to an end in 1996, just as the LVEMP
commences implementation. The latter will build particularly on the wetlands
components of the Institutional Support project, through which funds were provided to
wetlands programs under the technical oversight of the IUCN (The World Conservation
Union). These initiatives have established committees on wetlands in all three riparian
countries, which would coordinate wetlands components under the LVEMP.
2.5   A large number of donors have supported a vast range of development
initiatives in and around Lake Victoria. Some of these have addressed priority
environmental concerns, but mostly in small, uncoordinated, and incomplete ways, and
seldom with informed intentionality which had the wider environmental priorities in
mind. In the absence of a coordinated management and information system for the
entire lake and its ecosystem, these smaller projects have often fallen short, and
continue to fall short, of realizing their maximum potential. Although often successful
in their own terms, they could have achieved even more by being part of a coordinated
management initiative to address the lake ecosystem and its problems. The current
project is such a management initiative, which will lead to a quantum leap in
understanding the ecosystem, and in devising sustainable management strategies.
B.    THE LAKE VICTORIA REGION IN THE FUTURE
2.6   The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP) will therefore
become the heart of the wider investments needed in the lake basin in forthcoming
years in direct actions to clean up the lake and its catchment, and manage the ecosystem
in a sustainable way. Substantial investments will be needed in direct actions to reduce
nutrient inflows from human waste (in both urban and rural areas), to decrease soil
erosion, to clean up industrial effluent, and reduce pollution from all sources. The
project will provide the information and build the capacity to coordinate the substantial
sums likely to be available for financing these direct actions in the next five years and
beyond. In the LVEMP itself an estimated 20 percent of project costs will be directed
towards studies, 42 percent towards capacity building, and 38 percent towards direct
actions.
2.7   A much broader program of investments in direct actions is already shaping up
around the LVEMP, directed towards actions to improve human sanitation and reduce
soil erosion in the lake basin. The bulk of these will take their cues from the early
findings of the LVEMP. When these investments are included, the proportion of the
program allocated for direct actions will increase markedly. Undoubtedly there will be
substantial additional flows from other donors. The LVEMP mid-term update to the
analysis of transboundary environmental concerns will guide the second phase of
project implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. The
Implementation Completion Report to be prepared by the three governments at the end
of the LVEMP will include a revised Strategic Action Program outlining interventions
needed to address priority problems. IDA will use this as the basis for seeking
commitments to support such interventions from the wider donor community. Thus



12
the LVEMP will be the essential first step in a long-term program for restoring and
sustaining the ecological foundations for economic development in the entire lake basin.
2.8   Furthermore, the LVEMP itself will include a study of potential sources of
funding for continuing support of fisheries management, and other collaborative
arrangements for sustaining the ecosystem established by the three riparian countries
during this first phase. The study will assess possibilities for raising and coordinating
levies on the commercial fisheries to enable some of the central monitoring and
management initiatives to become fiscally sustainable. The LVEMP includes financial
support for establishing a shared Levy Trust Fund among the three countries, should
the study show this to be feasible.
2.9   The economy of the lake basin is based on agriculture (about 35 percent), lake
fisheries (about 10 percent), industries and mining (about 15 percent) and the tertiary
sector (about 40 percent). The structure of the economy will continue to change as the
population grows, with livelihoods found increasingly in the secondary and tertiary
sectors rather than the primary. There is considerable scope for increases in agricultural
production, however, and especially in its value-added, as it is intensified and
diversified into higher valued enterprises. Because of their size, a significant proportion
of additional jobs will be found in agriculture and the fisheries for the foreseeable
future. It is vital that the additional pressure this will put on the resource base is
managed well, in order to head off increasing deterioration. The project aims at
providing the foundation for this improved management, (and thus for sustainable
development of the local economy), while the ancillary investments are regarded as
vital to clean up the lake, and reduce nutrient and pollution inflows to within acceptable
limits.
3.   THE PROJECT
A.   OBJECTIVES
3.1   The LVEMP is a comprehensive program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake
ecosystem for the benefit of the people who live in the catchment, the national
economies of which they are a part, and the global community. The program objectives
are to: (a) maximize the sustainable benefits to riparian communities from using
resources within the basin to generate food, employment and income, supply safe
water, and sustain a disease-free environment; and (b) conserve biodiversity and genetic
resources for the benefit of the riparian communities and the global community. In
order to address the tradeoffs among these objecdves which cut across national
boundaries, a further project objective is to harmonize national management programs
in order to achieve, to the maximum extent possible, the reversal of increasing
environmental degradation.



13
B.    GENERAL DESCRIPTION
3.2   The project is the first phase of a longer term program whose aims are as
outlined above. The first phase will provide the necessary information to improve
management of the lake ecosystem, establish mechanisms for cooperative management
by the three countries, identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies,
while simultaneously building capacity for ecosystem management. The project will
consist of two broad sets of activities. The first set of activities, which are designed to
address specific environmental threats, will take place in a series of selected pilot zones.
The second set of activities, which will improve information on the lake and build
capacity for more effective management, will be of necessity lake-wide in scope.
3.3   In the pilot zones, the project would do the following in an integrated way:
develop groundwater resources; conserve and develop wetlands; reduce sediment and
nutrient flow, especially of phosphorus, into the lake; reduce fecal coliform and
municipal nutrient output into the lake; regulate industrial effluent; define current
contamination of fish and prevent any increase; stabilize the catch of Nile Perch, and
increase the catch of indigenous species; increase incomes of local fisherfolk; and reduce
water hyacinth to manageable levels. A total of fourteen pilot zones have been
identified, four in Kenya, and five in each of Tanzania and Uganda. Work would be
started in one pilot zone in each country in the first year - Nyakach Bay in Kenya
(including the city of Kisumu), Mwanza Gulf in Tanzania (including the city of
Mwanza), and Napoleon Bay in Uganda (including the city of Jinja). The other pilot
zones are Berkeley Bay, Usenge-Yala, and Karungu Bay (Kenya); Mara-Shirati Bay,
Speke Gulf, Emin Pasha Gulf, and Kagera-Rubafu Bay (Tanzania); and MacDonald-
Berkeley Bay, Murchison Bay, Sesse Islands, and Sango Bay (Uganda).
3.4   Among lake-wide actions the project would: assess and measure sources of
nutrients causing eutrophication; measure fisheries-trophic state interactions; model
and monitor lake circulation; define and measure the contaminant threat; harmonize
regulation and legislation; monitor recovery and impact; and build institutional
capacity.
3.5   The project would support the following specific regional and national program
activities: (a) management of fisheries, including the establishment and operations of
the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation [US$2.3 m], improvement of fisheries research
and the information base for fisheries [US$13.3 ml, strengthening of extension,
monitoring and enforcement capabilities of national fisheries administrations [US$14.1
m]; and studying and implementing a Fish Levy Trust [US$2.0 million]; (b) management
and control of the water hyacinth infestation [US$8.3 m]; (c) management of lake
pollution and water quality, including strengthening and harmonizing national
regulatory and incentive frameworks and enforcement capabilities, and establishing a
lake-wide water quality monitoring system [US$9.6 m], improvement of research and
the information base for pollution control and water quality [US$4.3 m], pilot
investments in industrial and municipal waste management [US$1.7 m], and priority
waste management investments [US$4 m]; (d) management of land use in the
catchment, including improvement of research and the information base for pollution
loading from the catchment, assessment of agro-chemicals, and pilot investments in soil



14
conservation and afforestation [US$9.2 ml; (e) wetland management, including
improving the information base [US$3.4 m], and pilot investments in sustainable
management of wetland products [US$1.5 million]; and (f) support for institutions for
lake-wide research and management, and pollution disaster contingency planning
[US$4.0 m].
C.    PROJECr DETAILS
Fisheries Management [US$2.28 million]
3.6   A Convention for the Establishment of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation
(LVFO), drafted with FAO assistance, was discussed in the three countries in late 1993
and early 1994, and signed by all three countries on 30 June, 1994. The proposed LVFO
will be presided over by a Council of Ministers responsible for fisheries. It will have an
Executive Committee made up of Directors of Fisheries Research, a Fisheries
Management Committee, a Scientific Committee, such other sub-committees and
working groups as might be needed from time to time, and a Permanent Secretariat
located in Entebbe, Uganda. The LVFO will promote better management of fisheries on
the lake, coordinate fisheries management with conservation and use of other lake
resources, collaborate closely with all existing bodies (public and private, governmental
and non-governmental) dealing with the lake, and all programs for its management
(especially those relating to water quality), coordinate fisheries extension and related
training, consider and advise on introduction of any non-indigenous aquatic animals or
plants into the waters of the lake, and disseminate information on Lake Victoria
fisheries.
3.7   The Secretariat, headed by an Executive Secretary (assisted by a Deputy), will
have four permanent higher level staff - a Senior Biologist, Senior Economist,
Administrative Officer (Finance) and Administrative Officer (Information and
Database). It will engage short-term consultants (a total of 50 months over five years)
specializing in legal matters, socio-economics, fish processing technology, fish
harvesting technology, and water hyacinth control. It will be financed by GEF (90
percent). The project will finance vehicles; renovations of offices; office equipment;
personnel costs, and operation and maintenance expenditures.
Fisheries Research [US$13.33 million]
3.8   The program for fisheries research will provide information on the ecology of
the lake and its catchment, the biology of its flora and fauna, the impact of
environmental factors on the lake system, and socio-economic implications of use of the
lake's resources. This information will contribute towards improved ecological
efficiency, greater biodiversity, and ecological balance in the lake system. The research
program will be operated by scientists with the help and participation of the extension
services, fisherfolk community leaders, Government departments, and other
stakeholders.



15
3.9   The fisheries research component will have five sub-components: studies of fish
biology and biodiversity conservation, aquaculture, socio-economics, database
establishment, and a fish stock assessment. The stock assessment will be financed by
the European Union under a separate agreement, and although it is described below to
provide a complete outline of the fisheries research program, the LVEMP would ensure
only its coordination with other project components.
(a) Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation [US$6.58 million]
3.10   This program will identify the main factors affecting aquatic biodiversity,
determine diversity in aquatic flora and fauna, document them, map their habitats,
educate people on their importance, and propose ways to exploit them sustainably. The
program will rectify the serious lack of knowledge about the entire aquatic population
of the lake, focusing especially on non-commercial fish of great biological interest, their
species composition, population structure, food and feeding habits, trophic
relationships, reproduction and breeding habits, recruitment patterns, growth, oxygen
tolerance, mortality, and migrations, as well as the other organisms which play key roles
in sustaining the Lake Victoria ecosystem, including specifically other aquatic
vertebrates (frogs, reptiles, birds and mammals), macroinvertebrates (insects, molluscs,
Caridina), microinvertebrates (copepods, cladcerans, rotifers), phytoplankton (diatoms,
cyanophytes, green algae), macrophytes, and bacteria. The primary aim of this program
is to gain information with which to design initiatives to sustain a complex ecosystem of
substantial scientific importance. The outcomes of the studies will be species
distribution and habitat maps, information on the genetic make up and diversity of
different populations, understanding of the causes of decline of fish species,
understanding of the impact of environmental changes on the biology, behaviour and
survival of declining species, guidelines for species conservation and restoration, an
updated bibliography of Lake Victoria, training of scientists, and dissemination of
information to stakeholders through reports, videos, and workshops.
3.11   This sub-component will be implemented by the Fishery Research Institutes in
the three countries, KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI, and financed by GEF (90 percent). The
project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment; training
and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.
(b) Aquaculture [US$3.10 million]
3.12   This program aims at restoring and sustaining the survival of several
endangered and threatened species of fish. The program will address the continuing
pressures to introduce more fish species into the lake (to take advantage of their
production characteristics or market attraction), but wiU do so by avoiding the
unforeseen effects of exotic introductions. The program will study the domestication of
indigenous species of high nutritional value. The aim is to perfect aquaculture methods
for such species, to assist them to compete in the market place with exotic tilapiines and
carp. The outcomes of the program will be restored populations of selected endangered
and threatened species (particularly Oreochromis esculentus, Oreochromnis variabilis,



16
Labeo victorianus, Bagrus docmac, and Protopterus aethiopicus), improved fish supply
to local riparian communities, return of delicacies to consumer markets, and
development of commercial activity in ornamental species which will secure their
survival rather than threatening it as at present.
3.13  This sub-component will be implemented by the Fishery Research Institutes in
the three countries (KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI); the Fisheries Departments of the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (Kenya), Ministry of Natural Resources (Tanzania),
and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (Uganda); in collaboration
with local communities and NGOs. It will be financed by GEF (45 percent) and IDA (45
percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field
equipment; training and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation
and maintenance expenditures.
(c) and (d) Socio-Economics and Database [US$3.65 million]
3.14 The aim of this program is to provide information which will be used to improve
management of the lake resources in order that local communities will increase their
benefits from the fishery, while sustaining the ecosystem from which the benefits arise.
The initial actions will be to analyze and disseminate data from previous and ongoing
projects on: (a) small scale fishing and fish commodity systems (financed by the
International Development Research Center [IDRC]); (b) understanding the socio-
economic impacts of changes in the lake fisheries (financed by the private MacArthur
Foundation); (c) sustainable management of ecotones (transition areas between adjacent
ecological communities) in collaboration with the University of Zurich; and (d)
management strategies of fishing communities (financed by the EU).
3.15  The program will further provide information on current fishery distribution
patterns, community involvement in harvesting up to marketing of fish, how activities
of fisherfolk contribute to environmental degradation, nutrition, health and other social
amenities of lakeside communities, alternative management systems incorporating
different stakeholders, the contribution of fisheries to the three national economies, and
the consequences of changes in fishing policies. The program outputs will be evolution
of policies with greater community participation, a larger share for communities in the
harvesting and marketing of fish, more fish available in local communities, and better
health and social services for these communities. The database program will develop
bibliographies and a central clearing house for information about the lake, an electronic
communications network, and tram librarians and other database managers.
3.16  This sub-component will be implemented by the Fishery Research Institutes in
the three countries (KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI), in collaboration with Fisheries
Extension, riparian universities, local communities and NGOs. It will be financed by
GEF (23 percent) and IDA (67 percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats;
office, laboratory and field equipment; books and journal subscriptions; training and
workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.



17
(e) Stock Assessment [financed separately by the EU]
3.17   The first comprehensive stock assessment survey since 1969/74, and the first
since the far-reaching changes believed to have occurred in the ecology of the lake, this
exercise wiUl focus on prime commercial species, and will provide information about the
size of the fish stock, distribution and movement patterns, population structure,
breeding habits, estimates of potential yield, characteristics of fishing gear, catch rates,
description of the lake bottom, and updated bathymetric maps. Outcomes of the
program wiU be guidelines for fishery conservation, sustainable use, permissible quotas,
closed seasons, protected areas, and proposals for an integrated education program.
Fisheries Extension, Policies, Laws and Their Enforcement [US$14.09 million]
3.18   The intention in the project is to separate law enforcement and extension
activities. The law enforcemnent activities will comprise harmonisation of legislation
among the three countries, identification and establishment of closed fishing areas
(gazetted sanctuaries important for fish breeding, nurseries and juvenile feeding) in
Kenya and Uganda, and verification of those already set up in Tanzania, training and
empowerment of fisheries law enforcement officers, and establishment of customs posts
at selected border landing sites (Muhoru and Port Victoria in Kenya; Kirongwe and
Rubafu in Tanzania; and Mizinda/Kasensero and Sigulu Island in Uganda). The
extension activities wil comprise introduction of new techniques (such as lift netting and
live bait fishing), small scale aquaculture, and promoting organisations of fisherfolk
which will guard fisheries against illegal entry and gear thefts, act as channels for
improved gear and credit, and assist with overall monitoring of fisheries in the lake.
The program will begin in three pilot zones in the first year, and then be evaluated
thoroughly before being expanded to a further six pilot zones in the third year, and five
more in the fourth year. The program will also establish one fish quality control
laboratory in each country (to carry out testing for microbes, heavy metals, pathogens,
pesticides and other contaminants), and will study ways to reduce post-harvest losses of
fish through improvements in handling and processing, and strengthening and
harmonising data collection in the respective national Fisheries Departments. Included
in the component are provisions for micro-projects in selected fishing communities.
These will comprise small investments in community water supply from ground-water,
sanitary facilities, local roads, and health facilities. Details of management
arrangements for these are set out in the section on project implementation.
3.19 This component will be implemented by the Fisheries Departments of the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (Kenya), Ministry of Natural Resources (Tanzania),
and Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (Uganda); in collaboration with the
Fishery Research Institutes in the three countries (KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI), local
communities and NGOs. It will be financed by IDA (90 percent). The project will
finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment; books and journal
subscriptions; training and workshops; technical assistance; construction of fish ponds;
and construction of community facilities for water supply from ground-water,
sanitation, roads, and health; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.



18
Fish Levy Trust [US$2.03 million]
3.20 This component will study and implement a system to collect levies from the
fishing industry and use them in support of fisheries and ecosystem management in the
lake and its catchment. In the first year of the project a study will be carried out of
mechanisms for revenue collection and disbursement already in operation in each
country, and additional possibilities for revenue collection. In the second year of the
project the findings of the study will be discussed and agreed among the three
governments, and a system to collect and disburse levies will be established in the third
year of the project. The study will be carried out by consultants under the supervision
of the Fisheries Departments of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (Kenya), Ministry
of Natural Resources (Tanzania), and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (Uganda), in collaboration with the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization. It
will be financed by IDA (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles; office
equipment; training and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation
and maintenance expenditures.
Water Hyacinth Control [US$8.31 million]
3.21 The aim of the program is to establish sustainable long-term capacity for
maintaining control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake Victoria
Basin. This will be achieved by an integrated effort involving intensified publicity,
legislation, and integrated pest management with community involvement. The control
program will rely on mechanical methods and limited chemical interventions for rapid
short term control in restricted areas, and biological agents for longer term control.
Reducing nutrient inflows into the lake will be a vital element in long term approaches
to dealing with the problem. The biological control program will rely initially on
multiplication and release of two weevil species that have been used and found effective
world-wide, and have already been imported, reared and released in Kenya and
Uganda. The species are the chevroned water hyacinth weevil (Neochetina bruchi
Hystache) and the water hyacinth weevil (Neochetina eichorniae Warner). These two
species are complementary in their action. The possibilities will be explored for
supplementing the weevils by later releases of the moth Sameodes albiguttalis. The main
elements of the biological control program will be establishment of mass rearing
capacity in units around the shores of the lake as rapidly as possible, a coordinated field
release program involving local community participation, monitoring performance of
biological control agents in the field, and development of a monitoring and evaluation
protocol and training program.
3.22  Implementation of the water hyacinth control program will be led by the
agricultural research organizations of the three countries, namely the Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) in the Ministry of Research, Technical Training
and Technology, the Uganda National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) in
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries, and the Tanzania
Department of Research and Training in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock,
Cooperatives and Development. The agricultural research institutions will be
responsible, in particular, for the program to multiply and disperse the biological
control agents. National Water Hyacinth Steering Committees will be established in



19
each country to oversee and coordinate the program, and to ensure the involvement of
local communities and NGOs. The program will be financed by GEF (54 percent) and
IDA (36 percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field
equipment; laboratory chemicals and herbicides; biological control agents; rearing
facilities for bio-agents and renovation of offices and laboratories; training and
workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation and mnaintenance
expenditures.
Water Quality and Ecosystem Management [US$9.58 million]
3.23   The aim of this component is to elucidate the nature and dynamics of the lake
ecosystem by providing detailed information on the characteristics of the waters of the
lake. The program will provide details of limnological changes, model and predict their
short and long term consequences, and provide guidelines for ameliorating potentially
disastrous changes. The program will provide quantitative information on nutrient
loading and recycling in the lake (particularly the internal loading of sediment
phosphorus); sources and mechanics of eutrophication and pollution and their effect on
lake productivity (with a particular focus on ways to stabilize or reduce eutrophic
status); phytoplankton communities and their composition; algal blooms and their
dynamics; lake zooplankton, microbes, benthic flora and fauna, lake fly and their roles;
primary production including estirnation of lake carrying capacity; stratification of the
lake and the increasing problem of anoxia; trophic inter-relationships; and lake
palaeolimnology.
3.24   The program will consist of one core project, namely Management of
Eutrophication [US$6.86 million], two pilot projects, Sedimentation Studies [US$0.63
million] and Hydraulic Conditions in Lake Victoria [US$0.95 million], and construction
of a model of water circulation and quality in the lake, designed to help manage the
problems. The core project aims to establish periodic assessment of physical and
chemical characteristics of the lake system. It will measure temperatures in different
strata, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, pH, factors affecting light penetration such as
suspended silt/sedimentation concentrations, water clarity, and spectral characteristics,
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels, levels of heavy metals (mercury, chromium
and lead), pesticide residues, abundance and species composition of phyto- and zoo-
plankton, phytoplankton primary production, levels of B-coli and E-coli. Analysis of
these and other data will establish rates of change in water quality, relate these to the
observed status of inputs from the catchment, estimate the effects of poor water quality
on the economy of the region, and establish the basis for a practicable pollution control
program.
3.25   The pilot sedimentation study will estimate sedimentation rates at the mouths of
three rivers, the Kagera (Uganda), Simiyu (Tanzania) and Nyando (Kenya). It will
assess the rate of release of nutrients from sediments, analyze sediment-biota
associations, and compare the data with soil losses from surrounding areas. The pilot
hydraulic study will measure patterns of water circulation in the Rusinga Channel
(Kenya), and in similar areas in Tanzanian and Uganda waters, (Mwanza Bay and
Murchison/Pilkington Bays respectively) to determine the interaction between vertical
and horizontal circulation components, improve existing estimates of hydraulic



20
retention periods in the lake, and develop simulation models of the dynamics of
nutrients and phytoplankton which will be used to predict the impacts of
eutrophication control programs and pollution intervention strategies.
3.26  Under the former Hydromet Project, in 1979/80, executed by the World
Meteorological Organisation (WMO) a Lake Victoria Water Quality Model was
constructed, designed to be linked with a hydrological model developed with
UNDP/WMO assistance. Unfortunately, this model was not calibrated, tested, or
validated. The basic process formulations in this model will be re-assessed to determine
their current validity, bearing in mind that scientific information about the lake has
increased since the model was constructed, and will increase still further under the
LVEMP. In addition, knowledge about what kinds of modelling are most useful for
management have changed in the interim, making it necessary for the model to be re-
formulated, calibrated, validated, and applied under the project to develop and test
management strategies for the lake.
3.27  Implementation of the program will be led by the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development (Kenya), the Ministry of Water (Tanzania), and the
Directorate of Water Development of the Ministry of Natural Resources in Uganda.
They will collaborate with the fisheries research institutes, communities, and NGOs in
the three countries, with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Ministry
of Agriculture, Moi University School of Environmental Studies, and the Institute of
Nuclear Sciences at Nairobi University (Kenya), the Ministry of Natural Resources and
the University of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Makarere University Departments of Zoology and Chemistry (Uganda). It will be
financed by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats; office,
laboratory and field equipment; laboratory chemicals and reagents; renovation of
offices, laboratories, and monitoring stations; training and workshops; technical
assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance expenditures.
Industrial and Municipal Waste Management [US$9.89 million]
3.28  This program consists of one core project, namely Management of Industrial and
Municipal Effluents [US$4.28 million], two pilot projects on Integrated Tertiary
Municipal Effluent Treatment [US$0.80 million], and Integrated Tertiary Industrial
Effluent Treatment [US$0.81 million], and a component for Priority Waste Management
Investments [US$4 million]. The overall aim of the program is to improve management
of industrial and municipal effluent, and assess the contribution of urban runoff to lake
pollution in order to design alleviation measures. The program will prepare inventories
and classifications for all factories and industries in the catchment, assess treatment of
effluent before discharge and its dilution and dispersion levels in the receiving water
bodies, quantify pollution and nutrient flows from urban runoff, identify and
characterise pollution "hot spots", formulate guidelines and effluent discharge
standards, establish training arrangements for industrialists and local authorities,
launch a public awareness campaign, and initiate pilot treatment projects in selected
municipalities and industries.



21
3.29  The pilot industrial effluent treatment will create "wetlands" to test tertiary
treatment through filtration of industrial waste from the PanPaper Mill in Webuye
(Kenya) before it discharges into the Nzoia River, from various industries in Mwanza
town (Tanzania), and from various industries in Jinja (Uganda). The pilot municipal
effluent treatment will create "wetlands" to test tertiary treatment through filtration of
municipal waste in Kisumu (Kenya), Mwanza (Tanzania), and Jinja (Uganda). The
program of Priority Waste Management Investments will include urgent rehabilitation
and/or extension of urban sanitation systems which are currently discharging untreated
waste directly into the lake. Under this sub-component the project wil rehabilitate the
wastewater treatment works in Kisumu (Kenya), construct a community-based
simplified sewage scheme in a portion of Mwanza (Tanzania) to complement an
expansion of the water supply system financed by the EU, improve a sludge disposal
site in Bukoba (Tanzania), assist the National Water and Sewerage Corporation in
Uganda to develop a long-term pollution reduction strategy, and modify the main
effluent discharge into the lake at the Bugolobi treatment works in Kampala (Uganda)
to increase the detention time of effluent and reduce pollution entering the lake. Details
of management arrangements for these waste management investments are set out in
the section on project implementation.
3.30  Implementation of the program will be led by the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development (Kenya), the Ministry of Water (Tanzania), and the
Directorate of Water Development of the Ministry of Natural Resources in Uganda.
They will collaborate with municipal and local councils, and industries in all three
countries, with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Lake Basin Development
Authority, and Moi University School of Environmental Studies (Kenya), the University
of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), and the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
(NWSC) and Makarere University (Uganda). Postgraduate students from the three
universities will take up research study areas under this project, and it is envisaged that
the pilot experiments with artificial wetlands, in particular, will be carried out as
student research studies. The program will be financed by IDA (90 percent). The
project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment;
laboratory chemicals and reagents; construction of artificial wetlands; feasibility studies
and structures for sanitation; training, workshops, and demonstrations; technical
assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance expenditures.
Land Use and Wetland Management [US$14.05 million]
3.31   This program consists of two core projects, namely Management of Pollution
Loading [US$4.04 million], and Buffering Capacity of Wetlands [US$3.43 million],
together with four pilot projects: Assessment of the Role of Agro-Chemicals in Pollution
[US$0.86 million], Integrated Soil and Water Conservation [US$1.49 million],
Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products [US$1.49 million], and Afforestation [US$2.80
million]. Building on the last estimates of primary nutrients reaching Lake Victoria
from its catchment, made in 1979/80 by the Hydromet Project, the pollution loading
project will establish a water quality monitoring network throughout the catchment,
estimate the effects of changes in land use planning on pollution loads in lake, and
develop policies and programs to control non-point source pollution. The second
project will investigate the buffering processes and capacity of Lake Victoria wetlands,



22
and devise a management strategy for them. It will develop an inventory and
classification of the wetlands, monitor nutrient loading in priority areas, simulate the
changes of buffering function associated with threats to the wetland resources, assess
the economic value of buffering functions, and prepare guidelines and investment
proposals for introducing wastewater into wetlands, as well as rehabilitation and
artificial wetland construction.
3.32  The pilot project for agro-chemicals will be implemented on selected sites in the
Winam Gulf, Nyando and Nzoia catchments in Kenya, the Siniryu catchment near
Mwanza in Tanzania, and the Kakira sugar estate on the lake shore in Uganda. It will
carry out inventories of agro-chemicals in the pilot areas, conduct field trials on the fate
of pesticides and nutrients applied on farms, monitor residues leaching out of the pilot
catchments, and pesticide levels in receiving rivers, assemble and review a database of
agro-chemical use in the Lake Victoria Basin, establish arrangements for disseminating
information to all stakeholders, and mount training courses for extension services on the
better use of agro-chemicals. The soil conservation pilot will be implemented in the
catchments of the Simiyu, Nyando, and Kagera Rivers. It will quantify soil erosion and
nutrient loss from different land covers and uses, design remedial measures and
sustainable agricultural practices, develop systems to promote soil and water
conservation, and establish demonstration units to disseminate successful soil and
water conservation measures. The wetlands pilot project, in selected communities in
each of the countries, will estimate the economic benefits from wetlands products (fish,
papyrus, reeds, clay, livestock grazing, and agricultural products), develop management
strategies for their sustainable use, and for the rehabilitation of specific degraded
wetlands, evolve strategies for community participation in sustainable use, initiate pilot
activities to demonstrate this use, and strengthen capacity of local NGOs and CBOs to
undertake wise use activities. The afforestation pilot project will protect vital parts of
the lake catchment by planting trees. It will increase awareness among communities on
catchment protection and tree farming, develop local seed sources, improve
management of existing forest reserves and create new reserves, and conserve forest
biodiversity.
3.33  Implementation of the program will be led by the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development and the Ministry of Agriculture (Kenya), the Ministry
of Water and Ministry of Agriculture (Tanzania), and the Directorate of Water
Development of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ministry of Agriculture
(Uganda). They will collaborate with communities, NGOs, and the Ministries or
Industry and Community Development in all three countries, with the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources, and the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
(KARI) (Kenya), the Ministry of Natural Resources, and the Tropical Pesticides Research
Institute (Tanzania), the Ministry of Environment, and the National Agricultural
Research Organization (NARO) (Uganda). National wetlands committees in all three
countries would also be involved in the wetlands components, with assistance from the
World Conservation Union (IUCN), which would continue to foster regional
cooperation among the developing national wetlands programs. The sub-components
for Management of Pollution Loading and Wetland Buffering Capacity will be financed
by GEF (90 percent), the sub-components for Assessment of the Role of Agro-Chemicals
in Pollution, Integrated Soil and Water Conservation, and Afforestation will be financed



23
by IDA (90 percent), and the sub-component for Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products
will be financed by both GEF (45 percent) and IDA (45 percent). The project will finance
vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment; books and subscriptions to
journals; laboratory chemicals and reagents; construction of raingauge stations;
feasibility studies and structures for sanitation; training, workshops, and
demonstrations; technical assistance; ground and aerial survey work; forestry seedling
nurseries and creation of reserves; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.
Institutional Framework [US$3.98 million]
3.34  This program consists of three components, namely maintaining the
coordinating Secretariats [US$2.75 million], support for riparian universities [US$1.06
million], and preparation of a Pollution Disaster Contingency Plan for the lake [US$0.17
million]. The three National Secretariats, which have proven successful in coordinating
project preparation, will be strengthened by adding three positions: a
Procurement/Disbursement Officer, an Operations Officer, and a Management
Information Systems Officer. The Secretariats will provide a central contact point and
information clearing house for all agencies implementing the program, and all donors
supporting it. While the line agencies will be responsible for progress on their own
components, and for monitoring and reporting on that progress, the Secretariats will
gather information from all the agencies in their respective countries, be responsible for
overall monitoring, and prepare progress reports for decision making about the overall
project. They will ensure compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and
disbursement procedures (see the Project Implementation Plan, Annex 3). The Heads of
the Secretariats will, when necessary, organize tripartite meetings of officials
responsible for various components of the program. The Regional Secretariat in
Tanzania will organize meetings, when required, of members of the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee. This management and coordination component will be financed
by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles; office equipment; regional and
national meetings and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation
and maintenance expenditures.
3.35  The component for the riparian universities will strengthen facilities for
environmental analysis and graduate teaching at Moi University School of
Environmental Studies (Department of Fisheries), at the University of Dar es Salaam
(Department of Zoology), and at Makarere University (Department of Zoology). The
component will be financed by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles and
boats; office and laboratory equipment, chemicals and reagents; books and subscriptions
to journals; and operation and maintenance expenditures.
3.36  Under the guidance cf the Regional Secretariat in Tanzania, consultants
preparing the Pollution Disaster Contingency Plan will draw up an inventory of
hazards, hazardous sites, and vulnerable water uses and sites; review safety regulations;
assess available facilities and planning provisions to deal with emergencies; implement
a public education program, establish early warning systems, and develop a Regional
Disaster Plan and Protocol to be agreed by the three governments. The component will



24
be financed by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance technical assistance to
undertake a pollution disaster study and prepare a contingency plan.
D.    PROJECT PRIORMIES
3.37 In this project the individual components fit together like a web, as befits a
package of measures which addresses comprehensively the problems in an inter-
connected ecosystem. Almost all components will contain a mixture of information-
gathering, capacity building, and concrete actions to address the lake's problems. Much
of the information-gathering will follow an adaptive environmental management
approach, which involves learning by doing and adjusting or adapting management
actions based on results. It is not easy, therefore, to separate actions from knowledge-
building. It will be important for all components to be implemented from the
beginning, and in all three countries simultaneously, at a comparable pace.
3.38  Project investments do, however, comprise a mix of activities in pilot zones, and
activities carried out on a lake-wide basis. What is sequenced in the project is not the
actions, themselves, but the pilot zones in which they are carried out. In the first year of
the project, actions will be implemented in three pilot zones: Nyakach Bay in Kenya,
Mwanza Gulf in Tanzania, and Napoleon Gulf in Uganda. Thereafter, groups of pilot
zones will be phased in until by the end of the project actions will have been carried out
in all 14 designated pilot zones. If there were to be funding crises, the response would
be to postpone the work in the pilot zones planned for the outer years of the project. In
this way the essential core of lake-wide activities would be preserved, as well as the
coordinated nature of the adaptive environmental management approach in at least a
sub-set of the pilot areas. Upon resolution of any funding crisis, work would be
resumed with minimum disruption to progress.
E.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
3.39  The total cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$77.58 million, as outlined in the table below. Project costs are shown in
US Dollars, because three different domestic currencies are involved.
Financing
3.40  The three governments would contribute US$7.6 million to the project, leaving
US$70 million to be covered by donors. Incremental costs financed by the GEF amount
to US$35 million. The remaining project costs would be financed by IDA with an
allocation of US$35 million (Table 3.2).
GEF Incremental Costs
3.41  Incremental costs of the project under GEF definitions are estimated to be
US$38.8 million (details in Annex 7). In addition to financing the baseline and adjusted



25
baseline measures from non-GEF (IDA) sources, the three riparian governments have
agreed to contribute US$3.8 million from their own resources to finance a part of the
project's incremental cost. They have requested a GEF grant of US$35 million to fund
the balance.
Table 3.1        Project Cost Summary
(US$'0OO)
%       # Total
Project Component                   Local     Foreign     Total      Foreign     Base
Exchange    Costs
A. Fisheries Management (LVFO)                          314      1,649       1,964    84          3
B. Fisheries Research                                 5,893      5,910     11,802     50          17
1. Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation       2,618      3,164      5,782     55          8
2. Aquaculture                                      1,544      1,237      2,782     44          4
3. Socio-Economics Studies                          1,332      1,048      2,382     44          3
4. Establishing Database                              399       458         858     53          1
C. Fisheries Extension, Policies, and Laws            7,411      4,947     12,359     40          18
D. Water Hyacinth Control                             5,423      2,042      7,465     27          11
E. Water Quality Monitoring                           3,226      5,262       8,488    62          12
1. Eutrophication                                   2,720      3,409      6,129     55          9
2. Sedimentation (pilot study)                        152       364         516     71          1
3. Hydraulic Conditions (pilot study)                 138       700         838     83          1
4. Lake Victoria Management Model                     216        789      1,005     78          1
F. Industrial and MunIcipal Waste Management          4,074      5,156      9,230     56          13
1. Management of Industrial and Municipal Effluent  1,871      1,897      3,768     50          6
2. Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment (pilot project)  481   260         740     35          1
3. Tertiary Industrial Effluent Treatment (pilot project)  462  260         722     36          1
4. Priority Waste Management Investments            1,260      2,740      4,000     69          6
G. Land Use and Wetland Management                    8,093      4,468      12,560    36          18
1. Pollution Loading                                1,962      1,603      3,566     45          5
2. Buffering Capacity of Wetlands                   1,751      1,339      3,091     43          5
3. Assessment of Agro-Chemicals (pilot)               344       424         768     55          1
4. Soil and Water Conservation (pilot)              1,143        182      1,325     14          2
5. Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products (pilot)       969       366       1,336     27          2
6. Afforestation                                    1,924       552       2,476     22          3
H. Policy and Institutional Framework                 3,097      2,193      5,290     41          5
1. LVEMP Secretariats                               1,975       462       2,436     19          4
2. Support to Riparian Universities                   319       628         947     66          1
3. Fisheries Levy Trust                               803       953       1,755     54          2
4. Pollution Disaster Contingency                       -       150         150    100          1
Subtotal Base Costs                                  37,632     31,627     69,159     46         100
Physical Contingencies                              3,550     2,604       6,155    42           9
Price Contingencies                                  707      1,482       2,270    65           3
TOTAL COSTS                                          41,869     35,713     77,582     4S         112



26
Table 3.2     Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component            Govemments  GEF        IDA       Total      %
A. Fisheries Management (LVFO)                0.2       2.1                 2.3        3
B. Fisheries Research                         1.3       8.8       3.2      13.3       17
C. Fisheries Extension, Policies, and Laws    1.4                 12.7     14.1       18
D. Water Hyacinth Control                     0.8       4.5       3.0       8.3       11
E. Water Quality Management                   1.0       8.6                 9.6       12
F. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management  1.0                 8.9       9.9       13
G. Land Use and Wetland Management            1.4       7.4       5.3      14.1       18
H. Policy and Institutional Framework         0.6       3.6       1.9       6.1       8
TOTAL COSTS                                   7.6       35.0     35.0      77.6       100
F.     RATIONALE FOR GEF AND IDA INVOLVEMENT
3.42   Lake Victoria is an international water body that is both of great economic worth
to the three riparian countries and of great scientific and cultural significance to the
global community, mainly in respect of its unique waterborne biodiversity. It is
suffering severely from three of the four major global environment concerns highlighted
in the GEF Operational Strategy for International Waters - degradation of water quality
due to pollution from land-based activities; introduction of non-indigenous species; and
excessive exploitation of living resources. It is also facing their typical consequences -
potentially irreversible environmental damage, hardship to the poor and serious health
concerns. With poverty endemic to the region and many competing claims for scarce
development resources, the case for GEF-support to overcome the barriers to concerted
corrective action is extremely strong. As called for in the operational strategy, the GEF
assistance will act as a catalyst for the three countries to develop a better understanding
of how the lake functions, learn how the actions of their populations in the lake basin
affect the lake environment, and work out ways jointly with one another to implement a
comprehensive approach to managing the lake ecosystem to achieve global
environment benefits. The project is consistent with both the GEF waterbody-based
operational program and with the integrated land and water operational program,
while also having elements of the third, contaminant-based, operational program. The
project will in particular address another priority in the operational strategy - the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in freshwater ecosystems. As one of
the world's largest unique freshwater biodiversity habitats, Lake Victoria is a clear
priority for GEF assistance.
3.43   The GEF funding for this project will make possible the elaboration of a strategic
framework for a large program of investments in the lake basin during the project
implementation period, particularly in municipal waste management and soil
conservation, and will also lay the foundation for a longer program of investments over
time in these and other areas. It will thus have an enormous "leveraging" impact, for
the benefit of the national and global environments. The GEF financing of preparation



27
succeeded in generating strong "ownership" of the project by the three governments
which prepared it, and catalysed close collaboration at every stage among IDA, FAO,
UNDP and UNEP. The information and pilot work carried out in the GEF project
would orient ongoing investments and guide new ones during its five years of
implementation, and far beyond. Within the next two years, under projects already
begun, IDA and the European Union would finance improvements to municipal sewage
treatment schemes in Kampala and Jinja in Uganda, and Mwanza in Tanzania. The
funds would also finance a study of storm water drainage, solid waste management,
and water reticulation in Kampala.
3.44  Several other major infrastructure projects are planned to begin implementation
in FY98 which would finance water supply and urban sanitation in the lake basin,
directly in support of the LVEMP. Further projects are planned to support natural
resource management in the lake basin, including soil conservation and catchment
afforestation. All of these projects will reduce pollution and eutrophication in the lake.
While most of these projects were identified initially in the absence of the LVEMP, the
latter will increase markedly the success with which they address the priority issues.
The major projects still forthcoming will "take their signals" from the framework and
findings of the LVEMP. Numerous smaller scale activities with bilateral support,
implemented by local communities and NGOs, will also benefit from being planned in
the context of the improved information base and management plans designed for the
ecosystem as a whole, which will result from the LVEMP.
3.45  The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
each of the three countries. The CAS for Kenya was discussed by the Board on January
31, 1996. One of the key elements of the strategy is to improve environmental
management within the country, and to assist Kenya to respond to its commitments to
enhance protection of the global environment. The CAS for Uganda was discussed by
the Board on June 1, 1995. An important element of that strategy is to build domestic
environmental management capacity, and in particular to address issues related to
degradation of Lake Victoria. The CAS for Tanzania was discussed by the Board in
March 1994, and a Progress Report was discussed by the Board on May 23,1996. IDA
financial support for the project is in line with two primary aims of the CAS, namely
capacity building for improved public sector management, and creating a climate for
environmentally sustainable investments.
3.46  The project would be the first substantial investment in the environment for IDA
in two of the three countries following preparation of National Environmental Action
Plans in all three. Various other donors have supported a range of initiatives in and
around Lake Victoria, in smaller, uncoordinated, and sometimes incomplete ways. In
the absence of a coordinated management system for the entire lake and its ecosystem,
these smaller projects have sometimes fallen short, and continue to fall short, of
realizing their maximum potential. Building on its wide-ranging relationships with all
three governments, IDA has an important capability, and as implementing donor in this
project an important opportunity, to support the development of such a coordinated
management system. IDA also has the standing to mobilize scientific resources from
across the globe in support of an initiative which has unprecedented interest to the
global scientific community.



28
G.    LESSONS LEARNED AND TECHNICAL REVIEW
3.47  This program would be the first of its kind within the region, addressing a
complex set of managerial, scientific/technical and institutional issues across three
countries. It would aim to provide Governments with the necessary skills, information,
technical and financial resources, and a proper institutional and legal framework to
carry out successfully such an endeavor. It would build technical capacity to promote,
assist and coordinate the various initiatives within a regional framework, and help
design a comprehensive set of national policies and strategies based on lessons learned
from field experience. An important lesson incorporated from past operations was to
ensure that preparation be done by the countries themselves. The resultant ownership
will have the usual national benefits, as well as being especially important in this
program which crosses national boundaries, since the three governments have already
gained valuable experience working together during preparation.
3.48  The present report has responded to the GEF Technical Review of the project by
acknowledging the uncertainty about sources and mechanics of eutrophication,
incorporating the specific management elements suggested by the reviewer, setting the
stage for a new approach to modelling, reiterating the emphasis on managenent of the
lake's problems as the aim of everything in the project, and delineating the project's
large elements of capacity building.
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
4.1   The Tripartite Agreement (signed August 5,1994) which set in motion a
collaborative process of project preparation among the three countries, provided also for
project implementation. In particular it established three National Secretariats, each
headed by a high-level officer, selected by the respective governments, and supported
by a modest staff. These Secretariats served an essential coordination role during
project preparation, and it is planned that this role should continue into the project
implementation phase. They would be strengthened by the appointment of an
Procurement/Disbursement Officer, an Operations Officer, and a Management
Information Systems Officer. Among other things, these three officers would ensure
compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and disbursement procedures
(see the Project Implementation Plan, Annex 3). The three Secretariats, one in each
country, would provide a day-to-day central contact point and information clearing
house for all agencies implementing the program, and all donors supporting it. While
the many implementing agencies would be responsible for progress on their own
components, and for monitoring and reporting on that progress, the Secretariats would
gather information from all the agencies in their respective countries, be responsible for
overall monitoring, and prepare progress reports for decision making about the overall
project. The Heads of the Secretariats would also, when necessary, organize tripartite
meetings of officials responsible for various components of the program. The Regional
Secretariat in Tanzania would organize meetings, when required, of members of the



29
Regional Policy and Steering Committee, which would also remain in place, with the
same membership as it has had throughout project preparation. The Committee would
have many roles, its most important being the mechanism for resolution of disputes
arising during implementation of the program.
4.2   The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization would assume overall coordination
for components associated with fisheries, although as the project description outlines,
implementation would be by individual national agencies, and the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee would be responsible for overall program coordination, including
coordination between the fisheries program as a whole and the rest of the program.
B.   IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
4.3   The various national agencies would implement components of the projects as
follows. The three Fisheries Research Institutes (KEMFRI, TAFIRI and FIRI) would play
lead roles in all sub-components of fisheries research, and would collaborate with the
Fisheries Departments of their respective governments in the fisheries extension, and
with the Ministries of Water in the Water Quality components. For the latter
components, the Ministries of Water would be the lead agencies, and they in turn would
collaborate closely with the Ministries of Environment, Natural Resources and
Agriculture in their implementation of the components on land use and wetland
management. National wetlands conmmittees in all three countries would also be
involved in these components, with continuing assistance from the World Conservation
UInion (IUCN). The Moi, Makarere, and Sokoine Universities, and the Universities of
Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, would be involved in many of the studies, including those
on socio-economics. The water testing laboratories of the Kisumu and Mwanza
Municipal Councils, the Uganda Water and Sewage Corporation, and the Lake Basin
Development Authority (in Kisumu) would extend the reach of laboratories already
operating or planned by the respective Ministries of Water.
4.4  In order to address the variations in implementation capacity, from country to
country, and agency to agency, with some strong already but others less so, every sub-
program makes extensive provision for capacity building. For the whole project in the
three countries provision is made for more than 2,000 short term and on-job training
courses, about 100 regional Masters Degrees, and 15 PhDs. Care will be taken to strike a
balance in the training and its timing so that enough people are available to implement
the project.
4.5   For the Water Hyacinth Control Program, national steering committees or task
forces will be set up, and rearing units for biological control agents will be established
by the respective national agricultural research institutes. Finally, the project will also
draw on the resources of local and international consultants in areas where particular
scientific expertise is called for beyond the abilities of staff in the implementing
Ministries.
4.6   Because of the extensive scientific investments in the program, the worldwide
scientific interest in Lake Victoria, the need to seek innovative solutions to solving
environmental problems that draw on a broad spectrum of physical, biological and



30
social sciences, and uncertainties associated with the dynamic lake ecosystem, it is also
proposed to appoint a high level panel of internationally renowned scientists, initially
with 7 members, to serve as an overall advisory group for the scientific studies in the
lake. Possible scientific specialties for representation on the panel will be limnology,
fish biology, zoology, entomology, plant physiology, microbiology, chemistry,
meteorology, economics, anthropology, sociology, soil chemistry and physics, forestry,
and ecology. The panel will contain at least three members representing the natural
sciences and at least two from the social sciences, and its membership will be reviewed
every two years, although members may serve unlimited terms upon reappointment by
the nominating agencies. Following each two-yearly review, the panel will elect from
among its members a corresponding secretary to facilitate communication within the
panel. The panel members will be mutually acceptable to the three riparian states (as
represented by the Regional Policy and Steering Committee) and to IDA.
4.7   The main aim of the Panel of Scientists will be to help ensure maximum benefits
to the riparian states from activities of the international scientific cornmunity, by
providing a means for improving the coordination of such activities and increasing their
contribution to specific capacity budding and problem solving in the lake basin. They
will act as a standing committee of technical expertise to whom task and project
managers under the LVEMP may refer technical issues and reports for comment and
advice back to the referring managers. They will keep an up-to-date inventory of
international, externally funded scientific research pertinent to LVEMP programs.
Using electronic media such as the World Wide Web, they will keep the international
scientific community informed about outstanding research issues being addressed by
the LVEMP, in order to focus and mobilize that international community. They will
help to identify intemational training opportunities for researchers from the riparian
countries, and encourage the formation of partnerships and consortia between regional
universities and the international community of universities. They will meet once a
year to review issues arising from project implementation, and could meet at other
times if required, as well as being available individually, at the request of the Regional
Policy and Steering Committee, to provide advice about specific issues.
C.    SPECIFIC IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.8   The project provides funds totalling about US$3 million for the three countries to
support micro-projects in selected fishing communities. These will comprise small
investments, costing up to US$15,000 each, in community water supply from ground-
water, sanitary facilities, local roads, health facilities, and seed funds for assisting
fishing communities to adjust to new regulations such as those related to fishing net
mesh sizes. These micro-projects will address concerns directly related to the fisheries
management and water quality emphases of the project, while providing incentives for
communities to participate in components of the project across the board. The funds for
these micro-projects will flow through the regional administrations, overseen by the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife in Kenya, the Vice President's Office in Tanzania, and
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries in Uganda.
4.9   The three Ministries responsible will each prepare an Operational Manual to
guide all micro-project activities. It will contain, inter alia, criteria for identification,



31
appraisal, implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, reporting and
accounting requirements, sample contracting documents, standard forms for processing,
technical data on infrastructure projects, and procedures for carrying out environmental
assessments. An Evaluation Committee will be established in each of the three
Ministries, which will approve/reject project proposals from the regional offices. In the
regional offices, the proposed projects will be screened by Project Officers who will
assess the impact on the community and on special groups (e.g. poorer women), likely
returns on investment, factors affecting effective use and sustainability, satisfaction of
technical standards, sensitivity to environmental goals, realism of costs, arrangements
for implementation and supervision, and commitment of beneficiaries to maintenance
(recurrent costs may be covered by allocation on the regional government approved
budget).
4.10   Micro-projects must have at least 10 percent community cost-sharing, in the form
of a financial contribution or through labor and materials. When micro-projects have
been approved, the central Ministry will prepare a disbursement schedule, bidding
documents, arrangements for procurement and contracts, review cost estimates, and
sign a Financing Agreement with the respective Community Project Committee.
Implementation of projects may be through self-help, by a Village Council or its
Commnunity Committee, by private contractors answering to the Community
Conmmittee, by Local Government Construction Units, or by an NGO contracted as a
Collaborating Agency. While Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) will, in general,
be preferred as implementing agencies, if NGOs are selected for implementation or to
provide technical assistance they will be selected competitively by shortlisting several
qualified NGOs, following IDA guidelines for use of consultants. Non-standard draft
contracts between the administering Ministries and NGOs will be subject to review and
"no objection" by IDA. Sole source selection of NGOs will be considered where justified
by circumstances.
4.11 Funds will flow from a line budget in the administering Ministries, through the
District Program Coordinators who will have an Authority to Incur Expenditure (AIE).
Full authority for procurement of goods and services (which will follow normal
government procedures satisfactory to IDA) will be vested in the districts. These
include shopping and local bidding procedures and/or direct contracting where the
first two methods are not feasible. Each micro-project will be supported by a technical
proposal, basic financial analysis and budget approved by the District Steering Group,
summarized in a sanction letter to be signed by the District Program Coordinator.
4.12  The priority waste nanagenent investmnents will be designed and implemented
under the project. During the first two years the project will finance detailed design
work for rehabilitating the existing wastewater treatment plant in Kisumu (Kenya), a
simplified sewerage system for a portion of Mwanza (Tanzania), improvements in
sludge disposal in Bukoba (Tanzania), and civil works on the main effluent discharge at
the Bugolobi treatment works in Kampala (Uganda). In addition, during the first two
years, the project will finance development of a long term pollution reduction strategy
by the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) in Uganda. In the third and
fourth years of the project, the civil works in Kisumu, Mwanza, Bukoba, and at the
Bugolobi treatment works will be constructed. Engagement of consultants to prepare



32
the detailed designs and the strategy, and contracting of civil works, will follow
procedures acceptable to IDA as set out in the section on Procurement.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
4.13 As they collaborated during project preparation, IDA, UNDP, and UNEP will
also collaborate during reviews of implementation. IDA will have overall responsibility
for review, UNDP will focus on stakeholder consultation and participation aspects of
the project, and UNEP will focus on water quality aspects of the project As part of the
Mid-Term Review of the project (by March 1999), the three governments will prepare an
updated analysis of transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the second phase
of project implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. The
Implementation Completion Report prepared by the three governments at the end of
the project will include a revised Strategic Action Program, containing an outline of
interventions needed to address priority problems. IDA will use this as the basis for
convening a donors' meeting to seek commitments to support such interventions.
E.    PROCUREMENT
4.14  The entities responsible for coordinating program implementation and
procurement will be the LVEMP National Secretariats in the respective countries, the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in Kenya, the Ministry of Natural
Resources in Uganda, and the Department of Environment in the Vice President's Office
in Tanzania. They would consult with the implementing sector Ministries and their
research organizations dealing with water, fisheries, and agriculture. Each
implementing agency wir be responsible for procurement for the project components
assigned to it. The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO) will be the
implementing and procuring agency for its activities.
4.15 IDA Guidelines for Procurement (1995) and IDA Guidelines for Use of
Consultants (1981) will be followed for all project components funded by the IDA
Credits and the GEF Grants. The Bank's Standard Documents for Procurement of
Goods (1995) and the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services (1995)
will be used for all procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures and consultancy contracts for Technical Assistance, respectively. Before
commencing procurement under National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and prior to
Credit Effectiveness, draft bidding documents will be finalised in consultation with
IDA. Standard bid evaluation reports developed by IDA will be used in presenting
evaluation reports to IDA.
Procurement Arrangements
4.16  As part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), a procurement plan for major
contracts has been prepared for the project. Standard procurement processing times for
key activities were agreed with each of the participating Governments at negotiations.
4.17  Procurement of works, goods and services for all IDA/GEF financed
components will be coordinated centrally in each country by its LVEMP National



33
Secretariat (LVEMP), but processing of bidding documents will be handled by the
sectoral ministry/agency in charge of project implementation. However, in the case of
common items such as vehicles, motor cycles, and office equipment, procurement will
be "bulked" at the national level. Procurement of these "bulked items" will be
processed by the LVEMP National Secretariats in each country. The National Secretariat
in each of the participating countries will be strengthened for this purpose by the
addition of a qualified procurement/disbursement specialist familiar with International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and procurement procedures.
4.18  The Category of Works includes civil works, on a pilot scale, for creation of
tertiary "wetlands" to test the treatment of municipal effluent using a system which
could be later adopted on a larger scale. The works would include design of the
"wetland", construction of diversion channels, pipes, sluice valves, gates, platforms,
access road(s), environmental protection works, and land development works. No ICB
procurement of works is foreseen due to the small scale of construction at dispersed
locations (contracts ranging from US$5,000 to US$100,000). Ministries that do not have
the required technical expertise will engage consultants to design and supervise civil
work contracts. Contracts for goods, including vehicles and equipment would be
grouped into packages of US$100,000 or more wherever practicable, and procured
through ICB.
4.19   Prior Review. All procurement packages for civil works, goods, supplies,
materials and maintenance contracts with an estimated contract value above US$100,000
will be subject to IDA's prior review, in accordance with Appendix 1 of the IDA
Guidelines. All consulting contracts with firms with a contract value above US$100,000
or with individual consultants with a contract value above US$50,000 will be subject to
IDA's prior review. In addition, all terms of reference for proposed consulting
assignments will be subject to IDA's prior review.
4.20  In order to ensure that appropriate procedures are being followed, the first three
contracts for goods, civil works, and consultancies, irrespective of contract value, will be
subject to IDA prior review. During supervision missions, IDA will review one in five
randomly selected contracts which are below these prior review thresholds.
4.21   Procurement Methods. The procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles,
office equipment, and supplies will be carried out in reasonable packages of similar
goods under the following procedures (aggregate amounts for non-ICB procedures are
shown in the respective procurement table for each participating Government, for the
GEF Grant and the IDA Credit):
* International Competitive Bidding (ICB), if the esfimated contract value per
package is more than US$100,000;
* National Competitive Bidding (NCB), if the estimated contract value per
package is more than US$50,000 but less than US$100,000;
* International Shopping Procedures (ISP) in accordance with Section III of
the IDA guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from reputable



34
suppliers in two different countries, if the estimated cost per package is
more than US$20,000 but less than US$50,000; as an alternative to ISP, Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) procurement procedures may
be followed;
*  National Shopping Procedures (NSP) in accordance with Section III of the
IDA Guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from local
suppliers, if the estimated cost per package is less than US$20,000;
*  The aggregate amounts for ISP and NSP, respectively, would be 60 percent
and 40 percent of the Category "Other" for each GEF Grant and IDA Credit.
4.22   Technical Assistance Consultancies. The selection of consultants to provide
technical assistance will be carried out according to IDA Guidelines, including
shortlisting, letters of invitation and evaluation of technical and price proposals.
General procurement notices issued annually will highlight major consulting
assignments, which will assist in establishment of shortlists. Selections for short-term
assignments and the selection of individual consultants for contracts below the prior
review threshold will follow procedures specified in Section V of the IDA guidelines.
4.23 The selection of NGOs to provide Technical Assistance will be competitive
through shortlisting of several qualified NGOs, and otherwise will follow IDA
Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
4.24 Training. Each implementing department and agency will prepare an annual
trairnng plan and submit it to the respective LVEMP National Secretariat. The training
program will identify the subjects and courses for training, their timing, duration,
estimated costs, name and location of the training institutions, the names of the persons
proposed, and the justification for their training. The training plans will be submitted to
IDA for approval, the first within three months of Credit Effectiveness, and subsequent
annual plans prior to the commencement of each fiscal year.
4.25   Procurement Monitoring. During project implementation the LVEMP National
Secretariats will provide quarterly reports on progress of procurement highlighting
difficulties encountered in the past, and how they would be addressed in the future to
ensure timely project completion.
F.    DISBURSEMENT
4.26 The proposed IDA Credits, respectively of SDR 8.9 million for Kenya, SDR 7.0
million for Tanzania, and SDR 8.4 million for Uganda, the proposed GEF Grants,
respectively of SDR 8.0 million for Kenya, SDR 7.2 million for Tanzania, and SDR 9.2
million for Uganda, would be disbursed over a period of 6 years with an expected
project completion date of June 30, 2002, and a closing date of December 31, 2002. The
schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 2.
4.27 Disbursement Procedures: Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be in
accordance with normal IDA procedures set out in the Disbursement Handbook



35
(November 1992). Once agreement has been reached on the annual work program and
budgets with the respective implementing agencies, that is the LVEMP National
Secretariats and the focal Ministries in each country, or the LVFO as the case may be,
disbursements from the credit will be made following the standard procedures,
including: reimbursement of expenses incurred by the LVEMP National Secretariat, the
Ministries of Environment and Natural Resources, or the LVFO (as the case may be)
against submission of disbursement requests, direct payment to suppliers or
replenishment of special accounts.
4.28  To facilitate disbursement, IDA will advance a sum of US$500,000 for the Lake
Victoria Environmental Management Program to the LVEMP National Secretariats in
each of the three countries into Special Accounts in US Dollars to be opened with a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Upon effectiveness the advance amounts will be
deposited to the Special Account and subsequent amounts deposited against
disbursement application(s). Replenishment applications for the Special Accounts
would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account balances are reduced by
one third, whichever comes first. The account may be used to pay for expenditures in
either local currency or foreign exchange through the commercial banking system,
against any category of expenditure. All replenishments should be fully documented
except in the case where statements of expenditure (SOEs) are authorized.
4.29   Disbursements by IDA against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs): the respective
project implementing agencies may claim reimbursements on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOEs) for:
(a)   Goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent.
(b)   Consultant contracts, costing less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms,
and less than US$50,000 for individuals.
(c)   All local training, workshops and studies.
(d)   All training costs less than US$10,000, and all operating costs.
The respective implementing agency will retain all the relevant supporting
documentation for reimbursements of SOEs for inspection by IDA. During the course of
the annual audit of the project accounts, the auditors will certify that all expenditures
claimed under SOEs have been properly incurred for the project.
G.    ACCOUNTING AND AUDrrS
4.30  A single set of consolidated accounts will be prepared for each component under
the program. For preparation of the component accounts, and records of project
activities, including SOE's and the Special Account in accordance with sound
accounting practices, responsibility will rest on the accountants appointed for this
purpose under the program (in the LVEMP National Secretariats and the LVFO when
established) under the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in Kenya, the
Vice President's Office in Tanzania, and the Ministry of Natural Resources in Uganda.



36
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Governments will have the
records and accounts of the Project, including the Special Accounts and SOEs, audited
for every fiscal year, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that it will submit
the audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year, with a
separate opinion by the auditors on SOEs.
4.31 Foreign exchange Special Accounts will be established by each country for the
program with an international commercial bank of good repute, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness an initial deposit of US$0.5
million would be made into the Special Account of the Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program in each country, representing about four months of IDA/GEF
disbursements. Operation of these Special Accounts will follow IDA procedures, and
the account will be replenished oit the basis of regular monthly applications from the
LVEMP Secretariat or the LVFO, documenting expenditures from the account.
H.   SUSTAINABILITY AND PARTICIPATION
4.32  The two most important elements of sustainability are stakeholder ownership,
and provision for fiscal continuance. They have been addressed by a highly
participatory mode of project preparation, and will be addressed during
implementation by special efforts to involve local communities, and support for a
Fisheries Levy Trust study to seek sources of funds for ongoing support for lake
ecosystem activities.
4.33  Catalyzed by GEF financing, the three governments prepared the project
themselves, in the process resolving many issues among them, demonstrating good
technical collaboration, and generating strong ownership for the implementation phase.
The Tripartite Agreement signed in August 1994 covered both preparation and
implementation, thus providing for the implementation phase a continuing legal
framework which has already been tested and found sound. Institutional arrangements
which have proved their worth during preparation - especially the structure of National
Secretariats and a joint Policy Steering Committee - will be continued unchanged for
implementation, except that the Secretariats will be strengthened by the addition of
specialized personnel.
4.34  Supported by the UNDP, special efforts during preparation were made in all
three countries to involve communities around the lake in generation and discussion of
project proposals, along with information-gathering to ensure that project proposals
address the needs of local communities. In all three countries consultants were engaged
who visited communities, women's groups, projects of community-based organisations
and NGOs in fisheries and fish processing, soil conservation, wetlands development,
and water hyacinth control, among many others. In Tanzania, for example, a study of
community needs was conducted in three regions, 12 districts, 24 fishing villages and
more than 85 groups or communities. The consultants also worked with NGOs and
others to conduct stakeholder workshops, and with the government working groups to
incorporate a community focus into the preparation report. The large emphasis on
fisheries extension is one of many outcomes of this process. Others include the
provision for community micro-projects among the investments which the project



37
supports, and the proposals for community involvement in many of the research
programs to be conducted under the project. The government preparation report
acknowledges that "one of the major setbacks in aquatic resource management in East
Africa is the general lack of community participation in management programs", and
notes that such participation "is considered key to the successful implementation of this
program.
4.35 Throughout the project special efforts will be made to involve local communities,
and the capacity of a number of local NGOs and CBOs will be strengthened so that they
can facilitate the process of community participation and ownership, and lead the
communities in undertaking wise use activities of the resources in the lake and its basin.
A special feature of the Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation program
implementation, for example, will be attempts to involve local communities in
identification of issues, tagging and recapture efforts, return of immature fish,
surveillance of protected areas, sampling of commercial catches, protection of research
equipment, and compilation of research data. Many of the other scientific initiatives
will involve communities in carrying out the measurements, and in caring for
monitoring equipment. For the water hyacinth control program, in particular, it will be
essential for local people to understand and assist with the biological control efforts.
4.36  The project has community participation woven into virtually every component,
funding for micro-projects, a great deal of community training, financing for hundreds
of stakeholder workshops, and provision for community participation in everything
from scientific studies to water hyacinth control, fisheries research to own-enforcement
of agreed fishery regulations, sustainable use of wetlands to soil conservation, with
benefits springing from better fishing management, aquaculture, higher quality
products, lower post-harvest losses, cleaner water, more control over local fishing
beaches, and coiistruction of community assets.
4.37 Acknowledging that availability of reliable and adequate funding is essential for
management of fisheries, which involves continuing research, extension, monitoring
and enforcement, the three governments have proposed to study and implement jointly
a program in which funds raised from the commercial fisheries themselves would
contribute to underwriting fisheries management in the longer term, as well as assisting
some of the central monitoring and management initiatives to become fiscally
sustainable. The study will identify sources of funds, and also examine in depth the
issues involved in managing such funds on a regional basis. The LVEMP includes
financial support for establishing a shared Levy Trust Fund among the three countries,
should the study show this to be feasible.
I.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.38  The project is designed to be a mixture of information-gathering, capacity-
building, institution establishment, and actions to deal with the environmental
problems of the lake and its catchment, with an emphasis on fisheries management,
water hyacinth control, improving water quality, and land use management (including
wetlands). A central concem is to reduce the flow of nutrients and pollutants into the
lake, and reverse some of the adverse environmental developments of the past. This



38
project will attempt to lay the foundations in these areas, and provide a "central core"
around which will coalesce a larger program of investments to clean up the lake, and
establish sustainable development of the lake and its catchment in the face of the
growing population pressures likely to be experienced.
4.39  It will be difficult to isolate and measure the project's impact on development in
the lake and its catchment. Although there are some specific characteristics of the lake
which can be measured - water quality, fisheries yield, and ecological stability - the lack
of reliable historic data will make it hard to calculate in an exact way the extent to which
the LVEMP itself is responsible for changes noted, since these have to be considered
against some prediction of what would have happened without the project.
4.40   Monitoring of the lake catchment and of the LVEMP will focus on measuring the
state of the lake (water quality, fish stocks, and species richness) and measuring (or
estimating) changes in the inputs to the system (such as fishing effort, and loads of key
pollutants). Specific indicators of project impact will include (a) reductions in the
nutrient and fecal coliform counts from towns bordering the lake; (b) reductions in
sediment and phosphorus loading in rivers flowing into the lake; (c) reductions by at
least 50 percent over five years in significant industrial pollutants entering the lake; (d)
stabilizing the Nile perch catch at least at current levels, and increasing the recovery of
other species; (e) measurable reduction in the infestation of water hyacinth; and (f)
stabilization of areas retained as wetlands.
4.41   The main indicators of project implementation success will be (a) building
capacity within the riparian universities, the line ministries, the LVEMP secretariats and
the riparian communities for environmental analysis, conservation and adoption of
cohesive management practices on and around the lake; (b) harmonizing among the
three countries legislation addressing management of fisheries and environmental
variables important in the lake basin, and improved enforcement of this legislation; (c)
establishment of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO); (d) completion of
gazetting and regulating fish landing sites within the pilot zone areas and enforcing
acceptable fishing practices within a 5 km radius of fishing villages within these areas,
with full participation of lake shore fishing communities; (e) establishing sustainable
long-term capacity for management and control of water hyacinth and other invasive
weeds in the Lake Victoria Basin, through integrated weed control methods and
community involvement; (f) establishing a lake wide water quality and rainfall
monitoring system with agreed parameters to generate information on eutrophication
management and pollution control; and (g) completing a full inventory and resource
survey of Lake Victoria wetlands, and preparing investment proposals for the economic
management of these wetlands, including their rehabilitation.



39
5.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    BENEFITS
Background
5.1   The LVEMP is a comprehensive program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake
ecosystem for the benefit of the people who live in the catchment and its area of
influence. The scientific evidence shows that the present methods of exploitation and
development in the catchment are unsustainable, and that without intervention there
could be serious environmental and related socio-economic consequences. The most
pressing concern is a possible decline in the very valuable fishery (currently worth
about US$320 million annually in export revenue), but this predicted decline represents
merely an immediately obvious outcome of the loss of resilience of the ecosystem.
Sediments and pollution are degrading water quality, increasing urbanization and
agricultural expansion are both resulting in the loss of wetlands - including swamps
and satellite lakes that still shelter a remnant of a once spectacular native aquatic fauna,
changes in feeding chains and trophic systems since the introduction of exotic fish
species are trending toward a highly unstable fisheries monoculture, and - a
fundamental and ominous change - the anoxic portion of the lake waters (a biologically
almost dead zone) has been steadily increasing over recent years.
5.2   The fundamental objective of the LVEMP is to restore a healthy, varied lake
ecosystem which is inherently stable and which can support, in a sustainable way, the
many human activities in the catchment. Development pressures in the catchment are
increasing because of natural population growth and migration from poorer and less
fertile rural areas, and the multi-purpose central role of the lake is becoming
increasingly important even as its capacity to cope is being threatened.
5.3   The economy of the lake catchment produces in the order of US$3-4 billion
annually and supports an estimated population of 25 million people at standards of
living in the range of US$90-270 per capita p.a., based on national figures. The lake
catchment economy is principally an agricultural one, with a number of cash crops
(including exports of fish) and a high level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. The
quality of the physical environment is therefore a fundamental factor in maintaining
and increasing the living standards of the growing population.
Gross Benefits
5.4   The main economic benefits of the overall LVEMP derive from avoiding the
losses that can be anticipated if effective action is not taken. According to the best
understanding of the local and international scientific research community, as
documented in the material presented by the Regional Task Forces for project
preparation, the major consequences of not halting the present trends could be:
(a)   a decline in the overall fishery as a result of both overfishing and
deterioration of lake water quality;



40
(b)   increasing extent and severity of water hyacinth infestation;
(c)   unsuitability of the lake water for domestic supply or animal watering;
(d)   continued degradation of the wetlands.
5.5   The regional benefits of the programme would be the incremental avoidance or
reduction of damage costs associated with these consequences, beyond the damage
avoided as a result of actions that would have been taken to achieve local benefits. In
addition there would be other benefits as a result of bringing forward projects which are
in themselves economically justified (such as soil conservation or industrial pollution
control).
(a) Fisheries
5.6   The most dramatic and direct effect of not taking action would be the onset of
instability in the Nile perch fishery. One possible scenario would be a highly variable
and unpredictable annual catch, which could drop in some years to as little as 10
percent of current levels. On the other hand, fisheries models, which still need to be
verified, suggest that a sustainable fishery could be developed which would allow
annual yields of perhaps 90 percent of current levels, still dominated by Nile perch but
with a wider range of other species.
5.7   The value of moving to the sustainable level of catch can be estimated, on a
conservative basis, as the difference between the income stream from 90 percent of the
current catch and that from an average 50 percent of the current catch, calculated after
year 5 of a management programme:
Export value of a sustainable fishery:  90% of $320m p.a. = $288m p.a.
Export value of an uncontrolled fishery:   50% of $320m p.a. = $160m p.a.
Difference, starting from year 6, attributable to the LVEMP = $128m p.a.
Present value of this revenue stream at a 12 percent discount rate: = $600m.
5.8   The major potential benefit of avoiding the projected collapse of the fisheries
would therefore be preserving export revenues with a present value of US$0.4-0.8
billion, depending on the assumptions used. The direct revenues to the fishing
communities on the lake, from these export fisheries, are estimated to have a total
present value of US$0.2-0.4 billion. These communities would receive additional
benefits from two sources: (a) that portion of the value added in processing and
packaging which is distributed to them in the form of payments for good and services,
estimated to have a present value of US$40-80 million; and (b) income from local
production and marketing of fish, estimated to have a present value of US$10-20
million. Moreover, one objective of the LVEMP is also to increase the proportion of
local food fish in the system and the benefits of the program therefore include a real
increase in the local fishery, which would be at least of the same order of magnitude as
the loss avoided. The total present value of the impact of the LVEMP on the local fish
economy would therefore be US$20-40 million.



41
5.9    On reasonable assumptions, therefore, it is estimated that successful
implementation of the LVEMP could protect annual export earnings from the fishery to
the extent of about US$128 million per annum, which represents a present value of
exports of US$600 million, and of revenue to the lake community of US$240 480 million.
In addition, the present value of the local fishery would be increased by US$20-40
million over the case where no action is taken.
5.10   Reversing the direct loss of revenue would have major impacts through the
various industries and activities which support the fishermen active on the lake. It has
been estimated that there is a multiplier of about 5 in terms of the numbers of people
involved in these supporting activities and therefore half a million people, including
workers and their families, would be affected by reversing the loss of revenue.
Water hyacinth
5.11   The spread of the water hyacinth infestation is imposing a wide range of direct
costs on the lake community. These costs include:
- delays in commercial waterborne transport of people and goods (in some cases
reported to result in a 10-20 percent increase over scheduled times);
- increased operating costs (and possible loss of revenue) for hydropower
production at Owens Falls Dam, due to clogging of water intakes;
- loss of fishing time (and revenue) as a result of blocking of the beaches;
- increased difficulty and time spent on gathering water in villages where access
to traditional water collection areas is blocked or dangerous (because of snakes
or crocodiles in the weed);
- blockage of intakes and loss of production at urban and industrial water supply
systems.
5.12 Some initial estimates have been made for these costs but further data will be
required to refine the estimates. It should be noted that these figures represent the
present costs: the water hyacinth infestation is increasing at a rapid rate and - unless
controlled - will spread and also become more of a problem at existing sites. In the
absence of a successful control program, the following are the estimated costs within
five years:
(a)    maintaining a clear passage for ships to dock at Port Bell in Uganda:
US$3-S5 million p.a.;
(b)   cleaning intake screens at the Owen Falls hydroelectric power plant at
Jinja in Uganda: $1 nillion p.a.;



42
(c)   losses in local fisheries from accumulation of water hyacinth at fishing
beaches and landing sites around the lake making it difficult or
impossible for fishing boats to be launched or recovered: US$0.2 million
p.a. but with a very serious local impact;
(d)   loss of the beaches as a water supply for domestic, stock and agricultural
purposes: US$0.35 million p.a.;
(e)   loss of supply or increased maintenance costs in urban water supply
schemes because of blockages of the water intakes by water hyacinth:
US$1.5 million p.a.;
(f)   small-scale horticultural irrigation schemes rendered useless because of
blockages of channels and pipes with hyacinth: no costs have yet been
attributed to these losses but they are important from a distributional
viewpoint since such schemes are being developed to help women in the
poorer lakeshore areas.
5.13   The total of these direct costs attributable to the water hyacinth (at its present
levels) is estimated to be US$6-10 million p.a., with a present value of US$25.40 million.
This figure can be compared with the estimated US$4.5 million cost for the Ugandan
government's emergency action program to tackle the problem, which must represent a
lower bound to estimates of the damage in what is only part of the total shoreline.
Water quality
5.14   Deteriorating water quality will have a number of direct effects, the avoidance of
which can be counted as potential benefits of the programme. These include:
- additional water treatment costs to deal with increasing levels of algae;
- impacts on water available for cattle: algal blooms can render water unsuitable
for cattle and in extreme cases are known to be fatal to animals;
- loss of potential tourist revenue: polluted or foul-smelling water would prevent
the expansion of the present (low) level of tourism to the lake;
- health effects of increased malaria and bilharzia as a result of stagnant and
polluted water.
5.15   The costs of water supply improvements can be calculated once the extent of
supply systems round the lake are detailed. As a first estimate, assuming (as before)
that one million people are affected, an additional cost of US$1 per capita would mean
US$1.5 million p.a. at present, but this would increase as the population connected
increased and a value double this would be quite reasonable, i.e. US$3 million p.a.. The
costs of water for animals is more difficult to estimate but costs of $1 per beast spread
over half a million cattle in the vicinity of the lake are plausible. A minimum cost



43
associated with the decline in water quality is therefore estimated at US$3.5 million
p.a.,(present value US$15 million) and increasing.
Wetlands
5.16   Given the lack of data on the type and extent of wetlands it is not possible to
estimate the value of preserving these systems, but a wide range of functions of
wetlands have been identified, both in general and for Lake Victoria in particular.
These include: buffering of the impacts of increased loads of nutrients and sediments;
breeding areas for fish and animals of value to the local population; protection of local
water supply sources; provision of papyrus and other materials of commercial value.
Preserving the wetlands is very important for sustaining biodiversity, as well as for
helping to maintain the lake as a functioning and stable ecosystem.
5.17  On the other hand, development of wetlands has been promoted because of their
potential for increased agricultural production and because of the perceived health
problems associated with wetlands (such as mosquitoes and tsetse fly). Further work is
required to understand and quantify the benefits of preserving key components of the
existing wetlands systems but the balance of professional opinion, supported by
informed local comment, is that the net value of preservation would be high.
B3iodiversity
5.18   One objective of the LVEMP is the preservation of the existing richness of the
haplochromid fish fauna because of its scientific interest and its role in providing a
resilient ecosystem for the whole lake. The ecosystem support benefits are included in
the valuation of stabilizing the fisheries, but the intrinsic and scientific value of the
biodiversity that is believed to be threatened under current conditions are additional
benefits for which no valuation is yet available.
Summary
5.19   The major direct economic benefit for which the program lays the foundation
would be avoidance of the predicted collapse in the fisheries, which is estimated to have
a present value to the lake community of US$270-520 million.
5.20   The water hyacinth problem, which is rapidly becoming more severe, is
estimated to have an annual cost of US$6-10 million under current levels of infestation.
These costs, whose present value is an estimated US$25.40 million, as well as even
larger costs which might be associated with increased infestations in the future were
nothing to be done, would be largely avoided if the LVEMP were successfully
implemented.
5.21 Deteriorating water quality may impose additional water supply costs which are
estimated to be a minimum of US$3.5 million p.a. (present value US$15 million) and
would increase considerably without action.



44
5.22  Other benefits arising from the preservation of wetlands and of biodiversity
have not been valued here.
Net Benefits
5.23 The costs of achieving the benefits identified here will include the direct costs of
the LVEMP, which is a regional prograrn, and of national actions which are taken in
support of the program. Many of the national expenditures, in particular, will be
economically justified in their own right (for example, fisheries post-harvest
improvements or provision of sewerage) and so the effect of the LVEMP will be to bring
forward in time the net benefits of these programmes. In such cases, the costs and
benefits attributable to the LVEMP will be the marginal ones related to the changes in
timing or focus of the national programmes.
5.24  Typical of the projects to be tackled as national concerns, within the framework
of the LVEMP, which would be expected to produce net benefits in their own right, and
where the costs attributable to the LVEMP may be exceeded by the benefits achieved
through bringing the projects forward would be:
*  expansion of artisanal fishing and processing;
*  reduction in post-harvest fish losses;
*  implementation of water hyacinth control;
*  wetland conservation;
*  improved pasture management;
*  catchment soil conservation;
*  rural water and sanitation;
*  urban sewerage upgrading;
*  industrial pollution abatement.
In so far as these projects can be implemented under existing or proposed programmes
and as long as they are economic in their own right, the net costs to the LVEMP will be
minimal.
B.   ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
5.25  The program is in effect a regional environmental action plan for Lake Victoria,
having as its central objective improving the environmental conditions of Lake Victoria
and its catchment. However, the program will encompass a wide range of different
interventions and investments, and has been designated as Category B for
environmental analysis to ensure that adequate attention will be given to the many
overall positive impacts as well as to individual components which might have adverse
local environmental effects.
Positive Impacts
5.26  The environmental analysis (available separately) outlines the problems the
program is trying to address, and the potential benefits from proposed measures to be



45
implemented. Beginning with a discussion of population growth, which underlies the
pressures to which the lake and its catchment are increasingly being subjected, the
analysis proceeds to assess the pressures. Populations of urban areas around the lake
are growing at an estimated 6 percent p.a. or more, and rural areas near the lake shore
are experiencing in-migration which is causing faster growth of their populations even
than the already high national averages of over 3 percent p.a.
5.27  This population pressure is, in particular, contributing to the existence of
pollution "hot spots" where there is especially heavy localized degradation of water
quality in the lake, from human waste, urban runoff, and the effluent discharges of such
industries as breweries, tanning, paper processing, fish processing, sugar factories,
coffee washing stations, and abattoirs. In addition there is some inflow of residues from
the use of chemical herbicides and pesticides in selected agricultural operations in the
lake catchment, and specialized industries such as gold mining are responsible for the
presence of localized areas of heavy metals. The project would locate and quantify
these problems, identify the sources of pollution, propose and begin to implement
ameliorative measures, and strengthen existing institutions to sustain solutions in the
longer term.
5.28   The population pressure is also contributing to the inflow of nutrients into the
lake, which are responsible for algal buildup, oxygen depletion, and to the burgeoning
water hyacinth infestation. Since the levels of fertilizer use in agricultural areas around
the catchment are in general low, the main rural source of these nutrients is soil erosion,
which releases nitrogen and phosphorus held in the natural soil profile. In many
instances such nutrients are not available to agriculture, but are released by chemical
changes once the soil is washed into the lake. From urban areas and lake shore
communities, the main sources of nutrients are human waste, especially from untreated
sewage. Although sewage schemes in the lake catchment are frequently inoperative or
in bad repair, in some cases the nutrients are filtered out by wetlands prior to reaching
the lake. Where there is no such buffering capacity, or the capacity is overloaded, there
is a positive buildup of nutrients ir. the lake. The project will locate and quantify these
problems, identify the sources of nutrients, propose and begin to implement
ameliorative measures, including some innovative pilot initiatives, and strengthen
existing institutions to sustain solutions in the longer term.
5.29  The area in which the project would make the most economic difference would
be in heading off developing instability and possible serious collapse of the valuable
lake fisheries.
Negative Impacts And How They Would Be Addressed
5.30   The main areas where activities undertaken in the project may have negative
environmental impacts are the following:
(a)   measures to try to restore and stabilize the fish ecology in the lake might
have unforeseen effects, because the huge, complex ecosystem is not
understood completely, although knowledge of the ecosystem is better
now than it was when exotic fish were introduced previously;



46
(b)    attempts to develop innovative aquaculture might have unforeseen
effects on the ecosystem, as did the introduction of exotic species in the
past;
(c)    biological agents used as the main line of long term control of water
hyacinth might have unforeseen effects on other parts of the ecosystem
and the catchment;
(d)    herbicides used to control water hyacinth might damage other crops, add
to water pollution, kill fish, and themselves contribute to anoxia in the
lake, especially in littoral areas;
(e)    attempts to reduce the inflow of pollutants into the lake might result in
their having negative effects in other environments.
5.31   The following steps will be taken during project implementation, to minimise
the possibilities of these negative impacts arising, or mitigate their effects:
(a)   fish ecology - the most important precaution is that any proposed
interventions (such as changes in net sizes or other controls over the
fishing effort) should be clearly defined and carefully assessed before
introduction. The assessment should include specific consideration of
possible unpredictable responses, and should allow for relevant peer
review or independent comment. The interventions must be
accompanied by projections of measurable responses in the system and
methods for measuring and reporting on the relevant parameters.
(b)    aquaculture - the scale of any proposed aquaculture needs to be limited
until the requirements and impacts of the system are well established.
The onus will be on the promoters of any introduced species to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the scientific community that this will
not have any adverse or unexpected effects. Therefore before any
releases take place, there will be a full environmental assessment. Where
systems are developed to support or reintroduce native species, the
schemes should be developed at a pilot scale so that the consequences of
large scale projects can be predicted and evaluated.
(c)    biological control agents - all biological control agents under consideration
have been subjected to exhaustive field testing over twenty years in
several countries. For all three control agents, the conclusion was: "there
is no doubt that [the agent] is restricted to water hyacinth and that it may
be introduced into regions infested with this weed without risk of
damage to other plant species."4 The two species of weevils have been
tested extensively in Kenya and Uganda, and released in both countries
in lakes other than Lake Victoria. The testing protocols have been
Harley, K.L.S., The Role of Biological Control in the Management of Water Hyacinth, Eichornia
crassipes, Biocontrol News and Information, Vol 11, No. 1, 1990,11-22.



47
satisfactory, and no results different from those observed elsewhere have
been noted. Any additional biological control agents available during
project implementation will be subjected to similar testing protocols.
(d)   herbicides - herbicides used in the water hyacinth control program will be
acceptable to IDA, they will be used sparingly, in strictly selected and
confined areas, all persons applying such herbicides will be trained in
their safe and appropriate handling and use, and mechanisms for careful
monitoring of herbicide use will be established.
(e)   pollutants - pollution control projects must be properly designed with the
necessary attention to treatment and disposal systems and to long-term
financing mechanisms which will allow for the necessary maintenance
and upgrading. A project specific environmental assessment will be
required for these components, and for any larger investments following,
to guard against the possibility that any uncontrolled dumping of
domestic and industrial wastes would take place.
C.    RISKS
5.32  The main risk is that the strength of the commitments by the three Governments
will fail to sustain a regional environmental management program for the lake basin.
This may express itself through inadequate budgetary arrangements to fund regional
bodies (such as the LVFO) or coordinating agencies, erosion over time of the powers
given to such institutions, or unwillingness or lack of capacity to follow-up on regional
regulatory decisions or guidelines through enforcement at the national level. Since the
three governments have collaborated well during program preparation, and the
proposed program provides many opportunities for low-risk collaboration on technical
issues, which should build confidence steadily during implementation, any waning
commitment would seem likely to arise only from sources external to the program. The
risk of inadequate or unforeseen results emerging from the research and studies in the
program would be reduced by the appointment of an international Panel of Scientists
who would review regularly scientific issues arising in the course of project
implementation. In the event of fiscal crises, the project is structured so as to allow
postponement of work in the pilot zones planned for the outer years of the project. In
this way the essential core of lake-wide activities would be preserved, as well as the
coordinated nature of the adaptive environmental management approach in at least a
sub-set of the 14 pilot areas. Upon resolution of any funding crisis, work could be
resumed with minimum disruption to progress.



48
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   On August 5,1994, the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda signed a
Tripartite Agreement jointly to prepare and implement a Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program (LVEMP). That important agreement provided for
organizational arrangements for project preparation, some of which will be continued
into project implementation. In particular, the Agreement provided for a Regional
Policy and Steering Committee, which has functioned during project preparation with a
membership of nine at the level of Permanent Secretary, three from each country, drawn
from the main Ministries dealing with environment, water, fisheries, and agriculture.
The existence of this Agreement reduced, but did not eliminate the need for further
assurances, which complemented and supplemented those already obtained under the
Tripartite Agreement.
6.2   The three Government s and IDA have agreed the following:
(a)   the National Secretariats will prepare annual work programs, training
plans, and related financing plans and submit them to the Regional
Policy and Steering Committee for its approval by March 31 of each year;
the annual work programs will include details of the procurement of
goods and services and the procedures to be adopted for such
procurement within the limits given earlier and agreed by IDA;
(b)   in its review of the annual work programs, training plans and related
financing plans, the Regional Policy and Steering committee will ensure
that all project components with regional implications will be
implemented at a comparable pace in all three countries; following its
approval of the annual programs and plans, the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee will submit them, along with its proposals for
ensuring coordinated implementation, to IDA for review by May 15 of
each year;
(c)   a high level panel of intemationally renowned scientists, with 7 members
satisfactory to IDA, will be appointed by the Regional Policy and Steering
Committee to serve as an advisory group for the scientific studies in the
lake; they will meet at least once a year to review scientific issues arising
from project implementation, maintain an up-to-date inventory of
international scientific research pertinent to LVEMP programs, assist
with identifying international training opportunities for researchers from
the riparian countries, and be available, at the request of the Regional and
Policy Steering Committee, to provide advice about specific issues;
(d)   the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO) will be established by
November 30, 1996;



49
(e)   national steering committees will be established in all three countries for
the water hyacinth control program, by November 30,1996;
(f)   any changes in the policies, procedures and core membership of the
Regional Policy and Steering Committee will be acceptable to IDA;
(g)   herbicides used in the water hyacinth control program will be acceptable
to IDA, they will be used sparingly, in strictly selected and confined
areas, all persons applying such herbicides will be trained in their safe
and appropriate handling and use, and mechanisms for careful
monitoring of herbicide use will be established;
(h)   with the exception of the biological control agents for water hyacinth, no
new species will be introduced into the lake without first carrying out an
environmental impact assessment;
(i)   prior to implementation of any intervention likely to have a negative
impact on fish ecology (such as changes in net sizes or other controls over
the fishing effort), the proposed intervention will be subjected to an
environmental impact assessment, with provision for public comment;
(j)   prior to implementation of any project component related to pollution
control, a project - specific environmental assessment will be carried out
to guard against the possibility that any uncontrolled dumping of
domestic and industrial wastes would take place;
(k)   the three Governments will have the records and accounts of the project,
including those for the Special Accounts, and Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA; and will submit to IDA the audit reports within six months afier the
close of the respective fiscal year; the audit reports will include a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal
controls;
(1)    National Workshops coordinated by the National Secretariats and a
Regional Workshop coordinated by the Regional Secretariat in Tanzania
will be held in June of each year to assess implementation progress and
agree on any adjustments needed;
(m)   prior to the end of July, 1997, a comprehensive review will be held with
the donors, to consider the annual work plan and new financial
procedures and arrangements for the forthcoming fiscal year;
modifications of project design and/or procedures will be introduced as
appropriate; similar reviews will be carried out annually;
(n)   prior to the end of March, 1999 a Mid-Term Review will be carried out,
during which the performance of the Lake Victoria Fisheries
Organisation, the three National Secretariats, and the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee will be reviewed and appropriate changes made; the



50
review will also carry out an in-depth examination of the arrangements
for community participation in project implementation; as part of the
Mid-Term Review, the three Governments will prepare an updated
analysis of the transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the
second phase of project implementation, and set the stage for subsequent
initiatives;
(o)   subject to satisfactory completion of the Levy Trust Study, the three
Governments will jointly establish, by the end of July, 1998, a Levy Trust
Fund into which funds raised from commercial fisheries will be placed
and disbursed to support joint fisheries management and central
monitoring initiatives under the project;
6.3   Prior to Grant/Credit Effectiveness:
(a) the membership of the Regional Policy and Steering Comnmittee will have
been confirmed;
(b)   the Heads of the three National Secretariats, with qualifications and
experience equivalent to the position of Deputy Principal/Permanent
Secretary, will have been appointed, and the three National Secretariats
will have been strengthened by the appointment of an Accountant,
Disbursement and Procurement Officer, an Operations Officer and a
Management Information Systems Officer;
(c)   a panel of internationally renowned scientists will have been appointed;
(d)   common standard methods for measuring and monitoring water quality
will have been agreed among the three governments;
(e)   evidence satisfactory to IDA will have been provided that each of the
three Governments has made budgetary allocations representing their
first year contribution to the Project;
(f)   annual work plans and financial plans for the first year of the Project
Implementation Plan will have been finalized and submitted to IDA.
6.4   Subject to the above assurances, the project is suitable for IDA Credits of SDR 8.9
million (US$12.8 million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya, SDR 7.0 million
(US$10.1 million equivalent) to the Goverrunment of Tanzania, and SDR 8.4 million
(US$12.1 million equivalent) to the Governrment of Uganda, and for GEF Grants of SDR
8.0 million (US$11.5 million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya, SDR 7.2 million
(US$10.3 million equivalent) to the Government of Tanzania, and SDR 9.2 million
(US$13.2 million equivalent) to the Government of Uganda.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 9
Table 1 - Kenya
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components Project Cost Summary
lKsh '0W)                                     (US$ '060)
%     % Totai                                %     % Totl
Formign   Base                               Forign   Bair
Local    Foreign     Total    Exchange  Coats   Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
B. Fisheries Development
2. Research
fish b.ology and biodiversity conservabon                53.882    52.709     108,591       49       8      980      958    1,938        49       8
aquacutture                                             29,872    23,814       53,285       44       4      539      429      989        44       4
socio-econornic stidies                                 28.767    168691       45,458       37       4      523      303      827        37       4
database establishment                                   10M,       8,802      19,448       44       2      197      156       354       44       2
Subtotal Researh                                          123,167   10i,816     224,783       45      17    2,239    1,848    4,087        45      17
3. Extension
Extension                                               101,673    58,600     160,272       37      12    1,849    1.085    2,914        37      12
4. Legal Framework
establishingc dosed fishing areas                       20,410      2,186      22,598       10       2      371       40       411       10       2
strengthening enforcernent                              21,903      8,828      30,731      29        2      398      161       559       29       2
Subtotal Legal Framewouk                                  42,313    11,015       53,327      21        4      789      200      970        21       4
6. Fish Levy Trust
fish levy trust                                          17,398    16,781      34,179       49       3      316      305       621       49       3
Subtotal Fisheries Development                             284,551   188,011      472,561      40       37    5,174    3,418    8,592        40      37
C. Water Hyadnth Conto                                      96,207    36,729      132,936      28       10    1,749      668     2,417       28      10
0. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
futrophicabon                                           47.023    61,381      108,404       57       8      855    1.116    1,971        57       8
sedimentabon la                                          3,458      7,813      11,071      89        1       63      138      201        69       1
hydraulic contibons itb                                  2,921    11,922       14,843       so       1       53      217      270        80       1
Lake Vidoria managerent model                            3,863    14,968       18,828       79       1       70      272      342        79       1
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                         57,264    95,881      153,148      83       12    1,041    1,743    2,784        63      12
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Managemnetnt
managiement of Industlra and mnxicip  effluent          33,439    39,893       73,331       U4       6      608      725    1,333        54       8
ternary inrdustnal effluent tmenerttk                   10,382      5,034      15,415       33       1      189       92      280        33       1
tertary musidpal effluent tament d                      10,524      5,034      15,557      32        1      191       92      283        32       1
priority waste management investments                   38,500    71,500      110,000      85        9      700    1,300    2,000        65       9
Subtotal Industrial and Munkipal Waste Management         92,844   121,460      214,30, 4     57      17    1,888    2,208    3,896        57      17
Subtota WaterQualityManagement                              150,109   217,341     387,450       59      28    2,729    3,952    6,881        59      28
E. Land Use and Wetand Management
1. Land Use
pollubon loading                                        39.777    33,127       72,904      45        6      723      602    1,326        45       6
ago-chemecals assessment la                              7,240      8,538      15,778      54        1      132      155      287        54       1
soll and water conservabon                              21,247      t,005      27,252      22        2      386      109      495        22       2
catirnent attorestabon                                  44,050      8,399      52,448       16       4      801      153      954        16       4
Subtotal Land Use                                        112.314    56,089      168,383      33       13    2,042    1,019    3,062        33      13
2. Wetlands
wetands butlenng cepsoty                                29.882    30,545       80,427       51       5      543      555    1,099        51       5
sustanable use of wetands products                       18,944     8,550      27,494       31       2      344      155      500        31       2
Subtotal Wetands                                          4,826    39,09. 4      87,920      44        7      888      711    1,599        44       7
Subtotal Land Us and Wetland Management                    161,140    95,183      258,303      3T       20    2,930     1,730    4,660       37      20
F. Institutional Framework
LVEMP scaelrults fl                                       35,683     9,820       45,503      22        4      649      179      827        22       4
support to tpenan univeritbes                              6,823    11,692       18,715      84        1      124      216      340        64       1
Subtotal Inetltutonal Frsmework                             42.s0    21,712        84,218      34        5      77       395    1,168        34       5
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                         734,512   558.98     1.293,468      43     100   13.355   10,163   23,518        43     100
Phyical Conlngences                                       6,801     48,746      118,347      41        9    1.268      886    2,152        41       9
Pnce Contingendes                                        190.086   10,350       296,436      36       23      794      456    1,250        38       5
Tot lPROJECTCOSTS                                           994.199   716,052    1,710,251      42     132   15,414   11,505   26,919        43     114
a pilot tudy
tb plot study
io pilot projed
Nd pilot proted
b pilot
V Lake Victoria Envlinmental Managernent Projed



Table 2 - Kenya
Lake VICtona Environmental Management Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals hndudng Contngsns (Ksh 00W)                       Totals Induadng Counngsnloe (USU VW)
1997      1s38      sl        20        2001       Total      1997    19      1ffl   2000    2001    Total
A Fbhais Dewsopmsnt
2 Raseadi
fish -ibg aid b    body c                                43,510    27,004    24.644    24,067    24,313      143,539    763      441     375     341      321    2,242
sq- dh                                                   22,442    15,703    11,771    11,101      9,897      70,914    393      257     179     157     131    1,117
Docio= Km.stuis                                          15,888    13,377    11,127    11,117    10,115       61,623    279      219     169     158     134       958
dtme stasisnar                                            5,651     4,764     6.264     5.200     4,975      26,853      99       78      95      74      66      412
SUhistl Rasewch                                            87,491    60,848    53,80     51.484    49,300      302,929   1,534     994     819     730     652    4,729
3. E_bnIi
EmIbI                                                    59,216    25,365    59,062    46.209    28,270      218,122   1,038     414     899     6s5     374    3,381
4. LagS Frsmwak
saishinhlig dosad fWah agres                             4,986     6,880     6,008     6,609      7,270      31,713     87      112      91      94      96       480
strsn0uul u *rdiarownwt                                  11.682     4,781     7,307     8.982      9,779      42,531    205       78     111     127     129       651
Su4ll Lag Fraiwwodc                                        16,648    11,641    13.316    15.591    17,049       74,244    292      190     203     221     225    1,131
L Fih Lay Tnst
fish bwytbud                                              6,543              23,226     9.143    10.057       48,970     115       -    354      130      133      731
SutS Feds Dsvslopmsnt                                       169,899    97,853   149,410   122,427   104,676      64,264   2,979   1,599   2,275   1,737   1,384    9,972
S.WalsrHysckidCowtol                                         59,347    30,548    27,134    31,556    29,614      178,200   1,041     499     413     448     391    2,792
C. Wata taSty Maigamt
1. W_ tASt  Mal "bdIg
-                                                        57,684    19,330    22,165    22,663    21.417      143,238   1,011     316     337     321     283    2,269
_enntson                                                  8,383     1,403     3,786         -         -       13,572    147       23      58       -        -      228
hydaucwtlm                                                8,681     5,026     1,537     3,492         -       18,736     152      82      23      50        -      307
Lae Vidoris m gsert modl                                  8,049     4,912     5,659     4,253      4,920      25,792     106      80      66      60      65       398
Seate Wm" Quality Uoehug                                   0o,m      30,671    33,147    30,408    26,338      201,338   1,416     501     5S0     431     348    3,201
2.I hIeal aIdIN  Mea  la We  Maisgamewt
rmagm_odtb fi lI       d mulr**e  lhart                  28,340    14,916    17,788    19,410    19,789      100,242     497     244     271     275      262    1,548
beti y i Is WI sttet frfblnrt                             7.327     5,357     6,085       420       385       19,575     128      88      93       6        5      320
krt.ym   xi1dUaflkatbtn.t                                 7,382     5,417     6,151       420       385       19,755     129      89      94       6        5      323
piby wdm gwnait iwr_flnrt                                 8,250     5,500    55,000    41,250          -     110,000     150     100   1,000     750        -    2,0D0
Sub Wt hadkbia ai MunkIpa Wombs Magwnwut                   51,299    31,190    85,024    61,500    20,559      249,572    905      520   1,457   1,037     272    4,190
SeeblWflrQuflty Masgant_                                    132,076    81,661    118,171    91,908    46,896     450,911   2,321   1,021   1,962   1,469     620    7,392
D. Laid Us ad Wdwed  h        _iganwat
1. LaWd Us
poktion badmg                                            24,369    17,540    19,882    20,719    17,412       99,922     427     287     303     294      230    1,541
apr-Fisicals asamet                                        430      6,520     9,781      5,035         -      21,766       8     107     149      71        -      334
soilaidwflwamswndIen                                      8,772    12,530    13,480       117       128       35,008     154     205     205       2        2      567
cawnaft orsabe                                           19,876    11,940    11,958    13,130    14,420       71,324     349     195     183     187      192    1,106
uSebao  Lud Use                                            53,447    48,530    55,080    39,001    31,960      228,018     937     793     839     554      424    3,548
2. WadS
wseidsbuiftrwrecay                                       23,571    10,876    15,177    15,752    17,507       82,884     413     178    231      223      231    1,277
Aus'  tu. of ws dmuds po                                  8,504     6,650     7,033      7,582     8,340      38,110     149     109     107     108      110      583
SubtotwatlaW                                               32,075    17,527    22,210    23,334    25,847      120,994     562     296     338     331      342    1,859
Subtotl Laid Use aid Wand Maragsent                          85,523    66,056    77,291    62,335    57,807      349,012   1,500   1,060   1,177     885      765    5,407
E          h his ond Framwwork
LVEMP secrstarwts                                          13,101    10,311    12,102    13,303    14,624       63,441     230     169     184     189      194      966
atppor I rnp     u iwsr                                    11,609     2,651     2,979      3,345     3,840      24,424     204      43      45      47       51      390               '>
Subtoal hsuaona Frsiiwork                                    24,710    12,962    15,080    16,648    18,464       87,865     433     212    230      237      245    1,356
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         471,554   269,280   387,066   324,874   257,457    1,710,251   6,273   4,410   6,056   4,774   3,405   26,919
C
C



Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
Table 3 - Kenya
Lake Vctoria Environmental Management Project
Components by Financiers
(US$S000)
The
Government of
Kenya      GEF         IDA              Total
Amount   Amount    Amount    Amount            %
B. Fisheries Development
2. Research
fish biology and biodiversity conservation                 224       2,018           -       2,242       8.3
aquaculture                                                112         503        503        1,117       4.2
socio-economic studies                                      96         216        647         958        3.6
database establishment                                      41         371           -        412        1.5
Subtotal Research                                             473       3,107      1,149       4.729      17.6
3. Extenslon
Extension                                                  338           -       3,043       3,381      12.6
4. Legal Framework
establishing closed fishing areas                           48           -        432         480        1.8
strengthening enforcement                                   65           -        586         651        2.4
Subtotal Legal Framework                                      113           -      1,018       1,131       4.2
5. Fish Levy Trust
fish levy trust                                             73           -        658         731        2.7
Subtotal Fisheries Development                                  997       3,107       5,868       9,972      37.0
C. Water Hyacinth Control                                       279       1,508       1,005       2,792      10.4
D. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitorlng
eutrophication                                             227       2,042           -       2,269       8.4
sedimentation                                               23         205           -        228        0.8
hydraulic conditions                                        31         277           -        307        1.1
Lake Victoria management model                              40         358           -        398        1.5
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                             320       2,881          -       3,201      11 .9
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
management of industrial and municipal effluent            155           -       1,393       1,548       5.8
tertiary industrial effluent treatment                      32           -        288         320        1.2
tertiary municipal effluent treatment                       32           -        290         323        1.2
priority waste management Investments                      350           -       1,650       2.000       7.4
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Wast. Management            569          -       3621        4,190      15.6
Subtotal Water Quality Management                               889       2.881      3.621       7,392      27.5
E. Land Use and Wetland Management
1. Land Use
pollution loading                                          154       1,386           -       1.541       5.7
agro-chemicals assessment                                   33           -        301         334        1.2
soil and water conservation                                 57           -        510         567        2.1
catchment afforestation                                    111           -        995        1,106       4.1
Subtotal Land Use                                             355       1,386      1,806       3,548      13.2
2. Wetlands
wetlands buffering capacity                                128       1,149           -       1,277       4.7
sustainable use of wetlands products                        58         262        262         583        2.2
Subtotal WeUands                                              186       1,411        262       1,859       6.9
Subtotal Land Use and Wetland Management                        541       2,798      2,069       5,407      20.1
F. InsUtutIonal Framework
LVEMP secretariats                                             97        869           -         966       3.6
support to riparian universities                               39        351           -         390       1.5
Subtotal institutional Framework                                138       1.220          -        1i356      5.0
Total Disbursement                                             2,842     11,514      12,563      26,919     100.0



Annex 1
Page 4 of 9
Table 1 - Tanzania
Lake Victowia Environmental Management Project
Components Project Cost Summary
tTsh VW9)                                              (US$0VW)
Yr    % TOM                                            Y      % Total
Forein    Baa                                          Foreign    Barn
Local        Foreign        Total     Exchange  Coats      Local       Foreign      Total    Exchange  Coati
A. Flaheries Dbvelopment
2. Reserch
fish bolo  and biodwv ity onsvtlon                           374051.0      697,524.0    1,071,585.0      65        8        623.4     1,162.5     1,786.0       S5        8
aqusacutura                                                  276,675.3     243272.3      520,147.6       47        4       461.5        405.5       866.9       47        4
socic-acononic utuisa                                        244,020.0     184,065.0     428,065.0       43        3       406.7        3061.8      713.5       43        3
dalab"astsiabl4shmnnt                                         52,170.0     109,590.0     161t760.0       66        1         87.0       16i2.7      269.5       sa        I
Subtotal Re"arth                                               947,126.3    1,234,451.3   2,186,5T77.      57       17      1,576.5     2M0574      336.0         57       17
3. Extension
Extension                                                   062,993.4      830.623.9    1,693,617.3      49       13      1,438.3     1,364.4     2,6l22.7      49       13
4. Legat Fnramwork
establishing dosed Hsing aeas                                14,331.0       24,900.0     171,231.0       15        t        243.9        41.5       285.4       I5        I
so gfianingertkorienl                                        203.453.7     222.100.8     425,554.5       52        3        339.1       370.2       709.3       52        3
Subtotb Lagl Frawawork                                         349784.7      247,000.6     596,765.5       41        5        583.0       411.7       994.6       41        5
5. Fish Levy Trust
alh levy trust                                              133,203.0     ia3,060.0     31i,263.0       58        2       222.0        306.1       S27.1       58        2
Subtotal Fahteries Dawloprant                                   2293,107.3    2.495.136.0    4,798,243.3     52       38      3,621.8     4,158.6     7,980.4       52       38
B WatarHFyanllthConrol                                          1,006l1t9.0    357,949.5    1,366.138.5      20       11      1660.3        596.6     2,276.9       26       11
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monixorlng
eutrphicaxion                                                505,328.3     822,543.8    1,327,812.0      62       10        42.2      1,370.9     2213.1        62       10
edimentatr,on                                                 32,909.4      69,609.0     102,518.4       68        I        94.6        116.0       170.9      e6         1
hydrauli,c cOnK11a                                            23,736.0     159,456.0     183,192.0       87        I        39.6       2656        306.3        87        1
Lake Vioua Menagnt Model                                      54,679.0     151,820.0     2a,29e.0        73        2        91.1       252.7       343.8        73        2
Subtotal WaltrQuauty MonItorng                                  16,651.7    1.203,228.8    1.,19,880.4     a        14      1,027.6     2,005.4     3,033.1      e6        14
2. Industial end Municipal Woaas Managenwnt
nwuagerant of rdkall end      l nsAdpl effluent              359,055.0     357,412.5     716,467.5       50        6       5964        595.7      1,194.1       50        6
tertiarylndusatie Idlu nttrate                                80,973.0      53,112.0     134,065.0       40        1        135.0       88.5       223.5        40        1
oarliarymuniapuleffluentredibnenl                             65,981.0      53,112.0     119,073.0       45        1        109.9       U.5         198.5       45        1
pr    waste managenmwe  invostenbt                           192,000.0     408,000.0     600000.0        s8        5       320.0       6O8.0      1,000.0       ea        5
Subtotal lndusbtal and Munki4ia Waste Management               697,989.0     871,636.5    1.569,625.5      56       12      1,163.3     1,452.7     2,616.0       56       12
Subtotsl Water Quali ltManagent                                 1,314,640.7    2,074,865.3    3,389,S06.9   e6        27      2,191.1     3,458. 1    5,649.2       61       27
D. Land Urn and Wetland Management
11. Land Urn
poltulon IDarng                                              334,051.5     303,135.0     637,166.5       48        5       55s.e       805.2      1,062.0       48        5
agro-chara saeam                                              64,e64.5     113,514.0     178,198.5       64        1       107.8       189.2       297.0   U     4        1
soil end* wronservalon                                       235,221.0      23,694.0     251,665.0        9        2       392.0        39.4       431.5         9        2
catchnwvt aftostaon                                          342,180.0      90,120.0     432,3000        21        3       670.3       150.2       720.5        21        3
Subtotal Land ULe                                              976,137.0     530.433.0    1.506570.0       35       12      1626.9       84.1       2,511.0       35       12
2. Welinda
,vtardabutHeding caacity                                     378,050.8     221.812.4     599,8632        37        5       630. 1      369.7       999.8        37        5
sustlinable ur of i"nds produca                              21t 115.0      43,107.4     254,222.4       17        2       351.9        71.8       423.7        17        2
Subtotal Wetandl                                               589,1e5.8     264,919.8     654,085.6       31        7       981.9       441.5      1,423.5       31        7
Subtotat Lan Ur and Wetland Management                          1.56.302.8     796.352.8    2.360,866.6      34       19      2,606.6     1,325.6     3,934.4       34       19
E. lnatitdonal Frennwork
1. LVEMP aeaetwsa                                              464,646.0      62,604.0     827250.0        12        4       774.4       104.3       878.6        12        4
2. suppo to parian universities                                 46,894.5     128,494.5     175,389.0       73        1        78.2       214.2       292.3        73        1
3. polluon isaaer cnngncy                                             -       90,00.0       90,000.0      100        1           -       150.0       150.0       100        1
Subtotal Inatituionl Franmwork                                   5t1,540.5     281,098.5     792,639.0       35        6       652.6       468.5      1.321.1       35        6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            6,692,780.3   6,004,402.0   12,697,162.3      47      100     11,154.6    0,007.3    21,162.0      47      100
Physcal Cotnpncg                                               63.4,074.7    443,117.1   1,077,191.7       41        8      1,056.8      738.5      1,795.3       41        6
Pric Contingendes                                            7.634,ee619    e,te,e40.9  13,801 502.8       46      109       406.6       482.0      446.6       -133       -2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            14,661,716.8  12,614,160.0  27W75Y.8.          46     217      1i,402.8    11,207.9    22,810.S      S0      107



Table 2 - Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmnental Management Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Total kidung Contngendes (Tsh 000)                                Totals Including Contingendc  US$ '000)
1SS7       1998        iWO         2000        2001        Total       1997      1998      1999     2000       2001      Total
A. FIsherIes Development
2. Reerch
fish biolgy And biodnsy conservon                     431,320 1   621,278.7   471,334.4   453.535.2   543,217 3   2,520,685 6   627.5     329 5     413.4     308.9     287.3    1,966.7
squscultue                                            199,0577    272,431.6   259,8341    193,062.6   201,125.6  1,125,511.5    289.6     144.5    227.9      131.5     1064       899.9
socio-ecoriomicsludies                                152,822.7   223,268.2   170,5754    201,7756    213,534.8    961,976.8    222.3     1184      1496      137.4     112.9      740.8
dateabe establialnai                                   47,9575     95.994.8    88,466.9    81,559.6    89,064.0    403,042.8     69.8      509       776       55.6      47.1      3009
Sut',tl-Rsearch                                         831,1580  1,212,973.2   990,2108    929,9331   1,046,9416   5,011,216.7   1,209.1   643.4    868.6     6334       5537     3,908.3
3 ExtnIon
Externon                                              598,488.7   474.111 5   903,0092  1,184,067.9   725,356.7   3,885,0339    8707      251 5     7921      806.5     383.7    3,1044
4. Legl Fismework
esthlisgh dosedflsh ngnars                             40,635.7    83,326.3    70,8037     93,460.9   123,3684    411,595.0      59.1      442       62.1      63.7      653       294.3
srrgorwigartownt                                      213,206.2   122,170.1   136,0910    208,433.8   271,582.6    951,483.7    3102       648      1194      142.0     143.6      780.0
Subtotal Lsl Frwnwouk                                   253,841 9    205,496.4   206,894.6   301,894 8    394,951.0   1,363,078.6  369.3    109.0     181.5     205.6     208 9    1,074 3
S. Fish Levy Tnrst
fish levyust                                           78,8560           -   302,7201    159,066.9   233,2114     773,854.5     1147         -      265.5     108.3     123.3      612.0
SutotlFlW sDsvsopmnt                                     1,762,344.6  1,892,581.1  2,402,8347  2,574,962.7  2,400,4608  11,033,183.8   2,563.8   1,003.9   2,107.7   1,7539    1,2696    8,698.9
6 Walr Hy5ctl Coa*oI                                      632,232.1   566,845.2   449,2001    564,0149    644,829.9  2,557,122.1   9197      3007      394.0     3842      341 1    2,339.7
C. Water Quality MItagent
1. Water Quality Monitodng
-b                                                    638,129.8   461,465.8   475,899.2   696,210.3   684,979.1   2,956,684.3   928 3     244.8     417 4     474.2     362 3    2,427.1
sedwnertation                                          84,988.0    19,3506     56,272.9          -           -    160,611.4     1236       10.3      494          -        -       183.3
hyraUccondoorids                                       98,963.3   129,433.0    61,757.0    97,199.2    16,422.4    403.7749     1440       68.7     54.2       66.2       87       3417
LalV'idoMansgnwodd                                     68,300.8   139,791.8    99,9015     92,251.2   125,9087    526,154.1      99.4      74.2      876       628       66.6      3906
SubtotalWter QualityMonitodbg                           890,381.9   750,041.1   693,830 7    885,660.8   827,310.2   4,047,224.8   1,295 3  397 8    6086      603.3      437.6    3,342.6
2. hduslk and Municipal Wfl Management
miansgsmtdof    sriklwad murklel elnt                 293,181.4   276,348.0   277,6453    369,5576    439,3924   1,656,124.7    426.5     146.6    243.5      251.7     2324     1,300.8
ltrfyridusfidelnert rete                               69,129.8    84.3450     91,007.7          -           -    244,482.6     1006       447       798          -         -      2251
lertirymurwcsl efkieynt rseanert                       62,744.7    75.916 7    79.882.3          -           -    218,543.7      91.3      403       701          -         -      201.6
prority waste managemvnt 'vestmernt                    75,000.0   135,000.0          -   240,0000    150,0000    600,000.0      125.0     225.0        -      4000      2500     1,000.0
Subto'bl hdu xtrland Municlpl Was Manegwrsnt            500.055 9    571,609.8   448,535 3   609,557 6    589,392.4  2,719,151.0  743.4    456 6     393 4     651 7      482 4    2,727 5
Subal WartQuslitymansgemsnt                              1,390,437.8  1,321,650.9  1,142,366.0  1,495,218.4  1,416,702.6  6,766,3758    2,0386  8544    1,002.1   1,2550    920.0    6,070.1
D. Land Use and Wedland Managwnent
1. Land Us
pouA- bodrog                                          193,636 5    314,533.4   294,933 4    368,878.1   349,938.7   1,521,920.0  281 7    166 8     258 7     251 3     1651     1,143.6
dgro-dhemcslsassessment                                 2,543.2   165,668.4   134,219.1   155,0950           -    457,5257        3.7      879      117.7     105.6        -       3150
soil dwateronoervation                                 90,888.8   174,224.4   203,5746           -                468,687.8     132.2      92.4     1786          -        -      403.2
cinrwtaforeaWton                                      150,114.6   153,393.9   184,184 0   200,862.4   311,624.9   1,000,179.8   218.4      814      1616      1368      164.8      762.9
SubtotaLLand Use                                        437,183.1   807,820.1   816,911.1   724,835.4   661,563.5   3,448,313.2   6360      4285     716.6      493.7     349.9    2,624.7
2. Wetands
wetlnd buffertl cadty                                 303,459.8   330,016.3   350,393.6    59,4887     84,335.9   1,127,694.4   441.5     175.1     307.4      40.5      446     1,009.0
sustkbile usof weta dproc&id                           93,593.7    94,248.4   106,478.4   120,173.7   158,629.3    573,123.5    1362      500        93.4      81.9      83.9     445.3
Subtotl Wetands                                         397,053.5   424,264.8   456,872.0   179,6625    242,9651   1,700,817.9    577.6    225.0    400.8       122.4     128.5    1,454.3
Subto- LandUsesndWetdW ndw an  nnt                        834,236.6  1,232,0849  1,273.7831    904,497.9   904,528.7  5,149,131.1   1,213.6    653.5   1,117.3   616.1     4784      4,0790
E. Indsbikmol Framework
1. LVEMP seanad                                         131,751.6   167,071.3   224,455.6   358,327.7   406,432.1   1,288,038.4   191 7      88.6     196.9     244.1    215.0      936.2
2. aipor1tto. mianur&ersiea                             106,468.5    58,524.5    48,11"8     64,938.0    89,141.1    367,186.8    154.9      31.0     42.2       44.2     47.1      319.5           >
3. poton disaster w1t83.cy                                                 -           - 1                     -    114,838.8     1671         -         -                           167.1
Suot Institutonel Frirwork                                353,058.9   225,595.8   272,570.4   423,265.7   495,573.2   1,770,064.0  513.6      1197     239.1     288.3    2621       1,422.8     (D  D
Totl PROJECT COSTS                                       4,972,310.0  5,238,757.8  5,540,754.3  5,961.959.5  5,862,095.2  27,575,876.8   7,249.4   2,932.2   4,860.2   4,297.4   3,271.2   22,610.5   X
UL
0



Annex 1
Page 6 of 9
Table 3 - Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components by Financiers
(US$'000)
The
Government of
Tanzania    GEF       IDA        Total
Amount  Amount   Amount    Amount           %
A. Fisheries Development
2. Research
fish biology and biodiversity conservation                198.1  1,768.6          -       1,966.7    8.7
aquaculture                                                90.0   405.0       405.0        899.9     4.0
socdo-economic studies                                     74.1    166.7      500.0        740.8     3.3
database establishment                                     30.1    270.9          -        300.9     1.3
Subtotal Research                                           392.2  2,611.1      905.0      3,908.3    17.3
3. Extension
Extension                                                 310.4        -     2,794.0     3,104.4    13.7
4. Legal Framework
establishing dosed fishing areas                           29.4        -      264.9        294.3     1.3
strengthening enforcement                                  78.0        -      702.0        780.0     3.4
Subtotal Legal Framowork                                    107.4        -      966.9      1,074.3     4.8
5. Fish Levy Trust
fish levy trust                                            61.2        -      550.8        612.0     2.7
Subtotal Fisheries Development                                871.3  2,611.1     5,216.5     8,698.9    38.5
B. Water Hyacinth Control                                     234.0  1,263.4      842.3      2,339.7    10.3
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
eutrophication                                            242.7  2,184.4          -      2,427.1    10.7
sedimentation                                              18.3   164.9           -        183.3     0.8
hydraulic conditions                                       34.2   307.5           -        341.7     1.5
Lake Victoria Management Model                             39.1    351.5          -        390.6     1.7
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                           334.3  3,008.3          -      3,342.6    14.8
2. Industrial and Municipal Wastb Management
management of industrial and municipal effluent           130.1        -     1,170.7     1,300.8     5.8
tertiary industrial effluent treatent                      22.5        -      202.6        225.1     1.0
tertiary municipal effluent treatment                      20.2        -      181.5        201.6     0.9
priorty waste management investments                      160.0        -      840.0      1,000.0     4.4
Subtotal Industral and Municipal Waste Management           332.8        -    2,394.8      2,727.5    12.1
Subtotal Water Quality Management                             667.0  3,008.3    2,394.8      6,070.1    26.8
D. Land Use and WeUand Management
1. Land Use
pollution loading                                         114.4  1,029.2          -      1,143.6     5.1
agro-chemicals assessment                                  31.5        -      283.5        315.0     1.4
soil and water conservation                                40.3        -      362.9        403.2     1.8
catchment afforestation                                    76.3        -      686.7        762.9     3.4
Subtotal Land Use                                           262.5  1,029.2     1,333.0     2,624.7    11.6
2. Wetlands
wetlands buffering capacity                               100.9   908.1           -      1,009.0     4.5
sustainable use of wetlands products                       44.5   200.4       200.4       445.3      2.0
Subtotal WeUands                                            145.4  1,108.5      200.4      1,454.3     6.4
Subtotal Land Use and Wetiand Management                      407.9  2,137.7    1,533.4      4,079.0    18.0
E. lnsUttudonal Framework
1. LVEMP secretariats                                        93.6   842.6           -       936.2      4.1
2. support to riparan universities                           32.0   287.6           -        319.5     1.4
3. pollution disaster contingency                            16.7   150.4           -        167.1     0.7
Subtotal Institutonal Framework                               142.3  1,280.5          -      1,422.8     6.3
Total Disbumement                                            2,322.5  10,301.1   9,987.0    22,610.5   100.0



Annex 1
Page 7 of 9
Table 1 - Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%     flaToSd
(Ush '000)                          (US$                   Fouilgn   Bee
Local       Foreign       Total       Locai      Forign      Total   Exchange  Coat.
A. Fishedr  Developmnnt
1. Flaheute Managemrnt (LVFO)
Lale Vitori Fiuhea Office                                314,400 0    1,649,100.0   1,963,500.0   314.4    1,649.1    1,963.5       84        8
2. Flaheree Rftarch
Fish Biology and Biodiveranty Consrvation              1,014,130.0   1,043.860.0   2,057,990.0    1,014.1   1,043.9    2,058.0      51        8
Aqulture                                                 543,546.3    402,733 8    946,280.0      543.5      402.7       946.3       43       4
Soci-Economics Studies                                   402,610.0    438.575.0    541,185.0      402.6      438.6       841.2      52        3
Databee                                                  114,675.0    119,300.0    233,975.0      114.7      119.3       234.0      51        1
Subtotal Flelheriea Reaeanh                              2,074.961.3   2,004,468.8   4,079,430.0    2,075.0    2,004.5    4,079.4     49       17
3. Flheriesa Extension
Fihee Extenion                                         1,933,119.3   1.529.933.2   3,463,052.5    1,933.1   1,529.9    3,463.1      44       14
4. Legal Frtmeork
Eatabliahng Closed Fishinig Areas                        338,610.0     31,750.0    370,360.0      338.6       31.8       370.4        9       2
Strethening Enforcenent                                  500,417.0    324,568.0    824,985.0      500.4      324.6       825.0       39       3
Subtotal Legal Framwwork                                   839,027.0    356,318.0   1,195,345.0     839.0      356.3    1.195.3       30        5
5. Fish Levy Trust
Flsh Levy Trust                                          264,680.0    342,500.0    607,180.0      264.7      342.5      807.2       56        2
Subtot Filhdhesr Development                               5,426,187.6   5,882,320.0  11,308,507.5    5,426.2    5,882.3    11,308.5    52       46
l WaterHywcinthControl                                     1,993.690.0    777,182.5   2,770,872.5    1,993.7     777.2    2,770.9       28       11
C. Water Ouality Managmnt
1. Water Quality Monitoring
Eutrophication                                         1,022,397.5    922,305.0   1,944,702.5    1,022.4     922.3    1,944.7       47        6
Sedimentation                                             34,441.5    110,01&.0    144,456.5       34.4      110.0       144.5      76        1
Hydran Condition                                          45,675.0    218,780.0    262,435.0       45.7      216.8      262.4       83        1
LakeVitoriaModel                                          54,535.0    264,590.0    319,125.0       54.5      264.6       319.1      63        1
Subtotal WaterQuality Monitoring                         1,157,049.0   1,513,670.0   2,670,719.0    1,157.0    1,513.7    2,670.7     57       11
2. Indutbia and Municipal Waste Managent
Magwnent of Indurial and Municipd Effut                  e85,022.5    575,887.5   1,240,910.0     665.0      575.9    1,240.9       46        5
TerticrylnduatnalEffkuntTroatnent(plot)                 156,657.5     79,520.0    236,177.5      156.7       79.5       236.2      34        1
Tcrtiwcy Munipl Eakuent Tretnment (pilot)                181,237.5     79,520.0    240,757.5      161.2       79.5       240.8      33        1
Priority waste Mangment Invetmen                         240,000.0    760,000.0   1,000,000.0     240.0      760.0     1oo0.o       76        4
Subtottrilndutrial and Municipal WasteManagemnt          1,222,917.5   1,494,927.5   2,717.845.    1,222.9    149        2,717.6      55       11
Subtota Wate Quality Managent                              2,379,956.5   3,006,597.5   5,388,564.0    2,380.0    3,0068.e  5-uf.l       56       22
0. Land Use nd Wetland Management
1. Land use
Polkltion Loading                                        681,817.5    496,825.0   1,177,442.5     681.8      495.6    1,177.4       42        5
Ago-Chomiicat Aseaament (pikr)                           103,888s0     79,940.0    163,826.0      103.9       79.9       183.8      43        1
Soi wnd Water Conrvation (pilot)                         365,105.0     33,680.0    396,765.0      365.1       33.7      396.8        6        2
CaldOmwAftorestation                                     552,712.5    248,600.0    601.312.5      552.7      246.6      801.3       31        3
Subtotal Land urn                                        1,703.523.0    857,545.0   2.51,3680     1,703.5      ss7.      2,561.4      33       10
2. Wdtlands
BUAerfng Capay  Of Wetlands                              577,359.9    414,666.2    992,026.0      577.4      414.7      992.0       42        4
Sustaiable Use of Wetand Produca                         273,062.4    139.345.e    412,428.0      273.1      139.3      412.4       34        2
Subota Wallande                                            850,442.3    554,011.6   1,404,454.0     850.4 *      T       1,404.5      39        6
Subtotal Land Urn and Wetland Management                   2.553,965.3   1,411,658.8   3,965,822.0    2,554.0    1,411.9 '' W5.         36       16
E. Inattutonel Framework
1. LVEMP Secetalts                                         551,295.0    179.0400     730,335.0      551.3      179.0      730.3       25        3
2. Support to RianUnUrsitles                               117,142.5    197,9325     315,075.0      117.1      197.9      315.1       83        1
Subtota InstItutonal Franmwork                                  437.s  3t7te,7.ITs    io.48o          86e84      377.0     1 45.4       3i8       4
Totl ASEUNE COSTS                                          13.022.246.8  11,456,929.2  24.479,1760    13,022.2   1t145UT  24,479.2       47     100
Phyal Contingeraea                                       1,228,152.9    979,151.2   2.207,304.1   1,228.2      979.2    2,207.3       44        9
Price Cote                                               2,728,40.8   1,913,387.9   4,541,794.7     602.2      564.2     1 366.4      41        6
TottriPROJECTCOSTS                                         16,978,8068   14,349.468-2  31,326274.8   15,052.8   13,000.3   28,2t.        46     11s



Table 2 - Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totas Incuding Contingencies (Ush '000)                           Totas Including Contingencies (USS 000)
1997       1998        199         2000        2001        Totad      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001       Total
A. Fisheri  Development
1. FIshrle Management (LVFO)
LA  Vid  Fishries Offce                               619,449.7   455,272.7   491,712.3   492,139.5   531,509.6  2,590,083.9   603.1     420.7    431.2      409.6     419.8    2,284.4
2. FIshwis Rearch
Fish Biolgy and Biodiversity Conservation             806,447.5   501,565.5   466,889.5   438,047.9   436,742.2   2,649,692.6  785.1     463.5    409.4    364.6       345.0    2,367.6
Aqusoitt                                              377,743.9   272,947.6   212,417.3   183,573.5   156,532.9   1,203,215.1   367.8     252.2     186.3     152.8     123.6    1,082.7
Souo-Euonomics Studis                                 287,314.7   240,744.3   196,625.7   193,217.9   173,313.7   1,091,216.3   279.7    222.5     172.4    160.8      136.9      972.3
Database                                               72,393.1    55,046.6    76,131.4    53,399.7    45,220.4    302,191.2    70.5      50.9      66.8      44.4      35.7      268.3
Subtotal Fisheries Research                            1,543,899.1  1,070,303.9   952,063.9   868,239.0   811,809.2   5,246,315.2   1,503.1  989.0   834.9    722.6      641.2    4,690.8
3. FIsheies Extension
Fishries Extension                                   1,161,588.6   487,353.4  1,161,660.5  1,209,444.7   516,977.5  4,537,024.9   1,130.9  450.3   1.018.7   1,006.6    408.4    4,014.9
4. Legal Framework
Establishing Closed Fishing Areas                      80,162.4    86,575.0   120,188.6   100,981.5   109,060.0    496,967.5    78.0      80.0     105.4      84.0      86.1      433.6
Stthening Enfaorcment                                 392,504.0   148,634.9   160,527.7   173,370.0   187,239.4   1,062,275.9  382.1      137.3    140.8     144.3     147.9      952.4
Subtotal Legal Franwoork                                472,666.3   235,209.8   280,716.3   274,351.5   296,299.4   1,559,243.4  460.2     217.3     246.2    228.3      234.0    1,386.0
S. Fish Levy Trust
Fish Levy Tnrst                                       117,831.9          -   390,894.9   151,078.9   163,165.0    822,970.8     114.7        -     342.8    125.7      128.9      712.1
Subtotal Fiheies Developmrent                           3,915,436.0  2,248,139.9  3,277,048.0  2,995,253.5  2,319,760.9  14,755,638.2   3,811.9   2,077.3   2,873.7   2,492.9   1,832.3   13,068.2
B.WeterHyacinthControl                                  1,172,444.0   749,350.6   513,255.8   563,581.8   529,151.5   3,527,783.7   1,141.9    692.7   450.1     469.0     418.0    3,171.7
C. Water Quality Managenent
1. Water Quality Monitoring
Eutrophication                                        957,443.7   349,163.0   391,363.6   391,134.4   372,528.8   2,461,633.5   932.1     322.6    343.2     325.5     294.3    2,217.7
Sedirnentation                                         92,510.4    19,582.2    62,528.4          -           -    174,621.0     90.1       181      54.8         -         -      163.0
Hydraulic Conddions                                   151,304.9    83,895.0    29,356.0    53,600.2    4,311.2    322,467.2     147.3      77.5      25.7     44.6       3.4      298.6
Lake Victonr Model                                    243,730.4    64,862.5    70,054 0          -          -    378,646.9      237.3     59.9      61.4         -         -      358.7
Subtota Water Quality Monitoring                       1.444,989.3   517,502.7   553,302.0   444,734.6   376,840.0  3,337,368.6   1,406.8   478.2     485.2    370.1     297.7    3,038.0
2. Industrial and Municipal WteI Management
ManegmntJofIndustuialandMunioapalEffluent             449,591.7   237,308.3   306,986.5   329,084.7   297,925.7   1,620,896.9   437.7     219.3    269.2      273.9     235.3    1,435.4
TertiarytndustrialEffluentTratmerent(pclot)           115,890.2    73,899.9    86,172.3     5,188.0    6,016.9    287,167.3     112.8      68.3      75.6       4.3      4.8      265.7
TertiaryMuniipalEtffuentTmretmerit(pilot)             116,874.0    77,433.5    87,319.9     5,188.0    6,016.9    292,832.3     113.8      71.5      76.6       4.3       4.8      271.0
Priority Waste Management Investments                 300,000.0   700,000.0          -           -           -   1,000,000.0    300.0    700.0         -                         1,000.0
Subtotal Industri and Municpad Waste Managment          982,355.8  1,088,641.8   480,478.7   339,460.7   309,959.5   3,200,896.5  964.3   1,059.1     421.3    282.5     244.8    2,972.1
SubtW WaterQualityManagement                            2,427,345.1  1,606,144.5  1,033,780.7   784,195.2   686,799.5   6,538,265.0   2,371.1    1,537.3  906.5  652.7    542.5    6,010.1
D. Land Uses and Wedand Management
1. Land use
Polkltion Loading                                     368,588.2   283,162.7   314,359.1   320,135.7   248,577.2   1,534,822.9   358.8    261.6      275.7     266.4     196.3    1,358.9
Agro-Chemicals Assessment (pilot)                       7,429.0    87,937.0    98,783.9    40,484.7          -    234,634.6       7.2      81.3      86.6      33.7         -      208.8
SoilandWaterConservation(pilo)                        130,775.1   175,151.1   182,531.3     1,857.1    2,005.6    492,320.2     127.3     161.9     160.2       1.5       1.6      452.5
CetdimentAfforestation                                274,304.6   168,594.3   202,099.1   182,239.3   227,946.3   1,055,183.5   267.1     155.8     177.2     151.7     180.1      931.8
SubtoWA  Land use                                       781,097.0   714,845.1   797,773.3   544,716.8   478,529.1   3,316,961.3   760.5    660.6      699.7     453.3     378.0    2,952.0
2Z Wedands
Buffering Capacity of WeUands                         399,349.7   170,371.6   234,847.6   263,273.1   221,065.0   1,288,907.0   388.8     157.4     205.9    219.1      174.6    1,145.9
SustainableUseofWetarndProducs                        125,249.8   100,917.6    94,679.1   114,829.8   108,452.1    544,128.3    121.9      93.2      83.0      95.6      85.7      479.4
Subtot Wedands                                          524,599.5   271,289.2   329,526.7   378,102.8   329,517.1   1,83,035.3    510.7     250.7     289.0     314.7     260.3    1,625.3
Subtotal Land Use and Wetand Managemnt                  1,305,696.4   986,134.3  1,127,300.1   922,819.6   808,046.2   5,149,996.6   1,271.2    911.3   988.7     768.0    636.3    4,577.4
E. Insdtiuonal Frarnework                                                                                                                                                                                >
1. LVEMPSeorstarts                                      219,469.9   166,003.0   179,498.3   193,858.2   209,366.8    968,196.2    213.7     153.4     157.4     161.3     165.4      851.2
2. Support to Rllj   Universies                         196,794.4    40,624.0    44,955.9    49,719.6    56,301.3    388,395.2    191.6      37.5      39.4      41.4      44.5      354.4          (D (D
Subtota Institutional Frwmwwouk                           416,264.3   206,627.0   224,454.2   243,577.9   265,668.0   1,356,591.4   405.3     190.9     196.8     202.7     209.8    1,205.6             X
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                       9.237,185.9  5,796,396.2  6,175,838.8  5,509,427.9  4,609,426.0  31,328,274.8   9,001.3   5,409.5   5,415.9   4.585.3   3,640.9   28,052.9   
F-h



Annex 1
Page 9 of 9
Table 3 - Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components by Financiers
(USS'000)
The
Govemment of
Uganda       GEF         IDA         Total
Amount    Amount    Amount          Amount       %
A. Fisheries Development
1. Fisheries Management (LVFO)
Lake Victoria Fisheries Office                            228.4      2,055.9          -      2,284.4      8.1
2. Fisheries Research
Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation                236.8      2,130.8          -      2,367.6      8.4
Aquaculture                                               108.3       487.2       487.2      1,082.7      3.9
Socio-Economics Studies                                    97.2       218.8       656.3        972.3      3.5
Database                                                   26.8       241.4           -        268.3      1.0
Subtotal Fisheries Research                                 469 1      3,078.2     1,143.5     4,690.8    16.7
3. Fisheries Extension
Fisheries Extension                                       401.5           -      3,613.4     4,014.9    14.3
4. Legal Framework
Establishing Closed Fishing Areas                          43.4           -       390.3        433.6      1.5
Strengthening Enforcement                                  95.2           -       857.2        952.4      3.4
Subtotal Legal Framework                                    138.6           -      1,247.4     1,386.0      4.9
5. Fish Levy Trust
Fish Levy Trust                                            71.2           -       640.9        712.1      2.5
Subtotal Fisheries Development                              1,308.8      5,134.1     6,645.2    13,088.2    46.7
B. Water Hyacinth Control                                     317.2      1,712.7     1,141.8     3,171.7    11.3
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
Eutrophication                                            221.8      1,996.0          -      2,217.7      7.9
Sedimentation                                              16.3       146.7           -        163.0      0.6
Hydraulic Conditions                                       29.9       268.7           -        298.6      1.1
Lake Victoria Model                                        35.9       322.8           -        358.7      1.3
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                           303.8      2,734.2          -      3,038.0    10.8
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
Management of Industrial and Munidpal Effluent            143.5           -      1,291.9     1,435.4      5.1
Tertiary Industrial Effluent Treatment (pilot)             26.6           -       239.2        265.7      0.9
Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment (pilot)              27.1           -       243.9        271.0      1.0
Priority Waste Management Investments                     120.0           -       880.0      1,000.0      3.6
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Waste Management          317.2           -      2,654.9     2,972.1    10.6
Subtotal Water Quality Management                             621.0      2,734.2     2,654.9     6,010.1    21.4
D. Land Use and Wetland Management
1. Land use
Pollution Loading                                         135.9      1,223.0          -      1,358.9      4.8
Agro-Chemicals Assessment (pilot)                          20.9           -       187.9        208.8      0.7
Soil and Water Conservation (pilot)                        45.3           -       407.3        452.5      1.6
Catchment Afforestation                                    93.2           -       838.6        931.8      3.3
Subtotal Land use                                           295.2      1,223.0     1,433.8     2,952.0    10.5
2. Wetlands
Buffering Capacity of Wetlands                            114.6      1,031.3          -      1,145.9      4.1
Sustainable Use of Wetland Products                        47.9       215.8       215.8        479.4      1.7
Subtotal Wetlands                                           162.5      1,247.1      215.8      1,625.3      5.8
Subtotal Land Use and Wetland Management                      457.7      2,470.1     1,649.5     4,577.4    16.3
E. Institutional Framework
1. LVEMP Secretariats                                        85.1       766.1           -        851.2      3.0
2. Support to Riparian Universities                          35.4       319.0           -        354A4      1 3
Subtotal Institutional Framework                              120.6      1,085.0          -      1,205.6      4.3
Total Dlsbursement                                           2,825.3    13,136.1    12,091.5    28,052.9   100.0






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (GEF and IDA)
(US$ million)
IDA FY              Semester       Disbursement    Cumulative            % Total
Disbursement
1997                    1                0.0              0.0                0
2               6.8               6.8               10
1998                    1                6.8             13.6               19
2               7.2              20.8              30
1999                    1                7.2             28.0               40
2               7.6              35.6              51
2000                    1                7.6             43.2               62
2               7.1              50.3              72
2001                    1                7.1             57.4               82
2               4.8              62.2              89
2002                    1                4.8             67.0               96
2               2.0              69.0              99
2003                    1                1.0             70.0              100



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
Estimated GEF/ IDA Disbursements
KENYA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit           Percent of Financing
(US$ m)        (US$ m).
1. Civil Works                0.1            1.5       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment     2.7            2.2       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants & Training     3.3            2.5       100 %
4. Micro-projects                            0.7       90 %
5. Operating Costs            4.4            4.6       90 %
6. Unallocated                1.0            1.3
Total                         11.5           12.8
TANZANIA
Category                   GEF Grant    IDA Credit          Percent of Financing
(US$ m)        (US$ m)
1. Civil Works                0.1            0.7       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment     2.1            1.7       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants & Training     3.5            2.2       100 %
4. Micro-projects                            0.8       90 %
5. 0perating Costs            3.5            3.7       90 %
6. Unallocated                1.1            1.0
Total                         10.3           10.1
UGANDA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit           Percent of Financing
(US$ m)        (US$ m)
1. Civil Works                0.3            0.6       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment     2.5            2.2       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants &Training      4.3            2.5       100 %
4. Micro-projects                            1.0       90 %
5. Operating costs            4.8            4.6       90 %
6. Unallocated                1.3            1.2
Total                         13.2           12.1



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
Kenya
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                         ICB              NCB             Other             Total
Civil Works                                    2.8                                2.8
GEF                                (0. 1)                             (0.1)
IDA                               (2.5)                              (2.5)
Vehicles                      2.2                                0.1              2.3
GEF              (1.0)                              (0.1)            (1.0)
IDA             (1.0)                                                (1.0)
Equipment                                                        3.6              3.6
GEF                                                 (1.9)            (1.9)
IDA                                                (1.4)             (1.4)
Training                                                         3.4              3.4
GEF                                                 (1.4)             (1.4)
IDA                                                (1.6)             (1.6)
Consultants                                                      3.7              3.7
GEF                                                 (2.2)            (2.2)
IDA                                                (1.2)             (1.2)
Operating Costs                                                11.1              11.1
GEF                                                 (4.9)            (4.9)
IDA                                                (5.1)             (5.1)
Totals                        2.2              2.8              21.9             26.9
GEF              (1.0)            (0.1)           (10.4)            (11.5)
IDA             (1.0)            (2.5)             (9.3)           (12.8)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF and
IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                        ICB              NCB             Other            Total
Clvil Works                                   1.9                               1.9
GEF                               (0.1)                             (0.1)
IDA                              (1.6)                             (1.6)
Vehicles                     1.9                               0.1               1.9
GEF              (0.8)                            (0.1)             (0.8)
IDA             (0.9)                                              (0.9)
Equipment                                                      2.8              2.8
GEF                                                (1.5)            (1.5)
IDA                                               (1.0)            (1.0)
Training                                                       3.4              3.4
GEF                                                (1.6)           (1.6)
IDA                                               (1.4)            (1.4)
Consultants                                                    3.7              3.7
GEF                                                (2.3)           (2.3)
IDA                                               (1.0)            (1.0)
Operating Costs                                                8.9              8.9
GEF                                                (4.0)            (4.0)
IDA                                               (4.1)            (4.0)
Totals                       1.9              1.9             18.8             22.8
GEF              (0.8)            (0.1)            (9.4)           (10.3)
IDA             (0.9)            (1.6)            (7.6)           (10.1)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF and
IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                        ICB              NCB             Other            Total
Civil Works                                   2.2                               2.2
GEF                               (0.3)                             (0.3)
IDA                              (1.8)                             (1.8)
Vehicles                     2.5                                                2.5
GEF              (1.1)                                              (1.1)
IDA             (1.1)                                              (1.1)
Equipment                                                      3.3              3.3
GEF                                                (1.7)            (1.7)
IDA                                               (1.3)            (1.3)
Training                                                       3.2              3.2
GEF                                                (1.3)            (1.3)
IDA                                               (1.6)            (1.6)
Consultants                                                    5.2              5.2
GEF                                                (3.5)            (3.5)
IDA                                               (1.2)            (1.2)
Operating Costs                                               11.7             11.7
GEF                                                (5.3)            (5.3)
IDA                                               (5.1)            (5.1)
Totals                       2.5              2.2             23.4             28.1
GEF              (1.1)            (0.3)           (11.8)           (13.2)
IDA             (1.1)            (1.8)            (9.2)           (12.1)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF and
IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Governrment.






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 13
KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A.   Introduction
1.    This summarizes the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), which is a joint product
of the Lake Victoria Environmental Management Secretariats (LVEMPS) of
Kenya,Tanzania and Uganda and IDA/GEF officials responsible for the Lake Victoria
Environmental Management Project (LVEMP).
B.   Overall Responsibility
2.    LVEMPS: Overall responsibility for coordinating project implementation will
rest with the LVEMP Secretariats (LVEMPS), created under the Tripartite Agreement
signed by the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda on August 5,1994. Under
the Agreement the three governments undertook to establish a Regional Policy Steering
Committee ( RPSC) to be assisted by a Regional Secretariat and two National
Secretariats. The Regional Secretariat is located in Tanzania. Under the project the
LVEMPS's will: a) provide a secretariat to the LVEMP; b) ensure efficient
implementation of the LVEMP by establishing a monitoring and coordinating
mechanism; c) assist in building institutional and human resource capacity within the
program; d) organize donor coordination; e) assist in formulating harmonised policies,
institutions and a legal framework relevant to Lake Victoria; f) establish necessary
linkages between the LVEMP and the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO); g)
provide logistical support to the sectoral ministries and agencies for implementation of
the program; h) ensure compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and
disbursement procedure; and i) provide policy guidance and a forum for conflict
resolution. In addition the Regional Secretariat through the RPSC will monitor and
review progress of implementation, report on progress every quarter, and provide
guidance and direction to the LVEMP.
3.    The Regional Secretariat in Tanzania will assist the RPSC, and provide linkages
with other regional agencies dealing with issues pertaining to Lake Victoria. This
Secretariat, working under the office of the Vice President in the Department of
Environment, Poverty Alleviation and Union Matters, will report to the RPSC. The
Regional Secretariat will also perform the function of the National Secretariat for
LVEMP implementation in Tanzania.
4.   In Kenya the LVEMP Secretariat will work under the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources, while in Uganda it will be under the Ministry of Natural
Resources.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 13
5.    The Regional Policy and Steering Committee, headed by a chairperson who will
be elected by that committee from among its membership at its first meeting and
thereafter on an annual rotation, will include a maximum of three representatives of
each country led by an officer at Permanent Secretary level. The Executive Secretary, to
be appointed by the RPSC, at its first meeting, will as head of the Regional Secretariat be
responsible for monitoring progress, preparing review meetings, and compiling reports
as required by IDA and GEF. The National Secretariat in each country will assist the
Executive Secretary of the Regional Secretariat in preparing regional meetings and
regional level reports. The locations of National Secretariats in each country will be
determined by the respective Governments.
6.    The Regional Secretariat in Tanzania and the National Secretariats in Kenya and
Uganda will each be headed by a full-time professional (equivalent in qualifications and
experience to a Deputy Principal/Permanent Secretary) who will be accountable to the
Principal/Permanent Secretary of their parent Ministry and will have full responsibility
for coordinating LVEMP activities. Each LVEMP Secretariat will be staffed with: (a) one
Project Accountant; (b) one Procurement/Disbursement Officer (PDO); (c) one
Operations Officer (OPO); (d) one Management Information Systems Officer (MISO);
one secretary, two drivers and one messenger. The major responsibility of the PDO will
be to ensure that all Ministries, agencies, and institutions using Project funds set up
proper accounting systems and maintain proper accounts, and promptly claim
reimbursement from C,EF and IDA. All withdrawal applications will be submitted to
IDA/ GEF through the office of the PDO so that a proper track of expenditures on
different components of the Program in other institutions and ministries or departments
is kept, and IDA/ GEF disbursements are received by the beneficiaries without undue
delay. The PDO will also be responsible for supervising the Project's "Special Account"
and guiding various implementing agencies with regard to procedures for its use. The
major responsibility of the OPO will be to supervise closely the implementation of
various Project components, identify implementation bottlenecks in the field and/or at
Headquarters, and bring these bottlenecks to the attention of the head of the Regional/
National Secretariat. The OPO will also coordinate training and provide the MISO with
reports on physical and financial progress. The latter will establish and operate an
approved management information system installed by consultants, obtain periodical
reports from various managers concerned with project implementation, collate data and
reports and submit them to the head of the LVEMP Secretariat. The MISO will collect
data on key monitorable indicators and prepare quarterly and annual reports to be
submitted to IDA/GEF in agreed formats, as well as background and progress reports
for IDA/GEF review missions.
7.    LVEMP secretariat staff will be recruited on personnel service contracts. Their
salaries and wages for the duration of the project will be financed by the GEF, together
with expenditures on vehicles and equipment required for LVEMP to ensure rapid
build up of its implementation capacity.
C.    Specific Responsibilities of the Secretariats for LVEMP
8.    The LVEMP Regional Secretariat's specific responsibilities will include, but not
be limited to: (a) organisation of semi annual meetings of RPSC members for obtaining



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 13
their guidance and direction on implementation of the LVEMP including review and
monitoring of the Program; (b) creating implementation mechanisms to ensure
formulation of harmonised policies institutions and legal framework relevant to Lake
Victoria; (c) establishing close working linkages with the LVFO and reporting on its
progress to the RPSC; (d) upon direction of the RPSC establishing functional links with
the Permanent Tripartite Commission (PTC) and other regional organisations such as
the Kagera Basin Organization (KBO), the Association for Strengthening Agricultural
Research in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA), and the Technical Cooperation for
the Promotion of Development and Environmental Protection of the Nile Basin
(TECCONILE); (e) environmental management capacity building in the public, private
and non governmental sectors; (f) monitoring and coordination to ensure effective
implementation, from the regional to national to grassroot level, of all LVEMP
components, including research, extension, training, evaluation and transfer of
technological skills; (g) assisting IDA supervision missions with necessary information,
setting up meetings, organising field visits and accompanying the supervision mission
to meetings and field visits; (h) submitting quarterly progress reports to IDA/GEF in
agreed formats in addition to such other periodic reports which IDA/GEF may
specifically request; (i) developing a detailed Operational Manual for LVEMP in the first
Project year (PY-1), and an Operational Plan to ensure sustainability after the closing
date, both in a format satisfactory to IDA; (j) conducting with IDA/GEF a Mid-Term
Review of Project progress by the end of February 1999; and (k) preparing an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months from the close of the
Project.
9.    The LVEMP National Secretariats' specific responsibilities will include, but not
be limited to: (a) organisation of Technical Committee meetings (at least three per year),
of members drawn from all implementing agencies for reviewing progress on
implementation of LVEMP; (b) creating implementation mechanisms to ensure
formulation of harmonised policies, institutions and legal framework relevant to Lake
Victoria in close cooperation with the Regional Secretariat; (c) effective participation in
meetings and workshops convened by implementing agencies for furtherance of the
program; (d) capacity building in environmental management of the lake and its
catchment, in public, private and non-governmental sectors; (e) monitoring and
coordination at the national and grassroot level, of all LVEMP components, including
research, extension, training, evaluation and transfer of technological skills and
providing feed back to their respective Ministries of Environment and Natural
Resources; (f) assisting IDA supervision missions with necessary informnation, setting up
meetings, organising field visits and accompanying the supervision mnissions to
meetings and field visits; (g) submitting quarterly progress reports to IDA/GEF in
agreed formats in addition to such other periodic reports as IDA/GEF may specifically
request; (h) developing a detailed Operational Manual for LVEMP implementation in
their respective countries during the first Project year (PY-1), and an Operational Plan to
guarantee sustainability after the closing date, both in a format satisfactory to IDA; (i)
conducting with IDA/GEF a Mid-Term Review of Project progress by the end of
February 1999; and (j) preparing an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six
month from the close of the Project. The three Governments have assured IDA/GEF
that they will provide adequate and timely budgetary and staffing support to the
implementing ministries, institutions and agencies to undertake these responsibilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 13
10.   The LVEMP secretariats will set up the following institutional and regulatory
mechanisms to secure inter-agency coordination, obtain periodic feedback, submit
regular progress reports to IDA/ GEF in agreed formats, and thereby implement the
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program:
(a)   Project Implementation Committee (PIC): In each country the LVEMPS will set
up a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) with membership drawn from all
implementing agencies. The OPO of the LVEMP National Secretariat will be nominated
as Secretary of the PIC. Members will include representatives from the
Ministries/Departments of Environment and Natural Resources, Fisheries, Water, and
Agriculture, along with members of specialised technical agencies/institutions
participating in the program, private sector and non governmental organisations. The
PIC will meet every month under the Chairmanship of the Head of the LVEMP
National Secretariat . The agenda of PIC meetings will include review of the physical
and financial progress of the various project components including programs in littoral
pilot zones, in wetlands as well as in rivers within the Lake Victoria Catchment,
community participation, publication and dissemination of information, progress in
procurement, construction of works and installation of equipment. To this end, the
LVEMPS will define for each of the implementing agencies the formats and the timing
for submission of the quarterly progress reports.
(b)   Meetings with Regional Sub-Program Resource Personnel: In order to
maintain close grass root contacts and stay current with the problems of each region/
subcomponent, and to assist the newly set-up pilot zone administrations, LVEMPS will
convene meetings each quarter at selected places in the country, each in a cluster of
mostly contiguous regions. These meetings will be used to review, on a regional basis,
the problems encountered and progress made in the implementation of various
components of LVEMP, and to agree on the next steps and a work plan for the pilot
projects under implementation, including programs implemented lake wide. Project-
specific protocols for start up will be drawn up after rapid appraisal and establishment
of bench mark status. Representatives of the concerned research institutions,
government extension departments, stakeholders and community based organisations,
and the faculty of national universities will participate in these meetings.
(c)   Community Involvement in the Program: Comnmunity participation is
considered key to the successful implementation of the program. This will imply
involvement and participation of stakeholders including empowerment of communities
for eventual ownership of the programs targeted for their benefit. In keeping with this
overall objective the LVEMPS will ensure that the processes of education,
communication, awareness creation, community participation and motivation are
followed consistently and thoroughly throughout the implementation phase of the
program, and that seminars, workshops and demonstrations are conducted in a timely
and organised manner. A systematic community education program will need to be
launched, to teach rural communities not only in formal class settings but through radio
or video programs the benefits of environmental conservation and management. The
LVEMPS will oversee these efforts by assisting in the preparation of workshops and
seminars, reviewing comprehensively the achievements of each of these events,



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 13
identifying success and failure, and preparing in consultation with and cooperation of
all participating agencies, workplans for implementation during the following year and
assigning responsibilities for future specific actions. LVEMPS in their regular meetings
will review the progress in the implementation of recommended activities, and include
the results of such review in quarterly progress reports to their respective Ministry, IDA
and GEF.
(d)   Workshops on Procurement, Disbursements and Project Management: The
LVEMPS will organize, with IDA/GEF assistance, a workshop on procurement,
disbursement and project management in Project Year 1 (and in subsequent years if
necessary) for selected staff engaged in LVEMP implementation procurement,
disbursement and project management. The concerned staff will also receive intensive
training in IDA/GEF procedures.
(e)   Mid-Term Review (MTR): The LVEMPS will collaborate with IDA in a Mid-
Term Review (MTR) of LVEMP, which will be held by the end of March, 1999. The
LVEMPS will enlist the participation of all implementing agencies. The MTR will
include a review of progress in policy reform, including harmonised legislation, legal
framework and institutional arrangements for regional cooperation. It will also review
progress achieved in staffing, funding and operational activities, and capacity building.
As part of the Mid-Term Review, the three governments will prepare an updated
analysis of transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the second phase of project
implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. Based on the findings of
the Mid- Term Review, the Project will be restructured, if and when necessary.
(f)   Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation: The LVEMPS will be
responsible for coordinating the development of annual work plans for various Project
components and maintaining data on implementation progress. To this end the
LVEMPS will:
(i) establish bench marks for evaluation of subsequent project
achievements in consultation with implementing agencies;
(ii) prepare quarterly progress reports, providing a descriptive and
analytical account of project achievements and highlighting implementation
problems; these reports will be submitted regularly to the respective Ministries
of Environment and Natural Resources and IDA for the quarters ending March,
June, September and December of each year. The comments and directives of
the Ministries, if any, on the quarterly reports will also be communicated to IDA;
(iii) prepare and submit to IDA an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) within six months from project closing date. IDA will provide the
LVEMPS with a standard format for the ICR. The ICR will, inter alia, include the
Government's assessment of the extent to which objectives were realized, details
of physical and financial achievements, problems encountered, solutions found
and lessons learned. The ICR will include a revised GEF Strategic Action
Program, containing an outline of interventions needed to address priority



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 13
problems. IDA will use this as the basis for convening a donors' meeting to seek
commitments to support such interventions.
(g)   Audit: The LVEMPS will ensure that separate books of account are maintained
in LVEMPS and by each implementing agency for all project-related accounts. These
accounts, together with special accounts and statements of expenditure, will be audited
on an annual basis, by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and audit reports wiU
be submitted to IDA within six months from the end of each fiscal year.
(h)   Quality Control: LVEMPS will organize periodical evaluations and technical
reviews of the program's implementation. The LVEMPS wiU also coordinate
arrangements for the Panel of Scientists, whose 7 members will serve as an overall
advisory group for the scientific studies of the lake. They wiU meet once a year to
review issues arising from project implementation, and will meet at other times as
required, as wel as being available individuaUly, at the request of the Regional Policy
and Steering Committee, to provide advice about specific issues. The LVEMPS wiU
ensure that the advice and comments tendered by the Panel are addressed by the
implementing agencies.
11.   The performance of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO), which wiU
have a critical role in ensuring the quality of implementation of several important
components of the program, wiU also be reviewed by IDA/GEF supervision missions.
The LVFO will furnish quarterly progress reports to the Ministries of Environment and
Natural Resources, in a format to be agreed during Project implementation; these
reports will, on request, be available to IDA. At the Mid-Term Review, the performance
and future needs/ sustainability of the LVFO will also be reviewed.
D.   Focal Points For Implementation of LVEMP
12.   Focal points for implementation of LVEMP wiU be as follows: (a) at the
Regional level, the RPSC with the assistance of the Regional Secretariat wiU be
responsible for the overall direction, planning, monitoring and assessment of the
program; (b) at the National level, the LVEMP National Secretariats, assisted by the
sectoral ministries/departments, identified universities and/or research institutions will
be responsible for the overall direction, planning, monitoring and assessment of the
respective national program; (c) at the Zonal level the office of the Regional
Commissioner, the Zonal Officer with the assistance of selected Extension Staff; and
Local Agencies; (d) at the Community /Village Level, Non Governmental
Organizations and Community Based Organizations, selected community leaders,
groups of fisherfolk, farmers and Extension Agents.
13.   Major components of the program will be implemented by various national
agencies as follows: (a) the three Fisheries Research Institutes (KEMFRI, TAFIRI and
FIRI) will play lead roles in all sub-components of fisheries research, and will
collaborate with the Fisheries Departments of their respective governments in the
fisheries extension, and with the Ministries of Water in the Water Quality components;
(b) the Ministries of Water will be the lead agencies for the Water Quality components,
and they will in turn collaborate dosely with the Ministries of Environment, Natural



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 13
Resources and Agriculture in their implementation of the components on land use and
wetland management (c) National Wetlands Committees in all three countries will also
be involved in these components, with continuing assistance from the World
Conservation Union (IUCN); (d) the Moi, Makarere, and Sokoine Universities, and the
Universities of Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, will be involved in many of the studies,
including those on socio-economics; (e) the water testing laboratories of the Kisumu and
Mwanza Municipal Councils, the Uganda Water and Sewage Corporation, and the Lake
Basin Development Authority (in Kisumu) will extend the reach of laboratories already
operating or planned by the respective Ministries of Water; (e) National Steering
Committees or task forces will be set up for the Water Hyacinth Control Program, while
the respective national agricultural research institutes will establish and operate the
rearing units for biological control agents.
E.    Capacity Building
14.   The LVEMPS will coordinate the capacity building programs under the program
and take the overall responsibility for Training. Each implementing department and
agency will prepare an annual training plan and submit it to the respective LVEMP
National Secretariat. The training plan will identify the subjects and courses for
training, their timing, duration, estimated costs, name and location of the training
institutions, the names of the persons proposed, and the justification for their training.
The training plans will be submitted to IDA for approval, the first within three months
of Credit Effectiveness, and subsequent annual plans by May 15 of each year.
15.   Every sub-program makes extensive provision for capacity building. The
training program will include regional fellowships (including about 100 Masters
Degrees and 15 PhDs), study tours, on-site training to the national regional and field
staff, selected community leaders, fisherfolk/farmers and entrepreneurs. At least 2,000
short-term and on-job training opportunities are provided in the project, and at least 600
stakeholder workshops.
F.   Implementation Plan, Key Monitorable Indicators and Supervision Plan
16.   The outline of key Monitorable Indicators, as agreed during negotiations, is in
Annex 4, the schedule of procurement activities arising out of the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) is in Annex 5, and the agreed Supervision Plan is shown in
Annex 6.



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 13
Documents In the Project File
Abramovitz, Janet N. (1995), Freshwater Failures: The Crises on Five Continents, World
Watch, September/October: 27-35
Baskin, Yvonne (1994), Losing A Lake, Discover, March: 74-81.
Bootsma, Harvey A., and Robert E. Hecky (1993), Conservation of the African Great
Lakes: A Limnological Perspective, Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 644-655
Crul, R.C.M., G.T. Silvestre, D.J. Postma, M.J.P. van Oijen, T.O. Acere, and G. Bongers
(1995), A Bibliography of Lake Victoria, Intemational Hydrological Programme, United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Paris, SC-
95/WS/16: 164 pp. listing 2,180 references
European Communities (1993), Evaluation Study of Lake Victoria Fisheries Research
Project, Phase 1, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Project No. 5100 36 94 401, Intemational
Agricultural Centre, Wageningen, the Netherlands, June: 79 pp.
European Communities (1994), Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project: Formulation of
Operational Research Project, Technical Annexes, June: 91 pp.
European Communities (1995), Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project - Phase II (REG
5316/001/ROR), Annex No. 2, Technical and Administrative Provisions for
Implementation, October: 6 pp. + Ann.
FAO (1993), Operational Water Resources Management and Information System in the
Nile Basin Countries, Project GCP/RAF/286/ITA, 36 pp.
FAO (1994), Land Cover Mapping of East Africa Based on Satellite Remote Sensing,
Project GCP/RAF/287/ITA, 48 pp.
FAO (1994), Information System for Water Resources Monitoring and Planning in the
Lake Victoria Region, Project GCP/RAF/304/JPN, 31 pp.
FAO (1995), Tanzania: Mara Region Agricultural Development Project, Socio-Economic
and Production Systems Study, Draft Report, 10 May: 71 pp. + Ann. + Maps
FAO (1995), Uganda: Emergency Control of Water Hyacinth - Lake Victoria, Mission
Report, Rome, April: 45 pp.
FAO (1995), Uganda: Emergency Control of Water Hyacinth - Lake Victoria, Time-
Bound Action Plan, Programme Document TCP/RAF/2371, Rome, July: 46 pp.
FAO (1995), A Remote Sensing System for Monitoring and Evaluation of Lake Victoria,
December: 45 pp. + Ann.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 13
Goldschmidt, Tijs, Frans Witte, and Jan Wanink (1993), Cascading Effects of the
Introduced Nile Perch on the Detritivorous/Phytoplanktivorous Species in the
Sublittoral Areas of Lake Victoria, Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 686-700
Goodland, Robert (1995), Back to Office Report on Uganda Owens FaUs Hydroproject
Environment, July 24: 14 pp.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania (1994), Agreement on the Preparation
of a Tripartite Environmental Management Programme for Lake Victoria, 5 August,
1994:4 pp. + Ann.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program, Regional Task Force 1, Report on Fisheries Management and
Water Hyacinth Control, October: 299 pp.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program, Regional Task Force 2, Report on Management of Water Quality
and Land Use Including Wetlands, September: 136 pp.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program Proposal [Preparation Report] (1996), Final Report, January, 1996,
323 pp.
Hamilton, L.D. (1986), Proposed BNL/BEAD Activity in Environmental Action Plan for
Lake Victoria Basin, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Biomedical and Environmental
Assessment Division (Upton, NY), Draft Proposal, May 30: 8 pp.
Hamilton, L.D. (1986), Environmental Management in Developing Countries: The Lake
Victoria Project, A Basin-Wide Pollution Control and Management Plan, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Biomedical and Environmental Assessment Division (Upton, NY),
Briefing Document, September 17: 13 pp.
Harley, K.L.S. (1990), The Role of Biological Control in the Management of Water
Hyacinth, Eichornia crassipes, Biocontrol News and Information, 11.1: 11-22.
Harris, Craig K., David S. Wiley and Douglas C. Wilson (1995), Socio-Economic Impacts
of Introduced Species In Lake Victoria Fisheries, in Pitcher, Tony J., and Paul J.B. Hart,
The Impact of Species Changes In African Lakes, (London, Chapman and Hall), Chapter
11: 215-242
Hecky, Robert E. (1993), The Eutrophication of Lake Victoria, Peter Kilham Memorial
Lecture, Proceedings of the International Association for Theoretical and Applied



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 13
Limnology, Congress in Barcelona 1992, Verh. Internat. Verein. Limnol. 25, September:
39-48
Hecky, Robert E. (1995), Report on the Pre-Appraisal Mission for Lake Victoria
Environmental Program, 17 June to 2 July: 21 pp.
Hecky, Robert E. (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental Management Programme: The
Need For An Adaptive Management Approach To Ecosystem Restoration, November:
24 pp.
Hecky, Robert E. (1996), Precipitation Chemistry Monitoring in the Victoria Basin: The
Need and a Proposal, May: 13 pp.
Hecky, Robert E., and F.W.B. Bugenyi (1991), Hydrology and Chemistry of the African
Great Lakes and Water Quality Issues: Problems and Solutions, Proceedings of the
International Association for Theoretical and Applied Limnology, Congress 1991, Mitt.
Internat. Verein. Limno. 23: 45-54
Hecky, Robert E., F.W.B. Bugenyi, P. Ochumba, J.F. Talling, R. Mugidde, M. Gophen,
and L. Kaufman (1995), Deoxygenation of the Deep Water of Lake Victoria, East Africa,
Limnol. Oceanogr.
Hecky, Robert E., H.A. Bootsma, R.M Mugidde, and F.W.B Bugenyi (1996), Phosphorus
Pumps, Nitrogen Sinks, and Silicon Drains: Plumbing Nutrients in the African Great
Lakes, in Johnson, Thomas C., and Eric 0. Odada (eds), The Linmology, Climatology
and Paleoclimatology of the East African Lakes, (New York, Gordon and Breach)
forthcoming 1996: 205-224
Hirji, Rafik, and Alfred M. Duda (1995), A Comprehensive Approach for Managing the
Lake Victoria Basin Ecosystem, Paper to the Nile 2002 Conference, Arusha, Tanzania,
February 13-16: 20 pp.
Hirji, Rafik (1995), Back to Office Report on the Tanzania River Basin Management and
Improvement of Smallholder Irrigation Project, and the Lake Victoria Environment
Management Project, June 12:4 pp. + Ann.
Hirji, Rafik (1995), Back to Office Report on the Seminar on Water Resources
Management in Kenya, and the Tanzania River Basin Management and Improvement of
Smallholder Irrigation Project, July 24: 6 pp. + Ann.
Kamukala, G.L., and S.A. Crafter (1993), Wetlands of Tanzania: Proceedings of a
Seminar on Wetlands of Tanzania, (Gland, Switzerland, IUCN-The World Conservation
Union), 169 pp.
Kaufman, Les (1992), Catastrophic Change in Species-Rich Freshwater Ecosystems; the
Lessons of Lake Victoria, Bioscience 42.11, December: 846-858



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 13
Kaufman, Les (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program, Comments
on the Draft Final Reports of National Working Groups 1 On Management of Fisheries
and Control of Water Hyacinth and Other Invasive Weeds, July: 24 pp.
Kaufman, Les, and Andrew S. Cohen (1993), The Great Lakes of Africa, Conservation
Biology, 7.3, September: 632-633
Kaufman, Les, and Peter Ochumba (1993), Evolutionary and Conservation Biology of
Cichlid Fishes as Revealed by Faunal Remnants in Northern Lake Victoria,
Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 719-730
Kenya, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development, and Marketing (1990), Atlas of
Irrigation and Drainage in Kenya, Irrigation and Drainage Branch, March:132 pp.
Kenya, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (1995), National
Soil and Water Conservation Programme, Programme Planning Workshop, Machakos,
7-10 November: 23 pp. + Ann.
Kenya, National Working Group 1 (1995), Draft Report on Fisheries Management and
Control of Water Hyacinth and the Invasive Weeds, June
Kenya, National Working Group 2 (1995), Draft Report on Management of Water
Quality and Land Use Including Wetlands, June
Kitchell, James F., Daniel E. Schindler, Richard Ogutu-Ohwayo, and Peter M. Reinthal
(1995), The Nile Perch in Lake Victoria: Interactions Between Predation and Fisheries,
draft paper, forthcoming in Ecol. Appl.
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Programme (1995), Final Report by the
Regional Consultants on Tasks 11, 16 and 17, in support of Regional Task Force 2 on
Water Quality and Land Use Including Wetlands (Wallingford, UK), November: 320 pp.
+ Ann.
Lipiatou, E., R.E. Hecky, S.J. Eisenreich, L. Lockhart, D.Muir, and P. Wilkinson (1996),
Recent Ecosystem Changes in Lake Victoria Reflected in Sedimentary Natural and
Anthropogenic Organic Compounds, in Johnson, Thomas C., and Eric 0. Odada (eds),
The Linnology, Climatology and Paleoclimatology of the East African Lakes, (New
York, Gordon and Breach) forthcoming 1996: 523-540
Lowe-McConnell, Rosemary H. (1993), Fish Faunas of the African Great Lakes: Origins,
Diversity, and Vulnerability, Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 634-643
OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) (1995), The Preparation of Community Members
of Lake Victoria Region for the Implementation of Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme, Kisumu, February: 7 pp.



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 13
OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) (1995), Planning for the implementation of Lake
Victoria Environmental Management Programme: A Community Based Approach
(Workshop Proceedings, Recommendations and Proposals), May: 91 pp.
OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) (1995), Regional Preparatory Grassroot
Organizations' Workshop for the Lake VictoAia Environment Management Programme,
Kisumu, 4-9 June: 15 pp.
Tanzania, National Working Group 1 (1995), Draft Report on Fisheries Management and
Water Hyacinth Control, June 15
Tanzania, National Working Group 2 (1995), Draft Report on Management of Water
Quality and Land Use, Including Wetlands, June
Uganda, National Working Group 1 (1995), Draft Report on Fisheries Management and
Control of Water Hyacinth and Other Invasive Weeds, June
Uganda, National Working Group 2 (1995), Draft Report on Management of Water
Quality and Land Use Including Wetlands, June
United Nations Development Programme (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme (Kenya), Promotion of Stakeholders Consultations and
Community Participation, A Report by Elizabeth Oduor-Noah and Alice Ligunya,
August: 147 pp.
United Nations Development Programme(1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme (Tanzania), Stakeholder Consultation and Community
Participation in Tanzania, A Report by L.A. Msambichaka, September: 89 pp.
United Nations Development Programme(1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme (Uganda), Consultation for the Promotion of Stakeholder
Partnership in Uganda, A Report by O.K. Odongkara, September: 47 pp.
United Nations Development Programme(1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme, Draft Report of Regional Grassroot Organizations Workshop
on LVEMP held in Mwanza, Tanzania, 12-15 September: 28 pp.
United Republic of Tanzania (1995), Ministry of Agriculture, Programme for Control of
Water Hyacinth in Lake Victoria, October: 44 pp.
Wilson, Douglas C., and Modesta Medard (1995), The Implications for Fisheries
Mangement of the Changing Situation in Lake Victoria Fishing Communities:
Preliminary Findings, forthcoming in African Rural and Urban Studies, Draft Paper,
August: 33 pp.
Wilson, Douglas C. (1995), Factors Influencing the Relative Remuneration of Fishing
Crew In A Context of Increasing Commercialization: the Case of Lake Victoria,
Tanzania, Draft Paper, August: 32 pp.



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 13
World Bank (1994), Evaluation of Point Source Discharge Treatment Options in the Lake
Victoria Area - Tanzania, Phase II Final Report, March: 108 pp.
World Bank (1994), Economic Development Institute, Proceedings of the Seminar on
Water Resources Management in Tanzania, Tanga, September 12-16: 218 pp.
Wright, A.D. (1995), Outline of Water Hyacinth Control in Australia, Paper to FAO
Meeting, Florida, September
Young, David (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental Management Programme, Technical
Mission, Report to the World Bank, 2 June: 45 pp.






ANNEX 4
EASTERN AFRICA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT INDICATORS
The project is designed to be a mixture of information-gathering, capacity-
building, institution establishment, and actions to begin to deal with the environmental
problems of the lake and its catchment, with an emphasis on fisheries management,
water hyacinth control, improving water quality, and land use management (including
wetlands). A central concern is to reduce the flow of nutrients and pollutants into the
lake, and reverse some of the adverse environmental developments of the past. This
project will attempt to lay the foundations in these areas, and provide a "central core"
around which will coalesce a larger program of investments to clean up the lake, and
establish sustainable development of the lake and its catchment in the face of the
growing population pressures likely to be experienced.
Project Implementation: success will be measured by (a) building capacity
within the riparian universities, the line ministries, the LVEMP secretariats and the
riparian communities for environmental analysis, conservation and adoption of
cohesive management practices on the lake; (b) harmonizing among the three countries
legislation addressing management of fisheries and environmental variables important
in the lake basin, and improved enforcement of this legislation; (c) establishment of the
Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO); (d) completion of gazetting and regulating
fish landing sites within the pilot zone areas and enforcing acceptable fishing practices
within a 5 km radius of fishing villages within these areas, with full participation of lake
shore fishing communities; (e) establishing sustainable long-term capacity for
management and control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake
Victoria Basin, through integrated weed control methods and community involvement;
(f) establishing a lake wide water quality and rainfall monitoring system with agreed
parameters to generate information on eutrophication management and pollution
control; and (g) completing a full inventory and resource survey of Lake Victoria
wetlands, and preparing investment proposals for the economic management of these
wetlands, including their rehabilitation.
Project Impact: success will be measured by: (a) reductions in the nutrient and
fecal coliform counts from towns bordering the lake; (b) reductions in sediment and
phosphorus loading in rivers flowing into the lake; (c) reductions by at least 50 percent
over five years in significant industrial pollutants entering the lake; (d) stabilizing the
Nile perch catch at least at current levels, and increasing the recovery of other species;
(e) measurable reduction in the infestation of water hyacinth; and (f) stabilization of
areas retained as wetlands.






LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
KENYA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                        P.M.*      1997            1998          1999           2000            2001
7 2 1 1         _   2 -3 44   1       T 2   -4    1  2 -3  4   1  2  3   4
1. Works
1.1 Construction of fish ponds                                NCB             I23 42    5   7;J ;8C 79
1.2 Construction of fish hatcheries                            NCB              23  *C 
1.3 Renovating offices and weevil rearing rooms               NCB             1 23. 4i -    . K   i
1.4 Weirs                                                     NCB             1 23 -45.7  S             9
1.5 Construction of Artificial Wetlands                       NCB            1 23< r4  /     J56j ,    8 .
1.6 Littoral monitoring and rain gauge stations               NCB             1- 23   4 56  7  t9 - 9
1.7 MicroProjects                                             NCB                            9,2a:4;,. 4
1.8 Kisumu Sewage Treatment Plant                              ICB                           li. L ,   6  7  8                  A
METHOD OF PROCULREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                  5 Bid evaluation                    ICB-International Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                      6 IDA no objection for award        NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BRD to IDA                 7 Contract award                     ISP/NSP-International/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                               8 Construction
4 Bidding period                                 9 Construction complete            Procurement Method
x
,



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
KENYA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                       P.M.*      1997            1998           1999           2000           2001
l 2               2 3 4 1 2 3 4 12341213 4
2. Veicles
2.1 Cars, 4-Wheel Drive Vehicles, Motorcycles                 ICB
2.2 Bicycles, Boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Engines             NCB
3. God
3.1 Laboratory Equipment                                       ISP                                010":Qft   01 11  
3.2 Office Equipment and Computers                            ISP
3.3 Field Equipment                                            ISP
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                 5 Bid evaluation                    ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding
1 Prepare bidding documents                     6 IDA no objection for award        NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                 7 Contract award                    ISPlNSP-Intemational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                               8 Delivery
4 Bidding period                                 9 Installation                    Procurement Method
rq D
x
>
0
0'
ON



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
TANZANIA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                      P.M.*      1997            1998          1999           2000           2001
_     -2 1 131 14       -34 1 2  3 1 4    1 2 1 3  4            I 1 2113 4 1 1314
1. Works
1.1 Construction of fish ponds                               NCB            1 23L:          Z#S9
1.2 Construction of fish hatcheries                          NCB            V 23      s       7   9.
1.3 Renovating offices and weevil rearing rooms              NCB           iP 234        
1.4 Weirs                                                    NCB            P23       56  4t.t'       9
1.5 Construction of Artificial Wetlands                      NCB               *  :4  ;pr}
1.6 Littoral monitoring and rain gauge stations              NCB              23                     g, ,  t  9 9
1.7 Micro Projects                                           NCB 
1.8 Mwanza and Bukoba Waste Management                       ICB                                            k A ||
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                5 Bid evaluation                    ICB-International Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                     6 IDA no objection for award       NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                7 Contract award                   ISP/NSP-International/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                              8 Construction
4 Bidding period                                9 Construction complete           Procurement Method
OQ :
x
Ln
0
F-h
a'



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
TANZANIA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                        P.M.*      1997            1998           1999           2000            2001
l1 2 1 31 14  l1- 2   3   4  l1 2   3  4   I1 2 1 3   4   l-2-3-4
2. VehiclesF
2.1 Cars, 4-Wheel Drive Vehicles, Motorcycles                  ICB1 23   4 56   7 
2.2 Bicycles, Boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Engines              NCB            I 23-  4 S6        & 8
3. Goods
3.1 Laboratory Equipment                                       ISP           l1 23: 4 S6         7    I8:    9
3.2 Office Equipment and Computers                             ISP            I 20   4          056   7 8
3.3 Field Equipment                                             ISP           12375 7
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                  5 Bid evaluation                    ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                      6 IDA no objection for award         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                 7 Contract award                     ISP/NSP-International/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                               8 Delivery
4 Bidding period                                 9 Installation                     Procurement Method
U,
0
z (D
Lq 



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
UGANDA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                        P.M.*      1997            1998           1999           2000            2001
1  2                  _ 3 14  1   2  3  4   1  2 1 3  4  T  2T3   4
1.1 Construction of fish ponds                                NCB
1.2 Construction of fish hatcheries                           NCB             0 2*
1.3 Renovating offices and weevil rearing rooms                NCB               3                  P
1.4 Weirs                                                     NCB                                      zv;
1.5 Construction of Artificial Wetlands                       NCB
1.6 Littoral monitoring and rain gauge stations                NCB                                   .4
1.7 Micro Projects                                             NCB                        I                       'JA8  :
1.8 Kampala Waste Management                                   ICB                           Al        ,                        )3f MU'v
1.9 LVFO office refurbishment                                  NCB
MET1HOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                  5 Bid evaluation                    ICB-International Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                      6 IDA no objection for award         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                 7 Contract award                     ISPINSP-International/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                               8 Construction
4 Bidding period                                 9 Construction complete            Procurement Method
oc>
oQ
930
0'



LVEMiP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
UGANDA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                       P.M.*       1997           1998           1999           2000           2001
l-2    13 1 4  12  3  4   12341    2  3-4                       234
2. Vehicles
2.1 Cars, 4-Wheel Drive vehicles, Motorcycles                 ICB            1 23  4 56   7  8
2.2 Bicycles, Boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Engines             NCB           1V 23  4 56   7 z8.
3. Goods
3.1 Laboratory Equipment                                      ISP            1` 23i4 56i                8      9
3.2 Office Equipment and Computers                            ISP           I1 23 0   5    7 8
3.3 Field Equipment                                            ISP               'i  234 $|
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                 5 Bid evaluation                    ICB-International Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                     6 IDA no objection for award        NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                 7 Contract award                    ISP/NSP-Intemational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                               8 Delivery
4 Bidding period                                 9 Installation                    Procurement Method
oQ:D
x
a.
0y



ANNEX 6
EASTERN AFRICA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan'
Timing        Staff Weeks                   Staffing                   Duration
(weeks)
FY1997            35       Bank resources of which:
- Task manager                                10
- Procurement Specialist                       5
- Operations Management Specialist             5
- Fisheries Biologist                          4
- Linnology/Water Quality Specialist           4
- Sociologist/Socio-economist                  4
- Water Hyacinth Control Specialist            3
FY1998            30       Bank resources of which:
- Task manager                                10
- Operations Management Specialist             5
- Fisheries Biologist                          4
- Limnology/Water Quality Specialist           4
- Sociologist/socio-econoni-st                 4
- Water Hyacinth Control Specialist            3
FY1999            40       Bank resources ( mid term Review) of which:
- Task manager                                10
- Procurement Specialist                       3
- Sanitation Engineer                          4
- Operations Management Specialist             5
- Fisheries Biologist                          4
- Linmology/ Water Quality Specialist          4
- Socio-econoniist                             4
- Water Hyacinth Management Specialist         3
- Soil Management Specialist                   3
FY2000            25       Bank resources of which:
- Task manager                                 8
- Operations Management Specialist             3
- Sanitation Engineer                          3
- Fisheries Biologist                          4
- Limnology/Water Quality Specialist           4
- Socio- economist                             3
FY2001            20       Bank resources of which:
- Task manager                                 8
- Operations Management Specialist             3
- Fisheries Biologist                          3
- Lirmnology/ Water Quality Specialist         3
- Socio-economist                              3
Disbursements are scheduled to FY 2002. Some of the required expertie may be provided
by other agencies involved in project supervision.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
EASTERN AFRICA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GEF INCREMENTAL COSTS
Lake Victoria is a "commons" of water, biota, nutrients, pollutants, and the human
activities which use the resources of the lake and its catchments, and impact upon them. In
matters such as fishing, the addition of nutrients to the lake, pollution of the lake and its
tributaries, the economic characteristics of behavior in a "commons" apply - in particular, the
incentives perceived by the individuals, and individual countries involved, all are conducive to
actions which may be in the best, short-term interests of the individuals concerned, but not in the
best interests of the whole group of countries, nor the global community.
The project will be the first regional program to address the major environmental threats
to the Lake Victoria ecosystem, all of which are transboundary in character. The project will
develop the information, capacity and institutions needed for collective action, and test, through a
number of targetted pilot actions and investments, the feasibility and initial impact of some of the
priority regional initiatives needed to stabilize the lake ecosystem. Each project component
involves significant transaction and regional capacity-building costs first to establish cooperative
agreements, and second to implement priority elements of them on a trial basis. These costs are
clearly incremental in that they are not in the national baselines, would not be incurred without
the project, and address transboundary environmental issues.
The project will lay the foundations - of knowledge, capacity, and cooperative
institutional frameworks - for a long-term program of investments in the lake and its catchments,
which will rehabilitate and stabilise the ecosystem. In particular, these will be investments in
cleaning up the waste discharges from polluting industries, rehabilitating and expanding water
supply and sanitation systems, reduction of soil erosion, and sustainable management of fisheries
and wetlands. There will be substantial investments in these even within the five years of
LVEMP implementation, guided by the conceptualization which has already taken place, and the
findings of the LVEMP during implementation. Success in the current project will lay the
foundations for longer term national benefits for the three countries concemed. For example, if
the long-standing barriers to regional fisheries cooperation can be overcome, the design and
implementation of a regional fisheries management program will eventually contribute to a more
sustainable fish catch, as well as conservation of the lake's aquatic biodiversity. Installation of
improved sanitation and water treatment facilities will have benefits for the health of local and
national populations.
There are, however, significant transaction costs which act as barriers to achieving these
benefits, as demonstrated by the lack of progress to date. Examples of the barriers are the lack of
institutional capacity, information and scientific understanding. The costs of overcoming these
barriers are therefore truly incremental. So too are the costs of actions to achieve additional
global benefits, such as aquaculture in support of endangered species, and conservation of critical
habitats. Incremental costs of the project are estimated to be US$38.8 million (details in following
table). In addition to financing the baseline and adjusted baseline measures from non-GEF (IDA)
sources, the three riparian governments have agreed to contribute US$3.8 million from their own
resources to finance a part of the project's incremental cost. They have requested a GEF grant of
US$35 million to fund the balance.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component            Cost         Cost         Domestic BEfit                   Global Environmental Benefit
Fish                 Baseline              0  None
Biology/Biodiversity
Conservation
Alternative        6.58                                    Improved knowledge of aquatic
populations and threats to their
survival, with education and design
of measures to strengthen
conservation planning and advance
understanding of evolution
_  Increment        6.58
Aquaculture          Baseline            1.55  Possible longer term economic gains
from increased food production and
trade in ornamental fish
Alternative        3.10                                     Restoration of endangered species
through development of sustainable
uses, and avoiding unforeseen
effects of exotic introductions
Increment        1.55
Socio-Economic       Baseline           2.00  Improved management of aquatic
Studies                                        resources to increase community
benefits
Alternative        2.67                                     Portion of socio-economic studies
devoted to understanding how to
sustain complex ecosystems while
alleviating poverty
Increment        0.67
Establishing         Baseline              0  None
Database
Alternative        0.98                                     Shared database facilitating regional
collaboration
D  Increment        0.98
Fisheries Extension,   Baseline        14.09  Gains from befter fishing techniques,
Policies and Laws                              reduced post-harvest losses, higher
quality products
Alternative       14.09                                     Rescue and preservation of
endangered species through closed
fishing areas, harmonisation of laws
and regulations, and better
enforcement
Increment              0
Water Hyacinth       Baseline            3.32  Reduced damage to infrastructure
Control                                        and improved human health
Alternative        8.30                                     More effective, widespread,
environmentally friendly biological
control methods enabled by regional
collaboration
Increment        4.98
Water Quality        Baseline              0  No additional investment justified in
Monitoring                                    the absence of a regional framework
Altemative         9.58                                    Improved environment for
endangered species, catalyzing
regional collaboration in important
intemational waters, and increased
understanding of lake/catchment
management to sustain resources of
global importance
__________  ncement  9.58



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component             Cost          Cost         Domestic Benefit                    Global Environmental Benefit
.. .   .i  . . .E i:-.-.   i :0   
E____________i_-- ___:   Category   (US$m)                                           _   _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ __:
Industrial/lMunicipal    Baseline         9.89  Identifying priority areas and
Waste                                            methods for investments in waste
Management                                       treatment
Altemative          9.89                                       Increased knowledge of
environmentally friendly biological
methods for managing toxic waste
through use of artificial wetlands for
tertiary treatment of municipal and
industrial waste
_________ ________   ncrem ent          0                                       _   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
Land UseNWetlands     Baseline            5.84  Identifying and managing agro-
Management                                       chemical hazards, reducing soil loss
through investments in afforestation
and soil conservation
Altemative         14.07                                      Conservation of biodiversity in critical
habitats through sustainable
management of wetlands, and
facilitating regional collaboration in
understanding catchment/lake
interactions
_ncrement         8.23
Lake Victoria         Baseline               0  None
Fisheries
Organisation
Alternative         2.28                                      Intemational management
mechanism to harmonise
environmental laws/regulations, and
allow intemational collaboration in
management of common pool
resources
:_i: Increment      2.28
LVEMP Secretariats    Baseline               0  None
Altemative          2.75                                      Coordination in capacity building for
.__________ ___________                                     regional initiatives
77:____  inent;      2.75
Support to Riparian   Baseline               0  None
Universities
Altemative          1.06                                      Increased scientific capacity for
sustainable conservation of
......____....__ .                                biodversity
______________ i_ E   Incemnt   :      1.06:
Fisheries Levy Trust    Baseline          2.06  Sustaining fisheries management by
providing sources of funds for
coordination, research, extension,
monitoring and enforcement
Altemative          2.06                                      Increased fiscal capacity for
sustainable conservation of
_._ ...........                                biodversity
Pollution Disaster    Baseline               0  None
Management
Altemative          0.17                                      Protecting integrity of intemational
biological resources of immense
value
TOTALS                Baseline           38.75
Altemative         77.58
__   i h ment      3a E    :._.83-



IBRD 27780
EAST AFRICA
'O 3
LAKE VICTORIA
ENVIRONMENTAL
Z    A    I      E       f
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DRAINAGE BASIN BOUNDARY
LITTORAL SAMPLING SITES
J"
RAINFALL GAUGES
J
57                                        8,,g
"h)                                                                                               51                                                                                     OPEN WATER SAMPLING SITES
LAKE SIDE AND CATCHMENT PILOT ZONES
MURCPION                                                                                                            ---ISOHYETS(MEANANNUALItA]NFALL,..I
BAY
----- PARK/RESERVF BOUNDARkES
ELEVATIONS IN FEE
5,000
It R                                                                          '000-6,000
5
6,000-7.000
7,000
ISLANDS
RIVERS (WITHIN DRAINAGE BASIN BOUNDARY)
SANGO 8                                                                                                                                            SWAMPS
3.117                                                                                                0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
- ---------------
f                                                                       V i                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITALS
GERA RU6,A FU                  L a k e
'80  d-O                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
0
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-a                                                                                                                                   RA-
,j                                                                                                                                                                                                     1?0
r,.b                                                                                                                               0
uk.. if.
rb. "d.-.             ..d
A--- .. A., -p d. -1 i.pi, . 'h- P- d Th- W-Hd 8-k C-P,
2
b-d--
R               N,  13   ,'A  I          VI
ULF
d.                                                                                                                                                      TDiisOuTi
G                                                                       CHAD
A                                                                                                                                                                        SUDAN
$0 ALIA
ETHIOPIA
CENTRAL  ".                 f
AFRICAN REPUBLIC
7
PL   I N
PA'                                                                                                               x
J                                                                          CYLF                                                                                                             0                              KENYA
I 'A
C;L                                                                                                I R
Z A
INDIAN
B       1  V   N    D   I                                                                                                                                                                              TANZANIA           OCEAN
0
J
C.,
ANGOLA
m                          VI,
),)mOZAMBIGUE K,%DA6'ASCAR
2                                                                                                                                                                                                       Z A
1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15429 AFR
Type: SAR



