                        Document of
                     The World Bank




                                                   Report No: 36557

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (IDA-29070 TF-28662 TF-28319)

                           ON A

  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA) CREDIT

                           AND A

        GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 24.3 MILLION

                          TO THE

                  GOVERNMENT OF KENYA

                         FOR THE

LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LVEMP)




                        June 27, 2006

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                        Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings

                             FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1   June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM        Aide Memoires
BOD       Biological Oxygen Demand
BMU       Beach Management Unit
CAPs      Community Action Plans
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs      Community Based Organizations
CIGs      Community Interest Groups
CP        Cleaner Production
CPUE      Catch per Unit Effort
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
DFID      Department for International Development, United Kingdom
DDT       Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane
EAC       East African Community
ECOVIC    EAC Organization for Management of Lake Victoria
ELCOM     Estuary and Lake Computer Model
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FAO       United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FLT       Fish Levy Trust
FOB       Free on Board
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GoK       Government of Kenya
GoT       Government of Tanzania
GoU       Government of Uganda
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank
IFMP      Integrated Fisheries Management Plan
ILMP      Integrated Lake Management Project
KARI      Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
LVBC      Lake Victoria Basin Commission
LVDP      Lake Victoria Development Program
LVEMP     Lake Victoria Environmental Project

LVFO          Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization
LVFRP         Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MSY           Maximum Sustainable Yield
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NARO          National Agricultural Research Organization
NEMA          National Environmental Management Agency
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
OD/OP         Operational Directive/Policy
PEAP          Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PIC           Project Implementation Committee
PMU/PIU       Project Management/Implementation Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RPSC          Regional Policy Steering Committee
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SLM           Sustainable Land Management
TDA           Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
USD           United States Dollar
WWTP          Wastewater Treatment Plan


                          Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                       Country Director    Colin Bruce
                         Sector Manager    Karen Brooks
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ladisy Chengula

                                             KENYA
                             KE: Lake Victoria Env. Proj. (IDA)


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Summary of Regional and Transboundary-related Issues                    44
Annex 9. Project Timeline and Structure - Figures                                51
Annex 10. List of Persons Contacted                                              53

Project ID: P046838                                                  Project Name: KE: Lake Victoria Env. Proj. (IDA)
Global Supplemental ID: P046871 (Fully Blended)                      Supp. Name: Lake Victoria Env. (GEF)
Team Leader: Ladisy Komba Chengula                                   TL Unit: AFTS2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: KE: Lake Victoria Env. Proj. (IDA)                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-29070; TF-28662
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

       Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (38%); General water, sanitation and flood protection
                            sector (29%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (16%); Central government
                            administration (13%); Animal production (4%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Water resource management (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 12/28/1992                                      Effective: 03/05/1997                03/05/1997
     Appraisal: 11/21/1995                                         MTR: 03/01/1999                  03/01/1999
     Approval: 07/30/1996                                       Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2002



   Supplemental Name: Lake Victoria Env. (GEF)                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-28319

       Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (38%); General water, sanitation
                            and flood protection sector (29%); General agriculture, fishing and
                            forestry sector (16%); Central government administration (13%);
                            Animal production (4%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Water
                            resource management (P); Pollution management and environmental
                            health (P)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 04/01/1999                                      Effective: 03/05/1997                03/05/1997
     Appraisal: 11/21/1995                                         MTR: 03/01/1999                  03/01/1999
     Approval: 07/30/1996                                       Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           GOVT OF KENYA/MINISTRY OF ENV. AND NATURAL RESOURCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Colin Bruce                                    James Adams
Sector Manager:                 Karen Mcconnell Brooks                         Sushama Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Ladisy Chengula                                Graeme Donovan
ICR Primary Author:             Arati Belle


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating

                           Outcome:        U

                        Sustainability:       L
   Institutional Development Impact:          SU
                  Bank Performance:           S
             Borrower Performance:            U


                                                        QAG (if available)                 ICR
                                    Quality at Entry:                                      S
                       Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

The overall implementation performance (outputs) is Moderately Unsatisfactory, and the achievement of
the development objectives (outcomes) is Unsatisfactory.

The sustainability is Moderately Likely. The Institutional Development Impact is Substantial.

The overall Bank Performance is Moderately Satisfactory and the overall Borrower Performance is
Unsatisfactory.

The Quality at Entry is Moderately Satisfactory.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background and Context: The Kenya Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP) was
prepared during the 1994-97 period, and implemented as one of three interlinked fully blended projects
financed by credits (International Development Association (IDA)) and a grant (Global Environment
Facility (GEF)) from March 1997 to December 2005. The three projects together sought to address the
issues of the lake in a regionally integrated way. They were thus conceived as contributions to a regional
program (based on the August 5, 1994 Tripartite Agreement) implemented as three national projects in
Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda, with common objectives and initially identical components. Given the
regional nature of the program and interlinkage of the three projects, the LVEMP Implementation
Completion Reports (ICRs) for Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya should be considered individually and in
conjunction with each other, in order to understand both the national particularities in performance and the
overall outcomes of the investment. The project assessed by this ICR was the first phase of a long-term
program.

The observed project design was necessary at that time due to an absence of regional lending instruments
for IDA and lack of institutions to implement a regional approach. The three nations recognized the
importance of the Lake Victoria ecosystem as a vast shared resource with great potential for economic
growth, but one that was under immense environmental stress. Economically it is very important; the
fisheries sector is a significant driver of growth, and water supply, biodiversity, transport, and
hydro-energy from the lake underpin vital economic activities. Conversely, the lake, if allowed to degrade,
will impose substantial economic and environmental liabilities on the countries, communities, and people of
the watershed. Enhanced environmental management of Lake Victoria is therefore a key element of a
sound program of growth, poverty reduction, and proper management of risks.

Lake Victoria is large and in general shallow. The lake depends chiefly on rainfall for its inflow, and its



                                                              - 2 -

extensive watershed covers some of the poorest parts in three riparian nations. When the projects were
prepared, the threats to the lake's ecosystem were understood primarily to be diminishing biodiversity,
over-fishing, infestation of aquatic weeds (especially water hyacinth), pollution, variation in level, and
eutrophication. The transboundary nature and rich biodiversity of the lake were recognized, but detailed
scientific and socioeconomic knowledge about the resource was insufficient to support proper management.
For example, the inventory of flora and fauna was incomplete and not current. The level of catch consistent
with maintenance of the stock of Nile Perch was not known. Infestation of water hyacinth was visible, but
the response of the species to various measures of control was unknown. The detailed status of quality of
the water was not known; nor were major sources of pollution. Finally, the level of the lake has been
observed to vary over time as recorded in historic statistics, but detailed knowledge of the underlying
hydrology was not sufficient. Moreover, national and regional institutions and capacity relevant for
management of Lake Victoria were weak at the outset of the project, and presented challenges during
implementation.

The project was designed in a participatory manner with broadly ranging consultation of stakeholders at the
local, national, and regional levels. Formulation of the project required multiple negotiations and
compromise; between scientists and public servants, between advocates of environmental conservation and
those of managed growth, between national politicians with short time horizons and development partners
seeking a longer term perspective, and between and among national neighbors with a recent history of
tension. The objectives and design that emerged from this negotiation enjoyed sufficient consensus to move
ahead, but also attracted antipathy of those who did not see their own objectives fully reflected. During the
course of implementation, and even in assessment in this ICR, strongly held and conflicting opinions have
been the order of the day. The ICR team has sought to assess the project not according to what might have
been desired by any among the wide range of stakeholders, critics, and advocates, but by what was stated
in the project documents and actually accomplished. Due to the vintage of the project, it is assessed
according to the four point scale. The text indicates application of the modifiers introduced under the
current six point scale where relevant.

Objectives: In light of the circumstances noted above, the objectives the Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Project (LVEMP1) were "to (i) provide the necessary information to improve
management of the lake ecosystem, (ii) establish mechanisms of cooperative management by the three
countries, (iii) identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies, while simultaneously (iv)
building capacity for ecosystem management." Co-financing from the GEF helped integrate
transboundary environmental issues into the design and provide emphasis on them. As noted above, the
project was fully blended.




                                                     - 3 -

Assessment of Project Objectives and Design: The project was the first of its kind in the region, with
aims and objectives that reflected the nations' developmental priorities, regional objectives, and global
goals. Preparatory activities particularly emphasized community participation and gender issues. The
objectives as stated above were consistent with the country-based assistance strategy (CAS) and with the
global priorities within the mandate of GEF International Waters Program. Within the fully blended
project, GEF activities were focused on transboundary aspects such as fisheries (biology and conservation)
research, monitoring of water quality, capacity building in the riparian universities, support for policy and
coordination, and control of water hyacinth, with some attention to aquaculture and sustainable use of
wetlands. The design reflected realism with regard to the time frame required for sound management of the
lake, and was phased. The design recognized the need for generation of knowledge, creation of new
institutions, and strengthening of capacity. The objectives of the project were sound and the process of
preparation appropriate. Primary emphasis was placed on activities related to fisheries, which were
allocated 41 percent of the allocation of funds. The remaining funds were spread over the other activities in
the initial design. Questions have been raised with regard to the proper balance of emphasis on the various
elements of the agenda, but the lack of information and inherent uncertainties associated with the various
risks to the lake made a priori determination of allocations to the various activities difficult. Given the
subsequent increased importance of fishing, growth in the catch, and urgency regarding management of the
fishery, one cannot with certainty argue that an alternative allocation of resources among activities would
have been superior.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were stated broadly and not changed during the course of implementation. Emphasis within
each of the components changed over time, but within the broadly stated goals for the project. The
component level objectives were fluid during the course of the project, and underwent change following
shifts in emphasis and focus at key milestones (mid-term, the 2003 stock-taking and in the final phase).

3.3 Original Components:
In the joint Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated June 1996, the project had the following components (The
overall project cost for all three countries of USD 77.7 million was allocated as indicated):
1) Fisheries Management/ Establishment of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO) (USD 2.28
million)
2) Fisheries Research, including four sub-components, Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation,
Aquaculture, Socioeconomics, Database (USD 13.33 million)
3) Fisheries Extension, Policies and Laws, including micro-projects (USD 14.09 million)
4) Fisheries Levy Trust (USD 2.03 million)
5) Water Hyacinth Control (USD 8.31 million)
6) Water Quality and Ecosystem Management, including one core project, Management of Eutrophication,
pilot studies on Sedimentation and Hydraulic Conditions and the construction of a Model of Water
Circulation and Quality in the Lake (USD 9.6 million)
7) Industrial and Municipal Waste Management, including one core project, Management of Industrial and
Municipal Effluents, pilots on Integrated Tertiary Industrial and Municipal Effluent Treatment, each, and a
component for Priority Waste Management Investments (USD 9.89 million)
8) Land Use and Wetland Management, including two core projects, Management of Pollution Loading
(addressing non-point sources of pollution) and Buffering Capacity of Wetlands and four pilots -
Assessment of the Role of Agro-chemicals in Pollution, Integrated Soil and Water Conservation,
Sustainable Use of Wetland Products, and Afforestation (USD 14.1 million)
9) Institutional Framework, including Support to Riparian Universities and the Coordinating Secretariat
(USD 3.98 million)
Please see Section 10, for more details on the components.



                                                     - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Due to significant delays in the start-up of the program, at the mid-term review (MTR), many of the
components and sub-components were revised. Work programs were adjusted to facilitate implementation
within the existing institutions and according to the mandates of those institutions. This revision entailed
somewhat lower expectations regarding cross cutting issues and coordination, but also freed up
implementation to proceed within the components. The scope of several activities and components was
narrowed, but still within the overall objectives and targets for the program. In the design, activities were
differentiated according to whether they were lake-wide or geographically focused pilots, an approach that
was largely maintained during implementation, with adjustments as the components were revised. Changes
within the components created some confusion regarding the links between the components and overall
effort, and the relatively weak coordination among components did little to restore focus on strategic
objectives. Despite a tendency toward insularity within the components, cross cutting issues were
important; e.g., the cross-cutting issue of community participation were overseen by an officer in the
Secretariat in Kisumu, and this was a suitable arrangement. The scope of micro projects was expanded
beyond fishing communities to include communities in the catchments with good result. The Industrial and
Municipal Waste Management component was subsumed into the Water Quality component and was
narrowed to address only tertiary treatment. Similarly, sub-components addressing Pollution Loading
(point and non-point sources of pollution) and the Role of Agrochemicals were combined into the Water
Quality component. As a result, the component became large and unwieldy. It was functionally oriented
toward research although its mandate included management of point and non-point pollution sources.
Changes undertaken at the MTR were largely a reorganization of the components and did not constitute a
restructuring of the project with different objectives or sub-objectives.The final list of components and
sub-components in Kenya at the end of the project, with major changes indicated, is listed in Section 10,
table 1.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Moderately Satisfactory. LVEMP charted new ground both in the countries and in the Bank. It was a
regional project addressing transboundary concerns during a time when little regional cooperation existed
between the riparian countries and few regional instruments and institutions were available. The project
design was consistent with CAS and country developmental priorities and the preparation was highly
consultative. The SAR presents a fairly clear design that is technically sound and describes the path of the
overall program. Importantly, its approach was based on the Lake Basin ecosystem perspective and it
included the main thematic areas addressing the key environmental issues afflicting the Lake. This helped
lay the basis for the subsequent development of a common vision for the management of the transboundary
resource. The first phase emphasized research and collection of data. Critics have argued that greater
weight should have been accorded, even in the first phase, to creation of environmental management tools
and their application in management that would have achieved a measurable change in the environmental
indicators of the lake. Those who hold this view recognize the required sequencing; i.e., that knowledge
has to precede decisions based on the knowledge, but they argue that more use should have been made of
the knowledge. The design was weak in specifying appropriate strategies for translation of data into
relevant information and outputs usable for operational management and solutions for the lake as a whole.


The design was optimistic in scope, with a large number of components requiring coordination between a
variety of institutions in each country and between countries. The plethora of implementing agencies and
activities resulted in complicated budgeting and accounting systems. Capacity to implement was weak, and
enhancement of capacity was one of the objectives of the program. Full attainment of objectives would
have required not only competent implementation of each of the components in each country, but also



                                                      - 5 -

regular sharing of findings among components both within and among countries. The structure established
(national coordinators and a regional secretariat) was too weak to perform adequately, and the shared
strategic focus took a long time to emerge. The project did not include a technical policy and steering
committee at the national level specifically mandated to monitor progress on technical issues and ensure
coordination among the participating ministries and institutes. The design did not include a logframe
because that was not customary at the time. The project very much needed an alternative to the log frame;
i.e., a practical guide to action and clarity on the results expected. Key performance indicators were
established late in the implementation (in 2004) during an attempt to retrofit a log-frame.

On several relevant dimensions of project design; ie., consistency of the objectives with the CAS, technical
coverage and priorities, and consultation with relevant stakeholders, the design was very strong. On the
critical dimension of readiness for implementation it was weak, and this weakness was costly for the
performance of the project. Nevertheless, changes introduced at the MTR allowed implementation to
accelerate within the components. The changes did not entail a major restructuring of the project or
revision of the initial design, and the project was after the MTR able to make up for some of the lost time.
Because a number of dimensions of design were strong and the deficiency in readiness for implementation
was addressed at the MTR, the quality at entry is assessed as being satisfactory, but moderately so.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall implementation performance (outputs) was Moderately Unsatisfactory, and the achievement
of the development objectives (outcomes) was Unsatisfactory.

This evaluation assesses the project's performance against the objectives for the first phase:

Provide the necessary information to improve management of the lake ecosystem
The project supported many knowledge-building activities that advanced the understanding of the Lake
Ecosystem, particularly in the areas of biodiversity of fish (establishing a baseline), levels and sources of
pollution, fish stocks, and hydrology. Great emphasis was placed on data collection and less on analysis,
collation and dissemination, although a substantial body of work was taken to the stage suitable for
publication. Because the scientific challenge is enormous and ongoing, many findings are provisional.
Among the most important that were not known at the outset of the project are the following:
l Biodiversity of fish has declined, but many species thought to be extinct in the watershed are in fact
     present in refugia in satellite lakes.
l A sustainable catch of Nile Perch is probably within the range of 220,000 tons annually (trawl
     surveys) to 350,000 tons annually (acoustic survey).
l Point sources of pollution are important locally and have effects on public health, but are not the major
     sources of phosphorus and nitrogen exacerbating eutrophication of the lake.
l Eutrophication is primarily due to nitrogen and phosphorus from atmospheric deposition although the
     relative contribution of the catchment to it is yet unknown.
l The lake level has varied significantly over time and is highly sensitive to small changes in the balance
     of inflows and outflows.
l Constructed wetlands can be effective measures to enhance the contribution that natural wetlands make
     toward water quality.
l Water hyacinth can be effectively contained in the lake through biological control (weevils), but
     weevils are less effective in the rivers that flow into the lake.

Establish mechanisms of cooperative management by the three countries



                                                        - 6 -

The three countries made considerable progress in advancing the regional perspective in both planning and
implementation. The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization was operationalized, although it requires
strengthening. Fisheries sector frameworks were harmonized and regional information exchange was
strengthened. During the course of implementation of the project, the East African Community (EAC) was
re-established and recognized coordination of activities in Lake Victoria as among its priorities. Although
the role of the EAC was not foreseen during preparation of the project and required some adjustment in
understanding of responsibilities, it has been an important breakthrough in facilitating shared management.
The EAC passed the Lake Victoria Protocol and, with its ratification by member states in November 2004,
created the Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) based in Kisumu. A common Lake Victoria vision
was developed by the partner states with extensive consultation at the community level. Through the EAC
and LVBC it is expected that the riparian states will be in a strong position in the future to act on the
enhanced knowledge about the lake by agreeing on common enforcement of standards and regulations,
some of which are now on the books but unevenly enforced.

Identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies
The project contributed significantly in establishing and strengthening co-management of natural resources.
The participatory approach combined with micro-projects proved to be successful and cost-effective while
increasing local livelihoods and empowering communities. Lessons learned were relatively well captured in
reports. Many of the microprojects remain active without incremental funding. Not all of the micro
projects selected by communities had direct relevance to the environmental agenda of the project, but a
broad menu including service delivery was foreseen in the SAR. Water hyacinth infestation was reduced to
non-nuisance levels through introduction of the weevils, and the symbiotic relationship between the insect
and plant populations provides biological sustainability; i.e., when the hyacinth expands, the weevil
population grows to bring it back into check. Work of the fish quality lab resulted in lifting of the
temporary European Union (EU) markets ban on import of fish from the lake, and the quality lab remains
functioning. Better land management in the catchment and wetlands contributed to the reduction of silt and
pollution entering the lake. The pilots and investments under the industrial and municipal effluent
management, however, were not successful and untreated waste continues to flow into the lake almost
unabated.

Building capacity for ecosystem management
Much of the activity in the project was oriented towards capacity building. Important experience was
gained in scientific research and resource management, while technical skills were upgraded and the
implementing institutions were equipped. Staff were trained to advanced degree courses (M.Sc. and Ph.D.)
and others received on-the-job and short courses training. Capacity building and awareness raising
campaigns targeted local communities through a variety of instruments (use of local media, training days,
workshops, study tours etc.) Capacity building efforts were uncoordinated and opportunistic, rather than
based on a well-defined strategy addressing identified needs. Future efforts should be better targeted and
impacts of capacity building should be assessed.

Overall in Kenya the pace of implementation improved marginally following changes made after the initial
delay but was hampered by the systemic issues that constrained the flow of funds and procurement.
Implementation in Kenya lagged behind the other two countries through most of the project. The poor
performance of the project and its unsatisfactory rating necessitated closing of the IDA credit (with 30
percent undisbursed) at the end of 2002, further reducing the scope of activities. The GEF grant remained
open to facilitate Kenya's continued participation in regional activities. With lower funding relative to the
two other partner states, the scale of achievements was lower despite some improvement in implementation
in the last years. As was the case in the other countries, implementation was weakly guided by a strategic
orientation toward results and instead achieved sequential incremental progress. The lack of strategic focus


                                                      - 7 -

impeded prioritization and fed insularity within the components. Activities under the project were weakly
linked to the ongoing work of the relevant ministries. This was a fully blended IDA/GEF project until the
closure of the IDA credit, with shared objectives for both sources of funding. One particular focus of the
GEF support was elaboration of a strategic framework for a large program of investment, particularly on
municipal waste management and soil conservation, that has not resulted to date, although substantial
investment was not foreseen in this phase of the project. The project's lack of success in addressing direct
pollution from point sources diminished achievement of goals for water quality of particular importance to
GEF. Kenya was able to accomplish enough through the project to contribute inputs required from the
country for the shared scientific findings noted above, although Kenya's contribution was less than that of
the other two partners. Moreover, Kenya has remained a full partner in establishing and supporting the
institutions for regional management of the resource; e.g., Kenya signed the Lake Victoria protocol and
now hosts the LVBC. Despite these notable accomplishments and contributions, the localized activities
within Kenya that would have benefited communities and the lake were less successful than in the other two
countries due to persistent problems in implementation noted below. As a result of the diminution in
accomplishments due to difficulties in implementation, the project in Kenya is judged to be moderately
unsatisfactory in meeting outputs, and unsatisfactory in meeting objectives.

Please see Annex 8 for a Summary of Regional and Transboundary Related Issues.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Please see Figures 1 and 2 in Annex 9 for the Timeline of the Project and Overall Project Structure. Also
please see section 10 for details on component objectives, as stated in the SAR, and outputs.
The following section assesses the various component outputs and shows mixed results.

Fisheries Management
Satisfactory. Support to co-management and creation of Beach Management Units (BMUs) has helped
bring an estimated decline in illegal fishing by about one third. The component achieved notable success in
harmonizing the fisheries legislative and regulatory frameworks among the three countries. The Fish Levy
Trust (FLT) is not yet operational in Kenya. Gazetted fishing areas were established as were Community
Conservation Committees; closed fishing seasons were instituted but need to be enforced.

Fisheries Research
Marginally Unsatisfactory. Data were collected, but as noted in the assessment of the synthesis report and
in the closing aide-memoire by the consultant specialist, analysis is at a basic level. Although a baseline
and trends have been established, factors driving many of the observed trends and implications for
management have not been elucidated. Some of the studies (e.g., socioeconomic) were qualitative and
conducted only once, revealing no trend or variation information. Final versions were produced with long
delays.

Water Quality and Ecosystem Management
Marginally Unsatisfactory.
Although pollution hotspots were identified, the merged component (including Water Quality, Industrial
and Municipal Waste Management, and Management of Pollution Loading) became too focused on data
collection with inadequate emphasis on addressing the critical pollution problems in the lake, especially
related to urban wastewater flowing into the Winam Gulf at Kisumu. An industrial tertiary treatment pilot
was set up but not subsequently applied on a larger scale. Improvement of Kisumu wastewater treatment
plant had to be deferred when it became clear that IDA financing would not be extended. Attempts were
made to model factors affecting water quality without solid success.




                                                     - 8 -

Water Hyacinth Control
Highly Satisfactory. Even though the objective sought to strengthen capacity, this component was able to
move further and address the problem itself. There has been a remarkable decrease (85 percent) in the
water hyacinth infestation in the Lake, which is down to non-nuisance levels. One of the pilots supported
in Kenya under this component was subject to an Inspection Panel (discussed below) when an
Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) complained that communities had not been consulted sufficiently
regarding experimental mechanical chopping of hyacinth in their area. As a result of the Inspection Pane,l
emphasis on consultation and community outreach in implementation of the project was increased.
Mechanical chopping as a control mechanism was not further pursued because by that point it was clear
that biological control was a superior approach.

Wetlands Management
Satisfactory. Many scientific outputs were generated including an information baseline, maps, buffering
capacity characteristics, contribution to the Wetland Policy (in draft), and community outreach activities.
Use of wetland products in handicrafts was strengthened both in Kenya and regionally.

Soil and Water Conservation
Satisfactory. The component developed and tested approaches to reduce erosion in the catchment, and
conducted an assessment quantifying soil erosion and its impact in the pilot areas. An estimated 7.5 % of
Nyando River Catchment Area (0.4% of Lake Victoria basin) is considered conserved due to activities
under LVEMP and sediment loads in the Nyando river have decreased. The river ranked second in terms of
sediment in 1997 but dropped to fifth as of 2004.

Catchment Afforestation
Marginally Satisfactory. The component undertook various activities in afforestation with support to
community nurseries. It did not track cost-effectiveness, survival rate or have an exit strategy in place,
which is likely to impede the success and survival rate of many of its activities. Nevertheless, the
component collaborated with other catchment based activities to opportunities for diversification for
communities. It is expected that the experience gained through this project will be useful in Kenya's
implementation of its Forest Policy, which emphasizes co-management.

Capacity Building - Support to Moi University, Department of Fisheries and School of Environmental
Sciences
Marginally Unsatisfactory. While it was planned to increase the capacity of the University in conducting
research on issues important for Lake Victoria, the amount of funding during implementation was found to
be insufficient for research and was therefore channeled to sponsoring and increasing the number of
graduates. Whether the quality of graduate teaching was enhanced was difficult to determine.

Institutional Framework - National Secretariat
Unsatisfactory. The national secretariat was under the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and
Wildlife, and reported to the Permanent Secretary of the ministry. The office was originally in Nairobi at
the ministry headquarters, but moved to Kisumu in 2001/02 to be nearer the project operations, partly
staffed by seconded ministerial staff and contract staff. Although systemic issues were a key factor in the
delays in flow of funds, the secretariat's was unable effectively to address the problem. Long and continued
dissatisfaction with the Secretariat's performance resulted in the termination of the National Executive
Secretary's contract in May 2002. A new Secretary was appointed who remained until the end of 2002,
when the whole Secretariat was dismissed due to heightened dissatisfaction with observed performance.




                                                     - 9 -

Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) was then made the implementing agency in recognition of
KARI's past success in implementation of projects and due to the need to find an agency able to implement
the GEF financed activities that had to continue in Kenya for the regional effort to succeed. The transition
was far from smooth and the new secretariat was only able to come on board in late 2003. This secretariat
functioned strictly in a coordinating role and left implementation to the components. The components did
appreciate the facilitative role of the coordinator in Kisumu, and KARI supported an increased pace of
implementation compared to the earlier period. Nevertheless, implementation continued to be constrained
by new problems with flows of funds. A detailed audit of financial management after the shift of
responsibility for implementation to KARI revealed problems of commingling of project funds, resulting in
some financing of LVEMP activities out of other sources, and use of LVEMP funds for other activities.
Delays in flow of funds even after the transfer of implementing responsibility constrained activity within
the components, and reduced overall effectiveness.

Micro-projects and Community Participation
Highly satisfactory. Although a community participation officer was brought in only in 2000, the project
was able to involve communities in activities throughout the components. The approach was also
well-planned and executed. Guiding principles for community participation were prepared. The activities
led to increased capacity in the communities, enabling them to improve resource management, with positive
environmental externalities as well as improved livelihoods. The project targeted service delivery among the
Lake basin communities by implementing a range of demand driven projects in health, water, education,
sanitation, access roads, afforestation and fisheries sectors. Micro-projects provided strong incentives for
communities to interact and implement a range of solutions. A total of 81 projects were initiated out of
which 80 were operating at project closure. The approach involved NGOs and introduced gender
considerations including development of a gender strategy and attention to HIV/AIDS.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A standard ERR was not estimated in the SAR, as is often the case for projects with major emphasis on
capacity strengthening and institutional reform. This section aims to provide some indicative
socio-economic data and a discussion on the observed benefits, corresponding to the discussion of potential
benefits in the SAR.

The Lake Basin economy is driven by Agriculture and Fisheries (70 percent), including a number of cash
crops (including fish exports) and a high level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. The size of the lake
basin economy is estimated at USD 5 billion annually (2000-04), increasing from the estimated USD 3-4
billion in 1996. Population in the lake basin in that time has grown from 25 million to an estimated 30
million people, while general standards of living are between USD 90-270 per capita per annum (based on
national figures). It is estimated that fisheries contribute about 5 percent to the Kenyan economy. In Kenya
the population in the lake basin is very young and accounts for 40 percent of the country's people. The
population density is 320 persons per square kilometer. The quality of the environment and the status of the
natural resources are critical factors in the maintenance and growth of incomes and reduction of poverty.

Among the gross benefits expected in the SAR are avoided losses related to decline in fishery as a result of
over-fishing and deterioration in water quality, impacts of water hyacinth infestation, poor quality of water
supply for domestic and animal uses, and continued degradation of wetlands.

Fish production for the whole lake is currently estimated to be between 400,000 to 600,000 metric tons
worth USD 400 to 600 millions. It is estimated that a majority of this production is artisanal fishery.
Figures for Kenya on the gross employment in fishing and related activities are not available. Domestic
consumption is estimated at USD 94 million (2004). Exports of fish from the entire lake are estimated at



                                                       - 10 -

USD 270 million. The Nile perch products are exported to Europe, Australia, Asia, Africa and America. In
Kenya the estimated export value was about USD 57 million in 2004. A rough estimation of avoided losses
in the period 2000-2003 due to measures taken to improve quality assurance and the lift the temporary ban
on exports to the EU ban, is USD 26 million, while the cost of upgrading the fish quality laboratory was in
the range of USD 500,000. The national ICR estimates the discounted net present value of sustained
export earnings at presently observed levels at US $ 200 million for Kenya.

The Water Hyacinth infestation has been reduced to non-nuisance levels. Indicative avoided costs range to
more than 25-40 million in the period 2000-2005 for the whole lake. Estimates from the national ICR put
the present value of avoided costs for Kenya at US $ 8 ­ 13 million. (Please see Annex 3)

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not estimated in the SAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall rating for institutional development impact is substantial.

Institutional development was one of the objectives of the project and nearly all the components' activities
contributed to it. Significant achievements included the shift in fisheries management towards
co-management and a rich experience in community based management in the catchment. BMUs and
community common interest groups (CIGs) were established providing effective service delivery as well as
promoting community participation and empowerment. Fisheries regulatory and policy frameworks were
strengthened and harmonized across three countries. The project helped the countries in handling the EU
ban on fish exports due to quality concerns by strengthening the quality assurance processes. The project
contributed to reducing the significant capacity gaps through training; e.g., 4 Ph.D. and 28 M.Sc. both
locally and abroad in a wide range of disciplines including fisheries science, environmental management,
and information systems among others. Numerous others were trained on-the-job and through short
courses. Better trained personnel contributed toward stronger institutions. The Lake Victoria Fisheries
Organization was created. When the EAC was re-established and became active in the Lake Victoria
program, the activities under the project helped in formulation of the Lake Victoria Protocol and
subsequent LVBC.

The impact of the institutional development could have been greater had the training been undertaken in a
more strategic and focused way, and the activities supported under the project mainstreamed more
effectively into the day to day work of the relevant ministries. For component specific details, please see
section 10.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The key factors influencing implementation include: (i) Uneven performance of the other two partners and
limited ability to influence that performance. Approval of Uganda's supplemental credit was stalled in
Parliament for approximately one year. Activities that required shared funding; e.g., synchronized
collection of data, suffered from the varying pace of implementation among the partners. (ii) The falling
lake level, by over two meters since 2003, was caused partly by the prolonged drought and partly due to
over-abstraction of water for power generation by one of the partner countries. The falling level had serious
impacts on the fisheries and wetlands. Assets of the BMU's (fences, jetties etc) were no longer usable and
the spawning grounds were affected. Many wetlands are threatened. The overall ecological and economic
impact of this issue has not been estimated but is considered to be large. The project provided a forum for
the partners to recognize and begin to address the declining lake level, but avoidance of the decline was not


                                                     - 11 -

within the control of the Kenyan government or implementing agency. (iii) The drought also affected
implementation of catchment based activities in the soil and water conservation and catchment afforestation
components. (iv) The ban on fisheries due to fish quality concerns by the EU, the main market for the
commercial Nile Perch, led to additional focus on quality assurance. The ban was occasioned by a concern
that was outside the control of the government or implementing agency. The efforts by the project to
strengthen quality assurance resulted in the ban being lifted.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The systemic fiduciary management issues significantly hampered project implementation in Kenya. The
consistently poor performance of the secretariat could have been addressed more effectively. Given the
scale of this project in terms of the number of implementing agencies, both management and mainstreaming
were concerns. The lack of a national policy and technical steering committee or closer oversight by senior
representatives of the implementing agencies resulted lack of prioritization, weak strategic focus, and poor
coordination. The lack of a distinct pathway for feeding the outputs and results of the project into the
mainstream functioning of the implementing agency(ies) was significant and could have been remedied.
For example, work on the tertiary industrial waste treatment pilot did not result in plans for scale-up, even
in the factory where it was tested. Some positive factors that contributed to success of the project arose due
to actions of government not fully foreseen at project design. Cooperation between the three countries, with
free inter-country movement of project implementation staff facilitated the harmonization achieved by the
project and enhanced its the regional status. The revival of the East African Community (EAC) and the
establishment of the LVBC cemented the regional linkages, and these outcomes were clearly due to efforts
by the riparian governments.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two and half years were required to establish, equip and staff the project. This long start-up period cut into
the time for implementation and necessitated a refocusing and narrowing of the project activities. After the
MTR, Kenya was less successful than the other two countries in accelerating implementation due to
systemic problems in the flow of funds and poor management of the project. The scale of operations was
much lower in Kenya throughout the project period due to the chronic problems of management and flow of
funds; 35 percent of GEF funds were disbursed in the last year alone. Targets and monitoring frameworks
were not clearly specified, with the result that tracking of progress became ad-hoc and subjective. No
explicit mechanism was put in place to ensure that the results from the project were mainstreamed into the
long-term plans of the respective agencies. Project coordinators represented the mainline agencies but the
degree of their interaction and communication with project staff varied considerably across components.
Delays in accountability of funds were a universal problem that continued throughout the project. The
continuing problems with financial management and procurement prompted a shift in the Secretariat to
KARI and flows of funds improved, but new problems emerged. These factors could have been remedied
by the implementing agency(ies).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The appraisal estimated project cost for Kenya was USD 28 million, with external financing, including an
IDA credit of USD 12.8 million and a GEF grant of USD 11.5 million for the initial period of 1997-2002.
By the end of 2002 only USD 12.65 million or about 52 percent of the total project budget had been
utilized because of the slow progress in implementation. The IDA credit was closed in the end of 2002 and
about USD 4.4 million was cancelled. Two extensions were approved for the GEF grant which closed
December 2005, with 100 percent disbursed. As work programs within components were revised, resources
were reallocated between and among them. Please see tables in Annex 2.




                                                      - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Moderately Likely. In assessing sustainability of the project, the ICR team has proceeded with an
understanding that much of the investment falls into the category of public goods and services with an
ongoing and appropriate role for public expenditure. Sustainability under these circumstances requires
evidence of continued commitment by government to allocate the needed public funds, an institutional
foundation to assure that activities that warrant continuation will be carried on, and public awareness
sufficient to secure continued public support though the electoral process. In this context the modest
accomplishments of the first phase are likely to be sustainable and enhanced in the future due to the
following:

Financial sustainability ­ The Government has made a commitment within the budget process to include
activities initiated under the project in the budget projections and programs for its mainline agencies. The
components with notable links included soil and water conservation and wetlands. Further, the Government
has committed USD 1 million as its contribution to the Bridging Phase to continue core activities from the
first phase prior to the period when the second phase of external funding becomes available. Policy and
decision-makers increasingly support the integrated management of the lake testifying to the recognition of
the public good aspects of the longer-term program. The shift from the financial basis of the first phase
(largely project-based and not fully included in the budget) to that of the second phase will entail careful
assessment of which activities to continue, which to expand, and which to wind down. That assessment is
not yet complete, and when it is, not all activities will be retained. Nonetheless, a strong basis for financial
sustainability of the overall program is in place within the budgetary framework and agreed modes of
external assistance to Kenya.

Institutional sustainability ­ The project enhanced institutions and generated momentum towards an
integrated approach for the management of Lake Victoria and its catchment. Political commitment has been
increased through information and creation of awareness among a wide section of stakeholders. The
participatory approach and co-management of resources followed by the project, while time consuming to
establish, contributed to sustainable results, especially when combined with adequate regulatory and
monitoring mechanisms. The strong move towards regional cooperation will help strengthen planning and
joint management activities. The LVFO is in place and functioning, although it needs strengthening. A
decision has been taken to form a comparable organization for water, both quality and level. The Lake
Victoria Protocol is ratified by the three riparian states. The EAC has formed the LVBC to serve as a
coordinating body. Finally, Rwanda and Burundi, two partners minimally active in the first phase but
important for the maintenance of the watershed, have actively sought to join the second phase and are
clarifying their relations with the EAC. Because of the increased visibility of the Lake Victoria agenda and
its enhanced recognition within the governmental bodies of the riparian states, the difficulty experienced in
the first phase of embedding activities in the main ministries will be less problematical in the future. The
Kenyan Ministry of Environment has acknowledged the shortcomings in performance of the project while it
was under the Ministry's oversight and agreed to the transfer to KARI for the final period of
implementation. The Ministry now actively seeks to lead Kenya's participation in the second phase, both in
preparation and implementation, and has appointed a coordinator within the Ministry to lead that effort.
KARI is eager to relinquish its present role and return to its core business of providing research to underpin
improved agricultural practices that will serve the environment in the Lake Victoria basin. Because
Kenya's contribution to the regional institutions is strong and the Ministry of Environment is showing
commitment to resume responsibility for the Lake Victoria program under more promising circumstances
than in the past, the outlook for institutional sustainability is good. Internal quality control and



                                                      - 13 -

management processes (particularly for research) must be strengthened to enhance relevance and assure
that the activities mainstreamed into the institutional structure are in fact delivering the needed results.

Environmental sustainability ­ Achievement of significant positive environmental outcomes in Lake
Victoria is a long term process, and the project was appropriately modest in its ambitions in this regard. It
did, however, affect, on a limited scale, the inflows caused by erosion through its soil and water and
afforestation activities. The project's contribution to reducing effluents through its planned priority
investment activities was negligible. Continued over-exploitation of fisheries remains a concern, since the
present offtake is not within the range of catch estimated to be sustainable. The decline in the level of the
lake during the first phase confirms the vulnerability of the level to changes in abstraction and precipitation.
The research and consultative mechanism put in place under the project contributed toward actions that
halted the over-abstraction and very likely avoided further and possibly irreversible damage, but the drop in
level is nonetheless costly and highly undesirable. The lake is presently rising, but the longer term prospect
is not yet clear. The current status of the fish stock, water quality, and the level of the lake confirm the
need for clearly specified environmental indicators in the second phase and agreed and enforceable
mechanisms to achieve the indicators. Furthermore, environmental assessment of the micro-projects should
be enhanced and built into the environmental capacity of the local governments in the watershed.

For component specific details, please see Section 10.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
LVEMP 1 was planned and implemented as the first phase of a long-term program, intending to develop
the knowledge base and capacity allowing for subsequent actions in the second phase. Extensions of the
first phase (due to the varying implementation pace among the three countries) and the delays in start-up of
the preparations for the expected next phase resulted in a funding gap for one and half years. This period,
called the Bridging Phase, is being supported by EU and SIDA Due to the decrease in the level of funding,
the scale of intervention has been reduced to core LVEMP activities allowing a continued momentum to be
maintained till preparation of the next phase is complete. The planned second phase is intended to
contribute to the achievement of the regional (EAC) Lake Victoria Development Vision of having: "a
prosperous population living in a healthy and sustainably managed environment providing equitable
opportunities and benefits to the riparian communities ," and will not be a linear continuation of activities
and structures of the first. Its expected development objectives are to: (i) Strengthen regional and national
institutions for coordination of sustainable management of the transboundary Lake Victoria basin
resources; (ii) Facilitate environmentally friendly investments in the Lake Victoria Basin; and (iii) Enhance
conservation of biodiversity and genetic resources of targeted fish species. The second phase will draw on
the lessons learned from the implementation of the first phase and is likely to focus on four main areas: (i)
Building the information base for governance and growth; (ii) Strengthening governance of transboundary
natural resources; (iii) Enhancing sustainable economic growth; and (iv) Raising public awareness through
education and communication. The project costs are expected to be financed by IDA credit, bilateral donors
and borrowers' funds. Possible GEF support will be dependent on availability of funding under GEF4 and
on completion of the ongoing Regional Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and the Strategic Action
Plan (SAP), likely to be completed in November 2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Moderately Satisfactory. Identification of the project began in 1992 but preparation began in earnest in
August 1994. The Bank helped the three riparian states embark on the first major regional project
contributing in part to the renewed EAC cooperation later. The Bank promoted a comprehensive approach


                                                      - 14 -

to the lake's problems and encouraged community participation and community based activities, gender
mainstreaming and stakeholder consultations at a time when the local experience to date had been neither
participatory nor inclusive. The Bank's team facilitated a path between the multiple competing views of the
problems and the variety of objectives/perspectives for the project evinced by the numerous stakeholders.
As noted by the then task team leader, 'almost everything in the project was a carefully crafted
compromise.' Given this context, preparation was done in a highly participatory and consultative way.
Some of the tensions between the varying views, however, were not fully resolved and were reflected in the
implementation of the project. Preparation missions were sufficient but did not fully anticipate or address
the lack of capacity and weaknesses in operational management. The project design was strong on
conceptual and technical merits but it was not translated by the countries into appropriate institutional
arrangements for implementation. Weaknesses in prior planning (especially of financial management and
procurement ) translated into an effective delay of two and half years. The preparation team appears to
have been overly optimistic about the capacity of the implementing agencies to perform. Because the
project predated the substantial decentralization of staff and responsibility to the field, the weakness may
have been hard for Washington-based staff to observe. Bank preparation missions in 1995 noted that the
secretariats were up and running in the three countries, but the early pace of implementation demonstrated
that they were operating with severe limitations. The changes introduced at the MTR allowed
implementation in the other two countries to accelerate and much lost ground was recovered, although
managerial problems persisted in Kenya. Given the elements of preparation that were strong and the
subsequent correction of those that were weak resulting in improved performance in the program overall,
the assessment of lending is moderately satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Moderately Satisfactory. The chronology of the supervision record shows considerable variation over time
in staffing, approach, and focus. Investment of bank budget in supervision was greater than in preparation,
but the Bank underestimated the time and resources needed to supervise a regional project of this size.
Missions were conducted annually (mostly in the beginning of the project) and semi-annually (mostly
during the last years of the project). The supervision teams included specialists, staff and consultants with
different areas of expertise (fisheries, watershed management, institutions etc.). The missions also included
variously donor representatives, regional scientific experts and project staff from other riparian states as
observers. In the first two years supervision attention was aimed at operationalising the project.
Subsequently, and following changes in the implementing arrangements, close supervision and intensive
technical support led to some improvement in disbursements and progress in implementation of various
component activities. The Bank assisted greatly in the overhaul of the components, matching them to the
institutional structure. A strong but belated exercise to retrofit a logframe and monitoring indicators was
undertaken as a result of the stocktaking exercise, conducted in 2003. The subsequent approach of the team
was to guide the project in collating the results of the research into specific outputs, resulting in the
production of regional and national synthesis and lessons learned reports.

Successful support for implementation of this challenging project required a team able to focus
simultaneously on the big picture and on detail, and the Bank was not consistently able to assure both
perspectives. Team leadership changed five teams, and the changes brought varying professional
backgrounds and skills. The supervision record indicates significant differences in the framework and
approach towards both technical issues and supervision styles by the various teams. This resulted in lack of
consistency in the realism of supervision ratings and some gaps in the hand-overs. The teams worked
intensively and conscientiously, and contributed toward the realized accomplishments of the project's
objectives. The team was, however, not fully able to compensate for relatively weak managerial capacity
within the implementing agencies, nor for the absence of a clear focus on strategic objectives and
indicators.



                                                      - 15 -

The project in Kenya was subject to an Inspection Panel Request registered on November 22, 1999
submitted by RECONCILE (Resources Conflict Institute), a Kenyan NGO, acting for and on behalf of
persons in the Nyanza Gulf area. RECONCILE was also the representative of OSIENALA (Friends of
Lake Victoria), an NGO representing people living in Kisumu, and the Kenya Chapter of ECOVIC (the
East African Communities Organization for Management of Lake Victoria Resources) who represented
communities living along the Kenya side of Lake Victoria.

The Requesters claimed that they were likely to suffer harm as a result of failures and omissions by the
Bank in the design and implementation of the water hyacinth mechanical chopping pilot of the LVEMP in
Kenya, a small activity under the water hyacinth component. In particular, they claimed that the mechanical
method for shredding the water hyacinth in the Lake and allowing it to sink to the bottom would result in
ecological and environmental degradation which would, in turn, adversely affect communities living on the
shores at the Nyanza Gulf. They also claimed that this method to control the water hyacinth was selected
without a prior Environmental Assessment or appropriate community consultation.. The Board approved
the Panel's recommendation for an investigation on March 20, 2000. The Panel sent its Investigation
Report to the Board on December 28, 2000.The Inspection Panel concluded that Management was in
compliance with OD 4.01. (Environmental Assessment) with respect to categorization of the Project, OD
4.15 (Poverty Alleviation) and OP 10.04 (Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations). The Panel also
concluded that Bank Management was not in compliance with paragraph 42 of OD 13.05 on Bank
Supervision specifically with regard to oversight of the mechanical chopping pilot.

Bank Management recommended six actions: (i) continued monitoring; (ii) vigilant surveillance; (iii)
heightened community participation; (iv) cross country participation in supervision missions; (v) renewed
activity of the Panel of Scientists; and (vi) possible repeat of the pilot. Bank management disagreed with
the findings of the Panel with regard to adequacy of supervision, and provided evidence that supervision
teams had brought to the attention of the project management issues that should have been addressed to
improve the pilot. No request to repeat the pilot was received because the biological control of hyacinth
was by that time considered to be a superior method.

The Inspection Panel request pertained to a small activity within one of the components. Although the
mechanical chopping pilot was the explicit reason for the request, the larger context was one of heightened
tensions at the time between civil society and the Government in Kenya, and the desire of civil society to be
active and involved in projects. This desire was appropriate and constructive, and accommodated in the
program through the recruitment of Community Development Officers (in place in Kenya in April 2000)
and more broadly in the launch of the highly consultative Lake Victoria visioning exercise.

The supervision effort is judged to have been moderately satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is Moderately Satisfactory. This is consistent with the assessments
conducted by the stocktaking exercise, QAG (for supervision of the linked project in Uganda) and IEG
(evaluation of the World Bank's Support for regional programs), which found overall Bank's performance
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Moderately Satisfactory. The Governments of the three partner states displayed ownership and
commitment to the visioning and planning of the project. The SAR was based on project planning



                                                      - 16 -

documents prepared by each of the countries. The three countries addressed the lack of regional institutions
and mechanisms needed to implement a transboundary intervention by signing the Tripartite Agreement of
1994 that supported cross-country cooperation and advanced the development of regional frameworks.
Structural impediments to implementation, including coordination, capacity, and challenges regarding
resource management were not adequately recognized and addressed. Preparation did not put in place
adequate management structures that could provide strategic oversight and monitor and guide activities of
the components. This was critical, given the lack of a detailed log-frame, and contributed significantly to
the fragmentation of project activities. Significant weaknesses in pre-implementation operational planning,
particularly related to disbursements, procurement and institutional coordination, resulted in a lack of
readiness for implementation. These shortcomings were addressed in part through changes at the MTR, as
noted above. The same reasoning that pertains to the assessment of the Bank's performance in preparation
is operative for the Borrower's, and the overall assessment is moderately satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. Kenya shared with the other countries a lack of recognition of the general unreadiness of
the various institutions and structural mechanisms to implement the project, but was not as successful as
the others in remedying the situation. Systemic problems with flows of funds were not adequately
addressed, and the Government neither assisted the implementing agencies to solve the problems nor held
them accountable to do so. Despite ready evidence of unsuccessful performance on the part of the
secretariat, the parent ministry did not take action for a long time, and then only with apparent reluctance
and limited success. Policy measures important for the Lake Victoria agenda were slow to move. The Fish
Levy is not yet operational. The Fisheries Bill is awaiting approval. The Forestry Policy was passed,
albeit with significant delay, and this is a positive step.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory. There were eight main institutions/ministries, involved as primary implementing agencies
in the projects in Kenya. As noted, implementation was slow and plagued with delays due to ineffective
financial management and procurement processes. Tracking of financial flows and expenditures by
categories and components has been inadequate. There was no proper hand-over between the secretariats
and information pertaining to the earlier years is largely absent. Although KARI was expected to provide
effective management given its record in other projects, this did not turn out to be the case. The financial
management weaknesses of KARI included delays in funds disbursement and commingling of project
resources with other accounts. The secretariat functioned as a coordination office with management of
activities entirely under the implementing agencies. In the latter period, KARI considered itself more a
mechanism for flow of funds with a weak mandate for coordination and technical management of the
activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory. Despite Kenya's positive contribution to the design effort, the country's inability (both on
the part of the Government and the implementing agencies) to address chronic weakness in management
during implementation greatly weakened the entire effort of the three countries. The inability to extend the
IDA credit and use the allocated amounts was a serious blow to the program. It is very fortunate that
Kenya was able to retain the GEF resources to continue to participate in the regional activities, and the
commitment to regional institutions within the EAC is noted. Despite these positive notes, the Borrower's
performance overall was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

LVEMP1 provided rich experience and lessons derived from successes and disappointments in
implementation. Given the longer-term program for management of Lake Victoria, these lessons are


                                                       - 17 -

particularly relevant.

As is fitting for a project supporting acquisition of knowledge, many of the lessons learned are
technical in nature.
Among the most important that were not known at the outset of the project are the following:
l Biodiversity of fish has declined, but many species thought to be extinct in the watershed are in fact
    present in refugia in satellite lakes.
l A sustainable catch of Nile Perch is probably within the range of 220,000 tons annually (trawl
    surveys) to 350,000 tons annually (acoustic survey).
l Point sources of pollution are important locally and have effects on public health, but are not the
    largest sources of phosphorus and nitrogen exacerbating eutrophication of the lake.
l Eutrophication is primarily due to nitrogen and phosphorus from atmospheric deposition, although the
    relative contribution of the catchment to it is yet unknown.
l The lake level has varied significantly over time and is highly sensitive to small changes in the balance
    of inflows and outflows.
l Constructed wetlands can be effective measures to enhance the contribution that natural wetlands make
    toward water quality.
l Water hyacinth can be effectively contained in the lake through biological control (weevils), but
    weevils are less effective in the rivers that flow into the lake.

Interlinked national projects are vulnerable to failure of one of the partners, and must build in peer
review and assistance, and safeguards in the event that these fail.
The inability to extend the IDA credit in Kenya was a serious problem for both of the other projects and for
the regional effort overall. Partners should agree at the design phase to be mutually accountable for
performance and mutually supportive when problems arise, so that they can be spotted and remedied early.

Scientific research must be targeted, provide usable information for management decisions and be
widely accessible.
Given the resource constraints and urgency of the need better to manage the lake, the monitoring and
research undertaken should be targeted, applied, and framed with cognizance of the necessary and
sufficient levels of information needed for management. The research should be managed efficiently,
bringing in innovative mechanisms such as competitive grants, and subject to peer review for quality
control. Outputs from monitoring and research should be widely shared.

Regional projects necessitate greater emphasis on clarity of project objectives, monitorable
frameworks, at multiple levels, and adequate mechanisms for governance
Given weaknesses in capacity, clear objectives, indicators and targets help focus efforts towards results.
Coordination and sharing of information are important, but real improvement in the state of the lake will
require a mutually agreed set of standards linked to recognized indicators and enforced through agreed
mechanisms including both incentives and sanctions. Establishment of such mechanisms is the core agenda
of the second phase, drawing on knowledge created during the first and the initial experience with creation
of institutions for governance. For instance, the weak motivation for prioritizing waste water treatment
pilots resulted from lack of regulations and/or enforcement.

The Basin perspective is critical to address the key environmental issues of Lake Victoria
The initial focus of the program was on the lake itself, particularly on fisheries (with 41 percent of
allocated resources). The key scientific results underscore the importance of interventions at the basin level
in order to address the problems of the lake. For instance, the important finding resulting from water
quality monitoring indicates that atmospheric deposition accounts for the bulk of pollution in the lake (and



                                                      - 18 -

part of the deposition may originate outside the basin). Similarly, some water hyacinth originates upstream
from the riparian countries (in Rwanda and Burundi).

Capacity Building has to address both current and projected gaps.
The project started with varying capacities among the three countries necessitating a careful strategy for
need-based and gap-filling capacity building at all relevant institutions (not just research bodies). While the
project upgraded skills and equipped institutions it did not project needs and address future gaps (there
were long employment freezes in these countries with implications for capacity resulting from generational
transitions). The timeline and intensity of capacity building has to be better managed to avoid lack of
personnel to implement and scale-up.

Implementation in the future can be undertaken through governmental structures.
The project relied on contracted staff and stand-alone PMUs for implementation. This was probably
necessary at the time, but opened the door for insularity, some institutional jealousy regarding pay scales,
and adverse incentives (e.g., high costs for workshops and travel allowances). Moreover, in Kenya even
contracted staff did not perform well in all cases, so the objective of the contracting was not met.
Mainstreaming of implementation within governmental structures is now feasible and is a better approach
for the future.

Environmental benefits must be strongly linked to improved livelihoods for local people and
communities.
Community based micro-projects were highly successful and helped provide low-cost services on health,
education, livelihoods related needs. They served as vehicles for raising awareness and capacity on
sustainable land management, public health and sanitation, gender, and HIV/AIDS. The BMUs, CBOs,
CIGs and other community institutions helped empower local decision-making and lead to an increase in
livelihood opportunities. This approach was found useful in building community buy-in for activities
generating positive environmental externalities pertinent to the Lake's health. There is need for further
attention to public health aspects (sanitation and HIV/AIDS), micro-credit access and the socio-economic
impacts of increasing migration to the lakeshore.

Good education of the public and parliamentarians is critical for long term sustainability and success.
Proper management of Lake Victoria will require a long term commitment of public funds and willingness
of people living in the basin to change behaviors. Attainment of both requires relentless and sophisticated
investment in public education.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Document Shared. Comments to be received

(b) Cofinanciers:
Document Shared. Comments to be received

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

10. Additional Information

Component Specific Details on Outputs, Institutional Development and Sustainability

Original Components as in the SAR
    The In the joint SAR from (June 1996) the components were defined as (with the original total



                                                     - 19 -

allocations combined for the three countries, partly indicating the prioritization at the start of the
project):
1) Fisheries Management (USD 2.28 million): The project supported the establishment of the Lake
Victoria Fisheries Organization with facilities, assets, personnel and operational expenditures. The
LVFO was established to improve fisheries management, strengthen conservation and collaborate with
other lake related agencies, coordinate fisheries extension and disseminate information on Lake Victoria
Fisheries.
2) Fisheries Research (USD 13.33 million): The program for fisheries research aimed to provide
information on the ecology of the lake and its catchment, the biology of its flora and fauna, the impact
of environmental factors on the lake system, and socioeconomic implications of use of the lake
resources. The information was to contribute towards improved ecological efficiency, greater
biodiversity, and ecological balance in the lake ecosystem. This component had five sub-components -
a) Fish Biology and biodiversity conservation, b) Aquaculture, c) socioeconomic, d) database.
Separately stock assessment was being conducted (financed by the EU).
3) Fisheries Extension, Policies and Laws, and Fisheries Levy Trust (USD 14.09 million): This
component aimed at harmonizing legislation among the three countries, identifying and establishing
closed fishing areas, strengthening enforcement capacity as well as supporting extension activities such
as introducing new techniques, small scale aquaculture, strengthening information collection and
promoting fishing community organizations. The component also aimed at supporting one fish quality
control laboratory and micro-projects in selected fishing villages comprising of small investments in
water supply, sanitation, access roads and health.
4) Fish Levy Trust (USD 2.03 million): This component aimed at studying and implementing a system
for collecting levies from the fishing industry and using these funds to support fisheries and ecosystem
management in the lake and its catchment.
5) Water Hyacinth Control (USD 8.31 million): The aim of this component was to establish sustainable
long-term capacity for maintaining control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake
Victoria.
6) Water Quality and Ecosystem Management (USD 9.6 million): The aim of the program was to
elucidate the nature and dynamics of the lake ecosystem by providing detailed information on the
characteristics of the waters of the lake. The program was to provide details of limnological changes,
model and predict their short and long term consequences, and provide guidelines for ameliorating
potentially disastrous changes. There was one core project, Management of Eutrophication, two pilots,
Sedimentation and Hydraulic conditions and the Construction of a model of water circulation and
quality in the lake designed to help better understand and eventually to manage the problems.
7) Industrial and Municipal Waste Management (USD 9.89 million): The program aimed to improve
management of industrial and municipal effluent and assess the contribution of urban run-off to lake
pollution in order to design alleviation measures. It consisted of one core project, Management of
Industrial and Municipal Effluents, and two pilots, Integrated Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment
and Integrated Industrial Effluent Treatment and a component for Priority Waste Management
Investments.
8) Land Use and Wetland Management (USD 14.1 million): This component consisted of two core
projects, Management of pollution loading (addressing non-point sources of pollution) and Buffering
capacity of Wetlands as well as four pilots - Assessment of the role of agro-chemicals in pollution,
integrated soil and water conservation, sustainable use of wetland products, and afforestation. These
activities were a combination of information generation studies and piloting/implementation of solution
on-the-ground.
9) Institutional Framework (Support to Riparian Universities and the Coordinating Secretariat) (USD
3.98 million): The last component lumped together two sub-components that targeted capacity building,
ie Support to the Riparian Universities for strengthening facilities for environmental analysis and


                                                 - 20 -

  graduate teaching, and project implementation, i.e., Maintaining Coordinating Secretariats. One
  activity, the preparation of a Pollution Disaster Contingency Plan was also included.

  It is noted that Fisheries Extension (Component No. 3) included an allocation of USD 3 million
  towards micro-projects in fishing communities. Community Participation was a crosscutting issue from
  the beginning. These components combine for a total external financing of USD 24.3 million and total
  project costs of USD 28.0 million for Kenya.

Revised Components

  The final list of components and sub-components in Kenya as prevalent at the end of the project, with
  major changes indicated, is below:
         Component                                Sub-Components
         Implementing Agency
  1      Fisheries Management                     a) Frame Survey and Strengthening Statistical Data
         Fisheries Department, Ministry of        b) Co-Management (Law Enforcement) and
         Livestock and Fisheries Development,     Community Participation (Reflected the shift
         Kisumu                                   towards participatory resource management)
                                                  c) Fish Quality Assurance (became a distinct
                                                  sub-component)
                                                  d) Training, Extension and Information
                                                  Dissemination
                                                  e) Fish Levy Trust Fund (it was incorporated into
                                                  this component)
                                                  f) Micro-Projects (this became a distinct
                                                  sub-component)
  2      Fisheries Research                       a) Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation
         Kenya Marine Fisheries Research          b) Aquaculture
         Institute ­ KMFRI, Kisumu. Ministry      c) Socio-economics
         of Livestock and Fisheries               d) Information and Database Establishment
         Development                              (Fish Stock Assessment supported by the EU)
  3      Water Hyacinth Control                   Water Hyacinth Control
         KARI, Ministry of Agriculture,
         Kisumu
  4      Water Quality and Ecosystem              a) Eutrophication Studies
         Management                               b) Hydraulic Conditions Pilot Study
         Ministry of Water and Irrigation,        c) Sediment Characteristics and Sedimentation Pilot
         Kisumu                                   Study
         (Incorporated some activities of the     d) Lake Victoria Water Quality Model (became a
         Industrial and Municipal Waste           distinct sub-component)
         Management Component. The                e) Management of Pollution Loading (Point and
         remaining activities of that component   Non-Point) (was originally in land use and wetland
         were reduced/dropped off.)               component)
                                                  f) Role of Agro-chemicals Pilot Study (was
                                                  originally in land use and wetland component)
                                                  g) Integrated Tertiary Effluent Treatment Pilot



                                                   - 21 -

                                                 Study (was originally a sub-component of the
                                                 Industrial and Municipal Waste Component.)
  5     Wetland Management                       a) Buffering Capacity of Lake Victoria Wetlands
        National Environment Management
        Authority - NEMA. Ministry of
        Environment, Natural Resources and
        Wildlife, Busia                          b) Sustainable Use of Wetlands and Wetland
        (This was originally a part of the Land  Products
        Use and Wetland Component, and
        became a full-fledged component)
  6     Soil and Water Conservation Ministry (This was originally a pilot of the Land Use and
        of Agriculture, Kericho                  Wetland Component, and became a full-fledged
                                                 component)
  7     Catchment Afforestation                  (This was originally a pilot of the Land Use and
        Forestry Department Ministry of          Wetland Component, and became a full-fledged
        Environment, Natural resources and       component)
        Wildlife, Eldoret
  8    Capacity Building/Support to Riparian (This was originally a sub-component of the
       Universities                              Institutional Framework Component, and became a
       School of Environmental Studies. Moi full-fledged component)
       University, Eldoret
  9     Coordinating National Secretariat        (This was originally a sub-component of the
        Originally, Ministry of Environment      Institutional Framework Component)
        and Natural Resources, later shifted
        to KARI HQ with a Coordinating
        Secretariat at Kisumu.



Component Specific Objectives and Outputs

  Fisheries Management
  Objective: To improve overall management and protection of fisheries resources in Lake Victoria by
  strengthening both national and regional institutional framework and promotion of conservation
  measures.
  The component, implemented by the fisheries department had 7 sub-components with a focus on
  co-management, monitoring and establishing an information baseline. Outputs include: (i) A fisheries
  synthesis report. The report was prepared to capture information gathered under this component and
  was assessed as superficial in many areas and as not fully capturing the activities of the project. (ii) A
  functional database (3 frame surveys were conducted, 2000, 2002 and 2004, the former two being
  regionally harmonized). Data show that high pressure has been observed in areas with high species
  diversity, a worrisome trend. (iii) 245 Beach Management units are functional (Kaloka being a star
  example)- of which 40 regulate according to new fishing methods and enhanced management measures
  promoted by the project. (iv) 98 of 113 identified fish breeding grounds were gazetted and are being
  protected by local communities. (v) While a 31 percent reduction in the number of fishers operating in
  Kenya since 2002 was observed. A notable reduction in illegal fishing methods/gears has been
  observed. (vi) There is a move towards collecting information through the BMUs and training to local
  communities and officials has been provided. (vii) Aquaculture extension was conducted. There were
  several scientific experiments and studies in aquaculture with limited outputs. (viii) 64 of 69



                                                  - 22 -

microprojects (targeted 80) in health, water, sanitation and roads/bridges were operational. (ix)
Post-harvest losses were substantially reduced (from 20 percent in 1997 to about 5 percent in 2005).
(x) Fish quality assurance and fish testing since 1999 resulted in the lifting of the EU ban on fish
imports from the Lake, an outcome of the strengthening of the fish quality laboratory in Kisumu with
equipment and improved procedures. Fish quality standards and codes have also been harmonized
across the three countries. (xi) Regional harmonization for the fish levy trust has been approved by the
RPSC and is likely to be operationalized under the fisheries development authority bill.

Fisheries Research
Objective: Establish a baseline on ecology of the lake, impact of environmental factors on the lake
system and socioeconomic impact on resources; restoration of threatened species through
aquaculture
This component had three components covering research in fish biology and biodiversity, aquaculture,
socio-economics and a supporting information and database component.
The outputs included: (i) A biodiversity baseline was compiled based on surveys in the main and some
satellite lakes; (ii) A comprehensive bibliography was prepared (iii) An biodiversity atlas was prepared
but not published; (iii) Two regional compendia on fish biology and ecology were prepared but not
published; (iv) 31 papers or relevant documents produced; (v) Contribution to the fisheries policy;
Fisheries act amended; (vi) Threatened species identified and stocks collected; (vii) National
aquaculture manual and fact sheets for fish-farming produced and four demonstration sites were
established; 50 operational fish ponds; (viii) Four qualitative baseline survey assessments completed
(nutrition, microprojects, fisheries sector contribution to welfare, degradation of fisheries/environment);
(ix) An Information center services provided for facilitating research was established.

Water Quality and Ecosystem Management
Objective: To elucidate the nature and dynamics of the lake ecosystem; to improve management of
industrial and municipal effluent and assess the contribution of urban run-off of lake pollution in
order to design alleviation measures. The following outputs have largely been delivered, in addition to
staff training at various levels):
a) Eutrophication Studies: Regional harmonized water quality monitoring network determined and
baseline have been established (lake and catchments, 60 functional stations); functioning operational
water quality analysis laboratory exists; the P/N ratio and phytoplankton distribution in the lake is
established; some obvious pollution reduction management measures were identified, but approaches to
implementation have not been developed.
b) Hydraulic Conditions Pilot Study: Study on hydraulic characteristics in the channel between the
Winam Gulf and the open lake was undertaken by a consultant (CWR, University of Western
Australia). Three staff were trained in Australia in use of the Estuary and Lake Computer Model
(ELCOM) hydraulic model, used in the study.
c) Sediment Characteristics and Sedimentation Pilot Study: Sedimentation rates at the mouth of
Nyando and Nzoia rivers and in-lake were established; analyses of sources of sedimentation were done;
three sensitization workshops were conducted.
d) Lake Victoria Water Quality Model: Test-run of hydrodynamic module in the model was
undertaken; introductory training in Delft University/IHE (The Netherlands) was undertaken. The lack
of proper data series, need for further modelling and the low level of training have made the model
unusable as a tool for management decisions at present.
e) Management of Pollution Loading (Point and Non-Point): Monitoring network in main river
catchments was established; quantification and characteristics of river water quality was established
with pollution hotspots identified (see g) below, covering towns with more than 10,000 inhabitants;
atmospheric deposition monitoring network was established and assessment was undertaken.


                                                  - 23 -

f) Role of Agro-chemicals Pilot Study: Survey and stocktaking of agro-chemicals use in one catchment
(Nyando) was carried out; trends of the use of agro-chemicals was established through repeated
surveys; health impact awareness training amongst farmer/users was conducted.
g) Integrated Tertiary Effluent Treatment Pilot Study: This sub-component changed name during the
course of the project. The core project Industrial and Municipal Waste Management and Priority
Waste Management Investments was intended to directly address some of the pollution problems,
where interventions and technologies were identified. The investments to upgrade the Kisumu
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) were deferred when it became likely that the IDA credit would
not be extended and needed institutional changes could not be undertaken in time to allow completion
of the investment prior to closing of the credit. The tertiary treatment of the municipal wastewater
consequently did not materialize, as this was an add-on treatment to the Kisumu WWTP. An inventory
of point sources of wastewater pollution (industry and municipal, including GPS positioning) was
carried out with quantities and characteristics of discharges assessed; introductory seminar on cleaner
production (CP) approaches in selected industries was undertaken (but no CP course was held); the
Tertiary Industrial Treatment Pilot study was carried out by a PhD student at Pan African Pulp and
Paper factory, and the pilot is still used for demonstration (mostly to students) but was not scaled up to
address the total factory effluent discharge.

Water Hyacinth Control
Objective: To establish sustainable long-term capacity for maintaining control of water hyacinth and
other invasive weeds in Lake Victoria. Water Hyacinth infestation has been reduced dramatically to
biological equilibrium levels by approximately 85 % of the previous levels, using multiple control
mechanisms, mainly biological (weevils and moths) and manual extraction (near critical infrastructure).
The component established 18 weevil rearing units, of which 17 are functioning today (15 at schools
and 2 in BMUs). An assessment was done enabling the component to target hotspots in the lake. A
total of 85 community members trained and four persons graduated with advanced degrees (two PhDs
and two M.Sc). Notably, this component used satellite photography and other tools to assess infestation
in a more cost-effective way than on-lake monitoring. This approach was not undertaken by the other
two countries. The use of schools (demonstration and as science related teaching tools) and
communities (mainly fishing communities) has improved the sustainability of these activities.

Wetlands Management
Objective: To increase knowledge of wetlands buffering processes and of Lake Victoria wetlands; to
determine economic potential of the Lake Victoria Basin wetlands products; to demonstrate wise use
of wetland resources; and to develop strategies for wetlands management.
There was one core sub-component and one pilot, buffering capacity and sustainable use of wetland
products, respectively complementing each other. The main outputs are as listed: National Wetlands
map produced; Characterized wetlands ability to clean wastewater (Demos at Marula Swamp, Eldoret
and Dionosoiyet, Kericho); The LVEMP research has been feeding into Wetlands Policy, which is now
in a draft version in the Cabinet, as of August 05; A market survey covering 24 markets in four
districts on three product categories (clay & plant products and fish); A number of capacity building
activities undertaken (TV documentaries, posters, brochures, pamphlets and multiple barazas);
Training of 48 local craftsmen in product quality improvement, financial management and marketing of
wetlands products. The activities carried out by the component have to some extent been hampered by
the lack of internet access in the premises of the component. Dominion Farms have started to drain a
section of the Yala Swamp in order to turn it into agricultural land, by cutting of the inflow to the
wetland (but still diverting some water to parts of the swamp). Eventually this could lead to an
irreversible situation.




                                                 - 24 -

Soil and Water Conservation
Objective: To quantify soil erosion and nutrient loss from different land covers and uses, design
remedial measure and sustainable agricultural practices, develop systems to promote soil and water
conservation, and establish demonstration units to disseminate successful soil and water
conservation measures.
The component implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture covered four districts, targeting parts of
the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia drainage basins. It was based on a micro-catchment scale participatory
approach that targeted critical watershed issues, by working with the community based institutions
(catchment committees) to develop community action plans (CAPs) for better land use practices.
Among its key outputs are: (i) Participatory extension - planning of 7355 farms of which 60 %
implemented; supported development of common interest groups; (ii) 189 PRA reports, CAPs and
Resource maps; (iii) 756 farmer and district committee members trained; demand driven training of 58
common interest groups, 278 farmers exchange visits; (iv) Microproject community investments
including 275 kms of conservation structures, 29 fruit/tree nurseries, 15 protected springs, 7 water
pans/storage structures constructed; (v) Enhanced community capacity in soil and water conservation
(with 30-45% female participation). The component collaborated with other institutions and initiatives
(such as the University of Nairobi, Moi University, Tea Research Foundation of Kenya, Kenya Soil
Survey of KARI - Nairobi, and KARI-Kibos, Kisumu) in conducting five research studies. This
component also chaired a collaborative effort with other components (catchment afforestation,
wetlands, water quality-management of pollution and agro-chemicals subprograms) in the Nyando,
Yala and Moiben Rivers' Catchments.

Catchment Afforestation
Objective: To protect vital areas of Lake Victoria catchment by planting trees by involving local
communities and institutions.
Outputs include: 5 micro projects (one beekeeping, one fish farming, two nursery expansions and one
spring water protection); 1.2 million seedlings produced annually throughout the project period; 100
seedling nurseries were active at project closure in December 2005, 25 are foreseen to be able to
sustain their activities and become autonomous; areas identified for afforestation or re-forestation; 18
springs protected (benefiting 40 households); raised awareness about environmental protection; 131
hectares of trust land was afforested or re-afforested. Unfortunately there is no mention of the survival
rate of the 1.2 million tree seedlings produced annually or how many of the afforested hectares are
being sustained.

Capacity Building - Support to Moi University, Department of Fisheries and School of Environmental
Sciences
Objective: To strengthen facilities for environmental analysis and graduate teaching at Moi
University (School of environmental Studies, Department of Fisheries)
Capacity building (coordinating the training and capacity enhancement of component staff) and
strengthening of the institutional capacity of Moi University School of Environmental Sciences and
Fisheries Department took place. Graduates included three M Phil, one D Phil and 224 short course
participants, including farmers. Facilities were strengthened - 46 operational fish ponds used for
research and demonstration for community training, support to laboratory operations provided.

Institutional Framework - National Secretariat
The national secretariat was originally under the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and
Wildlife, reporting to the Permanent Secretary of the ministry. The secretariat office was located in
Nairobi at the ministry headquarters and later moved to Kisumu in 2001/02 to be nearer the project
operations, partly staffed by seconded ministerial staff and contract staff. At the end of 2002, the whole


                                                 - 25 -

Secretariat was dismissed. Kenya Agricultural Research Institute was then made the coordinating
agency. The transition was far from smooth and the new KARI secretariat was only able to come on
board in late 2003. This secretariat functioned strictly in a coordinating role and implementation was
managed by the components.

Micro-projects and Community Participation
Guidance principles for community participation were prepared. NGOs were brought in to provide
communities with training. Gender considerations were introduced and a gender strategy was
developed. HIV/AIDS was a key issue in the operational areas and the project supported various
initiatives such as community awareness raising, dissemination of information, inclusion of affected
persons in community groups supported by the project. Many initiatives for awareness and information
dissemination were conducted including Lake Victoria Day (annually for four years), use of media
(radio, TV/ development of documentaries) in local languages etc. A beneficiary assessment was also
conducted. The project met and exceeded the originally targeted 60 micro-projects by implementing 81
in all, of which 80 are functional.




                                                - 26 -

  Table 1:           Beneficiary concerns addressed directly and indirectly by micro-projects
                     classified by thematic area



                                                 road                                                                                                                                  Total


 Directly                                            Access   Beach sanitation   Bridge  Cold storage  Fish farming  Health facility  Tree/Tea nursery Water supply  Wetland products       randG
 Health                                                       2                                                     14               2                      4               1          23
 Water                                                        1                                                      2               2                      6               1          12
 Sanitation                                                   3                                                      7                                      1                          11
 IGAs                                                      1                                 1         1             1               2                      3               2          11
 Cold room                                                                                   1                                                                                                   1
 Afforestation and soil Conservation                                                                                                 5                      2               1                    8
 Infrastructure development                                1  2                  1           1                       7                                      3                          15
 Wetland products                                                                                                                                           1               2                    3
 Food production & security (Fish farming)                                                             1                             2                                      1                    4
 Food production & security (Beekeeping)                                                                                             2                                                           2

 Indirectly

 Health                                                    1                     1                                                   4                      2               2          10
 Water                                                                                                               3                                                      1                    4
 Sanitation                                                                                                          1                                      2                                    3
 IGAs                                                      1  3                  1                     1             1               5                      3               2          17
 Cold room
 Afforestation and soil Conservation                                                                                 1                                                      1                    2
 Infrastructure development
 Wetland products
 Food production & security (Fish farming)                    1                                                      1               1                      1                                    4
 Food production & security (Beekeeping)                                                                                             2                                                           2




Institutional Development
     Fisheries Management There has undoubtedly been an increase in capacity, both institutional (for
     example, the LVFO) and infrastructural (such as the fish laboratories) to aid in developing future
     management interventions. There has been considerable increase in community awareness and skills
     through the co-management approach (BMUs).
     Fisheries Research. The focus of the component was on strengthening research capacity and its
     institutional development impact is substantial.
     Water Quality and Ecosystem Management Component The component has increased the knowledge
     of the component staff regarding overall sedimentation and eutrophication characteristics in the Winam
     Gulf, the hydraulics mechanism between the Gulf and the lake, and the establishment and running of
     monitoring networks (in the catchment and the lake).
     Water Hyacinth control. The capacity built through the Ph.D. and M.Sc. degrees along with the short
     courses undertaken by project staff will be part of KARI continuous development. The use of schools
     and communities as local institutions in water hyacinth control has contributed to their capacity.
     Wetlands Management The four M.Sc. graduates are still employed in NEMA, which ensures that the



                                                                              - 27 -

   knowledge gained have not been lost and will be able to continuously develop NEMA's institutional
   capacity within wetlands management. The initiated work on the model for the wetlands buffering
   capacity has not been successfully completed due to lack of capacity.
   Soil and Water Conservation There has been considerable capacity built in the institutions.
   Community empowerment and the micro-projects approach also contributed to considerable
   strengthening of local initiatives in soil and water. Four staff trained at the masters level and 53 short
   courses, radio programs in Luo and Kalenjin, eight regional tours. Also the experience of the
   component has provided many opportunities for development and fine-tuning of strategies in dealing
   with land degradation through community-based activities.
   Catchment Afforestation Five M.Sc. have been sponsored under the component leading to an upgrading
   of skills level in the MENR, which has positively impacted the ministry's human resource capacity. It
   is hoped that this capacity can contribute to the new agenda facing the institution (under the new Forest
   Act).
   Capacity building in the Riparian Universities. There was an increase in the numbers of graduating
   students. Moi university also participated in some research conducted by the components.
   National Secretariat. The secretariat coordinating for most of the project period (in MENR) was
   disbanded and the hand-over to KARI was problematic. The following coordinating secretariat office in
   Kisumu has been closed at the end of the project and the assets transferred to MENR, the coordinating
   agency for the Bridging phase. However, the experience of coordinating such a large project and the
   knowledge on the various issues pertaining to the lake hopefully remains with KARI.
   Microprojects and community participation. These activities helped increase buy-in among the
   communities, raise awareness on the critical environmental issues and help empower communities.
   Microprojects, in general, were successful and highly demanded; it was commendable for its integrated
   approach towards the addressing of multiple needs of the communities, that also ensured the
   sustainability of these activities.

Sustainability
   Fisheries Management. The project helped lay the base for more intensive management but will need
   continued support. Operationalization of the Fish Levy Trust is essential.
   Fisheries Research. The research and information gathered will remain after the project. The surveys
   would need to ongoing support to be continued. Some study surveys are unlikely to be replicated.
   Those outputs that have not been published or disseminated in a usable format may become less useful.

   Water Quality and Ecosystem Management. While the monitoring of water quality in the lake and the
   catchment will not continue at the intensity that was done during the project due to lack of funds it is
   likely to continue during the Bridging Phase. A critical issue is the need for the intensity level to be
   determined based on a scientific need and in a cost-effective way.
   Water Hyacinth Control. There is no income generation associated with running of the weevil rearing
   units and continued public support will be needed. Nevertheless, the units situated at schools are likely
   to be sustained as they so far have been part of the science educational program. The need to continue
   to train and keep the school contacts updated is central to the continuing success. The cost of a core
   monitoring and weevil rearing program is not very high (USD 60,000) and is likely to have
   considerable long-term economic, environmental and institutional benefits. Institutional support for
   these activities is likely to continue give the need to keep water hyacinths to a non-nuisance level.
   Wetlands Management. The components activities have been implemented through NEMA. Hence
   some of the strategic activities will carry on in one or the other way under that agency. But it is
   unlikely that all the local community embedded activities will carry on, only the ones being financially
   viable will survive. The communities closer situated to the component headquarters have benefited
   more from the technical backstopping, giving them an advantage and higher likeliness to sustain their


                                                     - 28 -

activities than the community groups situated further afield. There has been considerable build-up
empowerment and building of community capacity through such activities. Rich experience has been
gained by communities involved in the production and marketing of the wetland product based
handicrafts.
Soil and Water Conservation. The participatory approach and the effort to build developing
institutional structures at the community level (common interest groups) are likely to yield results in
terms of sustainability. It is clear that the land use management activities that have demonstrable
benefits perceived by the farmers are those likely to last. This is a critical factor that needs to be
considered during planning of any scaling up. Often, even the farmers who share a strong preference
for conservation measures are reliant on project based inputs and funding. The mission observed that
many of the stakeholders at the community levels (farmers, district officials) believe and associate the
sustainability of project activities with continuing financial support.
Catchment Afforestation. The market for tree seedlings was weakly developed with the bulk of of
demand coming from the project. It is expected that the participating communities will appreciate the
environmental benefits at a subsequent stage. The communities that undertook a diversified range of
activities (combining nursery management with, for instance, beekeeping, horticulture, fish farming and
other activities) have a higher likelihood of sustaining its returns after project closure. All activities
were tied to the Department of Forestry, which increases the likelihood of some parts of the component
being mainstreamed into the forestry department, but will be dependent on the resources available to
the institution.
Capacity Building: Support to Riparian Universities. A few of the aquaculture activities are likely to
bring in some funds. However they will not be sufficient to continue the capacity building and training
program that was conducted during the project. The project supported an increase in the number of
graduating students but that intensity of effort declined towards the end of the project.
Institutional Framework: National Secretariat. The secretariat at Kisumu has been closed with staff
distributed among other KARI projects. Assets have been/are being transferred to the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources which is the implementing agency for the bridging phase of the
project. The information and capacity of the staff who worked on this project who continue with KARI,
may remain.
Microprojects and community participation. Microprojects were largely demand-driven and were
oriented to meet self-identified needs. Collaboration with mainline agencies in service-provision also
strengthened the likelihood of sustainability.




                                                   - 29 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

These indicators are formulated in Annex 4 of the Staff Appraisal Document (1996). The indicators were
not quantified and tracked systematically. Component specific outputs and achievements have been detailed in
Section 10 of the ICR.

Indicators                           Achievements at project completion Comments
1. Building capacity within the      Universities ­ achieved to some     Substantial capacity building
riparian universities, the line      degree                              activities undertaken, in
ministries, LVEMP secretariats and Line ministries ­ achieved to some implementing agencies, the
the riparian communities for         degree (project staff only)         secretariat, and at the local
environmental analysis,              Secretariats ­ achieved to some     Government and community levels.
conservation and adoption of         degree                              Better trained personnel contributed
cohesive management practices on Communities ­ achieved in pilot         toward stronger institutions. A
the lake.                            areas                               capacity building strategy was not
                                     3 MSc graduated                     developed and efforts were linked to
                                     1 Phd rewarded                      needs identified by the agencies
                                     224 persons attended short courses themselves. There was a greater
                                                                         emphasis on fisheries related
                                                                         capacity.
2. Harmonization among the three     Fisheries regulatory and policy     Enforcement of the fisheries
countries' legislation addressing    frameworks strengthened and         legislation has started in all
management of fisheries and          harmonized across three countries; countries. The LVFO will play a
environment variables important in Contributed to Fisheries Bill and     crucial role in the implementation
the lake basin, and improved         related regulations; Lake Victoria  and enforcement of the legislations
enforcement of this legislation.     Fisheries Organization created;     in the fisheries sector.
                                     Contributed to formulation of the   The environmental standards
                                     Lake Victoria Protocol and          especially concerning wastewater
                                     subsequent Lake Victoria Basin      discharges and pollution/water
                                     Commission, under the EAC           quality have not been standardized,
                                     leadership.                         and the "polluter-pays" principle
                                                                         has not been accepted across the
                                                                         region; enforcement lax.
3. Establishment of the Lake         Achieved                            LVFO active and coordinating
Victoria Fisheries Organization                                          regional activities. Focus on
(LVFO)                                                                   establishment of Beach
                                                                         Management Units and post-harvest
                                                                         fish quality issues.
4. Completion of gazetting and       Gazetting of landing areas largely  Community Conservation Units
regulating fish landing sites within undertaken.                         need further strengthening.
pilot zone areas and enforcing       Co-management through 245 active
acceptable fishing practices within aBeach Management Units (BMUs)
5 km radius of fishing villages      progressing.
within these areas, with full        Illegal fishing reduced in all
participation of lakeshore fishing   countries.
communities.
5. Establishing sustainable          Biologically sustainable control of Different locations for the weevil
long-term capacity for management water hyacinth achieved (85%           rearing stations were used,



                                                       - 30 -

and control of water hyacinth and  reduction); Strong community         including schools, fishing villages
other invasive weeds in Lake       involvement in control activities.   etc., based on the incentives
Victoria Basin, through integrated                                      perceived by the local communities
weed control methods and
community involvement
6. Establishing a lake wide water  Network of monitoring spots in the A substantial baseline information
quality and rainfall monitoring    lake and rivers determined in all 3  was established. Key scientific
system with agreed parameters to   countries.                           results were generated. Emphasis
generate information on            The sampling throughout the projectwas on data collection. Sampling
eutrophication management and      has been episodic.                   was episodic, affected by flow of
pollution control.                 Weather station measuring dry and funds problems; capacity sometimes
                                   wet deposition established and       was overwhelmed.
                                   followed up.
7. Completing a full inventory and Completed. National wetlands maps More comprehensive wetland
resource survey of Lake Victoria   and wetland inventory available in management plans were developed
wetlands, and preparing investment all countries. and classification of for a few pilot areas, using a
proposals for the economic         Lake Victoria wetlands; maps         participatory approach.
management of these wetlands,      produced; Cost benefit analysis of
including their rehabilitation.    wetlands produced.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

The IDA credit was closed in 2002 with 70 percent disbursed. The secretariat of the project was shifted
from the Ministry of Environment to KARI. Financial Management Tracking was very weak with poor
handover between Secretariats. Information on expenditure by components is therefore available only for
2003-2005 when the secretariat was shifted to KARI.

Table 1: LVEMP Regional - Project Financing Plan at Appraisal (USD, millions, all three countries)
Project Component                       Govts.      GEF        IDA        Total       Percent
LVFO                                     0.20       2.10                      2.30            3
Fisheries Management                     1.40                 12.70          14.10           18
Fisheries Research                       1.30       8.80       3.20          13.30           17
Water Quality Management                 1.00       8.60                      9.60           12
Industrial and Municipal Waste
Management                               1.00                  8.90           9.90           13
Water Hyacinth Control                   0.80       4.50       3.00           8.30           11


Land Use, Catchment Afforestation
and Wetlands Management                  1.40       7.40       5.30          14.10           18
Support to Riparian Universities +
National Secretariat                     0.60       3.60       1.90           6.10            8
Total                                    7.70      35.00      35.00          77.70          100



Table 2: LVEMP Kenya - Project Costs Estimates (by component and financing source) at Appraisal
                                                         Appraisal Estimates (in SAR)
Components (in USD, '000)              IDA         GEF        IDA+GEF           GoK          Total     Percent
Fisheries Research                     1149.00      3107.00       4256.00        473.00       4729.00     18%
Fisheries Management                   4719.00                    4719.00        524.00       5243.00     19%
Water Quality Management                            2881.00       2881.00        320.00       3201.00     12%
Industrial and Municipal Waste
Management                             3621.00                    3621.00        569.00       4190.00     16%
Water Hyacinth Control                 1005.00      1508.00       2513.00        279.00       2792.00     10%
Wetland Management                      262.00      1411.00       1673.00        186.00       1859.00      7%
Land use (incl. pollution loading
and agro-chemicals assessment)          811.00      1386.00       2197.00        244.00       2441.00      9%
Catchment Afforestation                 995.00                     995.00        111.00       1106.00      4%
Support to Riparian Universities                     351.00        351.00         39.00        390.00      1%
Cordinating Secretariat                              869.00        869.00         97.00        966.00      4%
Total                                12562.00      11513.00      24075.00      2842.00       26917.00   100%




                                                 - 32 -

Table 3: LVEMP Kenya: IDA Credit and GEF Grant - By Expenditure/Disbursement Category
in USD '000                                       IDA                                 GEF
Category                         Allocated    Disbursed   Undisbursed Allocated    Disbursed    Undisburse
Civil works                           1,520.35    1,586.36      -66.01       502.00       264.28
Vehicles and Equipment                2,085.39    2,085.39       0.00      2,284.00     1,763.72
Consultant Services and Training      2,424.65    2,424.65       0.00      4,084.00     4,562.45     -478
Goods, Works, Services                  723.27    1,221.81     -498.54         0.00         0.00
Operating Costs                       1,519.40    1,519.40       0.00      4,372.00     4,495.92     -123
Unallocated                             553.45        0.00     553.45        233.00         0.00
Special Account                           0.00      -11.10      11.10          0.00         0.00
Totals                                8,826.51    8,826.51       0.00     11,475.00    11,086.37

IDA Credit
Signed amount:         USD 13,137.023.00
Disbursed:             USD 8,826,513.98
Cancelled              USD 4,310,509.02

Table 4: LVEMP Kenya: GEF Grant - By Component Expenditures (2003-05, earlier data not
available to ICR mission)
Component, USD '000          Planned      Actual    Planned (%) Actual (%)
Fisheries Management             632.24     428.87      12           6
Fisheries Research               877.59     545.63      16           7
Water Quality                  2,249.40   3,522.69      42          47
Water Hyacinth                   246.56     327.91       5           4
Wetlands                         403.15     538.16       8           7
Soil & Water                     192.88     176.50       4           2
Catchment Afforestation          246.64     404.60       5           5
Capacity Building                146.75     188.20       3           3
Coordination                     359.01   1,361.10       7          18
TOTAL                          5,354.21   7,493.65      100         100




                                              - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A standard ERR was not estimated in the SAR, as is often the case when a significant focus of the project
is on capacity strengthening and institutional reform. The section below provides some indicative
socio-economic data and a discussion of observe benefits, corresponding to the potential benefits presented
in the SAR.

The Lake Basin economy is driven by Agriculture and Fisheries (70 percent), including a number of cash
crops (including fish exports) and a high level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. It produces in the
order of USD 5 billion annually (2000-04), increasing from the estimated USD 3-4 billion, in 1996.
Population in the Lake Basin in the duration of the project has increased from 25 million to an estimated 30
million people, while general standards of living are between USD 90-270 per capita per annum (based on
national figures). It is estimated that fisheries contribute about 5 percent to the Kenyan economy. In Kenya,
the population in the lake basin is young and constitutes 40 percent of the total for the country. The
population density is 320 persons per square Kilometer. The quality of the environment and the status of
the natural resources are critical for maintenance and growth of incomes and reduction of poverty.

Among the gross benefits expected in the SAR are avoided losses related to decline in fishery as a result of
over-fishing and deterioration in water quality, impacts of water hyacinth infestation, poor quality of water
supply for domestic and animal uses, and continued degradation of wetlands.

Fisheries contribute about three percent of the GDP of the riparian countries. Fish production for the whole
lake is currently estimated to be between 400,000 to 600,000 metric tons worth USD 400 to 600 millions.
It is estimated that a majority of this production is artisanal fishery. Figures for Kenya on the gross
employment in the sector are not available. Currently exports of Nile Perch from all three countries are
estimated at USD 270 million. The Nile perch products are exported to Europe, Australia, Asia, Africa and
America. Kenya's share of this market is estimated at about USD 57 million (2004).

The EU ban in 1999 resulted in a sudden decline in values received from exports of Nile Perch to the EU.
The ban was motivated by concerns that fish and fishery products were contaminated by pesticides. While
in terms of quantities, exports did not substantially decline, as Israel and other markets made up for the
difference, the value received was not commensurate. If the EU ban had continued with the same level of
exports, and assuming that 70 percent of the difference in values was made up through price increases in
other markets (with 5 percent inflation), a rough estimation of avoided losses in the period 2000-2003 is
USD 26 million, while the cost of upgrading the fish quality laboratory was in the range of USD 500,000.

The National ICR estimates that sustaining export earnings at the present level would therefore preserve
export revenues with a present value of US $200 million for Kenya.

Data have not been collected for a sufficient time to accurately estimate the Maximum Sustainable Yield
(MSY) and there have been disagreements between Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda regarding the estimates.
The Tanzania National Fisheries Synthesis Report estimates MSY for the Lake to be about 348,184 tons
from the acoustic survey and 220,000 tons from the trawl surveys (1999 ­ 2002 surveys). Fish prices have
been stable during the period of late nineties and early 2000's at around one dollar.

The fishing industry is affected by several problems such as the disappearance of indigenous fish species,
eutrophication, illegal fishing practices, increasing fishing effort, encroachment in the fish breeding areas.




                                                       - 34 -

The SAR estimated that the impact as a result of the spread of water hyacinth, including costs of
transportation (delays in transport, increased operation costs), loss in fishing time, increased difficulty
collecting water, blockage of intakes and loss of production at urban and industrial water supply systems,
to be about USD 6-10 million per annum. The water hyacinth infestation has been reduced to non-nuisance
levels. Indicative avoided costs range between USD 25-40 million in the period 2000-2005 for the whole
lake. Estimates from the national ICR put the present value of avoided costs for Kenya at US $ 8 ­ 13
million. (see below)




                                                    - 35 -

Appendix: National ICR estimates of Economic returns.

1. Fisheries
A major purpose of the project was avoidance of the predictable collapse in the fisheries. The current fish
export value is US $ 55.4 million (KShs 4.1 billion). Export value of uncontrolled fishery estimated at 50%
of the current production, or US $ 27.7 million. Assuming the current level of exports will be sustained, the
present value of this revenue stream at a discount factor of 12 % starting from year 1 is:

         Export value of present fishery (sustained)        US $ 55.4 million
         Export value of uncontrolled fishery               US $ 27.7 million

         Difference                                         US $ 27.7 million

         Present value at 12% discount factor        is US $ 226.7 million.

         Sustaining of export earnings at the present level would therefore preserve export revenues with a
         present value of US $ 0.2 billion.

The local communities will also benefit from local consumption of fish estimated at US $ 1 million per
annum (3% of total fish catch other than Nile Perch). In addition to the local fishermen, boat owners, and
fish marketers will benefit through value adding activities estimated at US$ 72 million per annum.

2. Water Hyacinth Control
The project has achieved notable progress under this component. Water hyacinth coverage has reduced by
80-90% from 17,000 ha to about 4,000ha presently. Consequently, a wide range of benefits have accrued
to the lake community. Some of these are:

(a)      Faster commercial waterborne transport of people and goods;
(b)      Reduced fishing time as the beaches are not blocked;
(c)      Reduction of time taken to fetch water as a result of increased access to traditional water collection
areas;
(d)      Increased agricultural output as a result of increased small-scale irrigation; schemes due to opening
of pipes and channels that were previously covered by hyacinth;

    Using data from studies carried out in the project area, we estimate that the total cost saving
    attributable to water hyacinth is US $ 2 ­3 million per annum with a present value of US $ 8 ­ 13
    million.




                                                      - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/21/1992                1    1 TASK TEAM LEADER
              3/1/1993                  2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              4/27/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              6/14/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             1INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENTN OFFICER
              7/29/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             1INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              10/9/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              2/11/1995                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              5/26/1995                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/01-22/1995
              05/20-22/1996

 Supervision

              11/08/1997                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             MONITORING (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION (1); NGO
                                             OFFICER (1); INFO. TECH.
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1)
              05/09/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               U
                                             CO-LEADER (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION (1);
                                             LIMNOLOGY (1); NGO
                                             OFFICER (1)
              06/16/2000                6    WATER HYACINTH                   U               U
                                             CONTROL (1); TEAM
                                             LEADER/FISHERIES (1);
                                             WATER/BIODIVERSITY (1);
                                             FORESTRY/MICROPROJECTS



                                              - 37 -

                           (1); HIV/AIDS (1); FINANCIAL
                           MANANGEMENT (1)
      05/15/2001         6 OUTGOING TTL (1); NRM          S    S
                           SPECIALIST (2); FISHERIES
                           SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                           DEV. OFFICER (1);
                           INCOMING TTL (1)
      6/10/2002          7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),          U    S
                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1), FINANCIAL
                           MANGEMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1), SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                           SPECIALIST (1),
                           ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1), CONSULTANTS (2)
      4/12/2004          5 LAND AFFORECTATION (1),        S    S
                           MICRO
                           PROJECTS,WETLANDS (1),
                           FISHERIES, WATER QUALITY
                           (1), FINANCIAL
                           MANAGEMENT (1),
                           PROCUREMENT (10
      9/27/2004          7 TEAM LEADER (1),               S    S
                           MICRIPROJEDTS,
                           WETLANDS (10, FISHERIES
                           (1), LAND MANAGEMENT
                           AFFORESTATION (1),
                           PROCUREMENT (1),
                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                           (1), CAPCITY BUILDING



ICR
       April 17, 2006    3 TASK TEAM                      U    U
                           LEADER/ENVIRONMENT
                           AL ECONOMIST (1),
                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                           SPECIALIST/INDEPENDE
                           NT CONSULTANT (1),
                           GEF
                           SPECIALIST/OBSERVER
                           (1)




                           - 38 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    n.a.                         104*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         n.a.                            *
  Supervision                                  59**                           718
  ICR                                             4                            57
  Total                                         n.a.                          879
Notes:
* Total amount for Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation
** Partial data for the years FY01-05
Amounts include BB and GEFBB funds




                                                   - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


The overall Bank performance is Moderately Satisfactory and the overall Borrower performance is
Unsatisfactory.

Bank Lending Moderately Satisfactory
Bank Supervision Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower Preparation Moderately Satisfactory
Government Implementation Unsatisfactory
Implementing Agencies Unsatisfactory




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR8,900,000 to the
    Republic of Kenya, Report No. 2907. Washington D.C. 1996.
 2. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program, Project Document, Report
    No015541-AFR. Washington D.C. June, 1996
 3. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program, Staff Appraisal Report, Report
    No015429-AFR. Washington D.C. June, 1996
 4. World Bank. Memorandum of the President, Report No. P-6843 AFR, June 1996
 5. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project, Phase 1, Policy And Institutional
    Framework, KENYA, Draft, Stocktaking Report, July, 2003
 6. World Bank. Aide-Memoirs' from Project Identification Mission in 1992 to last Supervision Mission in
    December 2005. Washington D.C.
 7. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project, Supplemental Credit, Report
    No.P7519, June, 2002
 8. World Bank. Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and joint assessment, Report No.28524, May,
    2004
 9. World Bank. Kenya - Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 29038, May 2004
10. World Bank. Kenya - Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 18391, September 1998
11. World Bank. Kenya - National environment action plan, Report No. E92, June 1994
12. World Bank, Implementation Completion Draft Report, Dr. Paul N. Mbatia, Consultant, Nairobi,
    December 2005 Implementation Status and Results Implementation Status and Results World Bank.
    Policy and Institutional Framework, Draft, Stocktaking Report, July, 2003
13. World Bank. Development Credit Agreement No. 2907-KE, Washington, DC, September 1996
14. World Bank. GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement No. 23819, Washington, DC, September 1996
15. World Bank. Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection Panel
    Investigation Report, Water Hyacinth Chopping Pilot Activity, Report No.21781, IDA Credit
    2907-KE, GEF TF23819, January, 2001
16. World Bank. Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and Strategic Action Program Development for the
    Lake Victoria Basin Project, Report No. 29872, March 2004
17. World Bank. Report and Recommendations on Request for Inspection on Kenya Lake Victoria
    Environmental Management Project, IDA Credit 2907-KE, GEF TF23819, October ­ November 1999
18. World Bank. Inspection Panel Investigation Report No. 28219, December, 2000
19. World Bank. Knowledge and Experiences gained from managing The Lake Victoria Ecosystem, 2005
20. World Bank/UNEP. Discussion Paper on Regional Program for Environmental Management of Lake
    Victoria, November, 1992
21. World Bank. Back To Office Reports for. The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program
    (FY1994) Project ID: P040551 ­Loan/Credit No.2907-KE). Washington D.C.
22. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project, Phase 1, Revised Draft, Scientific
    Stocktaking Report, Progress during LVEMP1 and Challenges for the Future, Prepared by, Robert
    Hecky, August 25, 2003
23. World Bank. Implementation Completion Report, Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project,
    Period July 1997 ­ December 2005, Draft Final Report, December, 2005
24. Full reference for the national inplementation completion reports
25. Regional Synthesis report on fisheries Research and Management, Jeppe Kolding, Paul van Zwieten,
    Julius Manyala, John Okedi, Yusif Magaya, Faustino Orach-Meza; Maun, Wageningen,
    Dar-es-Salaam, December, 2005.
26. Regional Synthesis report for Water Quality - Full reference


                                                    - 42 -

27. National Synthesis report on fisheries Management and Fisheries Research, Final Report, Kenya, 2005
28. National Synthesis report for Water Quality- Full reference
29. Lessons learned Report on the Institutional Framework, Mr. Mathenge Ichang'I, August 2005
30. Lessons Learnt From Land Use Management Through Integrated Soil And Water Conservation, Prof.
    Elijah K. Biamah, October 2005
31. Lessons Learnt on Micro Projects, Lorna Grace O. Okotto,
32. National Lessions Learnt Consultancy on Wetlands Component Activities, Phillip Raburu, Ph.D.
    Eldoret, Kenya, June, 2005
33. Lessons Learnt Report on the Capacity building Component of MOI University ­ School of
    Environmental Studies and Fisheries Department, Dr. Alfred M. Muthee, Head Consortium, Nairobi,
    October 2005
34. Fisheries Management Component, progress 1997-2005, Susan Imende, Component Coordinator
35. Land Use Management Brief, Naro-Kawanda, April, 2006
36. Report on Beneficiary Assessment of LVEMP Supported Micro-Projects in Lake Victoria Basin, Final
    Report, Julius Otieno Manyala, Consultant, February ­ April, 2005
37. Protocol on Sustainable Development of Lake Victoria Basin, November 2003
38. World Bank: Independent Evaluation of the Support of Regional Programs, Case Study, Shawki
    Barghouti, 2006
39. Beneficiary Assessment (B.A) For LVEMP, Components- Soil And Water Conservation,
    Wetlands Management, Catchments Afforestation, Micro-Projects And Community
    Participation, by: Professor I.K Musoke, Lead Consultant, Dr. M. Nyirabu, Consultant, Mr.
    D.K Rweyemamu, Consultant, Mr. C. Kadonya, Consultant, December 2005
40. Report on Kenya National Water Quality Synthesis, J.O.Z Abuoda, and R.E. Hecky, November 2005
41. Report on Beneficiary Assessment of LVEMP Supported Micro-Projects in Lake Victoria
    Basin, Final Report, Julius Otieno Manyala, Consultant, February-April 2005
42. Community Participation Assessment, Final Report, Professor Joyce Olenja, Nairobi, Kenya,
    December, 2005
43. Review Report on Lessons Learnt, Water Hyacinth Control Component, Prof. Mwakio P. Tole,
    Nairobi, Kenya, December, 2005
44. Scientific Stocktaking Report, Progress During LVEMP1 and Challenges for the Future, Prepared by
    Robert Hecky, August 25, 2003
45. Third Overall Performance Study of the Global Environment Facility, ICF Consulting and partners,
    June 2005
46. GEF International Water Program Study, Prof. Laurence Mee, Prof John Okedi, Mr. Tim Turner, Ms.
    Paula Caballero, Dr. martin Bloxham Dr. Aaron Zazueta, October 2004




                                                   - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Regional and Transboundary Issues

The problems connected to Lake Victoria have always been recognized as regional in nature, but prior to
the Project, had not been dealt with jointly by the riparian countries. Once the deteriorating pollution
problem and the related emergence of water hyacinth infestation in the lake, as well as the over-fishing
became obvious and in the beginning the 1990s, the need for a regional program of actions was recognized.
LVEMP was designed as a regional multi-sectoral comprehensive environmental management initiative.
The program was launched through a Tripartite Agreement signed on 15th August 1994 in Dar es Salaam
covering in the first place the three EAC states. This was inherently challenging given the political situation
in the countries. There was a very low level of regional cooperation and no other regional activities
succeeded in getting off the ground, other than the preparation and launch of LVEMP at that time.
Furthermore, the relations between Kenya and the donor community was strained.

The impact of the degrading Lake environment on the population was serious. Around 3 million people
were dependent directly from the fisheries sector activities. In addition, the human activities of the steadily
increasing number of people in the basin (today estimated to around 30 million people, up from 25 million
at the start of the project), increased pressure on the resource. Lake Victoria was, and remains at risk from
the major global environmental threats identified by the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) in its
Operational Strategy for International Waters:
         (a) degradation of water quality due to pollution from land-based activities;
         (b) introduction of non-indigenous (and often pervasively dominant and colonizing) species,
         (c) excessive exploitation of living resources, and
         (d) global climatic changes.

There is concern that the severity of the current drought, which in some parts has largely lasted for three
years and has contributed partly to the lake level reduction (the other factor is the drawdown of the Lake
for production of hydro-power by a riparian country), might be linked to global climatic changes. The need
for support from the Global Environment Facility's (GEF) was thus fully justified and it was a key
co-financier of the project, with a grant of 35 million (accounting for 45 percent of the original project cost)
in the first phase of the program.

The status of main issues of regional and transboundary nature that have been (and still are) prevalent
under the LVEMP, can be briefly listed as follows:

a) Political regional cooperation:
Until LVEMP was launched, the level of cooperation between the three countries had been low since the
break-up of the first EAC in the late 70s. The planning and launching of LVEMP, heavily facilitated by the
international community with the World Bank and GEF in the lead, was the first serious attempt to bring
the parties together over the management of common resources. Later the revitalized EAC was established,
which currently is the leading institution for political and overall coordination of the regional efforts.
Finally, the Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) was established in 2005, operational in Kisumu,
Kenya from mid-2006, and is now coordinating and facilitating the Lake Victoria Development Program
(LVDP) that encompasses various initiatives in the basin. (Figure 3 illustrates the interactions of LVDP
and the EAC Partnership with other main stakeholders, and Figure 4 shows some of the main activities in
the lake basin).

b) Technical and scientific regional cooperation:
With the launching of the LVEMP, the regional cooperation between scientists and other scholars gained



                                                     - 44 -

significant momentum and resulted in sharing of data and methodologies, preparing the base for joint
regional planning of research and monitoring activities and standard-setting. Numerous seminars and
workshops with regional participants in all the three countries have been held. Communication links have
been established, and these will continue to function during LVEMP 2 and under other basin initiatives.
The regional dissemination of the scientific project papers and reports has not been satisfactory, due to
limited capacity and apparent lack of confidence and trust among the parties. Dissemination and regional
cooperation in the future will largely be coordinated by the LVBC under EAC.

c) Fisheries:
LVEMP supported the establishment of Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO). This organization is
now operational with substantial support from the European Union (EU), especially in implementation of
the comprehensive Lake Victoria Integrated Fisheries Management Plan (IFMP). The harmonization of the
fisheries legislation across the three countries has been a major achievement. In spite of the efforts so far it
is clear that the fisheries sector still has some way to go in achieving a sustainable extractive level.
Over-fishing is still prevalent, notably in Uganda where the driving force is the substantial over-capacity in
the fish processing industry (capacity utilization is less than 50% at present). Notably, Uganda also
disagrees to the level of sustainable fish harvest established by the two other countries. There remains a
need for ongoing monitoring of fish extraction combined with additional awareness raising and enforcement
of regulations among the fishing communities.

d) Eutrophication of the Lake:
The high level of nutrients entering the lake enhanced the environment for water hyacinth infestation. The
infestation was significantly reduced (by around 85 percent) to non-nuisance levels and is the most tangible
and visible change on the lake. However, the pollution that contributes to the nutrification remains a
concern and is a priority for the next phase. Additional the Kagera River (originating in Rwanda and
Burundi), continues as a significant source of water hyacinth, as the bio-control agents perform less well in
the rivers as compared to the lake. Research to deal with this problem continues. Research has not yet
conclusively established changes in levels of pollutants in the lake, but the trend appears to be upward.

This is a function of increased economic activity and a higher population in the basin resulting in increased
municipal and industrial wastewater, and run-off from non-point urban and semi-urban pollution sources,
with few measures to treat the discharges. A few pilot measures have been undertaken in the catchment
areas in the three countries to decrease the rural non-point pollution through erosion, but these do not yet
exert a significant impact. The key pollution sources in the near-shore areas are the surface run-off and
wastewater from towns and communities. The pollutants in the open lake waters are largely entering
through precipitation (atmospheric deposition) and are likely long-distance transported pollution from the
land-based activities (dust from wind, bush fires, etc.). It is not known whether this pollution is coming
from within or from outside of the Lake Victoria basin. A GEF supported program is seeking to develop a
monitoring program to track the sources of atmospheric deposition.

e) Land degradation in the region:
Land degradation is prevalent in certain areas of the basin in all three countries. The still common practice
of bush fires contributes directly and through increased erosion to atmospheric deposition (that accounts for
around 84% N and 75% P) of nutrients into the Lake.. Over-grazing and unsustainable agricultural
practices lead to increasing erosion and contribute to the increased silt content in the rivers and subsequent
sedimentation at the river months and a certain distance into the lake itself. Rivers contribute to about 23%
of total P and 15% of Nitrogen into the lake. The loss of soil nutrients heavily constrains productivity of the
land, with a cyclical impact on poverty, livelihoods and resource health. The use of fertilizers is presently
limited in the area, but this is likely to change with the quest for improving agricultural productivity. The


                                                     - 45 -

project has started awareness raising and implementation of improved farming practices in pilot areas in the
basin in all three countries, and these have led to localized effects of decreased soil erosion, increased yield
and income for several farmers. Afforestation activities are expected to have had a limited beneficial
impact as well. Other add-on activities in the form of micro-projects (notably protection of water sources,
etc.) are supporting the anti-erosion efforts by giving opportunities to harmful practices to the population.

f) The lake level and riparian communities:
An issue which has clearly surfaced during the last two years, is the rapidly falling lake level, which cannot
be attributed to activities of the LVEMP project, but which affects the outcomes of LVEMP activities.
About half the reduction in lake levels can be attributed to the last three years' drought while the rest is a
result of the over-abstraction of water for hydropower generation at Jinja, the main energy source of
Uganda.

The reduced lake level has significantly and negatively affected the communities living on the lake shore.
As the waters at the shore is shallow many places, the lake shore has moved several hundred meter at some
locations, leaving the landing piers far up on dry land and making access to the lake difficult with boats and
handling of fish more prone to pollution and reduced quality (see attached photo from Musoma). The low
water level has also dried up some of the wetlands, resulting in people starting to cultivate in the wetlands
(reference to photos form the Musoma and Mara Regions in Tanzania). The retracting lake shore has posed
high economic costs on the use and maintenance of water supply infrastructures around the lake. The
drying of wetlands also have impact on fish biodiversity, wetland fishing, production and utilization of
wetland products for handicraft. In addition, the reduced level threatens the spawning grounds for fish,
creating potentially significant risks to the fishing effort.

g) Other initiatives in the basin:
Figure 4 shows that several initiatives are running concurrently in the basin, all having environmental
issues and natural resources as their main topics of concern. There are numerous NGO-based activities,
many having transboundary and regional approaches. These activities have so far not been very actively or
effectively coordinated, and this has contributed to duplication of efforts and overlapping activities both
geographically and thematically. Establishment of the LVBC in Kisumu with an explicit mandate to
coordinate efforts should result in better synchrony in the future.




                                                      - 46 -

           (Partnership Agreement)                                                                                              KENYA
                                                                                  EAC                                         LV Focal Point
                                                                                                                         Ministry: The Ministry of
                                                      EAC Secretariat                 LV Basin Commission
                                                                                             Sectoral Council            Environment and Natural
   Sweden (SIDA)                   Lake Victoria                                               (of Ministers)                  Resources
                                     Fisheries
                                                        (Supportin
     Lake Victoria                 Organisation        administration
       Initiative                    (LVFO)            and decision-                    Co-ordination Committee
                                                                                                                              TANZANIA
          (LVI)                                          making)                        (PSs, civil soc., priv, sec.)

                                                                                                          Sectoral            LV Focal Point
                                         (1 member)                                                     Committees       Ministry: The Ministry of
       Norway                                         LV Development                                                       Water and Livestock
                                                      Programme Unit                    Secretariat of the Comm.              Development
                                                           (former)
        France                (2
                              members                                                                                          UGANDA
                                                      (2+? members)
                              each)                                                                                           LV Focal Point
     World Bank
                                               Lake Victoria Development Programme                                       Ministry: The Ministry of
                                                                                                                            Water, Lands and
                                                                                                                              Environment.
     East-African                                                                                TheEAC
    Development                                                                                                          Other riparian country
         Bank                                         Partnership Consultative              Partnership
                                                          Committee (PCC)                                                ministries according to
                                                                                                                                 needs
                        (1 observer                     Partnership Fund Sub-
                                                                Committee                      Partnership
       Burundi               each)
                                                       (fund-contributing members)                 Fund


       Rwanda                                                                                                            National Stakeholder
                                                                                                                                Forums
                                                                       Various interventions, supported by                  (Once a year ?)
       Co-opted                                                            different sources of funding
       personal
       members
     (invited: IUCN,
     ICRAF, UNEP,                                                (2 members each, rotating chairmanship)
   LVRLAC, ECOVIC)                                                                                                       Nile Basin Initiative (NBI)

                                                                                                                                 NELSAP
      Figure 3.1: Partnership Agreement institutional framework (as per August 2005)


Figure 3: The Lake Victoria Development Programme and the EAC Partnership (Figure from EAC Partnership
Fund Review Report November 2005, by Tore Laugerud, NCG)




                                                                        - 47 -

                                          THE LAKE VICTORIA BASIN

                                                                                            Water and Sanitation
                                                                                             Programme (WSP)
                EAC-Lake Victoria                              LakeVictoria                        Africa
              Development Programme                            Environmental
                                                            Management Project
                  EAC Partnership
                      (LVDP)
                                                                 (LVEMP)
                 Agreement & Fund

                                                 Lake Victoria Region                        NELSAP
                                                 Local Authorities Co-                                                                The Applied training
             Mt. Elgon Regional                  Operation (LVRLAC)               European Union Water Initiative                            Project
                 Ecosystem                                                        (EUWI) ­Lake Victoria/Kagera

                Conservation                                                                Basin                                       TheConfidence
                                              East Africa Communities'                         The Kagera River Basin Integrated          Building and
                                                 Organisation for the                            Water Resources Management                Stakeholder
                                                 ManagementofLake                                                                     Involvement Project
                                                                                               Mara River Basin Transboundary
           Association for Strengthening          Victoria Resources
                                                                                                  Integrated Water Resources
              Agricultural Research in                (ECOVIC)
                                                                                                 ManagementandDevelopment            Efficient WaterUse for
             eastern and Central Africa                                                                     Project                  Agricultural Production
                                                                Lake Victoria Region                                                       (EWUAP)
                                                                Water and Sanitation           Sio-Malaba-Malakisi Catchments
                                                                                                Transboundary Integrated Water
                                                                     Initiative                   ResourcesManagementand                The Nile Region
             WWF-Lake Victoria                                                                       DevelopmentProject               RegionalPowerTrade
                  Catchment                                                                                                              Project (RPTP)
                Environmental             Cities development Strategy                          Enhanced Agricultural Productivity
                  Education                   for Improved Urban                                 Through Rainwater Harvesting,
                 Programme                 Environment and Poverty                                                                      Socio-economic
                                                                                              Small-Scale Irrigation and Livestock
                                             Reduction in the Lake                                                                     Development and
                                                                                                         Management
                                              Victoria Region (UN            Numerous                                                   Benefits Sharing
                                                                              smaller                                                   Project (SDBS)
                                                                                               Strategy for Scaling up NELSAP
              Ecological                                                     initiatives             Investment Projects
             Sanitation and                                                  by NGOs                                                  NileTransboundary
             Market-Based                                                    and CBOs            NELSAP Coordination Support          Environmental Action
                Product                 KusaCommunity ­ An Effort                                     Project(NEL-CU)                  Project (NTEAP)
             Development                Towards Poverty Reduction

           Around the Lake               (Kisumu District, Kenya)




Figure 4: Overview of key environmental interventions in the Lake Victoria Basin(Figurefrom
EACPartnershipFundReview ReportNovmber 2005, by Tore Laugerud, NCG)




                                                                          - 48 -

                                       Abandoned landing piers for boats, now far up
                                       on dry land




                          Farming on previous wetland areas


Effects of reduction of Lake Victoria water level at Musoma, Tanzania (© Tore laugerud, NCG March
2006)




                                                 - 49 -

Cultivation in dried up wetlands, Musoma, Tanzania (© Tore Laugerud, March 2006)




                                             - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Timeline and Structure - Figures

Figure 1: Different Stages of LVEMP1


                                                                          LVEMP1 STAGES


                             LVEMP1 Mid-                                                        LVEMP1
                               term Review                                                    Stocktaking



                           LVEMP1 Project                                                                                                               3)
                                Document                                                                                 LVEMP-2 Preparations
                               (June 1996)




                                                                                            Kenya: Extension of GEF funds
                                                                                                                                                     Estimated
                                                                                                                                                     start 1 July




                                 LVEMP1                                                       Tanzania:                                              Bridging                LVEMP2
                                                                                            Supplementary                   1)           2)                                    (15 yrs)
                                                                                                 Credit                                                Phase




                                                                                            Uganda: Supplementary Credits



                      1997           1998            1999             2000          2001            2002           2003             2004           2005            2006             2007



NOTES:
1): Activities continued for 8 months with counterpart funds only
2): Supplementary Credit issued in June 2004, but delayed due to bureaucratic procedures
3): LVEMP-2 preparations funded by Japan (Policy and Human Resources Development) and GEF (Transboundary Diagnosis Analysis, incl. Burundi and Rwanda).
4): In total, almost USD 85 million has been spent under the project, around 52% of this being grants from GEF, the rest being credits from IDA. The distribution of the total funds
between the countries has been: Kenya-29%, Tanzania-35%, and Uganda 36%.




                                                                                 - 51 -

Figure 2: Overall Project Structure



                                   The World Bank (IDA)                      GEF




 Lake Victoria EnvironmentalManagementProject(LVEMP)

                                                     East African Community (EAC)

                                                            LVEMP Policy and Steering Committee


                                     Kenya                              Tanzania                             Uganda

  Tripartite Agreement     Implementing agencies                Implementing agencies               Implementing agencies
      (Aug. 1994)




                                                              Project components:

                       - Fisheries management                                   - Wetlands management
                       - Fisheries research                                     - Catchment afforestation
                       - Land Use/Soil conservation                             - Water quality and ecosystem management
                       - Industrial and municipal waste management              - Water hyacinth control
                       - Capacity building/riparian universities                - Micro-projects



                           Ministry "A"       Community"B"      Institution "C"   Stakeholder "A"   Ministry "E"  Stakeholder "N"




                                                          - 52 -

Additional Annex 10. List of Persons Contacted



Name                Position/Title                  Institution
                            In KENYA
Dahir Warsame       Sen. Procurement Officer         World Bank Office, Nairobi
Hezron R. Mogaka    Project Coordinator LVEMP 2      Ministry of Environment and Natural
                                                     Resources
Ephraim A. Mukusira Deputy Director, Research &      Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
                    Technology                       (KARI)
Jane W. Wamuongo    Assistant Director, Project      ---"---, Land and Water Management
                    Manager LVEMP 1
James M. Wandaba    Finance Officer                  ---"---
Stephen W. Njoka    Project Coordinator LVEMP 1      ---"---, Project Office Kisumu
Agnes C. Yobterik   Community Participation          ---"---
                    Officer
Eddah Kaguthi       Management Information           ---"---
                    Officer
Samuel C. Ondieki   Deputy Director of Agriculture   Ministry of Agriculture (Desk Officer
                                                     LVEMP)
David Kithale       Distr. Environment & Land        Min. of Agriculture, Kericho District
                    Development Officer
Margaret Outa       District Environment and Land    ---"---
                    Use Officer
John Chirchir       Chairman                         Ogirgir Focal Area, Kericho District
Alice K.            Officer in Charge                ---"---
Various people      Members                          ---"---
Jonah Kebeney       District Land Use Planning       Min. of Agriculture, Nandi South District
                    Officer
Josian Sang         Divisional Extension Officer     Nandi South District, Nandi Hills Division,
                                                     Kibareng Community Group
Simon Lubira        Chief Technician                 Capacity Building Component, Moi
                                                     University, School of Environmental Studies
Gelas M. Sumiyu     Task Leader (??)                 ---"---, Environmental Health Division
Benard O. Orinda    Component Coordinator            Catchment Afforestation Component, Min. of
                                                     Environment, Natural Resources and
                                                     Wildlife, Kericho
Beatrice Mbula      Task Leader                      ---"---
Charity Munsyasya   Task Leader                      ---"---
George E. Karanu    Forester                         ---"---
Julius Sawe         Chairman                         Kiplombe Chibarus CBO, Nandi North
                                                     District
Justin Busienei     Secretary                        Kamulati Tree Nursary, Chepngochoi Self
                                                     Help Group, Uasin Gishu District
Susan W. Imende     Component Coordinator            Fisheries Management Comp., Fisheries



                                              - 53 -

                                                         Department, Min. of Livestock and Fisheries
                                                         Development
Sonam Etyang            District fisheries Officer       ---"---
Maurice Otieno          Senior Fisheries Officer         ---"---
David o. Mbuya          Fisheries officer                ---"---
Various people          Members                          Kaloka Beach Management Unit
Various people          Members                          Ogal Beach Management Unit
E. Wakwabi             Component Coordinator            Fisheries Research Component, KMFRI, Min.
                                                        of Livestock and Fisheries Development
Job Mwanburi           Task Coordinator Fish Biology    ---"---
Precilla Boera         Task Leader Aquaculture          ---"---
Edna Wilhaka            Task Leader Information and      ---"---
                        Database
Ernest O. Tongo         Task Leader Socio-Economics      ---"---
Mwende Kusewa           Component Coordinator           Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI),
                                                        Kisumu
John Okungu             Component Coordinator           Water Department, Ministry of Water Resources,
                                                        Kisumu
Peter Muiruri           Biologist                       ---"---
Peterlis O. Opango      Scientist                       ---"---
Christabel Ogola        Procurement Officer             ---"---
Felix Sangale           Scientist                       ---"---
Patrick Khisa           Scientist                        ---"---
Jenifer, John, Charles, Members                          Bunyala handicraft & Produce Cooperative
Haidu, Kenipinus                                         Society Ltd., Mubwayo Village, Yala Swamp
Stephen Katua           Component Coordinator            Wetland Management Component, National
                                                         Environment Management Authority
                                                         (NEMA), Min. of Environment, Natural
                                                         Resources and Wildlife, Busia
Stanley Ambaza          Component Staff                  ---"---
Clement K. Wangai       Assistant Hydrologist            Wetland Management Component, Water
                                                         Resources Management Authority (Lake
                                                         Victoria North Catchment), Busia
                           ELSEWHERE
Ladisy K. Chengula      Sen. Natural Resources           The World Bank, Nairobi
                        Management Specialist.
                        LVEMP Team Leader
Moses Wasike            Financial Manager                ---"---
Ernst Lutz              Sr. Sector Economist, Former     The World Bank, Washington
                        LVEMP Team Leader/Current
                        Back-up Team Leader
William Lane            Former LVEMP Team Leader         ---"---
Richard Kaguamba        Former LVEMP Team Leader         ---"---
Graeme Donovan          Former LVEMP Team Leader         Retiree
Robert Hecky            Senior Scientist, Water Quality/ Waterloo University , Canada
                        Limnology



                                                  - 54 -

Ian Cowx         Senior Scientist, Fisheries       Hull University, U.K.
Alfred M. Duda   Senior Advisor, International     Global Environmental facility (GEF),
                 Waters                            Washington
Andrea Merla     Advisor, International Waters     ---"---




                                            - 55 -

- 56 -

