

                   MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                    IN RESPONSE TO THE
                     INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
      KENYA: LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                        WATER HYACINTH CHOPPING PILOT ACTIVITY
                           (IDA CREDIT 2907-KE)(GEF TF 23819)


                                        I. BACKGROUND

1. On October 12, 1999, the Panel received a Request for Inspection related to the Kenya portion
of the Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP). The Requesters claimed that
they were likely to surer harm as a result of failures and omissions of IDA and IBRD (as
Administrator of GEF) in the design and implementation of the water hyacinth management
component (Part B) of the Project in Kenya (the Borrower). The Request for Inspection
concerned one part of the water hyacinth management component, namely a pilot activity in a
limited part of the Project area designed to assess mechanical chopping as an alternative method
of water hyacinth control.

2. On December 20, 1999, Management submitted to the Panel its Response, stating that the
mechanical chopping method was a small-scale experimental pilot study. The pilot study was
designed to test one possible tool that local riparian communities could fund and use for fast
removal of water hyacinth to alleviate the problems associated with hyacinth blockage of fish
landing sites, ports, and other sensitive areas. The pilot study was intended to establish whether
the technology actually worked and to provide the data for a necessary environmental assessment
that would be needed if the chopping were to be done on a larger scale.

3. On March 20, 2000, the Executive Directors authorized the Panel to conduct an investigation
into the matters alleged in the Request. The Panel investigation included a visit to Kenya
between July 24 and August 5, 2000.

4. Lake Victoria is the second largest freshwater lake in the world and has the world's largest
freshwater fishery. Management of the lake and its resources is shared among the three countries
-Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. The LVEMP is a comprehensive, US$77.6 million program
aimed at rehabilitation of the lake ecosystem for the benefit of the people who live in the
catchment, the national economies of which they are a part, and the global community. It is
financed by IDA Credits totaling US$35 million, GEF Grants totaling US$35 million, and
contributions by the three Governments totaling US$7.6 million. The total IDA and GEF funds
are shared among the three countries, and the project, implemented by the three countries, is the
first phase of a longer term program. The first phase aims to provide the necessary information to
improve the management of the lake ecosystem, establish mechanisms for cooperative
management by the three countries, identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies,
and simultaneously build capacity for ecosystem management. Implementation began when the
Project was declared effective on March 31, 1997, and the Project is scheduled to close on
December 31, 2002.

5. The present phase of support for management of Lake Victoria's resources is part of a broad
and forward-looking vision for the future of the lake and the communities that depend upon it.
The three riparian countries have made good progress during the first phase in creating
mechanisms for regional management of this important resource, and for shared activities to
monitor its condition. These efforts are recognized and supported by a wide range of
development partners, of which IDA and GEF are two.

6. An important part of rehabilitating the lake ecosystem is control of water hyacinth, a noxious,
rapidly growing weed that is increasing human disease problems of bilharzia and malaria,
interfering with access to water supply from the lake for both urban and rural communities,
adding to the cost of purifying water, reducing fish in the lake through de-oxygenation of water,
interfering with fishing operations by blocking fishing grounds and access to landing beaches,
interfering with commercial transportation services for people and goods on the lake, and
threatening the intakes at the Owen Falls hydroelectric power station in Uganda. The aim of the
water hyacinth program is to establish sustainable long-term capacity for maintaining control of
water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake Victoria Basin. The water hyacinth program
is testing biological agents for longer term control, and mechanical methods for rapid short term
control in restricted areas, while also supporting manual removal in local situations.

7. The cost of Kenya's share of the water hyacinth program is US$2.8 million, 3.6 percent of the
total Project cost in the three countries. The first priority was to establish the biological control
program. When that had been achieved, the Project instituted, on a small scale, a pilot activity to
test mechanical chopping of the hyacinth, allocating approximately US$1.8 million for this pilot
activity. The chopping took place between December, 1999 and April, 2000 and successfully
removed water hyacinth and other weeds from an area equivalent to 1500 hectares. At about the
same time as the pilot study, the problems with water hyacinth in large areas of Lake Victoria
improved, probably as a result of biological techniques introduced to control the weed, combined
with changes in weather conditions. An aerial survey of the coastline in Tanzania and Uganda
shows some regrowth of hyacinth in sheltered bays and mouths of some rivers, but the
recurrence is less severe than was the infestation prior to control. The situation at the site of the
chopping pilot study will be checked during the May 2001 supervision mission.

8. Approximately four months after the mechanical chopping machinery had been procured for
the pilot and brought to the lake side, and a program for monitoring the chopping had been
agreed, a group of NGOs requested, an inspection by the Inspection Panel of the water hyacinth
chopping pilot, claiming that if carried out, this pilot activity would cause environmental damage
and adversely affect communities living on the shores of the Nyanza Gulf of Lake Victoria. The
group of NGOs did not claim that they suffered actual harm resulting from clearing of the weed
or the method used (chopping). The issues investigated by the Panel pertain to anticipated
possible harm or foregone benefits resulting from insufficient consultation with communities, as
well as. to the inadequacy of scientific documentation of impact and the process of supervision
of the project.

II. FINDINGS OF THE PANEL

9. Management accepts the findings of the Inspection Panel as expressed in paragraphs 4.7, 5.5,
6.6, 7.2,' and 8.4 of the Panel's report. The Inspection Panel concludes that the pilot failed to
achieve its objective of producing the required data for an environmental assessment of the
chopping technology. Management concurs with this finding, since the baseline data to allow a
full evaluation of the impact were not collected, and the water sampling during) the pilot was
inadequate for purposes of the study. The Panel further concludes that "Management is in
compliance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) wwith respect to categorization of the
Project, OD 4.15 (Poverty Alleviation) and OP 1;0.04 (Economic Evaluation of Investment
Operations). It further concludes that Management is not in full compliance with OD 4.01 with
respect to meeting the overall purpose and nature of the OD including, as acknowledged by
Management, adequate consultations with affected groups and NGOs. Nor is it in compliance
with paragraph 42 of OD 13.05 on Bank Supervision." (Executive Summary, paragraph 86).
Finally, the Panel recommends continued monitoring and vigilance with regard to the spread of
water hyacinth.

III. RECOMMENDED ACTIONS IN RESPONSE TO THE PANEL'S FINDINGS

10. Management recommends six actions: (i) continued monitoring; (ii) vigilant surveillance;
(iii) heightened community participation; (iv) cross country participation in supervision
missions; (v) renewed activity of the Panel of Scientists; and (vi) possible repeat of the pilot. The
recommended actions will be undertaken by the Bank and the Borrower in the context of
implementation of the project, and will be funded through the Credit and the Grant. Many
actions have already been initiated. Progress on the actions will be monitored during project
supervision and reported on in the periodic project supervision reports (PSRs).

11. Continued monitoring: the data collected prior to the pilot were not adequate to establish a
baseline. While the missing data cannot be recovered, Management believes that it is important
to continue efforts to measure water quality and other variables in the area where the chopping
pilot took place, and to evaluate the data within an appropriate analytical framework, in order, to
be aware of, and to take action regarding, any unforeseen adverse outcomes. Therefore it has
strongly urged, in the supervision mission of June, 2000, that monitoring of water quality in the
area where the mechanical chopping took place continue,' and that the Kenya Fisheries
Management Research Institute carry out measurements' of indicators of biodiversity.
Management will continue to review the activities of the monitoring group. Continued
monitoring will be funded from the IDA Credit and the GEF Grant, and will be undertaken by
the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, together with the Panel of Scientists (see
paragraph 15 below) appointed to advise on this task.

12. Vigilant surveillance: Management has agreed with all three countries that they will
establish and maintain a program of vigilant surveillance and response, tracking the movement of
large infestations, projecting likely patterns of resurgence, and taking action. In January 2000,
Tanzania agreed to set up a national surveillance system by June 2000, and to carry out a
mapping of the location of major remaining hyacinth mats along the entire shoreline. At that
time, Management advocated exploring the use of satellite images taken at regular intervals,
supplemented by information derived from local communities drawn together through the active
Fisheries Extension network. By the time of the supervision mission in Kenya in June 2000, it

was evident from preliminary studies that remote sensing imagery was costly, and of limited
value for tracking the movement and extent of water hyacinth and projecting its resurgence. It
was therefore agreed that systematic aerial surveys would be undertaken every six months
supplemented by ground truthing by boat, and by reporting from local communities. The efficacy
of this surveillance system has not yet been reviewed, but preliminary reports suggest that
hyacinth has regrown in selected sheltered bays and the mouths of several rivers, but not in
significant quantities over large areas. Surveillance can be supported after the close of the
present project through a follow-on project, if the countries choose to seek continued support, or
through other means as decided by them. Surveillance will be funded by the IDA Credit and the
GEF Grant, and will be undertaken by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute in collaboration
with its counterparts in Tanzania and Uganda.

13. Heightened community participation: Management has initiated, and will continue to
pursue, the following additional actions under the LVEMP to deepen community participation:
        (i)    Beginning in 1999, in all three countries, mini-supervision missions for the
        LVEMP by the NGO coordinators in the IDA Country Offices in Uganda and Kenya
        have been undertaken specifically to look at community participation in activities of the
        projects. The first such mission in Kenya was carried out during November 18-24, 1999.
        These mini-missions occur approximately 6 months after the full Project Supervision
        Missions in Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda. The latter also include community
        participation specialists in the supervision teams, who review progress on community
        micro-projects, community manual control of water hyacinth and participation in
        biological control, and community involvement in every aspect of the Project.

        (ii)   At the urging of Management, each of the three countries has agreed to recruit
        Community Development Officers to work in the Project Management Units to assist the
        various Project components and the community of NGOs and Community Based
        Organizations (CBOs) in finding avenues for taking advantage of the abilities and
        comparative strengths of these community-oriented groups. All three countries now have
        such Community Development Officers in place. In Kenya, the Community Development
        Officer was appointed in April, 2000.

        (iii)  Membership of IDA/GEF supervision teams in all three countries has been
        extended to include observers from the NGO community. This practice will be continued.

        (iv)   Management urged the new Community Development Officers to organize
        meetings with the leaders for all Project components and relevant NGO/CBOs in the
        Lake Victoria Basin (participants identified and invited by a committee of NGOs
        themselves) to begin to link the work being done by the three countries' agencies in each
        of the Project components with NGO/CBOs having compatible skills and presence on the
        ground to facilitate Project activities. Initial meetings have now been held in Kenya and
        Uganda. Management has recommended continuation of this practice.

        (v)    Following the Mid Term Review in 1999, Management has promoted a new
        approach for preparation of the next phase of investment activities in the Lake Victoria
        Basin. At its heart, this approach relies on identifying and harmonizing a common vision
        among all stakeholders in the project area before any project is prepared. In response to
        Management's initiative, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
        (NORAD) has agreed to provide financial support fur strengthening community
        participation in preparation of this new, long-term vision. The process would be in the

        hands of the stakeholders themselves, and implementation began in the first quarter of
        CY2001. The process acknowledges local preferences for establishing a general
        consensus first, before going on to subsequent planning phases. The vision developed by
        the stakeholders will be a primary input into planning for the follow-on project.
        Management will monitor this process.

14. Cross country participation in supervision missions: The project(s) are supervised jointly by
Washington-based and field-based staff through periodic supervision missions and ongoing
correspondence. For one mission annually, the Washington-based and field based staff plus
consultants and project coordinators join for a full supervision mission. In addition to the full
mission, field-based staff undertake periodic mini-supervision missions, with particular emphasis
on community participation. The task team leader makes short stopover visits as needed
combined with other travel in the region. Project coordinators, the task team leader,
headquarters-based specialists, and field-based staff are in regular contact by telephone and
email on matters of procurement, disbursement, and other issues. In February 1999, Management
initiated the practice of having the Executive Directors of the Project Management Units for all
three countries participate in supervision in each of the three countries. Management believes
this practice enables lessons from each country to be shared with all three, and that the
comparisons of relative progress of the project in each country provide new perspectives for all
three Directors. Management will continue this practice.

15. Renewed activity of the Panel of Scientists: Management recommends that the Panel of
Scientist's members, or equally qualified scientists should members not be available at a
particular time, be actively engaged and adequately funded to advise on scientific matters related
to design of activities supported by the projects and on publication of findings that emerge.
Management will recommend to the countries that the Panel of Scientists should play a key
advisory role if the pilot is repeated (see paragraph 16 below). Management will also suggest that
the Panel of Scientists serve as a review body to screen publications prepared from work of the
projects to assure that the work is of high quality.

16. Possible repeat of the pilot: Management agrees that this is indeed the only way in which the
data for an adequate environmental impact assessment of the chopping methodology can be
collected. The countries may wish to have an additional method of water hyacinth removal to
supplement biological control, and may, after consultation with stakeholders, conclude that they
would like to proceed with such a repeat of the pilot, especially in a situation where rapid
removal of water hyacinth would have a direct benefit to the local communities. Forthcoming
supervision missions will discuss this possibility with the countries involved. If the pilot were to
be repeated, it could be financed from the IDA Credits and GEF Grants. If this were to be done
in Kenya, it would be overseen by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and
resources would be available under the present project. Management will remain open to
consideration of a repeat of the chopping pilot in the event of: (i) recurrence of weed infestation
of sufficient area and density to warrant chopping; (ii) a request from one of the countries to
undertake the pilot; (iii) adequate prior consultation with potentially affected communities; (iv)
involvement of the international scientific advisory panel in the design and execution of the pilot;
and (v) availability of good baseline data and evidence of commitment and capacity to monitor.
In the event of a repeat of the pilot, Management would ensure that all the requirements set forth
in relevant policies and procedures are complied with. Funds are available within the existing
project envelope to cover the cost of a repeat of the pilot, should the country wish to undertake
this.

