       The Inspection Panel

       Investigation Report




Kenya: Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Project ( IDA Credit. 2907-
      KE and GEF TF 23819)




        December 15, 2000

                                                                                                                    1




INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                       1818 H Street, N.W.             Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C. 20433          Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                           Internet: http://www.inspectionpanel.org

     Jim MacNeill, Chairman
     Edward S. Ayensu
     Maartje van Putten
                                                                      IPN REQUEST RQ99/6

                                                                             December 15, 2000

                MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES

     SUBJECT:        The Inspection Panel Investigation Report
     KENYA: Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
     (IDA Credit No. 2907-KE) (GEF TF 23819)


             Pursuant to paragraph 22 of the IBRD Resolution 93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6
     establishing the Inspection Panel, and paragraph 53 of the Panel's Operating Procedures, and
     in accordance with the terms of the decision of the Board of Executive Directors dated March
     20, 2000 that authorized the investigation, please find attached the above-referenced Report.

             The Report concludes that Management is in compliance with OD 4.01 (Environmental
     Assessment) with respect to categorization of the Project, OD 4.15 (Poverty Alleviation) and
     OP 10.04 (Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations).                     It further concludes that
     Management is not in full compliance with OD 4.01 with respect to meeting the overall
     purpose and nature of the OD including, as acknowledged by Management, adequate
     consultations with affected groups and NGOs. Nor is it in compliance with paragraph 42 of
     OD 13.05 on Bank Supervision.

             Please be advised that a copy of the Report has today been delivered to the President
     of IDA, and that according to paragraph 23 of the Resolution establishing the Panel "within six
     weeks from receiving the Panel's findings, Management will submit to the Executive Directors
     for their consideration a report indicating its recommendations in response to such findings."

             It is our fervent hope that our Report and findings will be of value to the Bank




     Attachment.

                                                                                         2



                                  About the Panel

The Inspection Panel was created in September 1993 by the Board of Executive
Directors of the World Bank to serve as an independent mechanism to ensure
accountability in Bank operations with respect to its policies and procedures. The
Inspection Panel is an instrument for groups of two or more private citizens who believe
that they or their interests have been or could be harmed by Bank-financed activities to
present their concerns through a Request for Inspection. In short, the Panel provides a
link between the Bank and the people who are likely to be affected by the projects it
finances.


Members of the Panel are selected "on the basis of their ability to deal thoroughly and
fairly with the request brought to them, their integrity and their independence from the
Bank's Management, and their exposure to developmental issues and to living
conditions in developing countries."1 The three-member Panel is empowered, subject to
Board approval, to investigate problems that are alleged to have arisen as a result of the
Bank having ignored its own operating policies and procedures.

Processing Requests

After the Panel receives a Request for Inspection it is processed as follows:

· The Panel decides whether the Request is prima facie not barred from Panel
    consideration.
· The Panel registers the Request--a purely administrative procedure.
· The Panel sends the Request to Bank Management, which has 21 working-days to
    respond to the allegations of the Requesters.
· The Panel then conducts a short 21 working-day assessment to determine the
    eligibility of the Requesters and the Request.
· If the Panel does not recommend an investigation, and the Board of Executive
    Directors accepts that recommendation, the case is considered closed. The Board,
    however, may approve an investigation against the Panel's recommendation if it so
    warrants.
· Three days after the Board decides on whether or not an investigation should be
    carried out, the Panel's Report (including the Request for Inspection and
    Management's Response) is publicly available at the Bank's InfoShop and the
    respective Bank Country Office.
· If the Panel recommends an investigation, and the Board approves it, the Panel
    undertakes a full investigation, which is not time-bound.

1 IBRD Resolution No. 93-10; IDA Resolution No. 93-6.

                                                                                    3



· When the Panel completes an investigation, it sends its findings and conclusions on
  the matters alleged in the Request for Inspection to the Board as well as to Bank
  Management.
· The Bank Management then has six weeks to submit its recommendations to the
  Board on what actions the Bank would take in response to the Panel's findings and
  conclusions.
· The Board then takes the final decision on what should be done based on the
  Panel's findings and the Bank Management's recommendations.
· Shortly after the Board's decision, the Panel's Report and Management's
  Recommendation are publicly available through the Bank's InfoShop and the
  respective Country Office.

                                                                                        4




                              Acknowledgements

From the very beginning of the investigation process the Panel had the opportunity to
consult with the Alternate Executive Director for Kenya, Mr.Girmai Abraham before
and after its field visit to Kenya and wishes to convey its gratitude to him and his staff
for their advice and assistance.

The Panel Members wish to thank especially Dr. Richard Leaky, Head of the Public
Service and Secretary to the Cabinet of the Kenya Government for his advice and
encouragement during the Panels visit to Nairobi. The Panel is also thankful to Dr.
Mohammed Isahakia Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources; Hon.
P. Anyang' Nyong'o MP; Prof. Thomas R. Odhiambo, Hon. President African
Academy of Scientists; Professor Francis M. Muthuri, Member International Panel of
Scientists; Professor Duke Orata, Chairman Water Hyacinth Monitoring Committee;
Mr. Chris Kiribu, Chairman, Kenya Manufacturer's Association; Prof. Joseph B.
Ojiambo, Kenya LVEMP Executive Secretary, as well as other members of the
LVEMP staff. The Panel also wishes to thank RECONCILE for providing assistance
and guidance during its field visit.

The country Director of the World Bank in Kenya Mr. Harold Wackman gave
generously of his time to the Panel Team. Especial thanks are accorded to him and
his staff for exhibiting candor and full cooperation.

Mr. Goran Engstrand, Counsellor, Development Co-operation SIDA, Embassy of
Sweden and Mr. Per Karlson, Program Officer, SIDA were most helpful to the Panel
during the course of this investigation.

The Panel Team also wish to thank Mr. Peter Raburu the Provincial Commissioner,
Nyanza Province; Agnes Yobterick, LVEMP Kisumu Manager and Task Co-ordinator,
Dr. G. Ochiel; the Requesters: Executive Chairman of ECOVIC Regional Office, and
OSIENALA Executive Director, Obiero Ong'ang'a as well as a number of other officers
and members of OSIENALA, and ECOVIC Chairperson, Kenya Chapter, Mary Atieno
Amwata. The NGOs represented at the meeting with the Panel included UHAI Lake
Forum, LAVIRECHA, KICK, Clean-Up Kisumu as well as the Co-ordinator for the NGO
Network, Western Kenya and a lakeside community representative. The Panel Team
met directly with the affected people in a number of village communities along the
Lake, including Kusa, Rakwaro, Sangorota (where there is a community weevil rearing
unit), Dunga, Kaloka and Otiwa, and wishes to extend its appreciation to them for
being very open and generous with their time.

                                                                                    5




Finally, the Panel wishes to express its thanks and appreciation to its consultant
Richard Fuggle and to its Senior staff members Eduardo Abbot, Antonia M. Macedo
and Alberto Ninio for their expert and professional comments during the preparation of
this Report. The Panel also wishes to express its thanks to Georgette Koduah for her
assistance and logistical support.

                                                                             6




                      Table of Contents

I   ABOUT THE PANEL                                                        ii
II ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS                                                       iv
III ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS                                           viii
IV EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                      ix


                       PART ONE: INTRODUCTION

1. THE LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                    2
      1.1. WATER HYACINTH CONTROL COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT              3
      1.2. IMPORTANCE FOR THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC LIFE OF THE REGION          6

2. THE REQUEST FOR INSPECTION                                             8
      2.1. THE REQUESTERS' ALLEGATIONS                                    8
      2.2. MANAGEMENT RESPONSE                                            9
      2.3. ELIGIBILITY OF REQUEST                                        10
      2.4. THE BOARD'S DECISION                                          11
      2.5. THE INVESTIGATION PROCESS                                     11
      2.6 STATE OF WATER HYACINTH INFESTATION DURING PANEL'S VISIT       12

            PART TWO: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

3. CATEGORIZATION OF THE PROJECT                                         16

4. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS                                                17
      4.1. THE LVEMP ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS                              17
      4.2. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS FOR WATER HYACINTH CONTROL             18
      4.3. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF MECHANICAL SHREDDING OPTION         20
      4.4. PILOT STATUS OF MECHANICAL SHREDDING                          21
      4.5. SHREDDING AND SINKING PILOT AS "CORE" OF AN EA.               22
             4.5.1. AVAILABILITY OF DATA AND TIME REQUIRED FOR TESTING   23
             4.5.2. TECHNICAL CONSULTATIONS                              24

      4.6. CONSULTATIONS WITH AFFECTED GROUPS AND NGOS                   26
             4.6.1. THE REQUESTER'S ALLEGATIONS                          26
             4.6.2. MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE TO REQUESTER'S ALLEGATIONS    27
             4.6.3. THE TELECONFERENCE OF 13TH AUGUST 1999               27

                                                                       7



            4.6.4. THE ROLE OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS        28
            4.6.5. MISUNDERSTANDINGS ABOUT MECHANICAL SHREDDING      28
     4.7. THE PANEL'S FINDINGS                                       29

               PART THREE: PROJECT SUPERVISION

5. MONITORING OF SHREDDING PROGRAM                                   32
     5.1. STRUCTURE OF MONITORING PROGRAM                            33
     5.2. FIRST-HAND OBSERVATIONS IN THE FIELD                       34
     5.3. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN FOR MONITORING THE SHREDDING PILOT     35
     5.4. PREPAREDNESS OF PILOT FOR MONITORING                       36
     5.5. THE PANEL'S FINDINGS                                       37

6. SUPERVISION MISSIONS                                              38
     6.1. THE FIRST SUPERVISION MISSION (JUNE 1998)                  38
     6.2. THE 1999 MID-TERM REVIEW MISSION                           39
      6.3. THE SECOND SUPERVISION MISSION (JUNE 2000)                42
     6.4. REORGANIZATION OF LVEMP                                    43
     6.5. THE ROLE OF THE PROJECT SECRETARIAT                        43
     6.6. THE PANEL'S FINDINGS                                       44

                               PART FOUR:
     POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION

7. POVERTY REDUCTION                                                 46
     7.1. MECHANICAL SHREDDING AND POVERTY REDUCTION                 47
     7.2. THE PANEL'S FINDINGS                                       50

8. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                               51
     8.1. WATER HYACINTH CONTROL METHODS:ALTERNATIVES AND COSTS      51
     8.2. SUSTAINABILITY OF MECHANICAL SHREDDING                     53
     8.3. ECONOMIC UTILIZATION AND HARM OR POTENTIAL HARM            54
     8.4. THE PANEL'S FINDINGS                                       57


                                   MAPS

MAP 1: LVEMP POPULATION DENSITY                            IBRD 31209
MAP 2: KENYA LVEMP                                         IBRD 31042

                                                                    8




         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable Program Loan
BOD        Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CBO        Community-based Organizations
DO         Dissolved Oxygen
EA         Environmental Assessment
ECOVIC     East African Communities Organization for the Management of
           Lake Victoria
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
GEF        Global Environmental Facility
LVEMP      Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
IUCN       International Union for the Conservation of Nature
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OD         Operational Directive
OSIENALA   Friends of Lake Victoria
RECONCILE  Resources Conflict Institute
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
TN         Total Nitrogen
TP         Total Phosphorus
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNEP       United Nations Environment Programme

                                                                                      9




  THE INSPECTION PANEL'S REPORT AND FINDINGS ON THE
  LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



TheLakeVictoriaEnvironmentalManagementProject(LVEMP)

1. Lake Victoria is the second largest lake in the world. It is bounded by the three
   riparian countries of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, as shown on Map 1. The
   resources of the Lake basin are used as a source of food, energy, drinking and
   irrigation water, shelter and transport. The Lake also serves as a repository for
   human, agricultural and industrial waste. With the populations of the riparian
   communities growing at rates among the highest in the world, the multiple
   activities in the Lake basin have led to an alarming deterioration in the conditions
   of the Lake.     Overfishing and oxygen depletion at lower depths of the Lake
   threaten the artisanal fisheries and biodiversity. Massive blooms of algae have
   developed, while water hyacinth has begun to choke important waterways and
   landings.

2. The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP) is being
   undertaken by the three riparian countries.      It is a comprehensive five-year
   program aimed at the rehabilitation of the Lake ecosystem for the benefit of the
   people who live in its catchment and area of influence. The Project which became
   effective on 31 March 1997, is funded by the International Development
   Association (IDA) and the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) at a total cost of
   US $70 million.

3. The main objectives of the LVEMP are (a) to provide the three governments with
   the necessary skills, information, technical and financial resources and the
   necessary institutional and legal framework for the Project, (b) to reverse the
   deterioration of the Aquatic resources and the environmental conditions of the
   Lake's ecosystem, (c) to maximize the sustainable benefits to the riparian
   communities by using the basin's resources to generate food, income, potable
   water and a disease-free environment, (d) to conserve the Lake's biodiversity and
   genetic resources, and (e) to harmonize national management programs in order
   to reverse the increasing environmental degradation.

4. The five-year Project is the first phase of a longer-term program, which consists
   of two broad sets of activities.     The first set, designed to address specific

                                                                                      10



    environmental threats will take place in a series of selected pilot zones. The
    second set of activities, which will be lake-wide, will improve information on the
    Lake and build the needed capacity for a more effective management.

Water Hyacinth Control Components of the Project

5.  One of the major aims of the Project is to establish sustainable long-term capacity
    to manage and control the water hyacinth (Eichornia crassipes), a free-floating
    aquatic plant with a high growth rate, which has infested many parts of the Lake.
    Three methods of control were considered: (a) Mechanical/Manual Control, (b)
    Chemical Control, and (c) Biological Control.

6.  Mechanical Control uses mechanized equipment to shred, harvest and remove
    the hyacinth to shore, or to shred and dump into the Lake. Manual removal,
    which is undertaken by village communities at fish landing and other sites on the
    bank of the Lake, uses simple management tools. Mechanical harvesting and
    removal was undertaken in Uganda while mechanical shredding has been piloted
    in Kenya. The Bank has decided not to support manual control.

7.  Chemical Control uses aquatic herbicides and is recommended for open waters
    and shoreline areas where restrictions on water use, following chemical spraying,
    would not affect the community adversely. Because of the possible accumulation
    of herbicide residues in fish, the three countries decided to refrain from the use of
    chemicals.

8.  Biological Control in the Lake is based on the multiplication and release of two
    weevil species (Neochetina bruchi and Neochetina eichorniae) which are well
    tested for their effectiveness. The adult beetles feed on the leaves while the
    larvae feed on the plant tissue. The main element in biological control, therefore,
    is to establish a mass - rearing capacity and a well coordinated field release
    program. Biological control is being undertaken in all three countries.

The Request for Inspection

9.  The Request for inspection was submitted by RECONCILE (Resources Conflict
    Institute), a Kenyan non- governmental organization, acting for and on behalf of
    persons in the Nyanza Gulf portion of Lake Victoria in Kenya (the Requesters).
    RECONCILE was also authorized to represent OSIENALA (Friends of Lake
    Victoria), an NGO representing people living in Kisumu, and the Kenya Chapter
    of ECOVIC (the East African Communities Organization for Management of Lake
    Victoria Resources) who represent communities living along the Kenya side of
    the Lake.

10. The Requesters claim that they are likely to suffer harm as a result of failures and
    omissions of IDA and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
    (the Bank) -- the implementing agency of the GEF -- in the design and
    implementation of the water hyacinth management component of the Project in

                                                                                    11



    Kenya. Specifically, the Requesters claim that the proposed use of a mechanical
    method of shredding water hyacinth and letting it sink to the bottom of the Lake
    would result in ecological and environmental degradation which, in turn, would
    adversely affect communities living on the shores of the Nyanza Gulf. These
    communities depend directly on the Lake for their livelihoods since the Gulf is
    home to freshwater fish and is the source of water for domestic use. The
    Requesters contend that the ecosystem and human livelihood would be
    endangered by the resulting pollution. They further claim that the method was
    selected without a prior Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or appropriate
    community consultation, as required by the loan documents.

11. As stated in the Panel's registration of the Request, the Requesters' allegations
    could constitute violations of the following Bank Policies and Procedures: OD
    4.01 on Environmental Assessment; OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction; OP 10.04 on
    Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations; and OD 13.05 on Project
    Supervision.

Management Response

12. In its Response, received by the Panel on December 20, 1999, Management
    explained that the mechanical shredding method was a small-scale experimental
    pilot study. (The pilot site is shown approximately on the shaded area near
    Kisumu on Map 2.) The pilot study was designed to test one possible tool which
    local riparian communities could fund and use for fast removal of water hyacinth
    to alleviate the problems associated with hyacinth blockage of ports, fish landing
    sites and other sensitive areas. Before accepting its use as a pilot, the Bank had
    consulted experienced scientists, practitioners and experts. Based on this,
    Management concluded that the method held sufficient promise to justify the pilot.

13. Regarding the environmental concerns, the Response explained that the water
    hyacinth shredding pilot was essentially the core of a detailed evaluation of the
    environmental impact of the shredding methodology. Management claimed it
    was necessary to do this rather than doing a detailed EA as part of Project
    preparation because of the absence of sufficient baseline data as well as data
    describing analogous activities in other similar environments. Management
    believed that although it could have done more to inform the public of the purpose
    of the trial, the design and execution of the shredding pilot was completely
    acceptable, and that the Bank had complied with all relevant policies and
    procedures.


Eligibility of Request

14. For purposes of determining the eligibility of the Request and the Requesters, the
    Panel reviewed the evidence submitted by the Requesters and Management.
    During a field visit between February 7-13, 2000, Panel Members (Edward S.
    Ayensu, Leader, and Maartje van Putten) visited Nairobi and the relevant Project

                                                                                      12



    area. It then reviewed technical eligibility criteria for requests and agreed that
    they had all been met.

15. The Panel concluded that the Request and the Management Response contained
    conflicting assertions and interpretations about the issues, the underlining
    assumptions, the facts, the compliance with Bank Policies and procedures, and
    harm. Accordingly, it recommended an investigation into the matters alleged in
    the Request to the Board of Executive Directors. On March 20, 2000, the Board
    recorded its approval of the recommendation and authorized the Panel to conduct
    an investigation.

The Investigation Process

16. The Team that undertook the investigation comprised two Panel members,
    Edward S. Ayensu (Leader), and his colleague Jim MacNeill (Panel Chair). They
    were assisted by an Assistant Executive Secretary and a Senior Consultant. The
    Team interviewed Bank staff associated with the Project in Washington D.C.,
    both before and after the inspection. In Kenya, they interviewed Bank staff and
    met with Government officials. They also met with officials of Non-Governmental
    Organizations representing the Requesters, staff of the Project's National
    Secretariat, implementing scientists and technicians in the field, and directly
    affected people in village communities. They further studied various documents
    made available to it by Bank staff, implementing agencies, Non-governmental
    Organizations and other relevant bodies.

State of Water Hyacinth Infestation during Investigation

17. During the Panel's first visit to the Nyanza Gulf area of the Lake, a vast expanse
    of water hyacinth mat was seen extending from the shore as far as the eye could
    see. During the Panel's second visit, the mat had virtually disappeared not only
    from the site of mechanical shredding, but also far beyond it. The reasons for this
    were a matter of considerable discussion and opinions varied widely.

18. Just before the Panel's second visit, the Kenyan Project Management declared
    victory over the water hyacinth. Sober second thoughts, however, prevailed.
    During its visit to parts of the Lake, the Panel discovered patches of floating (and
    flowering) mats along the banks and elsewhere. Later, in November, the Panel
    received reports that large parts of the Lakeshore around the Nyanza Gulf were
    again covered by heavy mats of water hyacinth and secondary growth.

19. The advance-retreat-advance of the water hyacinth observed in the past
    year confirms, in the Panel's view, the importance of the water hyacinth
    component of the LVEMP Project to the well-being of the Nyanza Gulf
    region and, perhaps, beyond. It also underlines, in the Panel's view, the
    importance of ensuring that this component of the Project is implemented
    as intended and in accordance with applicable Bank policies.

                                                                                      13



20. From the literature on water hyacinth it seems clear that water hyacinth
    seeds can remain dormant for 15 years and sprout unexpectedly under the
    appropriate conditions. If so, the residents of the Lake Victoria basin will
    have to remain ever vigilant and constantly ready to meet the threat as and
    when it recurs.

                         Environmental Analysis

Categorization of the Project

21. OD 4.01 requires an environmental categorization of every Bank-supported
    project. Accordingly projects must be assigned a category `A', `B', or `C'. For
    Category `A' projects, a full EA is required. For Category `B' projects, although a
    full EA is not required, environmental analysis is. For Category `C' projects, no EA
    or environmental analysis is required.

22. The Staff Appraisal Report of June, 1996 stated that: "The program is in effect a
    regional environmental action plan for Lake Victoria, having as its central
    objective improving the environmental conditions of Lake Victoria and its
    catchment. However, the program will encompass a wide range of different
    interventions and investments, and has been designated as Category `B' for
    environmental analysis to ensure that adequate attention will be given to the
    many overall positive impacts as well as to individual components which might
    have adverse local environmental effects."

23. The Panel finds that in assigning the project a Category `B' for
    environmental assessment purposes, the Bank was in compliance with OD
    4.01.

The LVEMP Environmental Analysis

24. The LVEMP EA delineates the broad context within which specific components of
    the LVEMP are prioritized and justified. It is largely descriptive and provides a
    general overview of issues and concerns based mainly on literature reviews. The
    bulk of the study deals with biophysical matters ­ physical setting, fisheries,
    biodiversity, water quality, water hyacinth, and wetlands.

25. The EA recognizes explicitly that further analysis many be needed for some
    future actions under the Project. It then identifies four issues "...as requiring
    explicit review of the environmental consequences."        Water hyacinth control
    methods is one of these. However, the discussion is confined to water hyacinth
    control by means of biological and chemical methods.

26. The Panel notes that the EA provides no meaningful environmental analysis or
    discussion of the potential consequences, positive or negative, of the effects that
    water hyacinth control interventions may have on the livelihoods of different

                                                                                     14



    groups of people. It appears that the stakeholders were not fully consulted during
    the scoping of the environmental analysis, nor was the EA made available to
    stakeholders for discussion or review before and after finalization.

Environmental Analysis for Water Hyacinth Control

27. Responsibility for reviewing chemical and biological options and making
    recommendations on the use of chemical and biological methods in areas worst
    affected by water hyacinth was assigned to the Government of Uganda.              It
    commissioned an Environmental Impact Study by the consultants, Aquatics
    Unlimited. The Aquatics Unlimited study proposed the adoption of chemical,
    biological, manual, and mechanical control measures. It nevertheless observed
    that the type of control used in a particular area should reflect the physical
    characteristics of the area and the associated water uses. No details, models, or
    decision trees were provided for determining how these factors were to be used
    to decide on a particular control strategy at a particular location. The usefulness
    of the document for guiding the appropriate selection of control methods was
    therefore limited.


28. In alleging that there was no Environmental Impact Assessment, it is clear that
    the Requesters were concerned solely with the mechanical shredding of water
    hyacinth and its dumping into the Nyanza Gulf of the Lake. Management
    acknowledges that the Borrower's request for inclusion of the hyacinth shredding
    work into the LVEMP came late in project implementation. The shredding
    technology was considered when the political pressure in Kenya was so intense
    and the economic damage by water hyacinth infestation to fishing villages so
    compelling that a supplementary solution to the biological control already
    underway was sought by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.
    Having learned that a chopping machine had been developed in the USA, a
    Government of Kenya delegation visited it in October 1997 to see it in action.
    They were impressed and decided to proceed with procurement with support
    from the Bank. Following an International Competitive Bidding, a tender was
    awarded for the pilot shredding of 1,500 ha of water hyacinth mats in the Nyanza
    Gulf of Lake Victoria (as shown approximately on Map 2).

29. Management has explained at length that the mechanical shredding tender is
    only an experimental or trial pilot of the shredding process, and accordingly, has
    the limited objectives of testing the physical, economic and environmental
    sustainability, and the conditions under which the method would be appropriate
    for more general use. The tender had accordingly been prepared in keeping with
    the experimental approach. It was not large enough to cause a significant impact
    on the ecology of Lake Victoria as a whole but of sufficient size to allow water
    quality monitoring to pick up changes that might be indicative of the impact of this
    method of control should it have widespread use on the Lake at some time in the
    future.

                                                                                       15



30. In the SAR, two types of activities were distinguished: "pilot zone" activities and
    "lake-wide" activities. A total of four pilot zones were identified in Kenya in which
    a number of activities would be undertaken "in an integrated way" and designed
    to reduce water hyacinth to manageable levels. The conceptualization of the
    mechanical shredding as a pilot project fits in with this general approach.


Shredding and Sinking as a "Core" of an EA

31. Management has given its reasons as to why it was necessary to use the water
    hyacinth shredding tender as the core of a detailed evaluation of the
    environmental impact of the shredding method of control. It argues that in the
    absence of sufficient baseline data, and data describing analogous activities in
    other similar environments, there is virtually no chance of preparing a meaningful
    and useful EA. In this connection Management observed that it would be
    impossible to do a thorough EA in anything less than 3-5 years or more (the time
    it would take to collect the minimum amount of baseline data).

32. In interviews, some Bank staff were of the view that a full environmental analysis
    was not necessary prior to undertaking the pilot but felt that a preliminary
    evaluation of the likely consequences of the pilot was essential. One observed
    that environmental assessments of the category `A' type had been done many
    times in many countries with less than the full relevant baseline data, especially in
    situations of urgency. The point was not to pretend that the data were complete,
    or leading decision makers to make decisions based on data which were
    inadequate, without their knowing that fact. In particular, their attention was to be
    drawn to any risks.

33. Management's detailed discussion of the queries raised about the possible
    impact of the shredding and sinking itself suggests that lack of baseline
    information was not so abysmal as to render impossible a "meaningful and
    useful" review of the possible environmental consequences.

34. A crucial question concerns the fate of the water hyacinth seeds during and after
    shredding and sinking. The Management Response states that this was one of
    the issues raised with the experts consulted. The Task Team Leader
    acknowledged in an interview that the seeds would not be destroyed by
    shredding and would remain viable for many years. He did not think, however,
    that they would germinate in the unfavorable conditions prevailing at the Lake
    bottom. The evidence suggests, however, that under conditions of reasonable
    aeration and light, the seeds would germinate and either float to the surface or (in
    very shallow waters) get rooted in the bottom mud and grow to the surface to
    further propagate. Many world experts are of the view that the only viable strategy
    in water hyacinth control is continual monitoring and surveillance.

                                                                                    16




Technical Consultations

35. Management did not undertake a "review of the environmental consequences" of
    the shredding pilot (deciding instead to treat it as an environmental assessment in
    the making).      However, it did recognize the need to identify possible
    environmental hazards. Thus, before deciding to proceed with the shredding, it
    consulted a formidable group of scientists and practitioners, including recognized
    experts on the ecology of Lake Victoria and on water hyacinth control.


36. The experts were asked to consider four environmentally related issues.          It
    appears, however, that the questions put to them concerned possible
    environmental hazards for the whole of Lake Victoria rather than possible
    environmental risks in the specific area subject to the shredding operation (i.e.,
    the area immediately around Kisumu in the Nyanza Gulf). This raises questions
    concerning compliance with paragraph 1 of OD 4.01, which states that "... EA
    covers project-specific and other environmental impacts in the area of influence
    of a project."


37. Unfortunately, the Panel was unable to obtain documentary evidence concerning
    these consultations. The Task Team Manager involved in the matter spoke of
    "minutes of phone conversations" in his files, which he thought would not be
    useful as they did not cover everything. A staff member described the procedure
    as "diligent enquiry." However, given the importance of the consultation (claimed
    to have encompassed 24 named scientists and experts) the absence of any
    official or substantive documentation whatsoever is unfortunate and borders on
    casualness in decision-making. In sum, there is no official documentary support
    for the part of the Management Response which concerns the technical
    consultation process, including the specific issues said to have been discussed,
    and the outcome of the consultation.

Consultations with Affected Groups and NGOs

38. The Requesters allege that the introduction of mechanical shredding and sinking
    did not involve local communities or other stakeholders in its design or
    implementation. Paragraph 19 of OD 4.01 states that the Bank expects the
    borrower to take the views of affected groups and local NGOs fully into account in
    project design and implementation and in particular the preparation of EAs.
    Consultations "are a valuable way to improve decision- making to obtain feed
    back on the EA process and draft report and to increase community cooperation
    in implementing the recommendations of the EA"


39. In its Response, Management observes that it had not done enough to inform the
    public.    "Although Government project management has made an effort to
    introduce transparency into the Project, it could have done a more thorough job of

                                                                                      17



    informing the public of the purpose of the shredding tender." Management
    concluded that the complaints made by the Requesters were understandable but
    "not correct in substance;" first, because a broad­based environmental review
    was done for the LVEMP as a whole and this became a public document and,
    second, because the tender that was the focus of the allegation was only a pilot with
    limited objectives. Significant progress had been made with public involvement,
    ownership and easy accessibility to the Project, according to Management, but
    there was still some distance to go.

The Teleconference of 13th August 1999

40. From the evidence available to the Panel, it appears that local groups or NGOs
    were not properly consulted, as required under OD 4.01, concerning the decision
    to go ahead and ask for bids for mechanical shredding in November 1997. Nor
    were they consulted about the design work, if any, that led to that decision.

41. In June 1999 (19 months after the invitation for Bids), the Project Managers
    issued a "Priority Action Plan" in which they stated that they would now
    determine, in consultation with the contractor and stakeholders, areas requiring
    mechanical harvesting, and they would take part in monitoring the harvesting
    exercise in collaboration with relevant institutions and Government and Non-
    Government Agencies.

42. The first attempt at formal consultation was undertaken by the Bank on August
    13, 1999. It hosted a teleconference at the World Bank Office in Nairobi for
    various stakeholders, including NGOs, interested scientists and others, to listen
    to concerns expressed on the environmental, economic and social impact of the
    mechanical shredding and sinking of water hyacinth on Lake Victoria. At this
    conference an independent group of scientists, including affected groups and
    other stakeholders, was appointed to oversee the monitoring program for the
    shredding pilot

43. The Panel finds it surprising that some NGOs who had been closely associated
    with the preparation of LVEMP were not enlisted in the design of the shredding
    project. For example, OSIENALA had previously organized a workshop under the
    Project with the support of the Bank, UNDP, IUCN and UNEP.

Misunderstandings about Mechanical Shredding

44. Management admits not being "sufficiently proactive in explaining the purpose of
    the water hyacinth tender." The Panel finds it difficult to understand how the
    Borrower, as Management alleges, could have misunderstood the objective of the
    tender and believed that shredding and sinking was a lake wide solution to water
    hyacinth control. It was the Borrower that initiated the shredding and sinking
    operation. And it seems evident that the Bank agreed to finance the operation
    only as one of the trial pilots, and one not to be applied lake wide unless
    subsequently found to be environmentally, socially and economically feasible.

                                                                                    18




45. Prior to granting a "no-objection" to the shredding tender, Management
    recognized the need for consultation at least with "...recognized experts in water
    hyacinth control..." In doing so, however, Management appears to have focused
    on questions concerning possible environmental hazards for the lake as a whole,
    and neglected questions about possible risks in the specific area subject to the
    shredding operation.

46. In the Panel's view, some consultations should have been undertaken not
    only with experts but also with potentially affected people, as required in
    paragraph 19 of OD 4.01. Indeed, involving them in the design of the shredding
    pilot could have avoided a lot of unnecessary misunderstanding. And it may also
    have had a positive influence on the design and implementation of the pilot
    project.

47. Management maintains that, in the "absence of sufficient baseline data, and data
    describing analogous activities in other similar environments...,"    there was
    virtually no chance of preparing a "review of the environmental consequences" of
    the shredding operation prior to the tender. While this may be questioned, the
    Panel finds acceptable the approach taken by Management; i.e., viewing the pilot
    as an environmental-assessment-in-the-making, and putting in place a monitoring
    system to provide the environmental and other data needed to subsequently
    determine whether the method is sustainable and would be appropriate for more
    general use. Unfortunately, however, both the design and implementation of the
    shredding pilot's monitoring program was a failure. Thus, Management is left
    with a situation in which there was no prior review of the environmental
    consequences of the method and the environmental and other data needed
    for a subsequent assessment of the method have not been obtained. This
    appears to contradict OD 4.01 concerning the "purpose and nature of EA,"
    including "to improve decision making and to ensure that the project
    options under consideration are environmentally sound and sustainable."

48. In view of the above, the Panel has no other choice but to conclude that the
    Bank is not in full compliance with OD 4.01.

                         Project Supervision

Monitoring of Shredding Program

49. The issues raised in the Request for Inspection led the Panel to examine the
    adequacy of the supervision process. Noting that "Project Supervision is one of
    the Bank's most important activities," paragraphs 42 through 47 of OD 13.05
    provides the basic requirements necessary for establishing and conducting sound
    supervision planning.   Among such requirements, it requires a supervision plan
    to include "... (d) the borrower's contribution to supervision, including ... (ii)

                                                                                      19



    monitoring efforts; (iii) measures for establishing or improving data collection
    systems; and (iv) data and reports, and timing of their submission to the Bank."

50. Management has explained that a monitoring program was envisaged as an
    integral part of the pilot study of water hyacinth shredding. While the tender was
    not large enough to cause a significant impact on the ecology of the Lake
    Victoria, Management felt that it was of sufficient size to allow water quality
    monitoring to pick up changes in surrounding waters. The pilot's objectives were
    limited to testing the physical, economic and environmental sustainability of the
    method, and the conditions under which the method would be appropriate for
    more general use. Monitoring the cost of shredding operations over a stipulated
    12-month period would also enable a more accurate economic assessment to be
    made should it be considered for more widespread use in the Lake at some point
    in the future.

51. A Water Quality and Ecosystem Management Component has been in place
    since the beginning of the Project. Management points out, however, that
    OSIENALA and other groups did alert the Task Team to the fact that the activities
    of the monitoring groups lacked transparency and the involvement of the broader
    Kenyan scientific community. During the teleconference of August 13 1999, a
    Water Hyacinth Control Monitoring Committee (WHCMC) was set up to include
    impartial scientific advisors. It outlined a program for scientific and environmental
    monitoring of the Kenya portion of Lake Victoria in relation to water hyacinth
    control.

52. That little, if any, progress had been made in providing the essential basic
    scientific infrastructure to underpin the monitoring required to justify the pilot
    shredding program, was evident to the Inspection Panel Team when it visited the
    Kisumu laboratory on 28 July 2000.             The Panel witnessed first-hand the
    dilapidated state of the building housing the laboratory and the lack of basic
    facilities. Its inquires also revealed seriously flawed sampling procedures. The
    Team's inquiries relating to the scientific design of the sampling frame revealed
    serious shortcomings. There was no concurrent monitoring of fish catches,
    reactions of riparian communities, and aquatic or shoreline biodiversity. Those
    questioned hoped that this information might be available from other components
    of the LVEMP, but no effort had been made to ascertain whether or not such data
    was available or being collected.

53. With respect to the "economic experiment", also associated with the pilot project,
    no data could be provided to the Inspection Panel on the detailed costs of the
    water hyacinth shredding. This casts doubt on the claim that the water hyacinth
    shredding tender is part of an experiment to gather data to assess the conditions
    under which the method would be appropriate for more general use.

54. The Panel's observations lead reluctantly to the conclusion that there has been a
    serious lack of attention to the scientific underpinnings of the water hyacinth

                                                                                      20



    shredding pilot. An adequate water sampling and analysis program was not put
    in place. A before-shredding baseline was not established. No samples were
    collected during the shredding operation.        The laboratory and other required
    scientific infrastructure was not, and is not yet, in place. Much relevant data on
    related factors have simply not been collected and that which has is largely
    inadequate, inappropriate, or useless. Data with which to compare shredding
    and other forms of control are simply inadequate.

55. In the Panel's view, given the weakness of the research and experimental
    design and the inadequacy of the facilities and equipment required to
    undertake appropriate sampling and monitoring, the Water Hyacinth
    shredding pilot must be deemed a failure.

Supervision Missions

56. Between June 1998 and June 2000, the Bank undertook two Supervision
    Missions and one Mid-Term Review Mission for the Kenyan component of
    LVEMP. The Panel has examined the resulting reports and aide-memoires and it
    has discussed them with some of the key staff involved.


57. The First Supervision Mission (June 1998) appears to have been acutely
    aware of the need for the requisite scientific infrastructure to be in place and for
    scientific staff to be properly organized to enable effective monitoring of all
    aspects of the LVEMP. The Mission's Aide Memoire refers to the urgent need for
    the early rehabilitation and proper functioning of the regional Water Quality
    Laboratory at Kisumu to enable LVEMP Water Quality Projects to meet their
    objectives. It also expressed deep concern that Water Quality components had
    been starved of funds and unable to do any useful work. It observed that these
    "critically important parts of the project" had scarcely begun their work.

58. The Aide Memoire attributes the non-performance of the technical program for
    water quality monitoring and other components of the Kenya part of LVEMP, in
    considerable part, to procurement and disbursement delays. The Mission report
    observed in its opening paragraph that the project, which had already completed
    its first year, had made very slow progress in most areas and that procurement in
    particular had fallen far behind a reasonable schedule while disbursements had
    been extremely slow. Funds were not flowing to implementing groups in Kisumu
    and elsewhere in the Lake catchment. The procurement delays had adversely
    affected progress of the entire project. The report itemized some procurement
    matters which needed urgent attention.

59. To ensure that the relevant actions were taken, the Mission report proceeded to
    detail 14 specific actions that had to be taken as a matter of urgency, including
    (among others) early rehabilitation of the laboratory block in Kisumu which it
    estimated could be available within three months.

                                                                                     21



The 1999 Mid-Term Review Mission

60. In accordance with a previous decision a Mid-Term Review (MTR) was
    undertaken in June 1999. The MTR focussed on both the supervision of on-going
    Project activities in Kenya and a review of proposed activities to be accomplished
    for the remaining 2.5 years of the Project.

61. Although the MTR's Aide Memoire incorporates by reference all the activities yet
    to be performed with regard to the water hyacinth shredding pilot, the Panel finds
    it difficult to understand why the tone of the Aide Memoire changed in comparison
    with that of the previous year. It appears unperturbed by the fact that some
    "critically important parts" of the Water Quality component in Kisumu, to which
    urgent attention had been drawn by the 1998 Mission, were still not in place after
    one whole year had elapsed. (It was not until the Second Supervision Mission
    which took place in June 2000 that serious concern was expressed once again
    about the poor performance of the Project.)

62. The MTR's Aide Memoire refers to "minor progress" being made in Kenya despite
    the fact that "2.5 years have passed." It goes on to assert optimistically that "...
    the project is now ready for full scale implementation of its technical program." It
    notes that "...a new system of disbursements is expected to be in place by the
    next supervision mission...." That is, in approximately twelve months. However
    (as it turned out), this would be too late to ensure that the scientific and other
    equipment required for the monitoring program was in place before the pilot
    commenced. In fact, it would have had to be in place some time before the pilot
    commenced in order to ensure that proper baselines were established.

63. The MTR's draft Aide Memoire was drafted between June 7-18, 1999 and was
    submitted to the Government in final form on January 20, 2000, seven clear
    months after the completion of the Mission. In the transmittal letter, Management
    asserts with confidence that "The LVEMP is entering a new and exciting phase.
    Most of the equipment and rehabilitation works are now in place and components
    have begun implementation of the individual activities with renewed energy."
    (Emphasis added). The letter ends by extending "congratulations on a job well
    done to your LVEMP implementation team." By February 2000, one month later,
    it had become evident in Washington D.C. that the very slow implementation of
    LVEMP in Kenya, as indicated by disbursements, might affect the financing of the
    Project. An e-mail was sent on February 2nd to the Kenya Government which
    indicated the likelihood of canceling at least US$7 million from the IDA Credit and
    GEF Grant.

The Second Supervision Mission (June 2000)

64. It was not until the next regular (June 2000) Supervision Mission (after the
    Request had been received) that serious concern was expressed once again
    within the text of an Aide Memoire about the poor performance of the Project. The
    Aide Memoire chronicles a long list of unresolved problems relating to water

                                                                                      22



    quality monitoring, among others, that were supposed to have been addressed as
    a result of the 1998 Mission and as priority activities under the Mid-Term Review
    a year earlier.

65. It appears that the 2000 Supervision Mission was "forced to abandon" its original
    mission plan in order to determine "which of the many problems besetting this
    Project lay in the critical path of the Project implementation."      (Emphasis in
    original). Accordingly, the Mission undertook to: (a) address the problems of
    cash flow in the LVEMP; (b) assess the finance channels supporting project
    components; (c) identify the problems in the existing system and propose
    solutions to the cash flow problem: (d) examine the role of the Project Secretariat.

The Role of the Secretariat

66. The MTR Mission appears to have been impressed with the performance of the
    Kenya National Secretariat. It asserted that the Kenya National Secretariat was
    functioning well and that no major changes in its composition or funding were
    needed.

67. The Second (June 2000) Supervision Mission, on the other hand, revealed that of
    the 25% disbursed out of the total amount available to the Project, expenses of
    the Project Secretariat accounted for over 40%. The Mission remarked that the
    Secretariat was still spending at a rate twice that expected at the beginning of the
    Project. Furthermore, with 60% of the Project implementation time gone, only a
    quarter of the Project funds have been expended and most of this for goods and
    works. "Extraordinarily little of the recurrent budget (operational funds) has been
    channeled to the various Project components."          On the performance of the
    Secretariat, the Mission stated that the Secretariat needed to "push harder" for
    information and become "more proactive" in its administrative role. It drew
    attention to procurement packages that were only partially procured and
    delivered. (One package of vital laboratory equipment had been stuck at Nairobi
    airport for almost 10 months)

68. On the subject of funding, the TTL confirmed the Panel's finding that a 7-member
    high-level Panel of internationally renowned scientists which was to serve as the
    overall advisory group for scientific studies on the Lake had not been functioning
    as no funding had been provided for them.

69. Procurement and disbursement delays were a major factor in the poor
    implementation of the LVEMP Water quality-monitoring program, as
    Management has found.              In the Panel's view, however, this was
    compounded when a whole year was lost in ensuring that corrective action
    was taken. The expressions of optimism and confidence on the status of
    the Kenya portion of the Project contained in the 1999 Aide Memoire, and in
    the transmittal letter, could, and in the Panel's view, did mislead Project
    Management and lull it into complacency.

                                                                          23




70. On the basis of the foregoing, the Panel finds that Management failed to
    comply with paragraph 42 of OD.13.05 because supervision of the design
    and data collection systems for the pilot was inadequate and because
    supervision of the implementation of the monitoring systems was also
    inadequate.

                                                                                      24




                          Poverty Reduction

71. The Request raises questions concerning OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction. It
    maintains mechanical shredding would result in ecological and environmental
    degradation of Lake Victoria in the Nyanza Gulf and this in turn would impact
    adversely on "the livelihoods and well-being" of these communities. If this
    allegation were to be substantiated, it would constitute a violation of Bank's
    Operational Directive on Poverty Reduction, OD 4.15.

72. In its Response, Management maintains that it is the water hyacinth infestation
    itself that is a major environmental and economic calamity and "a major
    contributor to poverty" in and around the Lake. Removal of the water hyacinth will
    eliminate this poverty-inducing factor. Management draws attention to the main
    detrimental effects of the spread of mats of water hyacinth as identified during
    project preparation. Using newspaper and technical reports, Management
    provides copious illustrations of how the above effects find expression in the lives
    of people living around the Lake in the three riparian countries. Management also
    considered in detail and rejected the scientific arguments presented by the
    Requesters on the polluting effects of decaying water hyacinth, including
    bioaccumulation of toxins, release of large amounts of nitrate into the Lake, and
    increased eutrophication.

73. The Panel is satisfied that: (i) heavy water hyacinth infestation is a major
    threat to the livelihoods and wellbeing of Lakeshore communities and a
    significant contributor to poverty; (ii) the scientific arguments against
    possible polluting effects of decaying shredded water hyacinth appear
    convincing.

74. In the Panel's view, the social and economic benefits of the water hyacinth
    control program have been significant and have been to the advantage of
    the overwhelming majority of Lakeshore dwellers. There is no evidence to
    suggest that this is not true of the mechanical harvesting component. At
    the same time, the Panel witnessed some harm to small numbers of people
    engaged in the nascent utilization industry. The Panel is satisfied, however,
    that this harm is not the outcome of the Bank's failure to comply with its
    policies and procedures. Accordingly, the Panel finds that the Bank is in
    compliance with OD 4.15.


                        Economic Evaluation

75. The Request raises the issue of alternatives for water hyacinth control and
    management. This is relevant because OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of

                                                                                     25



    Investment Operations states that "Consideration of alternatives is one of the
    most important features of proper project analysis throughout the project cycle"

Water Hyacinth Control Methods: Alternatives and Costs

76. According to Management, preliminary work by the Preparation Team suggested
    the following costs of the various control methods that have been used in the
    riparian countries to control the weed: Mechanical removal - $3000/ha; Shredding
    and sinking - $1000/ha; Chemical control $100 ­ 300/ha; and Biological Control $
    30 - $50/ha.

77. Management states that only biological control holds significant prospects for
    long-term, large-scale management of water hyacinth. However, hyacinth
    infestation could meanwhile take a heavy toll on the economic life of the
    communities around the infestation areas, especially fish landing beaches, water
    supply and power intakes, ports and ferry routes. In such a situation a rapid
    emergency response can best be provided by mechanical removal, of which it
    appears shredding and sinking is the preferred option.

Sustainability of Mechanical Shredding

78. The Request maintains that "little or no regard has been had to the sustainable
    management of the water hyacinth in using this method of mechanical removal
    ..." OP 10.04 states as follows: "To obtain a reasonable assurance that the
    Project's benefits will be sustained throughout the life of the project, the Bank
    assesses whether critical private and institutional stakeholders have or will have
    the incentives to implement the project successfully."

79. Management does not address this issue fully. It expresses the view that if the
    shredding method works, "it would be a tool that could be used and funded by
    local groups and organizations to open landing beaches, clear paths to ferry and
    cargo terminals so ships could dock and open access to the Lake for fishermen to
    get their fishing sites easily and quickly." It is not stated who the local groups
    and organizations are and how they would be mobilized to fund this high-cost
    operation on a sustainable basis. It seems most unlikely that this could be
    managed by the fisherfolk and village communities around the Lake.

80. Cost may not be an obstacle to sustaining a mechanical harvesting operation in
    certain cases. A large utility such as an Electricity Board (in the case of Uganda)
    or the Government itself, with possible support from donor agencies, could
    manage it. In any case, there is no evidence that mechanical harvesting would
    not be sustainable for specific high priority strategic locations, within a broader
    program of Lake-wide biological control.

                                                                                       26




Economic Utilization and Harm or Potential Harm

81. The Requesters proposed that economic utilization of water hyacinth should be
    promoted instead of shredding and sinking. In its Response, Management cites a
    proposal to test the manufacture of biogas in Uganda near the Owen Falls dam
    from a combination of water hyacinth and sugar cane tops. Nowhere else in the
    text, however, does Management elaborate on potential economic utilization.

82. The shredding contract itself required that the water hyacinth harvested from 500
    meters of the shore to be deposited on land. It could then be used by the
    nascent utilization industry, some elements of which the Panel Team visited in
    and near Kisumu. While extremely difficult to judge, it seems possible that these
    fledgling enterprises could well multiply in the course of time in line with
    experience elsewhere. However, it appears that the program to eradicate (or at
    least control the spread of) water hyacinth, has rendered these emerging
    enterprises virtually inoperable.

83. This raises the question of possible harm. In the Panel's view, the vast majority
    of people and communities around the Lake have and should continue to benefit
    enormously from the program to control the spread of water hyacinth. While that
    must be kept in mind, it is also evident that the program may have resulted in
    some harm to the as yet small numbers of people engaged in the nascent
    utilization industry. Is this harm, however small, a necessary consequence of the
    water hyacinth control program? Two observations and a question: (I) the water
    hyacinth is in the Lake to stay; (ii) the amount of hyacinth needed to sustain and
    grow the nascent utilization industry is minute in comparison with the actual and
    potential volume of infestation around the Lake; (iii) in a continuing program to
    manage the spread of the water hyacinth, is it possible to find ways to enable the
    harvesting and removal of the small quantities needed? If it were, the harm could
    be avoided and, over time, the potential benefits of utilization might be realized. It
    would seem to be worth another look.

84. The Panel is satisfied that in arriving at the mechanical shredding tender,
    Management did consider alternatives. With regard to the sustainability of
    shredding operations, although Management has not provided clear
    guidelines as to who would bear the cost of future shredding operations, no
    evidence was available to indicate that the method would in actual fact be
    unsustainable in view of cost.

85.In the light of explanations and analyses provided by Management and upon
   its own field observations, the Panel concludes that the Bank is in
   compliance with OP 10.04.

                                                                            27




Summary of Conclusions

86.In brief, the Report concludes that Management is in compliance with OD
   4.01 (Environmental Assessment) with respect to categorization of the
   Project, OD 4.15 (Poverty Alleviation) and OP 10.04 (Economic Evaluation of
   Investment Operations). It further concludes that Management is not in full
   compliance with OD 4.01 with respect to meeting the overall purpose and
   nature of the OD including, as acknowledged by Management, adequate
   consultations with affected groups and NGOs. Nor is it in compliance with
   paragraph 42 of OD 13.05 on Bank Supervision.

                28




 Part One



Introduction

                                                                                             29




                                         CHAPTER 1

The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP)


87. Lake Victoria is the second largest lake in the world, second only to Lake
     Superior.     It is bounded by three riparian countries: Kenya, Tanzania and
     Uganda, as shown on Map 1. During the past half century, there has been a
     steady increase in population growth around the Lake, at rates among the highest
     in the world. As a result, pressures on the Lake due to the volume of human,
     agricultural and industrial waste have increased enormously, undermining the
     environmental integrity of the Lake. Overfishing and oxygen depletion at lower
     depths of the Lake are endangering artisanal fisheries and biodiversity. Massive
     blooms of algae have developed while water hyacinth has begun to choke
     important waterways and landings. Communities that rely on the resources of the
     basin as a source of food, fiber, drinking and irrigated water and transportation
     are under threat.

88. In 1988, the East African Co-operation (EAC) sponsored a high-level seminar in
     Arusha, Tanzania, to consider how the Lake and its resources should be
     managed in light of growing environmental threats. On August 5, 1994, the
     governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda entered into a Tripartite
     Agreement to launch and prepare jointly the Lake Victoria Environmental
     Management Program.2

89.   This Tripartite Agreement provided the vision that led to the preparation of the
      first five-year phase of an integrated project known as the Lake Victoria
      Environmental Management Project (LVEMP).                         On July 30 1996 the
      International Development Association (IDA) and the Global Environmental
      Facility (GEF) agreed to support the first five-year phase of the program. An
      IDA Credit for an amount equivalent to US$12.8 million and a GEF Grant of
      US$11.5 million equivalent was provided to the Republic of Kenya to support its
      foreign exchange costs of the LVEMP. Similar financing for the Project has
      been provided to the United Republic of Tanzania and the Republic of Uganda.
      The financing covers a number of components in all three countries including
      US$8.3 million for a water hyacinth control component.                In Kenya, US$2.8
      million is allocated to this component. The loan documents for this Project were
      signed on September 10, 1996 and became effective on March 31, 1997.

90.   According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), "The LVEMP is a comprehensive
      program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake ecosystem for the benefit of the

2 See IDA, Staff Appraisal Report. The Republic of Kenya, United Republic of Tanzania, and the
Republic of Uganda for the Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project, Report No. 15429-AFR
(June 18, 1996) [hereinafter Staff Appraisal Report or "SAR"] (at §2.2).

                                                                                     30



      people who live in the catchment, the national economies of which they are part,
      and the global economy."3 It has several objectives. It is designed to "(a)
      maximize the sustainable benefits to riparian communities from using the
      resources to generate food, employment and income, supply safe water, and
      sustain a disease-free environment; and (b) conserve biodiversity and genetic
      resources for the benefit of the riparian communities and the global community.
      In order to address the tradeoffs among these objectives which cut across
      national boundaries, a further project objective is to harmonize national
      management programs in order to achieve, to the maximum extent possible, the
      reversal of increasing environmental degradation."4 And it is to provide the
      three governments with the necessary skills, information, technical and financial
      resources and the necessary institutional and legal framework for the Project.

91.   The Project is the first phase of a longer-term program and comprises two broad
      sets of activities. The first addresses specific environmental threats by means
      of selected pilot initiatives. The second, which will be lake-wide, is designed to
      improve information on the Lake and build the needed capacity for more
      effective management.

1.1. Water Hyacinth Control Components of the Project

92.   Since the Water Hyacinth Control component is the focus of this investigation, it
      may be useful to provide some background information on the plant. The water
      hyacinth (Eichornia crassipes) is a free-floating aquatic plant belonging to the
      family Pontederaceae. It is said to have originated from the Brazilian Amazon
      and has spread to many tropical and subtropical regions of the world. The plant
      is today widespread in many water bodies of Africa where it seems to be
      endemic in the rivers and lakes in western, central, eastern and southern
      portions of the continent.

93.   The plant has a high growth rate with a photosynthetic fixation efficiency of
      1.25% as compared with 1.0% and 0.25% for maize and peanuts respectively.
      Since it develops in regions with a solar energy constant of 450­550 watts/m2
      the water bodies of tropical and subtropical Africa provide perfect habitats. It
      has been established that one hyacinth plant multiplies into 1,200 within 120
      days, which represents approximately a seven-fold increase in 50 days.




3SAR at § 3.1.
4Ibid.

                                                                               31




                   Panel member examining whole plant



94. One of the major aims of the Project is to establish sustainable long-term
    capacity to manage and control the water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in
    Lake Victoria. Three methods were considered: (a) Mechanical/Manual Control,
    (b) Chemical Control and (c) Biological Control.

95. Mechanical Control, the focus of this investigation, uses mechanized equipment
    to remove the water hyacinth and other aquatic plants from the water surface.

                                                                                  32



    This can be achieved in two ways. The hyacinth can be shredded, harvested
    and moved to the shore. Or, it may be shredded and dumped into the bottom of
    the Lake. When harvested and dumped on shore, the hyacinth can be used for
    other purposes including fertilizers, microbial protein, feed for animals, fiber
    boards, biogas and paper pulp. The method is capital intensive and requires
    skilled labor for the operation and maintenance of the machines. Like other
    methods of control, shredding and removal may cause some degree of
    environmental impact on terrestrial habitats while shredding and dumping may
    create negative environmental impacts on aquatic environments.

96. Straight manual removal of water hyacinth, in contrast to mechanical control,
    requires only simple tools. This method, however, is used mostly at fish landing
    sites and near the banks of the water body.

97. Chemical Control, in the form of aquatic herbicides, was originally
    recommended for use in open waters and shoreline areas where water use
    restrictions would not affect the community adversely. The Regional Policy and
    Steering Committee (RPSC) of LVEMP appointed a committee of experts to
    review and advise on the use of herbicides. The Committee's report was
    presented to an International Panel of Scientists on August 23, 1998. They
    concluded that the use of herbicides was risky and, subsequently, on
    September 28, 1998, the RPSC decided that the use of herbicides should be
    deferred until further research on the efficacy, safety and the environmental
    impact of the recommended chemical compounds had been completed in the
    three countries.

98. Under the LVEMP it was agreed that Biological Control was the most
    sustainable way of managing the uncontrolled proliferation of the plant in Lake
    Victoria.  The biological control program is based on the multiplication and
    release of two weevil species (Neochetina bruchi and Neochetina eichorniae),
    which are well tested for their effectiveness. The adult beetles feed on the
    leaves and place the plant under stress through excessive transpiration. The
    eggs of the beetles are laid on the leaves and feed on the plant tissue. This
    creates further stress on the plant and enables pathogens to establish
    themselves as the larvae pupate on the root in the water and result in high
    weevil population capable of placing further stress on the water hyacinth so that
    it does not flower and therefore does not set seed. Furthermore, the speed with
    which vegetative reproduction occurs is greatly decreased and, in many cases,
    the plant population is reduced by thirty to fifty percent.

                                                                                       33




99.  Biological control requires the establishment of mass rearing capacity in units
     around the shores of the Lake. It also requires a well-coordinated field release
     program involving local communities and an effective monitoring and training
     program. The agricultural research organizations of the three riparian countries
     (the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), the Uganda National
     Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) and the Tanzania Department of
     Research and Training) were charged with these responsibilities.




                 Staff of Kari explaining the biology and the
                 weevils rearing project to the Inspection Panel
                 team.


1.2. Importance of the Water Hyacinth Control Component for the
Socio-Economic Life of the Region

100. The resources of the Lake basin are used as a source of food, energy, drinking
     and irrigation water, shelter, and transport and as a repository of human and
     agricultural waste.    Water hyacinth was blocking access to ports, fisherfolk
     community fish landings and watering points. It also reduced the operational
     efficiency of the Owen Falls hydroelectric plant. The eutrophication of the Lake
     (i.e. large nutrient concentrations resulting in high productivity, algal blooms and

                                                                                                      34



        periods of oxygen deficiency) is a continuing concern affecting the many
        domestic, agricultural and industrial uses of the Lake.


101. There is also evidence that changes in water quality have favored the Nile perch
        (a previously exotic species) and contributed to the extinction of endemic fish
        species. Reports of frequent fish kills in recent years have raised questions on
        the sustainability of the fishery."5 According to the SAR, "...the major direct
        economic benefit for which the program lays the foundation would be avoidance
        of the predicted collapse in the fisheries, which is estimated to have a present
        value to the lake community of US$270-520 million."            6



102. The invasion of water hyacinth has imposed enormous economic, social and
        environmental costs on the region.            "The water hyacinth problem, which is
        rapidly becoming more severe, is estimated to have an annual cost of US$6-10
        million under current levels of infestation. These costs, whose present value is
        an estimated US$25 ­40 million, as well as even larger costs which might be
        associated with increased infestations in the future were nothing to be done,
        would largely be avoided if the LVEMP were successfully implemented."                          7

        Deterioration of water quality "may impose additional water supply costs which
        are estimated to be a minimum of US$3.5million p.a. (present value US$15
        million) and would increase considerably without action."8




5 See SAR, supra note 1, at § 1.24."Aside from the near total loss of deepwater species, the
deoxygenation of the lake's bottom waters now poses a constant threat, even to fish in shallower
portions of the lake, as periodic upwelling of hypoxic water causes massive fish kills. The increased
nutrient loads have also spurred the water hyacinth infestations." § 1.19 of the SAR also states that:
"Overfishing and oxygen depletion at lower depths of the lake threaten the artisanal fisheries and
biodiversity (over 200 indigenous species are said to be facing possible extinction). Scientists advance
two main hypotheses for these changes. First the introduction of the Nile perch as an exotic species
some 30 years ago has altered the food web structure; second, nutrient inputs from adjoining
catchments are causing eutrophication. Thus although the lake and its fishery show the evidence of the
dramatic changes in the lake basin over the past century, the lake is not the source of the problem.
The problems have arisen in the surrounding basins through human activity."
6SAR, supra note 1, at § 5.19.
7Id. at § 5.20.
8Id. at § 5.21.

                                                                                     35




                                    Chapter 2


                      The Request for Inspection

2.1. The Requesters' Allegations

103. On October 12, 1999, the Panel received a Request for Inspection (the
     "Request") related to the Kenya portion of the Lake Victoria Environmental
     Management Project. The Request was submitted by RECONCILE (Resources
     Conflict Institute), a Kenyan non- governmental organization, acting for and on
     behalf of persons in the Nyanza Gulf area of Lake Victoria within the Republic of
     Kenya (the Requesters).        RECONCILE was also authorized to represent
     OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria), an NGO representing people who live in
     Kisumu, and the Kenya Chapter of ECOVIC (the East African Communities
     Organization for Management of Lake Victoria Resources) who represent
     communities living along the Kenya side of Lake Victoria.

104. The Requesters claimed that they were likely to suffer harm as a result of
     failures and omissions of IDA and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development (the World Bank) as administrator of the GEF, in the design and
     implementation of the water hyacinth management component (Part B) of the
     Project in Kenya.

105. Specifically, the Requesters claimed that the proposed use of a mechanical
     method for shredding water hyacinth and returning it to the water to sink to the
     bottom of the Lake would result in ecological and environmental degradation
     which, in turn, would adversely affect communities living on the shores at the
     Nyanza Gulf.      These communities depend directly on the Lake for their
     livelihoods, since the Gulf is home to freshwater fish and the source of water for
     domestic use. The Requesters contend that the ecosystem and human
     livelihood would be endangered by the resulting pollution.

106. They further claimed that the method used for hyacinth control was selected
     without a prior Environmental Assessment (EA) or appropriate community
     consultation.

                                                                                       36




107. As stated in the Panel's registration of the Request, the Requesters' allegations
     could constitute violations of, inter alia, the following Bank Policies and
     Procedures: OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment; OD 4.15 on Poverty
     Alleviation; OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations; and
     OD 13.05 on Project Supervision.


2.2. Management Response

108. On December 20, 1999 the Panel received Management's Response to the
     allegations in the Request. Management noted the wider context of the LVEMP,
     and explained that it was designed to collect baseline data, identify and prioritize
     problems and to experiment with possible solutions to these problems through a
     series of experimental pilots. In this context, all of the possible methods of
     controlling water hyacinth were by definition experimental pilots to determine
     their practicality and their economic and financial suitability for large-scale use
     on the Lake. The three borrowing Governments had decided, however, to drop
     one method, the trial use of herbicides, from the Project. The Project had thus
     supported the piloting of mechanical harvesting/removal to land disposal in
     Uganda, the mechanical shredding trial in Kenya, and biological control in all
     three countries. In addition, limited Project funds had been used for the manual
     removal of hyacinth by local communities at selected sites, though the Bank
     discouraged the use of project funds to remunerate local voluntary self-help
     contributions.    Moreover, the Bank was concerned about manual removal
     hazards such as bilharzia, malaria, and snakes associated with extensive
     exposure to Lake waters.

109. The Response explained that both mechanical trials were small scale, covering
     a tiny part of the Lake, as shown approximately on the shaded area near
     Kisumu on Map 2. Owing to the prohibitive cost of mechanical harvesting
     followed by disposal on land, Management claimed it was important to test the
     shredding method as one possible tool for local riparian communities to fund
     and use for fast removal to alleviate the problems associated with hyacinth
     blockage of ports, fish landing sites, and other sensitive areas.           Before
     accepting its use as a pilot, the Bank considered technical issues and consulted
     experienced scientists, practitioners and experts. The GEF employed its own
     review process. Based on this, Management concluded that the method held
     sufficient promise to justify the pilot.

110. Regarding the environmental concerns, the Response explained that the water
     hyacinth shredding pilot was, in itself, essentially the core of a detailed
     evaluation of the environmental impact of the shredding methodology.
     Management claimed it was necessary to do this rather than doing a detailed
     Environmental Analysis as part of Project preparation because of the absence
     of sufficient baseline data, and data describing analogous activities in other

                                                                                                     37



       similar environments. For this reason, Management contended that there was
       virtually no chance of preparing a meaningful and useful Environmental
       Analysis.     The largest component of the LVEMP was designed to collect
       sufficient water quality and limnology data from the Lake to create a reasonable
       scientific baseline, which would enable environmental assessment of
       development and management actions in the future.

111. Management did not consider it surprising that Reconcile and the other groups
       had submitted the Request for Inspection.                  Management stated that the
       Government, many NGOs and individuals were under the misunderstanding that
       the pilot project (for the mechanical shredder) was in itself intended as a
       solution to the water hyacinth problem in Lake Victoria. Management accepted
       responsibility for this misunderstanding and acknowledged that a more thorough
       job of informing the public of the trial nature of the shredding tender could have
       been made. Additional steps were underway to improve public involvement.
       Therefore, while Management did not agree with the Requesters' allegations,
       they understood and sympathized with their frustrations.

112. For the above reasons, Management believed that the design and execution of
       the water hyacinth chopping/shredding pilot was completely acceptable, and
       that the Bank had complied with all relevant policies and procedures.

2.3. Eligibility of Request

113. The Panel reviewed the evidence submitted by the Requesters and
       Management.           During a field visit between February 7-13, 2000, Panel
       Members (Edward S. Ayensu, Leader, and Maartje van Putten) met with officials
       of RECONCILE and other NGOs in Nairobi. They also met with Government
       and Bank officials and a number of the Lake's community-based associations in
       Kisumu, including fishermen and fishmongers.

114. On March 6, 2000, the Panel submitted its Report on the eligibility of the
       Requesters and the Request and its recommendation on the Request for
       Inspection. It concluded that the Requesters were eligible and that Request met
       all of the technical eligibility criteria contained in paragraph 9 of the 1999
       Clarifications.9     It also concluded that the Request and the Management
       Response contained conflicting assertions and interpretations about the issues,
       the underlying assumptions, the facts, compliance with Bank policies and
       procedures and harm. The Panel therefore recommended an investigation into
       the matters alleged in the Request.




9The 1999 Clarifications to the Resolution that established the Panel are contained in the "Conclusions
of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" dated April 20, 1999.

                                                                                 38




2.4. The Board's Decision

115. On March 20, 2000, the Executive Directors recorded, on a non-objection basis,
     their approval of the recommendation contained in paragraph 25 of the
     memorandum from the Chairman of the Inspection Panel entitled "Request for
     Inspection- Kenya: Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (IDA
     Credit 2907-KE) (GEF TF 23819)-Panel Report and Recommendation,"
     INSP/R2000-3. The Board thus authorized the Panel to conduct an investigation
     into the matters alleged in the Request.

2.5. The Investigation Process

116. The Team which undertook the field visit for the investigation comprised two
     Panel members, Edward S. Ayensu (Leader) and his colleague Jim MacNeill
     (Panel Chair). They were assisted by Antonia M. Macedo, Assistant Executive
     Secretary, and Professor Richard Fuggle, a Senior Consultant from the
     University of Cape Town.

117. The Panel consulted with the Alternate Executive Director for Kenya, Mr. Girmai
     Abraham, before and after its field visits to Kenya. The Team interviewed Bank
     staff associated with the Project in Washington D.C. both before and after the
     inspection.

118. During a field visit to Nairobi between July 24 and August 5, 2000, Panel
     Members met with The Honourable Mr. Richard Leaky, Head of Public Service
     and Secretary to the Cabinet and Dr. Mohammed Isahakia Permanent
     Secretary, Ministry of Natural Resources. The Team met with the Hon. P.
     Anyang' Nyong'o, MP; Prof. Thomas R. Odhiambo, Hon President, African
     Academy of Sciences; Professor Francis M. Muthuri Member, International
     Panel of Scientists; Professor Duke Orata, Chairman, Water Hyacinth
     Monitoring Committee; Mr. Chris Kiribu, Chairman, Kenya Manufacturers
     Association; Prof. Joseph B. Ojiambo, LVEMP Project Co-ordinator, as well as
     other members of the LVEMP staff, and RECONCILE represented by Steve G.
     Orino.

119. The Panel Members interviewed Mr. Goran Engstrand and Mr. Per Karlsson of
     SIDA in Nairobi, and it held meetings with Bank Country Director, Mr. Harold
     Wackman, and his staff at the World Bank office in Nairobi.

120. In Kisumu, the Team met with Mr. Peter Raburu, Provincial Commissioner,
     Nyanza Province; Agnes Yobterick, LVEMP Kisumu Manager, and Dr. G.
     Ochiel, Task Co-ordinator; the Requesters: Executive Chairman of ECOVIC
     Regional Office and OSIENALA Executive Director, Obiero Ong'ang'a as well as
     with a number of other officers and members of OSIENALA and ECOVIC
     Chairperson, Kenya Chapter, Mary Atieno Amwata. NGOs represented at a

                                                                                  39



     meeting with the Panel included UHAI Lake Forum, LAVIRECHA, KICK, Clean-
     Up Kisumu as well as the Co-ordinator for the NGO Network, Western Kenya
     and a Lakeside community representative. The Team met directly affected
     people in a number of village communities along the Lake including Kusa,
     Rakwaro, Sangorota (where there is a community weevil rearing unit), Dunga,
     Kaloka and Otiwa.

121. The Team visited and met staff at the water hyacinth mechanical control site,
     the Kibos Weevil Rearing Center run by Kenya Agriculture Research Institute
     and the Monitoring Laboratory at Kisumu.

122. In the course of the investigation, the Panel had the opportunity of studying
     various documents made available to it by Bank staff, Government officials and
     Non-Governmental Organizations.

2.6 State of Water Hyacinth Infestation during Panel's Visit

123. The water hyacinth shredding and release into the lake started late December
     1999 and stopped during April 2000. During its first visit to the Nyanza Gulf
     area of the Lake in February 2000, the Panel observed a vast expanse of water
     hyacinth mat, which extended from the shore as far as the eye could see.




          Water Hyacinth mat on Nyanza Gulf site in February 2000


124. During its second visit in July-August, 2000, the mat had virtually disappeared
     not only from the site of mechanical shredding, but also far beyond it. The
     reasons for this were a matter of considerable discussion and opinions varied
     widely. Some attributed it to high water levels and record wind and wave action
     linked to the El Nino phenomenon. Some attributed it to the biological control

                                                                                 40



     program which was in progress at the time. Some attributed it to a combination
     of the above and other factors. The question remains marked by uncertainty.

125. Just before the Panel's second visit, the Kenyan Project Management declared
     victory over the water hyacinth.      Sober second thoughts, however, soon
     prevailed.




             Picture from the same site where Water Hyacinth has
             virtually disappeared in July 2000




         Panel Team Member discussing with Kenya LVEMP scientists
         the recurrence in July 2000 of water hyacinth in parts of
         Nyanza Gulf.

                                                                                   41




126. The fact that it was premature to declare victory was soon confirmed by the
     Panel. During its visit to parts of the Lake, the Panel discovered patches of
     floating (and flowering) mats along the banks and elsewhere. It was further
     confirmed in November, when the Panel received reports that large parts of the
     Lakeshore around the Nyanza Gulf were again covered by heavy mats of water
     hyacinth and secondary growth.




             Dense concentration of Water Hyacinth and secondary
             growth along the lakeshore of Kisumu in November 2000

127. The advance-retreat-advance of the water hyacinth observed in the past year
     confirms, in the Panel's view, the importance of the water hyacinth component
     of the LVEMP Project to the well-being of the Nyanza Gulf region and, perhaps,
     beyond. It also underlines, in the Panel's view, the importance of ensuring that
     this component of the Project is implemented as intended and in accordance
     with applicable Bank policies.

128. From the literature on water hyacinth it seems clear that water hyacinth seeds
     can remain dormant for 15 years and sprout unexpectedly under the appropriate
     conditions. If so, the residents of the Lake Victoria basin will have to remain
     ever vigilant and constantly ready to meet the threat as and when it recurs.

                            42




       Part Two




Environmental Compliance

                                                                                               43




                                       Chapter 3

                       Categorization of the Project


129. OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment requires an environmental classification
        for every Bank-supported project.10 Accordingly projects must be assigned a
        Category `A', `B' or `C'.       For Category `A' projects, a full environmental
        assessment ("EA") is required. For Category `B' projects, although a full EA is
        not required, environmental analysis is. For Category `C' projects, no EA or
        environmental analysis is required.

130. As noted in the Management Response, the preparation team undertook a
        broad-based environmental review as part of the project preparation for the
        LVEMP.11 It gave the Project a Category `B' rating. The rating was cleared by
        the African Regional Environmental Department in November 1995. The entire
        Project was also evaluated by the African Regional Environmental Department
        as part of the Bank's Project preparation.12

131. In June, 1996, the Staff Appraisal Report commented as follows: "The program
        is in effect a regional environmental action plan for Lake Victoria, having as its
        central objective improving the environmental conditions of Lake Victoria and its
        catchment. However, the program will encompass a wide range of different
        interventions and investments, and has been designated as Category `B' for
        environmental analysis to ensure that adequate attention will be given to the
        many overall positive impacts as well as to individual components which might
        have adverse local environmental effects."13

132. The Panel finds that in assigning the project a Category `B' for
        environmental assessment purposes, the Bank was in compliance with
        OD 4.01.




10See IBRD/IDA, Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment (October 1991) [hereinafter
OD 4.01] at §§ 4 to 8.
11See IDA, Management Response to Request for Inspection, submitted to the Inspection Panel
(December 20, 1999) [hereinafter "Management Response" or "Response" ] at p. 7..
12Id. at p. 8.
13SAR, supra note 1, at § 5.25.

                                                                                           44




                                      Chapter 4


                            Environmental Analysis

4.1. The LVEMP Environmental Analysis

133. The Introduction to the Environmental Analysis states that "[This] overview
        attempts to provide a synthesis of key information together with a review of the
        issues as understood at present. It is intended to present the broad context
        within which specific components of the LVEMP are prioritized and justified.
        There are many uncertainties in our understanding of the ecological and socio-
        economic systems based on Lake Victoria but, while further research and
        analysis will continue, decisions must be taken for action now on the most
        urgent problems, many of which are familiar in character from experience
        elsewhere."   14



134. The LVEMP Environmental Analysis is largely descriptive. It provides a general
        overview of issues and concerns based mainly on literature reviews. It outlines
        the problem of poverty and the pressure that increasing population was placing
        on the Lake. It also provides an overview of the socio-economic system, and
        touches on potential costs and benefits.        The bulk of the study deals with
        biophysical matters ­ physical setting, fisheries, biodiversity, water quality, water
        hyacinth, and wetlands.

135. The LVEMP Environmental Analysis recognizes explicitly that further analysis
        may be needed for some future actions under the Project. Under "Issues of
        Concern", it is stated as follows: "The LVEMP is an environmental project in
        terms of its focus and objectives but it is possible that some of the individual
        actions or projects under the program could have adverse environmental
        effects.    For this reason, individual projects should be screened for their
        potential environmental impacts and an appropriate environmental assessment
        carried out as appropriate." It then identifies four issues "...as requiring explicit
        review of the environmental consequences."15 These include fisheries
        management interventions, aquaculture and new species, and pollution control
        as well as water hyacinth control methods.         The nature and extent of any
        "...explicit review of the environmental consequences" of mechanical and
        manual water hyacinth control methods is not clear from the text, however. The

14"Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program Environment Analysis"[hereinafter "LVEMP
Environmental Analysis"] at p. 2.
15Id. at p. 28.

                                                                                                     45



         discussion is confined to water hyacinth control by means of biological and
         chemical methods.16

136. The Environmental Analysis provides no meaningful environmental analysis or
         discussion of the potential consequences, positive or negative, of the effects
         that water hyacinth control interventions may have on the livelihoods of different
         groups of people, e.g. women dependent upon water hyacinth for crafts,
         fisheries, subsistence farmers in eroded areas.                  Some issues raised in
         stakeholder consultations were recorded in the document, but there was no
         analysis and little commentary on them. The Panel's inquiries further revealed
         that the stakeholders were not fully consulted during the scoping of the
         environmental analysis. There was also no indication that the Environmental
         Analysis was made available to stakeholders either for discussion or review
         before and after finalization.

4.2. Environmental Analysis for Water Hyacinth Control

137. As noted earlier, the LVEMP Environmental Analysis listed several specific
         project activities for which further analysis may be required in order to examine
         their "environmental consequences."          17  Water Hyacinth control was one of
         these. However, the discussion was confined to possible use of biological and
         chemical methods for long-term lakewide water hyacinth control.                        Water
         Hyacinth control by mechanical means was not mentioned. The context of the
         discussion further suggested that concern was focussed largely on the long-
         term risks of the introduction of bio-control agents and the cumulative effects of
         chemical control interventions.18

138. The Government of Uganda assumed responsibility for reviewing and making
         recommendations on the short-term use of chemical and biological control
         methods in areas worst affected by water hyacinth. It commissioned the firm
         Aquatics Unlimited to undertake an Environmental Impact Study with the
         following Terms of Reference:

          · To develop an emergency action plan for the control of water hyacinth on
              Lake Victoria using integrated manual, mechanical, biological and chemical
              control measures.


16 Id. at pp. 28-30. The "Precautions and mitigation measures" for water hyacinth control methods reads
at p. 30: "Whatever short-term measures are adopted to deal with the immediate problems, a careful
review of the possible cumulative impacts and long term risks should be carried out before adopting
chemical or biological agents for long term lakewide management of the weed under the LVEMP. The
review should cover an evaluation of relevant experience in the region and elsewhere, together with
any further field testing that may be appropriate, as well as the establishment of protocols for the
licensing and application of the agents and for the recording and monitoring of the applications and
effects."
17 Id. at p.28-30
18 Ibid

                                                                                               46


        · To integrate the emergency action plan into the Lake Victoria Environmental
            Management Program.
        · To develop a long-term Water Hyacinth maintenance program for all water
            bodies in the East Africa Region.
        · To undertake further review of the potential of new biological control insects
            and pathogens. 19

139. In June 1997, Aquatics Unlimited released their report entitled "Draft
       Environmental Impact Study: Water Hyacinth Control Program, Lake Victoria
       and Other Waterways."20        Among other things, it provided an action matrix
       comparison of the alternative methods of control, including the no-action
       alternative. The assessment of mechanical control was based on removal of
       the harvested water hyacinth from the water body and its disposal on a
       dumpsite away from the shoreline. It was not based on the option that was later
       chosen in Kenya, i.e., shredding, harvesting, and releasing into the water body.
       The findings of the study were, in essence:

     · That taking no action against Water Hyacinth was the worst option.
     · That taking no action would have the worst effect on water quality. This would
         lead to decreasing Dissolved Oxygen (DO) levels and increasing Biochemical
         Oxygen Demand (BOD) more significantly than would biological, chemical or
         mechanical control.
     · That the worst effect on aquatic and shoreline ecosystems would be to do
         nothing.
     · That doing nothing to reduce the Water Hyacinth infestation would also be the
         worst case for biodiversity, food supply for riparian communities, access to
         potable   water,   irrigation,   human     health,     riparian    economies,     Lake
         transportation, and riparian demography.

140. Although the study proposed the adoption of chemical, biological, manual, and
       mechanical control measures, it recommended that the type of control used in a
       particular area should reflect the physical characteristics of the area and the
       associated water uses. "Features such as navigability of a bay, degree of Water
       Hyacinth cover, proximity to water intakes, sensitive crops, fishing areas, water
       temperature and the strength of currents are important in determining the
       appropriate control method for a particular area of the region."21 No details,
       models, or decision trees for determining how these factors were to be used to
       decide on a particular control strategy at a particular location were provided in
       the study. The usefulness of the document for guiding the appropriate selection
       of control methods was therefore limited.


19Executive Summary, Draft Environmental Impact Study: Water Hyacinth Control Program, Lake
Victoria and Other Waterways, Prepared for Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries,
Entebbe, Uganda. June 1997, by Aquatics Unlimited.
20Ibid
21Ibid.

                                                                                                     47




4.3. Environmental Analysis of Mechanical Shredding Option


141. In alleging that there was no Environmental Impact Assessment, the Requesters
        were concerned only with the mechanical shredding of water hyacinth and its
        dumping into the Lake. They stated that "No Environmental Impact Assessment
        (EIA) has been done on the likely impact of the method adopted by the Project
        of the mechanical removal of the water hyacinth, to wit, the shredding and
        sinking of the weed to the bottom of the Lake."22 They proceeded to list the
        damage or harm which they believed could result from the sinking of the weed
        in the Nyanza Gulf waters.23




      Aquatic plant shredder at work in the Nyanza Gulf where harvesting and
      dumping is taking place


142. The evidence suggests that mechanical shredding and sinking had not been
        specifically envisaged and discussed at the time the Project was declared
        effective in March 1997. The LVEMP Environmental Analysis refers to
        "mechanical removal" and to " harvesting machines."24 The Staff Appraisal




22 See RECONCILE (Resources Conflict Institute), Request for Inspection: LVEMP - Mechanical
Removal of Water Hyacinth at the Nyanza Gulf" (28 September 1999) in INSP/R2000-3 (8 March 2000)
[hereinafter "Request for Inspection" or "Request"] at §1 (i).
23" ...the pollution caused by dumping of the weed to the bottom of the lake" could endanger the fresh
water fish in the Nyanza Gulf. The decomposition of the weed involves oxygen uptake which will reduce
or deplete the concentration of dissolved oxygen in the water. "Sinking and eventual degradation of the
weed will result in an abrupt increase of toxic chemicals in the lake... "The decomposition of the water
hyacinth will enhance eutrophication of the lake at the Nyanza Gulf." Id. at § 2.
24LVEMP Environmental Analysis, supra note 13, at p. 14..

                                                                                      48



      Report refers to "mechanical methods" implying that there is more than one
      method, but does not discuss them.25

143. Management acknowledges that the Borrower's request for inclusion of the
      hyacinth shredding work into the LVEMP came during project implementation.
      Had it been received early enough it presumably could have been considered in
      the LVEMP Environmental Analysis. The shredding methodology was
      considered when the political pressure was so intense and the economic
      damage by water hyacinth infestation to fishing villages so compelling that a
      supplementary solution to the biological control already underway was sought
      by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Management states that:
      "Having learned of a chopping machine that had been developed in the USA,
      the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry and the Head of the Kenya National
      Secretariat of LVEMP visited the USA in October 1997 to see the machine in
      action. They were impressed with what they saw and decided to proceed with
      procurement."     26  Following an International Competitive Bidding, a tender was
      awarded for the pilot shredding of 1,500 ha of water hyacinth mats in the
      Nyanza Gulf of Lake Victoria (as shown approximately on Map 2).

144. After the Bank gave its "no-objection" to the Water Hyacinth Tender, it informed
      the Borrower: "At the time of appraisal an environmental analysis of the entire
      project was carried out, which outlined the problems the project was trying to
      address, and the potential benefits from proposed measures to be implemented,
      among them measures to address the water hyacinth infestation. The Bank has
      given its 'no objection' to the award of a tender in Kenya for addressing water
      hyacinth problems by mechanical means.           This 'no objection' signifies the
      Bank's view that the method of dealing with the water hyacinth problems is
      acceptable. Furthermore, under the contract, the contractor will be bound by
      the environmental laws of Kenya with respect to disposal of materials, and in
      other matters as specified in the tender documents. In view of the foregoing, we
      do not require a specific environmental impact assessment of this approach
      prior to signing the contract."27


4.4. Pilot Status of Mechanical Shredding


145. Management has explained at length that the mechanical shredding is only an
      experimental or trial pilot and has not been accepted as a definitive control
      strategy for water hyacinth:
    · "...the Project is piloting a number of different management actions. It has
        indicated its willingness to support mechanical harvesting/removal in Uganda
        on a cost-sharing basis with the Uganda Electricity Board (upstream of the


25SAR, supra note 1, at § 3.21.
26Management Response, supra note 104, at pp. 9-10.
27Project Files, September 16, 1998.

                                                                                       49



          Owen Falls Dam), the mechanical shredding trial in Kenya and biological
          control in all three countries."28
     · "The tender that is the focus of this allegation is only a pilot of the chopping /
          shredding process, and as such has the limited objectives of testing physical,
          economic and environmental sustainability, and the conditions under which the
          method would be appropriate for use".29
   · "The tender to shred water hyacinth was prepared in keeping with the
         experimental approach. It is not large enough to cause a significant impact on
         the ecology of Lake Victoria, but of sufficient size (shredding up to 1500 ha of
         floating water hyacinth mats) to allow water quality monitoring to pick up
         changes in surrounding Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), phytoplankton
         abundance/species composition etc that might be indicative of the impact of
         this method of control should it have widespread use on the Lake at some point
         in the future".30

146. In the SAR, two types of activities were distinguished: "pilot zone" activities and
        "lake-wide" activities.31 A total of fourteen pilot zones were identified, four of
        which were in Kenya. The Project would undertake a number of activities in
        these pilot zones "in an integrated way" designed to reduce water hyacinth to
        manageable levels, develop groundwater resources, reduce sediment and
        nutrient flow, regulate industrial effluent, and reduce fecal coliform and
        municipal nutrient output into the Lake.

147. The conceptualization of mechanical shredding and sinking as a pilot project
        (although done after project approval of the LVEMP) fits in with this general
        approach.


4.5. Shredding and Sinking Pilot as "Core" of an EA


148. In its Response, Management poses the question: "Why was it necessary to
        use the hyacinth shredding tender as the core of a detailed evaluation of the
        environmental impact of the shredding/chopping method of control, instead of
        doing a detailed EA as part of project preparation?" In sum, it answers that:
         ·      "In the absence of sufficient baseline data, and data describing
         analogous activities in other similar environments, there is virtually no chance
         of preparing a meaningful and useful EA."  32

         ·      "...it would be impossible to do a thorough EA in anything less than 3-5
         years or more (the time it would take to collect the minimum amount of baseline
         data)".33

28Management Response, supra note 10, at p. 12.
29Id, at p. 7.
30Id. at p. 13.
31SAR, supra note 1, at § 3.3.
32
 Management Response, supra note 104, at p.13..

                                                                                          50


4.5.1. Availability of Data and Time Required for Testing


149. The Panel asked some Bank staff whether, in their view, there was the need for
        an environmental analysis prior to undertaking the pilot. They were of the view
        that a full environmental analysis was not necessary but felt that a preliminary
        evaluation of the likely consequences of the pilot was essential. One observed
        that even Category `A' type environmental assessments had been undertaken in
        many countries with less than the full relevant baseline data, especially in
        situations of urgency. The point was not to pretend that data were complete
        when they weren't, and to ensure that, before taking decisions, decision-makers
        understood that the data underlying any analysis were incomplete. In particular
        their attention should be drawn to any risks.

150. Management's detailed discussion of the queries raised about the possible
        impact of the shredding and sinking itself suggests that lack of baseline
        information was not so abysmal as to render impossible a "meaningful and
        useful" review of the possible environmental consequences.              Consider the
        following excerpts from Management's Response:


         ·      While Lake Victoria is eutrophic, nitrate levels in its waters would be
         about 100 times less than the nitrate level established in the United States (a
         conservative 100 mg/l) to protect consumers against nitrate-related illnesses.34

         ·      All available information on the Lake suggests that heavy metals and
         potentially toxic organics (herbicides/pesticides and the like) are not currently
         present in Lake Victoria at levels that are of concern.35

         ·      For every 1000 kg of water hyacinths shredded no more that 50-kg dry
         matter would fall to the bottom of the lake. It is likely that even the small amount
         of nitrogen liberated by the shredding process would be quickly removed form
         the water column by phytoplankton and other plants.36

On the increased likelihood of eutrophication, the Management Response considers the
following 2 questions:

         · "...i) will decomposition of shredded water hyacinths occur in a well
             oxygenated environment relatively free of strong vertical temperature
             stratification, or ii) will decomposition be in a reducing, anoxic, environment
             below a strong thermocline? The following facts point to the former (no
             increase)...." 37


33
 Id. at p. 16.
34
 Id. at p. 22.
35Ibid
36Id. at p. 23
37Ibid.

                                                                                        51




         ·      "Remobilization of nutrients from hyacinths killed in the shredding
         process is likely to be gradual, as the Kenyan portion of the Lake is relatively
         shallower and relatively well oxygenated."38

         ·      "...careful    survey of work between 1991 and 1995 along rocky
         shorelines of Lake Victoria in Tanzanian waters documented the presence of
         163 species of haplochromine fish, of which 102 species were previously
         unknown. These discoveries along the hyacinth free rocky shores indicated
         that it was unlikely that the hyacinth was playing any significant role in the
         survival of cichlid fish species."39


151.A crucial question concerns the fate of the water hyacinth seeds during and after
      shredding and sinking. The Management Response indicates that this was one of
      the issues raised with the experts consulted.40 The opinion was that:
      "Regeneration of water hyacinth after shredding is unlikely because the chopping
      would destroy the flotation devices of the hyacinth."41 The Task Team Leader
      acknowledged that the seeds would not be destroyed by shredding and would
      remain viable for many years. He did not think, however, that they would
      germinate in the unfavorable conditions prevailing at the Lake bottom. The
      evidence suggests, however, that under conditions of reasonable aeration and
      light, the seeds would germinate and either float to the surface or (in very shallow
      waters) get rooted in the bottom mud and grow to the surface to further
      propagate. Many world experts are of the view that the only viable strategy in
      water hyacinth control is continual monitoring and surveillance.


4.5.2. Technical Consultations


152.Although the size of the trial pilot is small in relation to the enormous size of Lake
      Victoria (a point which is emphasized in the Management Response), the
      shredding operation could have localized impacts at sites near the shores where
      village communities with large population concentrations are found. While
      Management did not undertake a "review of the environmental consequences" of
      the shredding pilot (deciding instead to treat it as an environmental assessment in
      the making), Management did recognize that it was desirable to identify possible
      environmental hazards and any mitigatory measures that might be required and
      to assess whether the pilot trial had any chance of success at all. Thus, before
      deciding to proceed with the shredding, it consulted a formidable group of
      scientists and practitioners, including recognized experts on the ecology of Lake
      Victoria and on water hyacinth control.

38Id. at p. 24
39Id. at p. 10
40Ibid.
41Ibid.

                                                                                          52



153.According to the Management Response, the preparation team approached nine
      scientists and practitioners (names provided) "including recognized experts in
      water hyacinth control and on the ecology of Lake Victoria"42 for advice. Also
      named in the Management Response are five GEF experts, ten technical
      members of the Project Preparation Team and six internal reviewers. Four
      environmentally related issues were then considered.43 However, it appears that
      the questions put to the experts and reviewers concerned possible environmental
      hazards for the whole of Lake Victoria. Management's discussion provides no
      evidence that the experts and reviewers were questioned about possible
      environmental risks in the specific area subject to the shredding operation (i.e.,
      the area immediately around Kisumu in the Nyanza Gulf). This is fundamental to
      note. It raises questions concerning compliance with paragraph 1 of OD 4.01,
      which states that "... EA covers project-specific and other environmental impacts
      in the area of influence of a project."

154.Even so, Management concludes this discussion stating: "Having accepted the
      views of [these] experienced scientists and practitioners, the Bank supported the
      mechanical chopping tender, viewing it as a pilot intervention..."44

155.Unfortunately, the Panel was unable to obtain documentary evidence concerning
      these consultations. The Task Team Manager involved in the matter spoke of
      "minutes of phone conversations" in his files, which he thought would not be
      useful as they did not cover everything. A staff member described the procedure
      as "diligent enquiry". However, given the importance and scale of the consultation
      (claimed to have encompassed 24 named scientists and experts) the absence of
      any official or substantive documentation whatsoever is unfortunate and borders
      on casualness in decision-making.        In sum, there is no official documentary
      support for the part of the Management Response which concerns the technical
      consultation process, including the specific issues said to have been discussed,
      and the outcome of the consultation.

156.The Requesters alleged that they wrote on several occasions to ask the Bank to
      provide them with a copy of any environmental assessment undertaken with
      respect to the shredding methodology. Given the fact that the Environmental
      Analysis undertaken for the LVEMP as a whole predated the decision on the
      shredding and sinking pilot, it is hardly surprising that the request for a copy of an
      environmental assessment could not be met. However, there does not appear to
      be any reason why an appropriate reply and explanation, such as was given to
      the Borrower on September 16, 1998, could not have been given to the
      Requesters.45




42Id. at p. 11.
43Id. at p. 10.
44Id, at p. 12.
45See supra at §60 and note 27.

                                                                                      53




4.6. Consultations with Affected Groups and NGOs

4.6.1. The Requesters' Allegations


157.Paragraph 19 of OD 4.01 sets out requirements for consultations as follows: "The
    Bank expects the borrowers to take the views of affected groups and local NGOs
    fully into account in project design and implementation and in particular the
    preparation of EAs. This process is important in order to understand both the
    nature and extent of any social or environmental impact and the acceptability of
    proposed mitigatory measures, particularly to affected groups. Consultations do
    not reduce the decision authority of the borrower, but are a valuable way to
    improve decision making to obtain feedback on the EA process and draft report
    and to increase community cooperation in implementing the recommendations of
    the EA."

158.Paragraph 20 of OD 4.01 specifies that "such consultations should occur at least
    at the following two stages of EA process (a) shortly after the EA category has
    been assigned, and (b) once a draft EA has been prepared."

159.The Requesters claimed that the introduction of mechanical shredding and
    sinking methodology did not involve local communities or other stakeholders in its
    design or implementation:
           · "Serious concerns raised by the communities around the lake, ...as well
               as other informed persons about the likely ecological impact of
               shredding and sinking the water hyacinth to the bottom of the lake have
               not been answered sufficiently or at all."
           · "Little or no regard has been had to the sustainable management of the
               water hyacinth in using this method of mechanical removal as it does not
               involve the local communities in its design or implementation."
           · "The stated participatory approaches and stakeholder involvement in the
               design and management of the project have been totally ignored as the
               Project proceeds with this method of removal of the water hyacinth in the
               face of and without any regard to the concerns and objections of the
               affected communities..."46


4.6.2. Management's Response to Requesters' Allegations

160.In its Response, Management observes that: "Although Government project
    management has made an effort to introduce transparency into the Project, it
    could have done a more thorough job of informing the public of the purpose of the
    shredding tender." In this connection, Management went on to state that the

46Request for Inspection, supra note 21, § 1 (iii)-(v).

                                                                                                54



    LVEMP and scientific staff had not been sufficiently proactive in explaining the
    objectives of the LVEMP in general, and this tender specifically, and that this was
    an indication of weakness in this aspect of Project implementation. Accordingly,
    Management concluded that the complaints made by the Requesters were
    understandable but "not correct in substance."

161.Management points out that, first, a broad­based environmental review was done
    for the LVEMP as a whole and this became a public document. Secondly, it
    adds, "the tender that is the focus of the allegation is only a pilot of the
    chopping/shredding process, and as such has the limited objectives of testing
    physical, economic and environmental sustainability and the conditions under
    which the method would be appropriate for use." Although "significant progress
    had been made with public involvement, ownership and easy accessibility to the
    Project, we have some distance to go."47

4.6.3. The Teleconference of 13th August 1999

162.From the evidence available to the Panel, including the Management Response,
    it appears that local groups or NGOs were not properly consulted, as required
    under OD 4.01, concerning the decision to go ahead and ask for bids for
    mechanical shredding in November 1997. Nor were they consulted about the
    design work, if any, that led to that decision.

163.Funding of mechanical harvesting was not included in the IDA Credit/GEF Grant
    documents.         The design of the mechanical shredding pilot began when the
    borrower concluded that immediate action was needed to clear hyacinth
    infestation and called for Bids in November 1997.48 On July 21, 1998, the Bank
    gave its "no objection" to the award of "a tender for addressing water hyacinth
    problems by mechanical means."49 In June 1999, the Project Managers issued a
    "Priority Action Plan" indicating that it would now (nineteen months after the
    Invitation for Bids (IFB), and eleven months after the Bank's "no-objection,"):

       · "Determine in consultation with contractor and stakeholders areas requiring
            mechanical harvesting...,
       · Take part in monitoring of the on-going mechanical harvesting exercise in
            collaboration with other relevant institutions, stakeholders and Government
            and Non-Government Agencies...
       · Determine in consultation with other relevant institutions, stakeholders and
            Government and Non-Government Agencies whether and how mechanically
            harvested water hyacinth could be utilized..."50



47Management Response, supra note 10, at p.7.
48Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. "Invitation for Bids (IFB)", 7 November 1997.
49Project Files.
50"Priority Action Plan" at § 4.4.1.

                                                                                     55



164.The first attempt at formal consultation was undertaken by the Bank on August
     13, 1999. It hosted a teleconference at the World Bank office in Nairobi for
     various stakeholders including NGOs, interested scientists and politicians, some
     of the Project's scientific and management staff, the shredding contractor, local
     Bank staff and Management as well as the Task team in Washington. The
     purpose of the teleconference, as recorded in the minutes, was "to listen to
     concerns expressed by various stakeholders on the environmental, economic and
     social impact of the mechanical shredding and chopping of water hyacinth to
     Lake Victoria." By this time an article had appeared on July 25, 1999 in the
     "Sunday Nation" titled "Hyacinth Removal: Disaster in the Making."


4.6.4. The Role of Non-Governmental Organizations

165.From the evidence, it appears that the Bank did not request the involvement of
     local NGOs that were previously associated with the Project in the decision to
     approve the shredding tender.          This is surprising. The SAR states that:
     "Throughout the project special efforts will be made to involve local communities,
     and the capacity of a number of local NGOs and CBOs will be strengthened so
     that they could facilitate the process of community participation and ownership,
     and lead the communities in undertaking wise use activities of the resources of
     the lake and its basin."   51The records indicate that the Friends of Lake Victoria
     (OSIENALA) had been closely involved in the preparation of LVEMP. They had
     also been responsible for running a workshop on strategies for community
     involvement in the implementation of the LVEMP.           This workshop, held in
     February 1997, before implementation commenced, was sponsored by UNDP
     and supported (as well as attended) by the Bank as well as IUCN and UNEP.
     Thus OSIENALA's interest and commitment to LVEMP was well known and
     recognized. They had made their concerns about mechanical harvesting known
     to the Bank in April 1998 and complained about the information flow to NGOs and
     the public.

4.6.5. Misunderstandings about Mechanical Shredding

166.In its Response, Management stated that "There is a general misunderstanding
     on both the side of the Government and those making this allegation regarding
     the true nature of the Water Hyacinth Shredding Tender. Both the Government
     and many NGO and individuals believe that the tender is itself a solution to the
     water hyacinth problem in Lake Victoria. In fact the water hyacinth problem
     shredding is a pilot..."52

167.Management admits not being "sufficiently proactive in explaining the purpose of
     the water hyacinth tender."53 The Panel finds it difficult to understand how the

51SAR, supra note 1, at § 4.35.
52Management Response, supra note 10, at p. 7.
53Ibid.

                                                                                    56



    Borrower, as Management alleges, could have misunderstood the objective of the
    tender and believed that shredding and sinking was a lakewide solution to water
    hyacinth control. It was the Borrower that initiated the shredding and sinking
    operation. And it seems evident that the Bank agreed to finance the operation
    only as one of the trial pilots, and one not to be applied lakewide unless
    subsequently found to be environmentally, socially and economically feasible.
    The Panel finds it disturbing that the Bank did not ensure that the Borrower and
    local stakeholders possessed a full understanding of the purpose and scope of
    the operation.


4.7. The Panel's Findings

168.Prior to granting a "no-objection" to the shredding tender, Management
    recognized the need for consultation at least with "...recognized experts in water
    hyacinth control..."    In doing so, however, Management appears to have
    focussed on questions concerning possible environmental hazards for the lake as
    a whole, and neglected questions about possible risks in the specific area subject
    to the shredding operation, the approximate location of which is shown in the
    shaded area near Kisumu on Map 2.

169.In the Panel's view, some consultations should have been undertaken not
    only with experts but also with potentially affected people, as required in
    paragraph 19 of OD 4.01. Indeed, involving them in the design of the shredding
    pilot could have avoided a lot of unnecessary misunderstanding. And it may also
    have had a positive influence on the design and implementation of the pilot
    project.

170.Management maintains that, in the "absence of sufficient baseline data, and data
    describing analogous activities in other similar environments...,"     there was
    virtually no chance of preparing "review of the environmental consequences" of
    the shredding operation prior to the tender. While this may be questioned, the
    Panel finds acceptable the approach taken by Management; i.e., viewing the pilot
    as an environmental-assessment-in-the-making, and putting in place a monitoring
    system to provide the environmental and other data needed to subsequently
    determine whether the method is sustainable and would be appropriate for more
    general use.      Unfortunately however, as shown in this Chapter and further
    demonstrated in the next, both the design and implementation of the shredding
    pilot's monitoring program was a failure. Thus, Management is left with a
    situation in which there was no prior review of the environmental
    consequences of the method and the environmental and other data needed
    for a subsequent assessment of the method have not been obtained. This
    appears to contradict OD 4.01 concerning the "purpose and nature of EA,"
    including "to improve decision making and to ensure that the project
    options under consideration are environmentally sound and sustainable."54

54OD 4.01, paragraph 2.

                                                                              57



171.In view of the above, the Panel has no other choice but to conclude that the
    Bank is not in full compliance with OD 4.01.

                       58




    Part Three



Project Supervision

                                                                                                   59




                                         Chapter 5

                    Monitoring of Shredding Program


172.Noting that "Project Supervision is one of the Bank's most important activities,"
      OD 13.05 states that "Its main purposes are: (a) to ensure that the borrower
      implements the project with due diligence to achieve the agreed development
      objectives and in conformity with the loan agreement; (b) to identify problems
      promptly as they arise during implementation and help the borrower resolve
      them, and to modify as necessary the project concept and design as the project
      evolves during implementation or as circumstances change (in this context, Bank
      supervision complements the borrower's implementation efforts and is one of the
      most effective ways in which the Bank provides technical assistance to its
      borrowers); (c) to take timely action to cancel a project if its continuation is no
      longer justified, particularly if it can no longer be expected to achieve the desired
      development objectives; to use the experience gained to improve the design of
      future projects, sector and country strategies, and policies;.... " It then goes on to
      outline      "...the Bank's normal policies, procedures, and responsibilities for
      supervising projects it finances."    55



173.Paragraphs 42 through 47 of OD 13.05 provide the basic requirements necessary
      for establishing and conducting sound supervision planning.                   Among such
      requirements, it requires a supervision plan to include "...(c) aspects of the
      project that require special Bank attention during supervision (e.g., environmental
      concerns, impact on the poor); and (d) the borrower's contribution to supervision,
      including (i) expected participation in supervision missions; (ii) monitoring efforts;
      (iii) measures for establishing or improving data collection systems; and (iv) data
      and reports, and timing of their submission to the Bank."         56



174.The issues raised in Request for Inspection led the Panel to examine the
      adequacy of the supervision process. The Management Response points out, for
      example, that the water hyacinth shredding operation was a pilot to test "physical,
      economic and environmental sustainability and the conditions under which the
      method be appropriate for use."57 The Panel accepts this. However, it is forced

55It should be noted that OD 13.05 is not the exclusive repository of Bank guidance on supervision of
Bank projects. For instance, OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), Annex D, paragraph 13, states that
"EA recommendations provide the basis for supervising the environmental aspects of the project during
implementation. Compliance with environmental commitments, the status of mitigatory measures, and
the findings of monitoring programs are part of borrower reporting requirements and project
supervision. [...]."
56OD 13.05, paragraph 44.
57Management Response, supra note 10 at p. 7.

                                                                                                    60



      to question whether there could be a useful environmental analysis of the
      shredding pilot under the conditions described below.

5.1. Structure of Monitoring Program

175.As stated above, Management has explained that the mechanical shredding
      tender is an experimental or trial pilot of the shredding process. Accordingly, the
      pilot's objectives are limited to testing the physical, economic and environmental
      sustainability of the method and the conditions under which the method would be
      appropriate for more general use. Management felt that the tender was not large
      enough to cause a significant impact on the ecology of the Lake Victoria.                     In
      shredding up to 1,500 hectares of floating hyacinth mats, however, it was of
      sufficient size to allow water quality monitoring to pick up changes in surrounding
      waters. Changes in Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), phytoplankton
      abundance, species composition, and conductivity etc. might be indicative of the
      impact of this method of control. Monitoring the cost of shredding operations over
      a stipulated 12-month period would also enable a more accurate economic
      assessment to be made should it be considered for more widespread use in the
      Lake at some point in the future.58

176.A Water Quality and Ecosystem Management Component has been in place
      since the beginning of the Project, long before the Request was submitted to the
      Panel.59     In Kenya it is implemented by the Ministry of Water Resources in
      collaboration with, inter alia, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources,
      Ministry of Agriculture, Moi University School of Environmental Studies and the
      Institute of Nuclear Sciences at Nairobi University.60 Management points out,
      however, that OSIENALA and other groups did alert the Task Team to the fact
      that the activities of the monitoring groups lacked transparency and the
      involvement of the broader Kenyan scientific community.                     As agreed at the
      teleconference called by the Bank on August 13 1999, a Water Hyacinth Control
      Monitoring Committee (WHCMC) was set up to include impartial scientific
      advisors.61

177.Thus the monitoring program now has two parts. "The first part is the scientific
      water quality monitoring program within and around the area in which the
      hyacinth shredding will be undertaken.                This part is the responsibility of
      government scientists.          The second tier of the management program is an
      independent group of scientists that will review the design and implementation of

58Id. at p. 15.
59 The program has the purpose of ensuring "...that the shredding pilot results in data useful to
interpreting potential environmental impact of the method on Lake water quality..." Id. at p. 14.
60SAR, supra note 1, at § 3.27.
61 It was proposed that "joint monitoring and supervision of the [mechanical shredding] contract be
conducted by an independent technical review panel in addition to and independent from the project
monitoring team.     This team would participate fully in field supervision and technical review of
monitoring data." (See World Bank.       Minutes of Teleconference of August 13, 1999, included as
Appendix 1 to the Management Response to Request for Inspection.)

                                                                                                  61



      the monitoring program to insure its impartiality and scientific rigor. The area to
      be monitored by this impartial group of scientists, with the assistance of the
      ministries responsible for managing water quality of the Lake, is restricted to the
      1500 ha, which is only a small part of the area affected by hyacinths within the
      Kenyan part of Lake Victoria."      62  According to Management, "The purpose of the
      new monitoring program is to ensure that the shredding pilot results in data that
      will help interpret potential environmental impact of the method on Lake water
      quality. It also has the objective of making the monitoring program and its results
      transparent to the outside community of scientists and stakeholders."63

5.2. First-hand observations in the field

178.The Water Hyacinth Control Monitoring Committee (WHCMC) outlined a program
      for scientific and environmental monitoring of the Kenya portion of Lake Victoria
      in relation to water hyacinth control. It not only took into account all relevant
      factors but also exhibited commendable sophistication.64 Information obtained
      during the Panel's field visit, however, suggests that the program has been
      disregarded in its execution and appears not to have been extended to the
      mechanical shredding pilot.

179.The Panel's Inspection Team visited the Kisumu laboratory on 28 July 2000. It
      found that little, if any, progress had been made in providing the basic scientific
      infrastructure that was essential to enable the monitoring to achieve its
      objectives. The Panel witnessed first-hand the dilapidated state of the building
      housing the laboratory as well as the completely unsatisfactory state of the
      laboratory.    The laboratory had inadequate equipment, glassware, reagents,
      water supply, electricity supply and cleaning service. Any results emanating from
      it would be highly suspect.

180.Since the water analyses required for the pilot shredding project could not be
      undertaken locally, the water samples had to be sent to Nairobi for analysis. The
      baseline samples taken before shredding commenced had been analyzed in the
      Chemistry Department of the University of Nairobi.65                   Samples taken after
      completion of the shredding (no samples having been taken while the shredding
      process was in progress) were analyzed in the Water Quality Laboratory of the
      City of Nairobi.

181.The Kisumu laboratory manager told the Inspection Panel Team that transport
      delays in moving samples from Kisumu to Nairobi meant that three days elapsed
      between sample collection and analysis in Nairobi.                      The technical staff
      recognized that this rendered the analyses of Dissolved Oxygen (DO) and

62Management Response, supra note 10 at p. 15.
63Ibid.
64Project Files, September 20, 1999 .
65Information provided to the Inspection Panel by Professor Orata, Chair of the Monitoring Committee
of the Water Hyacinth shredding pilot study during interview in Kisumu on 28 July 2000.

                                                                                    62



    Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) suspect, if not completely invalid. The
    consequential fact that invalid analyses undermined the rationale for the entire
    pilot shredding project did not appear to be as readily appreciated.

5.3. Experimental Design for Monitoring the Shredding Pilot

182.The Panel Team's inquiries relating to the scientific design of the sampling frame
    for monitoring the effects of the Water Hyacinth shredding pilot revealed a
    complete lack of attention to experimental design.       According to information
    provided to the Panel, the water samples taken both before and after shredding
    were taken at Lake shore locations selected to be the sites of weevil rearing. All
    samples were taken in one-liter glass containers from surface waters some 10
    meters from the shoreline. Samples were not replicated and no samples were
    drawn further away from the shoreline or at different depths. This lack of samples
    from the bulk of the water body was serious. The Panel Team was also told that
    it was a direct consequence of the monitoring staff not having been provided with
    either access boats or with the equipment essential for taking samples at various
    depths in the Lake.

183.The Chair of the WHCMC (and another member of the monitoring team present
    for the discussion) informed the Panel Team that no concurrent monitoring of fish
    catches, aquatic or shoreline biodiversity, or reactions of riparian communities
    had been undertaken to establish the potential impacts of the shredding. He
    expressed the hope that such information might be available from other
    components of LVEMP, but he didn't know.

184.The Panel Team was also informed that program's lack of analytical capacity was
    mainly responsible for the fact that no monitoring was undertaken of confounding
    factors. Most notably, as the Panel Team later saw, the quality of discharge from
    the Kisumu sewage works was not being monitored. Yet, these data would be
    needed to establish whether changes to water quality in Kisumu Bay was the
    result of shredding or other factors. The need for samples from control locations
    (as well as the need for meteorological and limnological data) to interpret the
    results of the shredding process, did not appear to be appreciated by the Bank
    staff and members of the Monitoring Group with whom the Panel Team
    interacted. The seriousness of this situation for the credibility and usefulness of
    the water hyacinth pilot cannot be overstressed. Without adequate research
    design, sampling, analysis, recording, and inter-comparison, the water hyacinth
    pilot cannot be construed as a "controlled experiment" or any other form of
    scientific enquiry.

185.With respect to the "economic experiment", also associated with the pilot, the
    Panel Team was unable to obtain any coherent data on the costs of water
    hyacinth shredding. Nor was any explanation provided as to how this important
    element of the experimental pilot was to be addressed so that its potential for
    more general use could be assessed. Such lack of data relating to an expressed

                                                                                    63



    objective of the shredding pilot cannot help but raise questions concerning the
    claim that the water hyacinth shredding tender is part of an experiment to gather
    data to assess the conditions under which the method would be appropriate for
    more general use.

186.In summary, the Panel's observations lead reluctantly to the conclusion that there
    has been a serious lack of attention to the scientific underpinnings of the water
    hyacinth shredding pilot. An adequate water sampling and analysis program was
    not put in place. A before-shredding baseline was not established. No samples
    were collected during the shredding operation. The laboratory and other required
    scientific infrastructure was not, and is not yet, in place. Much relevant data on
    related factors have simply not been collected and that which has is largely
    inadequate, inappropriate, or useless. Data with which to compare shredding
    and other forms of control are simply inadequate. Thus, from the perspective of
    research and experimental design, as well as the adequacy of equipment and
    facilities to undertake appropriate sampling and monitoring, the Water Hyacinth
    shredding pilot, at this point in time, must be deemed a failure.

5.4. Preparedness of Pilot for Monitoring

187.The Task Team Leader (TTL) was asked about the preparedness of the pilot with
    regard to arrangements for monitoring. He explained that, given the doubts
    expressed by local critics concerning the reliability of data from the Project
    Monitoring Team, an independent WHCMC was established following the
    teleconference of August 13, 1999. The WHCMC was to design the monitoring
    program and could request funds required for its work. It had produced its first
    report which was largely a literature review.

188.The Task Team Leader agreed, however, that, in the absence of a rehabilitated
    and properly equipped Water Quality Monitoring Laboratory at Kisumu, the
    monitoring could not be undertaken effectively. He was nevertheless of the view
    that the analysis of water samples could meanwhile be undertaken in a well-
    equipped laboratory at Entebbe in Uganda. However, his attention was drawn to
    the need for ensuring freshness of samples to achieve reliability of results. He
    also expressed the view that getting all the analyses done in one laboratory was
    preferable because of problems of inter-laboratory quality control. The Panel
    found this questionable since inter-laboratory quality control was an essential
    element in the design of LVEMP. He agreed that, due to lack of vehicles, the
    scientists in the field would not be able to undertake their programs effectively.
    The Panel drew attention to the fact that the Bank had financed a fleet of brand
    new four-wheel drive vehicles as well as fax machines and photocopiers. The
    Task Team Leader was of the view, however, that the ready purchase of vehicles
    and fax machines for use by the Secretariat while field staff and scientists were
    starved of funds was in part due to the mode of Bank payment to suppliers of
    these items.

                                                                                   64



189.The Task Team Leader was asked about the funding of the 7-member high-level
    Panel of internationally renowned scientists which the Project agreed to appoint
    to serve as the overall advisory group for the scientific studies on the Lake. He
    confirmed the Panel's finding that no funding had been approved under the
    Project to enable the international group to function.

5.5. The Panel's Findings

190.In the Panel's view, given the weakness of the research and experimental
    design and the inadequacy of the facilities and equipment required to
    undertake appropriate sampling and monitoring, the Water Hyacinth
    shredding pilot must be deemed a failure.

191.The Panel feels that procurement and disbursement practices which result
    in the relatively easy purchase of vehicles and office equipment, while
    laboratories, field and scientific staff essential to meeting the objectives of
    the pilot are starved of funds, need urgently to be corrected as part of
    proper supervision of the Project.

                                                                                          65




                                        Chapter 6

                            Supervision Missions


192.Between June 1998 and June 2000, the Bank undertook two Supervision
     Missions and one Mid-Term Review Mission for the Kenyan component of
     LVEMP. The Panel has examined the resulting reports and aide-memoires and it
     has discussed them with some of the key staff involved.


6.1. The First Supervision Mission (June 1998)
193.The First Supervision Mission Team of June 1998 appears to have been acutely
     aware of the need for the requisite scientific infrastructure to be in place and for
     scientific staff to be effectively organized to enable effective monitoring of all
     aspects of the LVEMP. The Mission's Aide Memoire refers to the need for the
     rehabilitation and proper functioning of the Water Quality Laboratory in Kisumu as
     follows:
                · "The regional Water Quality Laboratory in Kisumu will be essential for
                  the LVEMP Water Quality Projects and other affiliated LVEMP projects
                  to meet their objectives and it must be made operational as soon as
                  possible."
                · "The Water Quality components of the project have staff in the field at
                  Kisumu, but they have been starved of funds, and unable to do any
                  useful work. It is of serious concern that these critically important parts
                  of the project have scarcely begun their work, and of great urgency
                  that they do so."66

194.The Mission's Aide Memoire then proceeds to detail 14 specific actions that need
     to be taken as a matter of urgency. Several related to the specific needs for
     monitoring the water hyacinth shredding operation, which was to come later.
     These included: 67

        ·       Let contract for rehabilitation of the building block in Kisumu. ("...it is
        estimated the laboratory could be available within three months if the
        procurement proceeds without complication");

        ·       "identify immediately the manager for the new laboratory...."


661998 Aide Memoire at p. 6.
67Id. at pp. 6-8.

                                                                                        66




         ·     "initiate laboratory equipment procurement ...with priority assistance
         ...from the Secretariat..."

         ·     "train technical staff in appropriate techniques ...for the Kisumu
         laboratory... in anticipation of receiving the required equipment..."

         ·     "prepare a detailed and exact "methods manual" for the Kisumu
         Laboratory; this should be done by the Laboratory Manager and staff and will
         require ...acquiring similar laboratory manuals from national and international
         laboratories for use as guides..."

         ·     "...emergency procurement of a suitable computer to house the
         chemicals database of the laboratory...."

195.The Mission's Aide Memoire attributes the non-performance of the technical
      program for water quality monitoring and other components of the Kenya part of
      LVEMP in considerable part to procurement and disbursement delays. The
      opening paragraph reads as follows: "The project has made very slow progress
      in most areas. Procurement in particular has fallen far behind a reasonable
      schedule and disbursements have been extremely slow. These are matters of
      grave concern, in view of the fact that the project has been effective for more than
      a year. Funds are not flowing to implementing groups in Kisumu and elsewhere in
      the Lake catchment ... The implementing agencies need to take immediate action
      to establish Standing Imprests with their task co-coordinators in the field to
      accelerate the flow of funds, and of project implementation."68

196.The Aide Memoire further observes that "The procurement delays have adversely
      affected progress of the entire project, because implementing agencies are citing
      shortages of vehicles and other equipment as reason why they are unable to
      proceed with project implementation."69 And, later in the text, it proceeds to
      itemize some procurement matters which need attention.70


6.2. The 1999 Mid-Term Review Mission

197.In 1996 the three Governments and IDA agreed that a Mid Term Review (MTR)
      would be carried out before the end of March 1999.71 In November 1998, five
      months after the June 1998 Supervision Mission, the TTL visited each country to
      discuss the focus, process and schedule of the MTR.72 The TTL visited again in
      early 1999. Shortly after these visits, the Bank's Project Status Report for Kenya

68Id. at p. 1.
69Ibid.
70Id. at p. 6.
71SAR, supra note 1, at § 3.27.6.2 (n).
72See 1999 Aide Memoire at §§4-6.

                                                                                                 67



     stated that the mid-term review will, at the request of the Government, focus on
     reorganization of the Project.73 In the event, the MTR focussed on both the
     supervision of ongoing Project activities in Kenya and a review of the proposed
     activities to be accomplished under the Project over the next 2.5 year, until its
     closure in the last quarter of 2002.74

198.The MTR's draft Aide Memoire was completed on June 16, 1999 and was
     submitted to the Government in final form on January 20, 2000. It is to be read in
     conjunction with the Progress Report for the Period July 1997 to April 1999 and
     Priority Action Plans of the LVEMP for the Period from July 1999-June 2002, both
     prepared and assembled by the Project Secretariat.75 These reports were cited
     by the MTR Mission as "an invaluable base from which the Project scientists and
     administrators, and the Mission, derived the final version of the workplan
     presented in this Aide Memoire."76

199.The tone of the MTR's Aide Memoire in respect of the water quality monitoring
     project does not seem to reflect the sense of urgency felt and conveyed by that of
     the First 1998 Mission. It expresses modest, if any, concern that many of the
     actions insisted on by the 1998 Mission, and which concern the water hyacinth
     component, had not been taken. It reports that a contract has been awarded for
     the construction of the water quality monitoring laboratory in Kisumu but "there
     appears to be some minor delay in a final contract being signed..." It asks the
     National Secretariat "to meet with the contractor to see if anything can be done to
     shorten the period before he mobilizes the site." It observes that "it is likely that
     laboratory equipment will arrive in Kisumu before construction of the new
     laboratory is finished," and asks that "that space be found in the existing Water
     Department to set up and commission the equipment as soon as it arrives..."              77  It
     notes that some staff undertook training, as recommended by the 1998 Mission.

200.The MTR's Aide Memoire refers to "minor progress" being made in Kenya despite
     the fact that "2.5 years have passed." It goes on to assert optimistically, however,
     that "... the project is now ready for full scale implementation of its technical
     program."78 It notes that "...a new system of disbursements is expected to be in
     place by the next supervision mission...."            That is, in approximately twelve
     months. However (as it turned out), this would be too late to ensure that the
     scientific and other equipment required for the monitoring program was in place

73The Project Status Report gave the Kenya component of the project an unsatisfactory rating for
Project Development Objective, and a similar rating for "Implementation Progress."         "Project
Management" was upgraded from unsatisfactory to satisfactory, as was "Procurement". The rating for
'"Monitoring and Evaluation" remained unsatisfactory and the "Water Management" remained highly
unsatisfactory (i.e. the very lowest).
741999 Aide Memoire at § 2.
75Discussed in the Aide Memoire are "only those activities and deliverables that are different from
those presented in the Priority Action Plan" Id, at §13.
76Id. at §6.
77Id. at §§ 40 and 42
78Id. at .§ 4.

                                                                                                  68



      before the shredding pilot commenced. In fact, it would have had to be in place
      some time before the pilot commenced in order to ensure that proper baselines
      were established.

201.The MTR's Aide Memoire was drafted between June 7-18, 1999, but the final
      version "incorporating all recommended changes made by the Government of
      Kenya" was prepared in December 1999.                    A copy was transmitted to the
      Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources on January 20, 2000,
      seven clear months after the completion of the Mission. In the transmittal letter
      issued from the Nairobi World Bank office it is asserted with confidence that "The
      LVEMP is entering a new and exciting phase. Most of the equipment and
      rehabilitation works are           now     in place      and     components have begun
      implementation of the individual activities with renewed energy." (Emphasis
      added). The letter ends by extending "congratulations on a job well done to your
      LVEMP implementation team."          79



202.Although the MTR's Aide Memoire incorporates by reference all the activities yet
      to be performed with regard to the water hyacinth shredding pilot, the Panel finds
      it difficult to understand why the tone of the Aide Memoire changed in comparison
      with that of the previous year. It appears unperturbed by the fact that some
      "critically important parts" of the Water Quality component in Kisumu, to which
      urgent attention had been drawn by the 1998 Mission, were still not in place after
      one whole year had elapsed.80 One of the purposes of the Mid-Term Review was
      to supervise ongoing Project activities.81 The Aide Memoire also refers to the
      need "to promote community participation activities in all LVEMP components,"
      but in describing the "specific areas" where project funds may be used to facilitate
      these activities, it fails to even refer to the shredding pilot.82                  The need to
      reorganize the Project along the lines indicated by the TTL, however, does not
      explain why the language of the 1999 MTR Aide Memoire distanced itself so
      markedly from the 1998 Mission Aide Memoire.

203.By December 1999, it had become evident in Washington that the
      implementation of LVEMP in Kenya was proceeding at an extremely slow pace,
      as indicated by disbursements. Yet, the MTR Aide Memoire, now dated January
      2000, contained the statements referred to in paragraph 112 above. In mid-
      February 2000, a special financial mission confirmed this.83 On February 2, an
      email was sent on to the Kenya Government indicating                         "the likelihood of
      canceling at least US$7 million from the IDA Credit and GEF Grant".84 In mid-
      March, an announcement was sent to Nairobi concerning the 2000 Supervision

79Project Files, January 20, 2000..
80Progress in these activities was required to provide any scientific meaning to the pilot.
811999 Aide Memoire at § 2.
82Id. at §§69-70.
83February 14-18, 2000 Financial Management, Accounting and Statement of Expenditure Review
Mission
84Supervision Mission Draft Aide Memoire, June 16, 2000 at §5.

                                                                           69



Mission and indicating that that the Mission would address the continued poor
performance of the Project as indicated by disbursements.

                                                                                           70




6.3. The Second Supervision Mission (June 2000)

204.It was not until the next regular (June 2000) Supervision Mission (after the
      Request had been received) that serious concern was expressed once again
      within the text of an Aide Memoire about the poor performance of the Project. The
      Aide Memoire chronicles a long list of unresolved problems relating to water
      quality monitoring, among others, that were supposed to have been addressed as
      a result of the 1998 Mission and as priority activities under the Mid-Term Review
      a year earlier. The following extracts from the Mission report are illustrative:85

               · "...the program has yet to make substantial progress in terms of
                   providing critical data and information on the water quality of the
                   Lake..."

               · "It is absolutely essential that equipment and laboratory supplies
                   which have been in customs storage since October 1999 be cleared
                   and brought to Kisumu. These outstanding procurement issues
                   should be resolved by the Secretariat by June 30, 2000".

               · "The highest priority activity of this laboratory is to have the full list of
                   essential analyses operational by September 30, 2000".

               · "The Secretariat should ensure the completion of the Lab block by
                   30th September at the latest. The component must also initiate
                   procurement of essential furniture, fittings (sinks, fume cupboard,
                   ventilation etc.) and furnishing (counters) for the completion of the
                   lab. The completion of the new laboratory by December 2000 is
                   priority for the Secretariat."

205.Evidence available on the circumstances surrounding the 2000 Supervision
      Mission indicates that it did not proceed as originally planned.          Instead of
      reviewing a vision document prepared by the component (in connection with the
      restructuring of the LVEMP initiated by the new Task Team Leader), as had been
      previously planned, the Mission was "forced to abandon" this in order to
      determine "which of the many problems besetting this Project lay in the critical
      path of the Project implementation."       (Emphasis in original). Accordingly, the
      Mission undertook to: (a) address the problems of cash flow in the LVEMP; (b)
      assess the finance channels supporting project components; (c) identify the
      problems in the existing system and propose solutions to the cash flow problem:
      (d) examine the role of the Project Secretariat.86




85See 2000 Aide Memoire at pp. 20-21.
86Id. at .§ 6.

                                                                                        71




6.4.     Reorganization of LVEMP

206.The Panel asked the Task Team Leader about the apparent lack of follow up of
     the 1998 Mission report in the 1999 MTR Mission Aide Memoire. He explained
     that the Mission's primary concern was to reorganize the Project in view of its
     poor performance. The Government and scientists alike were under the
     impression that the Project would be concluded in five years.         There was no
     long-term view or long-term commitment. The Project had to be reorganized by
     placing it in a longer-term context. This involved expanding the limited horizon for
     the Project into a 10-15 year vision and commitment.            It also involved (i)
     identifying all the problems, (ii) prioritizing them and (iii) undertaking pilot-level
     activities so as to know what would work and what would not work for the
     guidance of the follow-on activities after the five-year period.

207.A member of the 1999 MTR Mission told the Panel that the Kenyan Government
     had to accept that it was no longer possible for the Project to be fully
     implemented within the two and a half years of time left, and it had to agree to
     reorganize the Project. Once it had agreed, it had to be given time to see
     whether it would implement the refocused program. Within that context, the MTR
     Mission could not maintain the tough line taken by the 1998 report.

6.5. The Role of the Project Secretariat

208.The 1999 Mid-Term Review Mission appears to have been entranced by " an
     excellent" Progress Report (July 1997 - April 1999) and Priority Action Plan (July
     1999-June 2002) assembled by the Project Secretariat. It explicitly asserted that
     "the Kenya National Secretariat was functioning well and no major changes in its
     composition or funding are needed."   87  (Emphasis added).

209.The 1999 Aide Memoire points out that "One cautionary note needs to be made.
     It appears that Secretariat spending is significantly ahead of where it should be at
     this point in the Project. This is understandable, particularly given that the high
     cost of the water hyacinth harvesting/chopping tender is covered by the
     Secretariat budget and given all the unforeseen problems that the Secretariat has
     had to resolve."88 The 2000 Supervision Mission, on the other hand, made the
     following comments about the Project Secretariat:

   · "To date, about 25% of the total amount available to the Project has been
        disbursed. Expenses of the Project Secretariat accounts for over 40% of this
        total. The rate of expenditures by the Secretariat has not changed over the last




871999 Aide Memoire at § 7.
88Ibid 7.

                                                                                           72



         fiscal year, and it is still spending at a rate twice that expected at the beginning
         of the Project."89


   · " It is clear from disbursement figures that most of the 25% expenditure have
         been for goods and works." 90

   · "The Secretariat needs to become much more proactive in its administrative
         role...  There are a number of procurement packages that are only partially
         procured and delivered. One package (vital laboratory equipment) has been
         stuck at Nairobi airport for almost 10 months and it is essential that this
         equipment be cleared and operated before expiration of the warrantee period to
         ensure that all are operational...

   · The Secretariat must push harder for the information it needs to procure."91

210.Despite the optimism expressed by the Mid-Term Review Mission, the June 2000
      Mission reported that "the Bank/GEF Task Team has been carefully watching
      disbursement patterns of the Project, as an indicator of improved and more active
      implementation." It notes there was little, if any, improvement in implementation
      of the LVEMP. "With 60% of the Project implementation time gone, only a quarter
      of the Project funds have been expended and most of this for goods and works.
      Extraordinarily little of the recurrent budget (operational funds) has been
      channeled to the various Project components."92


6.6. The Panel's Findings

211.Procurement and disbursement delays were a major factor in the poor
      implementation of the LVEMP Water quality-monitoring program, as
      Management has found.                In the Panel's view, however, this was
      compounded when a whole year was lost in ensuring that corrective action
      was taken. The expressions of optimism and confidence on the status of
      the Kenya portion of the Project contained in the 1999 Aide Memoire, and in
      the transmittal letter, could, and in the Panel's view, did mislead Project
      Management and lull it into complacency.

212.On the basis of the foregoing, the Panel finds that Management failed to
      comply with paragraph 42 of OD.13.05 because supervision of the design
      and data collection systems for the pilot was inadequate and because
      supervision of the implementation of the monitoring systems was also
      inadequate.



892000 Aide Memoire at § 21.
90Ibid..
91Id. at §22.
92Id. at § 4.

                              73




          Part Four



Poverty Reduction and Economic
          Evaluation

                                                                                    74




                                        Chapter 7

                            POVERTY REDUCTION
            IMPACT OF MECHANICAL SHREDDING


213.The Request raises questions concerning OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction. It
    points out that shoreline communities "depend directly on the Lake for their
    livelihoods, feeding on and trading in its freshwater fish species and using its
    water for domestic purposes."93 The mechanical shredding and sinking of water
    hyacinth, it maintains, will result in ecological and environmental degradation of
    Lake Victoria in the Nyanza Gulf and this in turn will impact adversely on "the
    livelihoods and well-being" of these communities.

214.If this allegation were to be substantiated, it would constitute a violation of OD
    4.15, which places emphasis on: (a) efficient income earning opportunities for the
    poor, and (b) improved access to education, health care and other social services
    to improve welfare directly.94 In the case of women "on whom poverty falls
    disproportionately" emphasis is placed on an increase in their income-earning
    opportunities, food security and access to social services.95




               Community members explaining to Panel member how
               the Water Hyacinth project is affecting their livelihoods


93Request for Inspection, supra note 21, § 2
94OD 4.15, §3.
95OD 4.15, .§ 6

                                                                                         75




7.1. Mechanical Shredding and Poverty Reduction

215.In support of their allegations, the Requesters maintain that the polluting effects
      of shredding and sinking would have adverse effects on lakeshore livelihoods and
      wellbeing. In this regard, they state that the pollution caused by the sinking of the
      shredded hyacinth would harm the freshwater fish and degrade water for
      domestic use. They maintain that the reduction or depletion of the concentration
      of dissolved oxygen in the water by the decaying water hyacinth will endanger the
      lives of fish species that have little tolerance of dissolved oxygen. They assert
      that water hyacinth can accumulate heavy metals, phenols and toxic substances
      which will be released into the Lake and pollute its waters making it unsafe for
      domestic use. And they allege that water hyacinth decomposition will enhance
      eutrophication and cause nitrates levels to rise. The latter, they say, will increase
      the likelihood of babies below 5 years of age developing the Blue Baby
      Syndrome.

216.In its Response, Management maintains that it is the water hyacinth infestation
      itself that is a major environmental and economic calamity and "a major
      contributor to poverty" in and around the Lake.96 Removal of the water hyacinth
      will eliminate this poverty-inducing factor.

217.During Project preparation, the spread of water hyacinth mats was shown to have
      major detrimental effects on the economy of the Region.97             According to
      Management, these include a reduction of fish in the Lake through de-
      oxygenation of water, increased turbidity, and reduction of nutrients in sheltered
      bays which are breeding and nursery grounds for fish, particularly, tilapia. The
      presence of water hyacinth mats resulted in physical interference with fishing
      operations, especially in the bays where fish are brought ashore to piers or
      landing beaches. They also resulted in physical interference with access to water
      supply from the Lake for both urban and rural communities. The water hyacinth
      mats also provided a preferred breeding habitat for an alternate host for
      schistosomiasis (bilharzia), namely the Biomphalaria snail, a home for the vector
      mosquito for malaria, and a haven for snakes.

218.Using newspaper and technical reports, Management provides copious
      illustrations of how the above effects find expression in the lives of people living
      around the Lake in the three riparian countries. The following are examples:98

                · Water hyacinth brought Kisumu port activity to a standstill, leaving rail
                    goods stranded. A World Food Program consignment destined for


96Management Response, supra note 10, at p. 21.
97Id. at p.26.
98Id. at pp.18-19.

                                                                                     76



                  Rwanda was reported to have been held up for a week. (United
                  Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs, 1997).99

                · The inability to gain access to some landing sites caused fish to be
                  brought to boat landings in poor condition and to be rejected by fish
                  buyers. Fishermen took longer to land and used more fuel per catch
                  of fish. (Aquatics Unlimited EIA Study, 1998).100

                · The lifestyles of traditional communities that depend on the Lake are
                  crumbling. In Kenya, the normally sedentary Luo fishermen were
                  turning nomadic. (World paper Online, 1997).101

                · A ship could not dock because the pier at one end of the Lake port
                  on the Kenyan side had been sealed off by weed. (Earth Times News
                  Service, (1997).102

                · At Port Bell more that 1000 liters of fuel was used for a wagon to
                  break through the weed. (Aquatics Unlimited 1997).103

                · Five Kenyan village women who went to the Lake to draw water for
                  home use could not and were bitten by snakes (Earth Times News
                  Service, 1997).104

219.In the Panel's view, following its field visits, there can be little doubt that the
      heavy infestation of water hyacinth is a serious threat to the livelihoods and
      welfare of lakeshore communities and contributes to poverty. Doing nothing about
      such infestation is the least preferred option unless it can be demonstrated that
      an intervention could cause significant social, environmental or economic
      impacts.




99Id. at p.21.
100Id at p. 20.
101Id. at p.19.
102Ibid.
103Id. at pp.20-21
104Id. at p.19.

                                                                               77




THE PANEL'S OBSERVATIONS AT DUNGA BEACH

At Dunga Beach, near Kisumu, local fishermen spoke with a member of the
Panel Team as they were preparing to set sail for the evening's fishing.
Conversation was with the "net owner" who hires the boat from the "boat
owner" who, frequently, is not a resident of the local community. The net
owner also hires four fishermen who actually go out on the Lake fishing.
Thus at least six persons and their families benefit from, and four or five are
dependent upon, each fishing boat.

The boats sailing from Dunga Beach were fishing for dagaa, small fish some
two to three centimeters long. These fish are sun dried and sold per bucket.
An average night's fishing yields 8 to 10 buckets of small sun-dried fish. A
good night is when more than 12 buckets are caught. The fish are sold to
buyers at the beach for about 300 Kenya shillings a bucket. A night's fishing
thus yields an income of about 3000 Kenya shillings. The four crew of the
boat are paid about 250 shillings and given a "food allowance" of 50 shillings
for each night's labor. So some 1200 Kenya shillings goes to the crew. The
monthly boat hire is close to 10000 shillings (or 500 shillings per night,
assuming 20 fishing days per month). The balance of 1300 shillings per
night is the income of the net owner. However, the boat crew is on a basic
wage and must be paid regardless of the fish caught. The boat owner must
also be paid regardless of fish caught. So on days that few fish are caught
or when no fishing is possible the net owner assumes the "risk" and he may
be out of pocket.

With Water Hyacinth infestation fishing boats were frequently unable to get
through the Hyacinth mats to go fishing. This completely disrupted the local
village economy as the net owner did not hire crew for the boats and was
unable to pay for boat hire. Many nets set close to the Water Hyacinth mats
were destroyed if the mats moved across them, and many boats were also
swamped and destroyed.        As the investment in a net is some 40,000
shillings and in a boat some 10,000 to 20,000 shillings the Water Hyacinth
effectively wiped out the capital investment of many net and boat owners.
The hardship was particularly severe on net owners who often had no other
means of livelihood.

The net owner and the crew with whom the Panel Team spoke stressed that
the "cutting machine" had done an excellent job of removing the Water
Hyacinth and allowing them to resume fishing. In their opinion, they had not
been affected negatively by the shredding and had seen no change in the
numbers or types of fish caught. In sum, they appeared satisfied with the
shredding and hoped the machine would stay at Kisumu to clear away any
further occurrences of the waterweed.

                                                                              78




7.2. The Panel's Findings

220.The Panel is satisfied that: (i) heavy water hyacinth infestation is a major
    threat to the livelihoods and wellbeing of Lakeshore communities and a
    significant contributor to poverty; (ii) the scientific arguments against
    possible polluting effects of decaying shredded water hyacinth appear
    convincing.

221.In the Panel's view, the social and economic benefits of the water hyacinth
    control program have been significant and have been to the advantage of
    the overwhelming majority of Lakeshore dwellers. There is no evidence to
    suggest that this is not true of the mechanical harvesting component. At
    the same time, the Panel witnessed some apparent harm to small numbers
    of people engaged in the nascent water hyacinth utilization industry. The
    Panel is satisfied, however, that this harm is not the outcome of the Bank's
    failure to comply with its policies and procedures. Accordingly, the Panel
    finds that the Bank is in compliance with OD 4.15.

                                                                                                 79




                                        Chapter 8

                           ECONOMIC EVALUATION
              IMPACT OF MECHANICAL SHREDDING



8.1. Water Hyacinth Control Methods: Alternatives and Costs

222.The Request raises the issue of alternatives for water hyacinth control and
      management. This is relevant because OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of
      Investment Operations states that "Consideration of alternatives is one of the
      most important features of proper project analysis throughout the project cycle.
      To ensure that the project maximizes expected net present value, subject to
      financial, institutional, and other constraints, the Bank and the borrower should
      explore alternative, mutually, exclusive designs."

223.An examination of the Request does not reveal anything which challenges the
      economic justifiability of the mechanical shredding tender. In a letter addressed
      to the Project Coordinator on July 26, 1999, however, which was copied to the
      Inspection Panel, among others, the Executive Director of RECONCILE proposes
      that "alternative methods of disposal of the weed be looked into."105

224.In a letter dated September 7, 1999, OSIENALA proposed that "economic
      utilization of water hyacinth should be promoted."106            This implies removal and
      use outside the Lake instead of shredding and sinking. Later, on 23 September
      1999, ECOVIC advocated manual removal.107 Earlier, during the August 13
      teleconference, Prof T. Odhiambo, President of the African Academy of Science,
      expressed the opinion that "removal options had not been fully explored" while
      the representative of RECONCILE asked for "an analysis of dumping on shore
      versus chopping and dropping."108


105 Letter addressed by the Executive Director of RECONCILE to the Project Coordinator on 26th July,
1999. Letter attached to the Request for Inspection. The issue is addressed in the Management
Response (Section 2.2. page 2.)
106Letter from OSIENALA, dated 7 September 1999 attached to the Request for Inspection The issue is
addressed in the Management Response (Section 2.2. page 2).
107 A letter dated 23 September 1999 from the Kenya Chapter of ECOVIC attached to the Request for
Inspection.
108 Recorded in the minutes of the teleconference held on August 13, 1999. Attached as Appendix One
to the Management Response.

                                                                                      80




225.In its Response, Management discussed the question of alternative methods of
      water hyacinth control. The preparation team had estimated the costs of the
      various control methods currently being used in the riparian countries to control
      the weed as follows:109

         · Mechanical removal       - $ 3000/ha
         · Shredding and sinking - $1000/ha
         · Chemical control         - $100 - $ 300/ha
         · Biological Control       - $ 30 - $ 50/ha.

226.The three Governments have taken the position that herbicides would not be
      used in Lake Victoria.

227.Biological control, the cheapest of the control methods, is being pursued in the
      Kenyan portion of the Lake. It is also being used in Uganda and Tanzania and,
      according to Management, has achieved some success in the former. In those
      parts of the Kenya portion of the Lake where releases of weevils have taken
      place, there have been reports of significant reduction in infestation of the weed,
      thus attesting to the effectiveness of this form of biological control. Management
      believes that only biological control holds significant prospects for long-term,
      large-scale management of water hyacinth.110

228.It takes time to implement biological control methods, however, and, as shown by
      the Kenya example, hyacinth infestation can meanwhile take a heavy toll on the
      economic life of the communities around the infestation areas, especially fish
      landing beaches, water supply and power intakes, ports and ferry. A rapid
      emergency response strategy is thus necessary and, as explained by
      Management, that can best be provided by mechanical harvesting.

229.Mechanical harvesting, followed by removal and dumping outside the Lake,
      involves much more than shredding and sinking. After harvesting, the weed must
      be transported to an offloading facility on shore. This requires not only the
      offloading facility but also perhaps roads and other infrastructure. The trucks
      needed to transport the wet and decaying water hyacinth to the disposal site add
      to the cost.111

230.The estimated $3000/ha for mechanical harvesting followed by removal and
      dumping on shore is based on actual experience in Uganda while the estimated
      $1000/ha reflects the process of international competitive bidding for the
      shredding tender in Kenya.



109Management Response, supra note 10 at p.24.
110Id. at p. 21.
111Id. at p.23.

                                                                                                81



231.Mechanical harvesting followed by removal and dumping on shore appears to
     have been the initial choice.112 Indeed, in a public relations document put out by
     the Project Management Secretariat on harvesting, removal and dumping on land
     was the stated choice.113 Although shredding and sinking became the preferred
     option, the question appears to have remained open, since more reliable cost
     estimates of shredding operations were to be obtained from active monitoring of
     the shredding pilot. 114

232.Manual removal is also an option. It is feasible, however, only close to the
     shoreline and, given the size of the Nyanza Gulf and the extent of the hyacinth
     infestation, the potential for manual removal is insignificant in relation to the
     magnitude of the problem. The hazards of bilharzia, malaria and snakes also
     make it an unattractive option. According to Management, Project funds were
     used for manual removal, but only in a limited way and at selected sites,
     particularly fish landings. Funds were used to purchase wheelbarrows, hand
     tools, and protective gear.115 The Bank no longer supports using Project funds to
     pay local community members to manually remove the hyacinth.

8.2. Sustainability of Mechanical Shredding

233.Sustainability is an essential element in OP 10.04 which states that: "To obtain a
     reasonable assurance that the Project's benefits will be sustained throughout the
     life of the project, the Bank assesses whether critical private and institutional
     stakeholders have or will have the incentives to implement the project
     successfully."116

234.In opting for shredding and sinking, the Request maintains that "little or no regard
     has been had to the sustainable management of the water hyacinth in using this
     method of mechanical removal ..."117

235.Management does not fully address the issue of how mechanical shredding or
     sinking would constitute a sustainable method of control. This is an important
     question because of the high cost. Management does observe that:




112The IFB of November 7, 1997 referred to "mechanically shredding/chopping" and that the "hyacinth
should be shredded/chopped into pieces averaging in the range of 7.5-15cm..." but does not specify
whether it is to sink into the lake or be disposed of.
113See LVEMP Kenya National Secretariat, Bulletin Issue No. 1, February 1999.
114  However, the "Description of the Works" at 1.1 and Appendix A (4) in the Contract between
Aquarius and the GoK (20 May 1999) for the mechanical shredding requires that some of the shredded
water hyacinth be move to land: "The shredded/chopped pieces of the water hyacinth within five
hundred (500) meters from the shoreline of Lake Victoria must be removed and deposited on land in
areas designated by the Employer [Ministry of Natural Resources]."
115Management Response, supra note 10, at p.26.
116OP 10.04, §5.
117Request for Inspection, supra note 22, at §1 (iv).

                                                                                              82



       (a) The preparation team also investigated the cost of the various control
       technologies."118; and

       (b) methods of hyacinth control which can be applied with immediate results "
       tend to be high cost mechanical methods, including chopping/shredding."
       (Emphasis added.)

236.In fact, the first "Progress Report" of the LVEMP National Secretariat noted that
     harvesters are very expensive (US$800,000 to $1.5 million each) and that the
     Kenya Government had approached friendly countries to assist in the purchase of
     harvesters.

237.It is not clear who might bear the cost of sustaining a mechanical harvesting
     option. Management is of the view that if the shredding method works, "it would
     be a tool that could be used and funded by local groups and organizations to
     open landing beaches, clear paths to ferry and cargo terminals so ships could
     dock and open access to the Lake for fishermen to get their fishing sites easily
     and quickly"  119  (Emphasis added). It is not stated who the local groups and
     organization are and how they will be mobilized to fund this high-cost operation
     on a sustainable basis. It seems most unlikely that this could be managed by the
     fisherfolk and village communities around the Lake.

238.Cost may not be an obstacle to sustaining a mechanical harvesting operation in
     certain cases. A large utility such as an Electricity Board (in the case of Uganda)
     or the Government itself, with possible support from donor agencies, could
     manage it. In any case, there is no evidence that mechanical harvesting would
     not be sustainable for specific high priority strategic locations, within a broader
     program of Lake-wide biological control.


8.3. Economic Utilization and Harm or Potential Harm

239.As noted above, the Requesters proposed that "economic utilization of water
     hyacinth control should be promoted." It would transform a nuisance into a
     resource, putting it to a wide variety of uses, creating livelihoods and enhancing
     welfare. If the hyacinth could be removed and utilized, it would also serve to
     reduce the cost of this method of control.




118Management Response, supra note 10, at p.24. See paragraph 29 above for a description of such
costs.
119Management Response, supra note 10, at p. 15.

                                                                                                      83




240.The Panel is aware of the extensive literature that has been devoted to the
      economic utilization of water hyacinth. Worldwide, it is reported that water
      hyacinth has been used for making mats, ropes, vases, shoe soles, furniture,
      baskets, floor mats, paper, boards, briquettes and biogas. The plant has been
      used to prepare animal feedstock for cattle, pigs, rabbits, chicken, sheep and fish.
      In agriculture, it has been used as compost and mulch.

241.In its Response, Management reported that in November 1996, the Bank
      supported a proposal financed by a Danish Trust Fund to test the manufacture of
      biogas in Uganda near the Owen Falls dam from a combination of water hyacinth
      and sugar cane tops (in an area where there were extensive sugar cane
      plantations) for experimental use at the Nile Brewers company.120 Nowhere else
      in the text, however, does Management elaborate on potential economic
      utilization.

242.As noted above, however, the shredding contract itself required that the water
      hyacinth harvested from 500 meters off the shore be deposited on land.121 It
      could then be used by the nascent utilization industry, some elements of which
      the Panel Team visited in and near Kisumu. This included small furniture design
      and manufacturing enterprises producing baskets, tables, chairs and other
      furniture, commercial outlets to sell them, and former manual harvesting and
      trucking operations. The Panel spoke to some of the management and staff
      involved. While extremely difficult to judge, it seems possible that these fledgling
      enterprises could well multiply in the course of time in line with experience
      elsewhere. However, it appears that the program to eradicate (or at least control
      the spread of) water hyacinth, has rendered these emerging enterprises virtually
      inoperable.

243.This raises the question of possible harm. In the Panel's view, as noted earlier,
      the vast majority of people and communities around the Lake have and should
      continue to benefit enormously from the program to control the spread of water
      hyacinth. While this must be kept in mind, it is also evident that the program may
      have resulted in some harm to the as yet small numbers of people engaged in the
      nascent utilization industry.122

120Management Response, supra note 10, at p.26.
121 See LVEMP Kenya National Secretariat Bulletin, Issue No. 1, February 1999.. The shredding
contract (5/20/99) itself required shredded water hyacinth from within 500 meters of the shore to be
deposited on land.
122 There is another small group that may have suffered some harm as a result of the program. During
its visit to Sanga Roa, the Panel Team met with fisher women who were using the water hyacinth to
shelter their nets. Women were observed setting circles of small mesh nets, two to three meters in
diameter, among the floating plants fringing the Lake edge -- the fringe was some 10 meters wide. The
plants inside the circle were removed to allow light to penetrate and aeration of the surface water. This
procedure attracts small fish, some two to three centimeters in length, which take refuge in the water
hyacinth mats in their escape from the predatory Nile perch. Considerable quantities were netted in this
manner. These are sun-dried on the shoreline and either sold (about 300 Kshs per bucket) or mixed

                                                                                                    84




244.Is this harm, however small, a necessary consequence of the water hyacinth
      control program? Two observations and one question.

         (i) The water hyacinth is in the Lake to stay, as noted earlier (in section 4.4.1.).
         It cannot be eliminated or made to disappear permanently, although, with a
         continuing control program, supported by vigorous monitoring and surveillance,
         its spread can be managed.

         (ii) The amount of hyacinth needed to sustain and grow the nascent utilization
         industry is minute in comparison with the actual and potential volume of
         infestation around the Lake. In other words, the scale of the Nyanza Gulf
         infestation in relation to the amount of water hyacinth that can be practically
         utilized renders utilization impractical as a method of significantly reducing the
         infestation.




                       Fisher women using the Water Hyacinth to shelter their nets


    (iii) In a continuing program to manage the spread of the water hyacinth, is it
    possible to find ways to enable the harvesting and removal of the small quantities
    needed? If so, the harm could be avoided and, over time, the potential benefits of
    utilization might be realized. It would seem to be worth another look.


with maize meal as a staple food. The women harvesting fish in this way reported that the water
hyacinth fringing the shore was beneficial to them and that they were worse off when no hyacinth was
present close to their villages. This phenomenon is, however, a consequence of the disturbed ecology
of the lake due to the introduction of the exotic and carnivorous Nile Perch which preys on the small
fish. The water hyacinth provides shelter for the small fish and hence the increased catches among the
water hyacinth.

                                                                             85




8.4. The Panel's Findings

245.The Panel is satisfied that in arriving at the mechanical shredding tender,
    Management did consider alternatives. With regard to the sustainability of
    shredding operations, although Management has not provided clear
    guidelines as to who would bear the cost of future shredding operations, no
    evidence was available to indicate that the method would in actual fact be
    unsustainable in view of cost.

246.In the light of explanations and analyses provided by Management and
    upon its own field observations, the Panel concludes that the Bank is in
    compliance with OP 10.04.

