Page  1
 
1
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W.
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
 
 
 
IPN 
REQUEST 
RQ99/6 
     
November 22, 1999 
 
 
 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
 
Dear Sir: 
 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– Kenya: Lake Victoria Environmental 
Management Project (IDA Credit 2907-KE) (GEF  TF 23819)) 
 
 
 
 
On October 12, 1999, the Inspection Panel (“the Panel”) received, through the World Bank Office in 
Nairobi, Kenya, a Request for Inspection (“the Request”), dated September 28, 1999.  It was submitted by 
RECONCILE (Resources Conflict Institute), a Kenyan non- governmental organization, acting for and on behalf of 
persons in the area known as the Nyanza Gulf of Lake Victoria within the Republic of Kenya (the Requesters).  
RECONCILE is also authorized to represent OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) an NGO located in Kisumu, 
and the Kenya Chapter of Ecovic (the East African Communities Organization for Management of Lake Victoria 
Resources) who represent communities living along the Kenya side of Lake Victoria.  On November 9
, 
1999, the 
Requesters, at the request of the Chairman of the Panel, clarified some points surrounding the delivery of the 
Request. 
 
 
The Requesters claim that the communities they represent are likely to suffer harm as a result of failures 
and omissions of the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), which is the implementing agency of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), in the 
design and implementation of the water hyacinth management component (Part B) of the Lake Victoria 
Environmental Management Project in Kenya (the Project).  The project is financed by the above-referenced IDA 
Credit and GEF Trust Fund Grant.  (Similar financing for this Project has been provided to the United Republic of 
Tanzania and The Republic of Uganda.)  Specifically, the Requesters claim that the proposed use of a mechanical 
method for removal of water hyacinth from the Lake by shredding and sinking of the weed to the bottom of the 
Lake, selected without a prior Environmental Impact Assessment or appropriate community consultation, will result 
in ecological decay and environmental degradation, that in turn will adversely affect communities living on the 
shores at the Nyanza Gulf.  These communities depend directly on the Lake for their livelihoods, since the “Gulf is 
home to fresh water fish and the source of water for domestic use” and these, and the ecosystem, will be endangered 
by the resulting pollution.  
 
 
The Requesters’ allegations could constitute violations of 
inter alia
 the following Bank Policies and 
Procedures: 
 
 
OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment; 
Page  2
 
2
 
OD 4.15 on Poverty Alleviation; 
 
OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Projects; and 
 
OD 13.05 on Project Supervision. 
 
 
 
I am notifying you that I have, on November 22, 1999, which is also the date of the dispatch of this notice, 
registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Since the Panel's "registration" process is often 
misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that "registration" is an administrative procedure established by the Panel 
and that it implies no judgment whatsoever concerning the eligibility of the Request. 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution and paragraphs 2 and 8 of the 
"
Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
", Bank Management has 
been notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than December 23, 1999, with written 
evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank ’s relevant policies and 
procedures in relation to the above-referenced credit.  The subject matter the Management must 
deal with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraph 3 and 4 of the "
Conclusions of the 
Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
." 
 
After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 19 of 
the Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 
12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter 
should be investigated."
 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/6. 
 
 Yours 
sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
     Jim MacNeill 
 Chairman 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TO: 
Mr. Michael Ochieng Odhiambo 
 RECONCILE 
 
Resources Conflict Institute 
 Printing 
House 
Road 
P.O. Box 7150 
Nakuru 
Kenya 
 
 cc:      Mr. James D. Wolfensohn 
 
 
 
 
 President 
 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
   
International Development Association 
Page  3
 
3
 Room 
MC12-750 
   
 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
