Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18338-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$165 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND AIDS AND STD CONTROL PROJECT
July 31, 1998
Human and Social Development Group
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1998)
Currency Unit = Real
1 Real = US$0.862
US$1.16 = I Real
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                 Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CDC                  Centers for Disease Control
CSO                  Organizations of Civil Society
CSW                  Commercial sex workers
CTA                  Counseling and testing centers
HIV                  Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HIV+                 Testing positive for HIV antibodies
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
lEC                  Information, education and communications
IVDU                 Intravenous drug use
KAP                  Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
MOH                  Ministry of Health
NASCP                National AIDS and STD Control Program
NGO                  Non-governmental organization
NRL                  National Reference Laboratory
POA                  Annual Operations Plan
REFORSUS             Health Sector Reform Project
RSC                  Research Steering Committee
STD                  Sexually transmitted disease
SAE                  Specialized Ambulatory Services
SUS                  Single Unified Health System
UNAIDS               Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNDCP                United Nations International Drug Control Program
UNESCO               United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director (Acting):   Xavier Coll
Task Manager:               Polly Jones



Brazil
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .....................................................3
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .................................3
B. Strategic Context .............                    ..3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .....................................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .....................................................                     3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................4
C. Project Description Summary ...................................................................6
1. Project components ..............;.6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................6
3. Benefits and target population ........6....................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................7
D. Project Rationale ...................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or
other development agencies ...................................................8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..........................................8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...................................................9
E. Summary Project Analyses ...................................................9
1. Economic ........ ..9
2. Financial ...........                                                                                                9
3. Technical ........                                                                                                  10
4. Institutional ........                                                                                              10
5. Social ........                                                                                                    10
6. Environmental assessment ...........................                                                               11
7. Participatory approach ............................11
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................                                                                           12
1. Sustainability .....................                                                                               12
2. Critical risks .....................                                                                                13
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................... 14



G. Main Loan Conditions .................................................                                                           14
1. Effectiveness conditions .................................................                                           14
2. Other .................................................                                                               14
H. Readiness for Implementation .................................................                                                   14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................                                                  14
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .15
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description                                                         .18
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .20
Annex 4. Summary Economic Analysis .21
Annex 5. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .24
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .................................................     26
Table Al    Consultant Selection Arrangements ...................                               .............................. 27
Table B.         Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ........................ ............ 28
Table C.         Allocation of Loan Proceeds .................................................                                  29
Annex 6.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .................................................                                30
Annex 7.    Documents in Project File ................................................. 31
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .32
Annex 9. Country at a Glance .36



Brazil
Second Aids and STD Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil Country Department
Date: July 31, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Polly Jones
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                 Sector Director (Acting): Xavier Coll
Project ID: 54120      Sector: Pop. Health &        Program Objective Category: Health
Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] N
0
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [ ] Guarantee     [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $165 million
Proposed terms:                        [x ] Multicurrency    []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5           [x]  Standard Variable  [   Fixed         []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                  61                 74              135
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                        74                 91              165
IDA
Other (specify)
Total         135                165             300
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999      2000       2001       2002
Annual     60         40          35         30
Cumulative     60        100        135        165
For Guarantees:                                []   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:             []   Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 10/15/98  Expected closing date: 12/31/02



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
1. Reduce the incidence of HIV and STD infection.
2. Expand and improve diagnosis, treatment and care of persons with HIV, AIDS and STD.
This project builds on the first AIDS/STD Control Project which was carried out in a timely and efficient
manner by the National Coordination Office for AIDS/STD. Under the first project the Government put
in place a prevention program which now contains many of the features which international experience
has shown to be highly successful in preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS. These include a focus on:
behavior change; high-risk groups (homosexuals, drug users, commercial sex workers); community-based
interventions executed to a large extent by non-governmental organizations; and counseling and testing.
There are signs that progress is being made in preventing the infection in Brazil. For example, condom
use has increased.  The rationale for the second project is: to continue support of the Government's
efforts in an area which remains a serious public health concern; to broaden further prevention activities
(while maintaining a focus on high-risk groups); to strengthen evaluation capacity; and to work towards
the sustainability of  the program, through devolution of  some responsibilities  to states and
municipalities and the identification of the most cost-effective interventions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
GAS document number: 16582-BR   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
The project supports one of the goals for health set out in the CAS which is the control of traditional and
emerging communicable diseases.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Brazil's Unified Health System (SUS), which is the sole source of publicly financed care for 110 million
Brazilians, is unique in Latin America and comparable to the model of Canada and several European
countries. In the Constitution and in the SUS law: (a) it is a single-payer system; (b) coverage is
universal; (c) health benefits are all-inclusive and free at the time of use; (d) financing comes mostly
from general taxation; (e) funds are allocated to states and municipalities on the basis of negotiated
budgets; (f) most care is delivered by private providers who compete for patients; (g) providers are
reimbursed on the basis of production; and (h) ownership and administration of public services is partially
decentralized to municipalities and states. The principles of the SUS include social participation through
consultations with communities and membership in state and municipal health councils. Private health
insurance plays a significant complementary role for about 38 million people (about a quarter of the
population).
Despite the impressive degree to which the Brazilian health care system coincides with good
organizational and financial models, it has several significant failings. The main short-term problem is
that reimbursement of private providers is generally lower than the average cost of services, and the
government often has significant arrears. Moreover, there are structural problems in the SUS. First and
most important, the current constitutional mandate to pay for all health services for the entire population
is not fiscally sustainable. Rationing is achieved by ceilings on services and budgets. The rich have been
more successful in harnessing the system's scare resources. Second, chronic under-financing has led to
deterioration of facilities, shortages in essential inputs, and poor remuneration of professionals, leading to
inefficiency, poor quality of care, a demoralized work force and fraud. Third, the system fails to cover
the poor who have moved to new settlements in the North and to peri-urban areas. Fourth, medical unit
costs have been expanding exponentially, at twice the rate of the consumer price index, due in part to
uncontrolled introduction of new technologies and pharnaceuticals, often of doubtful cost-effectiveness.
(See Bank sector report, The Organization, Delivery, and Financing of Health Care in Brazil: Agenda
for the 90s. Report No. 12655-BR, 1994 and Staff Appraisal Report No. 15522-BR, Health Sector Reform



Page 4
Project -REFORSUS, May 21, 1996.).
The Bank and IDB-supported Health Reform Project (REFORSUS) is the main vehicle for reforms in the
government's health policy. The REFORSUS project is designed to reinforce many of the positive
features of the Brazilian Unified Health System and eliminate some of its shortcomings. Policies
supported by the project to improve SUS management include: (a) a major push to give more autonomy
to States and municipalities in the use of health funds; (b) measures to improve the financial sustainability
of the SUS; and (c) introduction of a management information system and a National Audit system that
has already reduced significantly the volume of irregular reimbursement claims by providers.
In addition to the financing and organizational issues highlighted above, there is an unfinished agenda
relating to health status in Brazil. These include comparatively high maternal and perinatal mortality and
morbidity and infant mortality, insufficient progress on preventable communicable disease as well as new
communicable diseases such as AIDS. The second AIDS/STD project would contribute to reduce the
burden of disease in Brazil, by helping the Government to improve the effectiveness of its prevention and
treatment activities for HIV/AIDS, thereby reducing the incidence and mortality caused by the disease.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
The Second AIDS and STD Control Project is an important component of the government's overall effort
to implement cost-effective approaches to health care, in this case through the prevention of a costly
disease, AIDS, and STD, which can facilitate AIDS transmission and are an important source of
morbidity. The project is also consistent with the ongoing decentralization of health services by
supporting activities at the state and municipal levels. Under the Second AIDS and STD Control Project,
there will be further decentralization of responsibilities for AIDS/STD control, particularly for states and
larger municipalities. Consistent with the major role of the private sector in the provision of health
services in Brazil, the project also promotes private sector (mainly through NGOs) participation in AIDS
prevention and care.
Epidemiology of AIDS in Brazil
AIDS first appeared in Brazil in 1980, about 2 years after emerging in developed countries. The
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Brazil falls into the category of a "concentrated" epidemic (See Confronting
AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic, World Bank). This means that HIV prevalence has
surpassed 5 percent in one or more subpopulations presumed to practice high risk behavior, but
prevalence among women attending urban prenatal clinics (presumably a group with low risk of
contracting the disease) is still less than 5 percent. As of August 1997, Brazil ranked fourth in the world
on number of cases with approximately 116,000 registered cases of AIDS. Ranked according to relative
incidence (cases/population), Brazil (730 cases per million inhabitants) ranks 40th.  The number of
reported cases of AIDS rose from 550 in 1985 to 8,201 in 1990 and to 17,000 (about 110 cases per
million inhabitants) in 1995. The rate of growth in reported cases has slowed in the past 3 years. In
1996, an estimated 338,000-488,000 individuals (15-49 years of age) were infected with HIV.
In Brazil, the first wave of the epidemic was concentrated among men who have sex with men; they
accounted for three-quarters of cases in 1984. This was followed a few years later by an epidemic among
intravenous drug users, most of whom are also men. Cases attributed to sharing of contaminated needles
rose from 3 percent in 1984 to 20 percent in 1995. Later, the disease spread to sex workers and the
female partners of bisexual men and injecting drug users causing cases attributed to heterosexual contact
to rise from 2 percent in 1984 to 28 percent in 1995. Cases attributed to men who have sex with men
had fallen to 25 percent by 1995. Of reported cases in 1995, about 55 percent can be attributed to sexual
transmission, 20 percent to IV drug use, 4 percent to contaminated transfusions, 3 percent to mother to
child transmission and the remainder unknown. The progress of the epidemic is reflected as well in the
changes in the characteristics of the patients. Initially, nearly all cases were males. Now about 30 percent
of new cases are women. While over two thirds of all cases are still found in the Southeast region, the



Page 5
epidemic has spread to more areas of Brazil. Every state in the country has been affected and nearly half
of all municipalities have reported at least one case of AIDS. The age profile of patients also has declined
slightly over time. Although data are not available on income levels of patients, there is evidence that the
education attainment level of new cases has declined since the start of the epidemic, suggesting that
higher numbers of lower-income people are being affected.
The changes in the profile of the AIDS epidemic has influenced the design of the second project in the
following ways. First, the project will continue to give priority to the continuation and expansion of
prevention activities directed at high risk groups in the population, for example drug users and
commercial sex workers. Second, responding to the spread of the epidemic, the project will also support
activities directed to broader groups within the population, students, women (particularly through
activities linked to reproductive health). Third, the project is expanding into additional areas of the
country.
PROJECT ISSUES
Subsidies to Health Care for AIDS Patients
The government currently subsidizes AIDS/HIV patients to a greater extent than it does patients with
other diseases. The main explanation is that because AIDS treatment is so expensive, private facilities do
not accept AIDS patients, so the public sector cares for a much higher proportion of AIDS patients than it
does of patients with other diseases. The high cost also means that private health insurance has avoided
covering this disease. The effective social mobilization of AIDS/HIV patients also has probably helped
them to access public resources. The government has a policy of furnishing medications, including triple
drug therapies, free of charge to patients. In 1997 the government spent roughly $400 million to supply
these drugs. Legislation is being discussed in Congress that would oblige private insurance to make
partial payments for these drugs, but the bill is strongly opposed by the insurance industry. This project
does not include financing for drugs. Activities supported by the project to promote alternatives to
hospital care (day-hospitals, home care, and other outpatient services) are designed to improve the
efficiency of care for HIV/AIDS patients. These alternatives to hospital care also offer patients and
carriers of the HIV infection a better quality of life. Studies which will examine survival rates of AIDS
patients and costs of treatment of patients will be undertaken under the project and will provide an
opportunity for the Bank to continue discussions with the Government on the implications of treatment
costs and public financing for AIDS patients on overall health expenditures and priorities in Brazil.
Moreover, in the context of the REFORSUS project, there is a ongoing dialogue between the Bank and
the Government on overall health expenditures and financing through the SUS. The REFORSUS project
is financing technical assistance and epidemiological, economic, managerial, legal and other studies
(including burden of disease and cost-effectiveness), necessary to reform health care financing and ensure
the financial stability of the system. That project is also supporting the introduction of cost recovery for
care provided to privately-insured patients under the SUS.
Condoms
Wide availability of condoms at a reasonable price is important for the prevention of AIDS/STD. The
high price of condoms in Brazil, relative to other countries, was an issue raised in the previous project.
The price of condoms has fallen in recent years and both imports and domestic production have increased
significantly. In addition, USAID is supporting social marketing for condoms. A temporary exemption
on the domestic turnover tax (16 percent) for condoms is currently in effect. This is a positive
development which should be reflected in lower prices. Individual states also have discretion to lower the
tax rate for condoms within the state and some (for example, Sao Paulo) have done so. There are also
agencies in Brazil who are lobbying for an exemption from import taxation for condoms. The National
Coordination will continue to support efforts to reduce taxation on condoms and price trends for condoms



Page 6
will be monitored during project implementation.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Performance on the monitoring and evaluation component of the previous project was weak. Part of the
problem was lack of planning for baseline data and specific surveys or studies to measure the
effectiveness of interventions and their impact. Capacity continues to be weak in this area. In addition,
the initial surveillance system was not sustained adequately, and a new one was designed only about mid-
way through the project. A major focus of the second project is strengthening this key aspect of the
program and making sure that the base is in place for effective monitoring and evaluation of the program.
This includes more attention to the definition of project objectives and the indicators to be used to
measure impact; a focus on what information will be used as a baseline against which to track changes in
knowledge, attitudes, and practices; and agreeing with the national program on several key evaluation
activities (and their terms of reference).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)          _(US$M)   financing
AIDS and STD Prevention         Physical          128        43        63         38
Investment
and
Institution
Building
Diagnosis, Treatment and Care for   Physical      102        34        52         32
HIV, AIDS and STD Patients      Investment
and
Institution
Building
Strengthening of Public and Private  Institution   70        23        50         30
Institutions for AIDS/STD Control   Building
Total      300     j100  j 165            100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is promoting more cost-effective approaches to health care, mainly by reducing overall health
care costs through disease prevention.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would benefit vulnerable and high risk groups, as well as the general population, by reducing
their risk of contracting HIV. In order to protect the most vulnerable and in order to have the greatest
epidemiological impact, the project would target the population groups at greatest risk of acquiring
and/or transmitting HIV, including IV-drug users, sex workers, truck drivers, men who have sex with
men,military recruits, adolescents and women. The project would also benefit people living with HIV,
AIDS and STD, through improved diagnosis, treatment and care.
Over a period of 7 years (4 years of project implementation plus 3 years afterwards) the project would
avoid 43,000 HIV infections and improve care for an estimated 338,000 - 488,000 people presently
infected with HIV and another 56,000 people who are estimated to contract the disease over the period of
project implementation.



Page 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Relatively minor changes are being made in institutional and implementation arrangements for the
proposed project, given the satisfactory performance of the first project. The project will be executed by
the Ministry of Health through the National Coordination Program for AIDS and STD, under the
Secretariat for Health Policy. As was the case in the first project, in addition to financing federal
activities, the project will transfer resources to states and selected municipalities to be used in AIDS/STD
prevention programs and to organizations of civil society to carry out prevention, outreach, and treatment
activities. In the first project the three groups (federal government, local government, and organizations
of civil society) managed roughly equal shares of project resources and these proportions are not
expected to change significantly under the proposed project. Transfers to states and municipalities will be
made on the basis of annual operational plans. Under the first project, these transfers were effected in line
with expectations. However, performance among states and municipalities did vary. Subsequent
allocations of the transfers took performance into account; thus poor performance did not result in a
freezing of unutilized resources. Activities of the states and municipalities will be supervised by the
national program. In order to promote more efficient organization of investments and interventions, the
national program will encourage the participation of smaller municipalities through consortia. This
modality would be an innovation in the proposed project. Transfers to organizations of civil society will
be made on the basis of competitively selected sub-projects, as was the case in the first project. This
system has generally worked well, and the national program has steadily made improvements in
administrative and technical procedures. The major change under the proposed project will be the
transfer of supervision responsibilities for these sub-projects gradually to states and municipalities. The
United Nations Development Program will continue to provide administrative and procurement
assistance.
Financial Management. Financial management proved satisfactory under the first AIDS/STD project. In
addition, the project complied with audit requirements. During preparation of the proposed second
project, Bank financial management specialists carried out a review of the financial management of the
project. The review concluded that the planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting system at the
project unit substantially satisfy project needs. Nevertheless, in order to be in full compliance with the
revised Bank requirements per OD 10.02, the project management has agreed to incorporate some
improvements in financial management. These mainly related to: changes in the chart of accounts to
make it more useful as a financial management tool; ensuring that sufficient capacity in accounting and
financial management exist in the project unit; and codifying more precisely the financial aspects of
certain internal procedures. These improvements in the financial management system are expected to be
in place no later than effectiveness and implementation will be monitored during project supervision.
Project management also has agreed with the Bank on detailed process and impact indicators and targets
which will be the basis of periodic reporting on specific project activities.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A non-targeted prevention program was rejected because the epidemiological impact of targeting high
risk groups more likely to acquire and transmit AIDS and STD has been demonstrated to be greater.
Pure public delivery of services was rejected because NGOs are often more effective and efficient in
delivering FIV/STD services to some groups.
Vertical program organization, in which all activities would be organized and carried out by a federal
agency, was rejected due to the existing decentralization of the health system.



Page 8
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector Issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Brazil: Health Sector Reform      Brazil: Health Reform        S              S
Project
Argentina: Prevention of AIDS/STD  Argentina: AIDS/STD         S              S
Control Project
Brazil: AIDS/STD           HS              S
Control Project
Other development agencies
USAID - Support to AIDS/STD
Prevention
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several design features of the first AIDS/STD Control Project are being maintained such as transfers to
state and municipal governments and strong participation by non-governmental organizations in both
prevention and treatment activities. About 175 NGOs participated in the first AIDS/STD Control Project
and there were about 400 projects financed. The main weaknesses of the first project were the
insufficient integration of project activities (particularly in the area of prevention), the weakness of the
surveillance system, and insufficient evaluation of interventions. The proposed project is trying to
integrate more closely the various activities in order to strengthen the program's strategy towards various
target groups. A new surveillance system has begun implementation and its progress will be closely
monitored. More attention is being paid to the availability of baseline data in the proposed project, as
well as data sources and the choice of indicators of project impact and outputs. The terms of reference
for 3 evaluation studies were agreed during project negotiations.
The design of both the ongoing and the proposed project is consistent with the general lessons in the area
of the govermnent's appropriate role in this area, which have been outlined in the recent Bank report,
Confronting AIDS. These include a focus on public goods (in particular, information and outreach
activities and promotion of condom use and safe practices, in general), actions to prevent discrimination
against those individuals living with HIV/AIDS and a focus on the groups most likely to contract and
spread AIDS. The type of prevention activities and their design are also consistent with recent
international research, for example, the effectiveness of programs with drug-users that include needle
exchanges,and the cost-effectiveness of counseling and testing in changing behavior in the context of
developing countries (Tanzania and Kenya) Peer education has been shown to be cost-effective in
changing individual and community norms (Zimbabwe, United States). Also behavior surveillance
surveys have been shown to provide critical data on behavior trends that can be triangulated with disease
data (Thailand, Senegal). Community-based interventions (for example, use of community health
agents) also tend to be more cost-effective.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The most important indication of borrower commitment and ownership is the performance under the first
AIDS/STD project. The project is being completed on time and the counterpart resources provided by the
Government have exceeded what was projected at the time of appraisal. Ownership of the project extends



Page 9
beyond the govermment to numerous groups of civil society working to prevent HIV/AIDS and to support
people living with HIV/AIDS.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Cross country experience:
- The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDS and STD control projects in the world and has
experience with the design, implementation and evaluation of HIV/AIDS programs in many other
countries.
Analytical capacity:
- The Bank has authored numerous studies analyzing HIV/AIDS which draws upon knowledge in the area
of epidemiology, public health, and public economics in order to make recommendations on setting
priorities and in measuring the impact of the disease and different strategies to confront it.
-Experience with financing activities with organizations of civil society (CSOs), including a competitive
process, award of financing based on objective appraisal, and supervision activities.
- Technical assistance during project supervision, particularly in the area of monitoring and evaluation.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$475 million; [ x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: About 43,000 HIV
infections prevented at a cost of about $6000 per HIV infection averted. Since each case of HIV infection
causes an average loss of 20 discounted "disability adjusted life years," the project is buying a year of
healthy life for about $300.
There are several arguments for government intervention to slow the spread of HIV. First, in countries
that wish to subsidize some or most of the cost of health care, AIDS will generate enormous government
health care expenditures; this alone is sufficient justification for early, effective prevention. Second,
whenever a transaction between two parties imposes negative effects, or externalities, on a third party, as
is the case when a sexual encounter between two people increases the risk of H[V infection to their other
partners, public economics argues for government intervention. Third, the provision of information about
the state of the epidemic or about the effectiveness of alternative remedies meets the economists'
definition of a public good; that is, something that benefits society but that private entrepreneurs have
insufficient incentive to produce on their own. Thus, there is a firm rationale for the involvement of the
Brazilian government in preventing HIV/AIDS, in disease surveillance and in analyzing the impact of
interventions and the behavior of the population. The design, components and focus of the proposed
second AIDS/STD project are fully consistent with this rationale.
Although the rationale for government involvement in prevention and surveillance activities supported by
the project is clear, quantifying the benefits of the project is a difficult task. For these reasons, we have
been conservative in making the estimates provided above and the figures should be considered only
illustrative.
2. Financial
Fiscal impact: The burden of recurrent spending generated by the proposed project on total public health
spending is estimated at $ 3 million per year, which is negligible relative to $23 billion in annual public
health spending and with the approximately $600 million AIDS/STD budget for 1998. Effective
prevention activities would have a substantial positive fiscal impact in that they would prevent substantial
health care costs (see above.)



Page 10
3. Technical:
The project is technically justified given the importance of the problem it addresses, the fact that it can be
prevented by known cost-effective interventions, the public nature of the proposed interventions, and the
social consensus on the need for public intervention.
Importance of AIDS/STD: The problem is important due to the growth rate of the epidemic and due to
the fact that it is spreading out of high risk groups into the general population.
Adequacy of selected interventions: The epidemic can be slowed through health promotion and
preventive activities particularly among high risk groups. These are generally recognized as the most
cost-effective interventions to control the spread of HIV/AIDS. It is crucial to be able to be able to
evaluate the effectiveness of the specific interventions being financed. The second project is putting
emphasis in the area of improving the evaluation activities of the project, as well as on ensuring an
adequate surveillance system. In the area of treatment, home care and day care are perceived by patients
(and their families) as more humane and free up hospital beds. They are also less costly.
Justification for public intervention: HIV/AIDS and STD control are typical public goods given: (1) the
externalities involved; (ii) that the private health insurance and health care system do not adequately
cover the necessary benefits and services (and are unlikely to do so); (iii) that it affects the poor; and (iv)
that it generates catastrophic health expenditures.
Social Value: There is consensus on the priority of HIV/AIDS control among the political body, i.e. the
government, the legislature, and among other major civil society stakeholders, including many
organizations of civil society.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The first project was implemented well. The support of the UNDP was important
in the areas of hiring consultants and in procurement. For activities targeted to drug users, the National
Coordination receives advice and financial assistance from the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP). USAID also provides financial and technical assistance. There were no problems
with the provision of counterpart resources during implementation of the first project; in fact, the
Government contributed more than had been estimated at the time of negotiations.
b. Project management: Capacity in the national program is generally good.  The main focus of the
proposed project will be on promoting more integration of various interventions within the program and
strengthening the capacity of the evaluation unit. During implementation of the proposed project the
government has agreed gradually to integrate the work of the national program (which is now staffed
mainly by consultants) more within the Ministry of Health and to further decentralize responsibilities to
states and municipalities. Recently, the coordination has expanded its cooperation with other parts of the
Ministry of Health, for example, the programs dealing with women's health and community health
agents.
5. Social:
A Social Assessment was carried out for this project (See Annex 7).  The Assessment analyzed the
proposed design of the AIDS/STD II project in light of the results and social impact of the first project.
The assessment made several recommendations. One, it recommended that during implementation of the
proposed second project, the National Program publicize more the composition and background of the
persons on the selection committee for project proposals from organizations of civil society. The
organizations of civil society also felt that the staff responsible for making the technical evaluation of the
proposals should have more practical experience. Second, the organizations urged that ways be found to
streamline the procedures associated with approving and financing project proposals. Third, they
recommended that the program staff responsible for the relationships with non-governmental



Page 11
organizations should focus as much on providing technical assistance to them as they do on procedural
matters. Four, many of the organizations were confused about the roles of the various agencies involved
in the program - the National Program of AIDS/STD in the Ministry of Health, the World Bank, the
UNDP, etc. It would be helpful if the respective roles of these institutions in the project were clarified.
Five, the organizations wanted to see more clearly how their individual projects fit within the overall
strategy for AIDS/STD.
These recommendations have been discussed with the National Program and they will be taken into
account during project implementation. Also important, the social assessment provided evidence of the
concern of many actors with the institutional weaknesses of many NGOs and with defining a strategy of
sustainability after the end of the proposed project.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category  []A   []B   [X] C
The project consists mostly of educational and prevention activities and training. The project will also
provide equipment, testing kits, and other materials to existing labs to strengthen existing capacity and to
out-patient facilities. HIV/AIDS patients are a very small share of the total patients in the Brazilian
health system, both as regards testing and out-patient services. Thus these components of the project
would not add significantly to medical wastes. An environmental study for the health sector in Brazil was
carried out as part of the preparation for the Health Sector Reform Project (REFORSUS). Issues related
to hospital and laboratory hazardous waste treatment and disposal, including those derived from AIDS
and STD patients, are addressed in sub-projects financed under the REFORSUS project. In addition, the
proposed Communicable Disease project has a component to strengthen the network of public
laboratories in Brazil which would support, as necessary, practices and systems related to the disposal of
hazardous medical wastes.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The Government extensively consulted with
representatives of AIDS patients groups, organizations of civil society and municipal and state AIDS
programs during preparation of the project. The project design takes into account their comments and
suggestions. In addition, the Government organized a national seminar April 22-24, 1998, "AIDS II:
Novas Parcerias no Combate a Epidemia" to discuss both the results of the first project and the proposed
second project. Attending the seminar were over 60 persons representing the public sector (over 20
government agencies attended), donor agencies (over 10 participated) and over 30 activists from leading
non-governmental organizations in the AIDS field, as well as organizations of civil society representing a
wide variety of groups such as the incarcerated, truck drivers, street children, and youth from throughout
Brazil).
In regard to the discussion of the AIDS/STD Control I Project during the seminar, although several
organizations of civil society pointed to operational problems related to the NGO funding component (i.e.
extensive proposal forms, slow disbursements, difficult procurement norms) and lack of government-civil
society collaboration in some states and cities, the overall conclusion was that it was a well implemented
project which produced important measurable results.
The discussion on AIDS/STD II was more extensive and resulted in several comments and
recommendations. Since participants had received a copy of the Government proposal beforehand, the
small-group and plenary discussions were focused and detailed. The participants supported the objectives
and overall structure of the AIDS/STD II project. Most of the suggestions were geared to fine-tuning it in
several aspects, including:
- AIDS/STD II needs to be decentralized even further than AIDS/STD I was to the local level, but
in a careful fashion in order to ensure programmatic quality and avoid being enmeshed in local politics.
In this light, AIDS/STD II should be integrated better into the SUS decentralized health system.



Page 12
- The roles of different government agencies in the delivery of AIDS services should be more
clearly defined in order to avoid duplication and encourage collaboration.
- AIDS/STD II needs to institute baseline indicators in order to allow for results to be measured
and impact evaluation to be carried out throughout the life of the project.
- The program should disseminate "best practice" examples of government/CSO projects to
encourage replication of successful methodologies.
- AIDS public education campaigns should occur more frequently.
- Initiatives should be geared to promoting the financial sustainability of civil society
organizations.
- Personnel from organizations of civil society should be utilized in government training and
prevention programs.
- HIV-positive persons should be included in decision-making groups.
- Pharmacies should be involved in the social marketing of condoms, as well as in activities to
prevent STD/AIDS.
- Government-civil society discussions and decision-making forums should be consolidated at the
local level.
b. Other key stakeholders:
During project preparation discussions have been held with other donors active in the area (such as
USAID and UNDCP). In addition, the government chairs a thematic group on AIDS/STD in which
donors participate. These groups have attended meetings during supervision of the first project and the
preparation mission for the second project. The Government also has received technical assistance from
UNAIDS.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the activities supported under the project would be promoted by the Government's
strong support for both preventive and treatment services for HIV/AIDS. Organizations of civil society
have also played a strong role in ensuring Government attention to this area of health policy. Relative to
the resources which the government is spending overall in health, and more particularly, for drugs to treat
AIDS patients (outside of the proposed project), the costs of continuing the activities being supported
under the project are very small. A risk to sustainability of the activities of the project is the current
structure of the project management unit. Although the unit is efficient (expenses for project management
were about 3 percent in the first project), very few of the personnel are staff of the Ministry of Health.
Most are consultants contracted by the project. The Bank has recommended that the National Program
endeavor to integrate itself more within the Ministry of Health, and the Government has agreed to make
progress in this area during implementation of the proposed project.



Page 13
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Promotion activities are not effective in modifying   Medium  Well-designed and pre-tested activities
people's behavior                                            and well-designed evaluations of their
effectiveness
People do not use counseling and testing services    Medium  Integrated approach incorporating
information and education activities,
monitoring, planned and rigorous
evaluations of results and training for
staff providing the services
Planned serological surveys are not sustained  Low           Surveys managed and financed at the
national level with quality assurance in
place
Services do not have anticipated impact on accuracy  Medium  Quality standards for care developed,
of disease diagnosis, quality of life or survival            supported and supervised; planned
evaluations of their effectiveness
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Performance of CN-AIDS/STD in the area of    Medium          Demonstration of results of effective
surveillance and evaluation                                  surveillance prior to beginning of
project and follow-up during
supervision of both surveillance system
and evaluation work program. Support
to partnerships (CDC, academic
institutions)
Timely availability of counterpart funds     Low             Monitoring during project supervision
Overall Risk Rating Medium
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
. <S



Page 14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Under the first AIDS/STD Control Project, several projects financed needle exchange programs
for IV-drug users. The second project would continue to finance these projects.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
None
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[x ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[ ]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[x]   The exception to Bank policies is as follows:
Retroactive Financing. The project provides for retroactive financing of up to 15 percent of the
project costs in order to permit financing of the program during the months of July - December
1998, up to 12 months prior to loan signing. This exception has been approved by the Regional
Vice President.
Task Manager: Polly Jones
Acting Sector Director: Xavier Col
Country Director: Gobind T. Nank



Page 15
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Brazil: Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Control of Traditional
and Emerging
Communicable Diseases
Project Development                                                         (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Reduce Incidence of    Biannual or annual        Serological surveys of army    Education, outreach, and
HIV/AIDS and STD       measurements of point     conscripts, pregnant women,   counseling can help people
prevalence of HIV        emergency room patients     adopt health practices and
positives in the general                             preventive measures that in turn
population.                                          will reduce the transmission of
AIDS/STDs
Biannual measurements of  Serological surveys of patients
point prevalence of HIV    conducted in STD clinics
positives in high risk
groups.
Estimates of point       Serological surveys of army
prevalence of syphilis in    conscripts and women who
general population       have recently delivered
Expand access to and   Listed under outputs
improve quality of     (below)
diagnosis, treatment and
care for persons with
HIV, AIDS and STD
Outputs:                                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
Promotion of safe      Increased knowledge       Questions in large-scale    Promotion activities are
practices with respect to  regarding high risk   household surveys and       effective in modifying people's
sex, IV-drug use and   behavior                  surveys of army conscripts on   behavior
other behaviors                                  knowledge, attitudes and
associated with HIV    Reduction in number of    practices carried out for
transmission           partners                  baseline and endline of
project, and from surveys
Increased condom use     conducted by other
organizations
Special studies on specific
target groups (students,
CSWs, IVDUs).
No. of condoms sold      Program Statistics
Average retail price of  Program Statistics
condoms



Page 16
No. of NGO projects       Program Statistics
promoting safe practices
with: IVDU, CSWs, and
men who have sex with
men
No. of areas covered by   Program Statistics
projects to reduce harm
from drug use
No. of state/municipal    Program Statistics
projects (funded under the
Project) promoting safe
practices with CSWs and
men who have sex with
men
No. of schools receiving  Program Statistics
AIDS/STD training
% of public schools      Program Statistics
receiving AIDS/STD
training
No. of teachers who       Program Statistics
received AIDS/STD
training
Increased use of testing    No. of persons counseled    Service statistics     People use counseling and
and counseling services   in CTAs                                             testing services
for HIV/AIDS
No. of tests in           Service statistics
CTAs
No. of CTAs               Program statistics
% of persons tested for   Service statistics          Knowing one's serum-status
HIV in CTAs who returned                              and receiving counseling
for results & counseling                              contribute to adoption of safer
practices
Strengthen              % sentinel sites collecting   Program statistics      Planned serological surveys are
epidemiological         samples using the                                      sustained
sunreillance for AIDS   established norms
and STD
Average time needed to    Program Statistics
receive the results per
sample and per cohort (all
samples)
Improve access (quality   No. of persons treated  Survey of services
and quantity) to public    annually at the SAEs
health services for     (specialized ambulatory
persons with HIV        services in the public
sector)



Page 17
B.3. Ensure standardized  Average time needed for    Service statistics      Services have anticipated
and quality laboratory    test results to reach CTAs                         impact on accuracy of disease
diagnosis                                                                    diagnosis, quality of life and
survival
% labs receiving samples    Program statistics
for quality control for HIV
with 100 % accuracy
% labs receiving samples    Program statistics
for quality control for viral
load with 100 percent
accuracy
Project                Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to Outputs)
Components/Sub-        component)
components: (see Annex
2 for project description)
A. Prevention of AIDS    $128 million            Program statistics          Performance of CN-AIDS/STDS
and STD                                                                      in the area of surveillance and
evaluation
B. Diagnosis, Treatment  $102 million            Program statistics          Timely availability of
and Care of Persons with                                                     counterpart funds
AIDS and STD
C. Institutional       $70 million               Program statistics
Development of the
National Coordination of
DST/AIDS and other
participating institutions
(state, municipalities and
NGOs)



Page 18
Annex 2
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$128 million (total cost of component)
Prevention of AIDS and STD. This component would include:
(i) mass media campaigns to raise awareness and understanding of AIDS and STD transmission and promote
safer practices;
(ii) promotion of safe practices through education, condom distribution and needle exchange programs;
(iii) itargeted interventions among specific sub-groups at greater risk of contracting and/or spreading the HIV virus
including homosexual and bisexual men, intravenous drug-users, sex workers; adolescents, prisoners, truck
drivers, and others, and preventive activities oriented to other vulnerable groups such as women and low income
populations;
(iv) a National Human Rights Network promoting non-discrimination against persons with HIV/AIDS;
(v) NGO executed sub-projects for AIDS and STD prevention, selected on a competitive basis; and
(vi) counseling services and a dial-in AIDS information service (Pergunte AIDS).
Proj ect Component 2 - US$102 million (total cost of component)
Diagnosis, Treatment and Care for persons with HIV, AIDS and STD. This component would support:
(i) improve the operation, standardization and quality control in diagnostic laboratories; implementation of nearly
100 new anonymous testing and counseling centers (CTAs) and maintenance of selected existing CTAs; support
municipal public health laboratories through the purchase of equipment and supplies for viral load, cd4 cell and
other diagnostic testing;
(ii) care and treatment of persons with HIV, AIDS and STD including about 80 group homes (casas de apoio) for
the care of AIDs patients and about 40 homes for orphans of AIDS, it would also support about 80 existing
specialized care units, 30 existing day hospitals, 40 existing home care programs and AIDS inpatient care in about
100 hospitals;
(iii) strengthening of STD diagnosis and treatment services through: training in STD case management; licensing
of about 10 national STD reference centers which will review and test norms and procedures and undertake
special studies; and provision of re-agents, drugs, condoms, educational materials and other supplies; and
(iv) implementation of a centralized logistical control system for drugs and condoms, the implementation of a cost
control system for HIV/AIDS care and the development of a reference system for gynecological care of I-V
positive women.
In the area of laboratory quality control (i), the activities supported by this project would complement the
investments being financed by the REFORSUS project in public laboratories, blood banks, and control of
transfusions. These investments are highly relevant for AIDS control.



Page 19
Project Component 3 - US$70 million (total cost of component)
Institutional Strengthening of Executing Agencies Responsible for AIDS and STD Control. This component
would support:
(i) epidemiological surveillance including sentinel surveys for HIV/AIDS and expansion/upgrading of the HV
and STD case notification system, as well as a national study of STD transmission, HIV prevalence studies among
specific risk groups, HIV sub-type studies and other epidemiological studies;
(ii) the National Reference Laboratories for HIV and STD including support for quality control in lab testing,
expansion of the national network for STD drug resistance studies, implementation of a network to monitor HIV
susceptibility to anti-retroviral therapy;
(iii) training activities including training of CN-DST/AIDS staff, specialized training of health workers involved
in prevention and treatment among high-risk groups, training for NGO personnel in project development and
reporting, as well as training in counseling and testing, epidemiology and laboratory diagnostics for AIDS and
STD;
(iv) research including studies of survival, case notification delay, opportunistic, epidemiology and projections,
cost and impact, behavioral change, AIDS among indigenous populations and in mining camps and extractive
reserves, a national study of sexual behavior change, and others. The component would also support selection of
and support for about 3 scientific centers of excellence to carry out long term multidisciplinary research;
(v) monitoring and evaluation activities including strengthening supervision and evaluation of CTAs, public
health labs, and the syphilis case investigation network; evaluation of all state and municipal institutions
undertaking project activities; evaluation of NGO projects including monitoring of 80 NGO projects, KAP studies
on impact of preventive activities in the workplace; workshops for NGO participants on evaluation; preparation of
monitoring and evaluation reports; project impact studies; and evaluation of interventions among specific
populations.



Page 20
Annex 3
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                           Local            Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Prevention of HIV, AIDS and STD                                 54              65           119
Diagnosis, Treatment, and Care of Persons with                 43               51            94
HI'V/AIDS/STD
Institutional Development                                      28               36            65
Total                                                          125             153           278
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies'
Price Contingencies                                          10              12            22
Total Project Cost                                             135             165           300
'No physical contingencies were calculated for this project as the equipment and supplies are standard, off-the-shelf items.



Page 21
Annex 4
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Summary Economic Analysis
1.    The recent World Bank publication, Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic
highlights that from the perspective of the principles of public economics, there are several arguments for
government intervention to slow the spread of HIV. First, in countries that wish to subsidize most of the
cost of health care, AIDS will generate enormous government health care expenditures; this alone is
sufficient justification for early, effective prevention. In Brazil, the Government subsidizes about a third
of the costs of health care on average, but double that share for AIDS patients. The higher subsidy
mainly reflects the high costs of AIDS treatment (costs of medication and associated testing) which are
beyond the capacity of most individuals to pay and not covered by most private health insurance. Thus
most patients are treated in the public sector. Second, whenever a transaction between two parties
imposes negative effects, or externalities, on a third party, as is the case when a sexual encounter between
two people increases the risk of lHIV infection to their other partners, public economics argues for
government intervention. Third, the provision of information about the state of the epidemic or about the
effectiveness of alternative remedies meets the economists' definition of apublic good, that is, something
that benefits society but that private entrepreneurs have insufficient incentive to produce on their own.
Thus, there is a firm rationale for the involvement of the Brazilian government in preventing HIV/AIDS,
in disease surveillance and in analyzing the impact of interventions and the behavior of the population.
The design, components and focus of the proposed second AIDS/STD project are fully consistent with
this rationale.
2.    Although the rationale for government involvement in the prevention and surveillance activities
supported by the project is clear, quantifying the benefits of the project is a difficult task for several
reasons. First, the HIV/AIDS epidemic is a complicated disease because of its varied modes (and risks)
of transmission and long incubation period. Complex models have been created for predictions of future
trends of EHIV/AIDS infections and calculations of effectiveness of different interventions. The context of
most developing countries where data are sparse, including Brazil, seriously limits the use of such models
because they depend on a large number of parameters (behavioral, epidemiological, demographic, etc.)
which have to be defined. Second, evidence on the impact of interventions on behavior and on HIV
transmission for developing countries, including Brazil, is very limited. In addition, there are several
types of interventions aimed at different risk groups. Third, in the area of the costs of treatment of AIDS
patients, the situation is in considerable flux now given access to new antiretroviral drugs, uncertainty
over price trends for these drugs over the next several years, and impact on survival rates. There is not
enough experience in this area, even in the developed country context, to make meaningful projections.
Translating this to a developing country like Brazil is even more problematical. The economic
assessment is complicated by other factors as well. It is difficult to separate the effects of the first from
the second project and to control for the influence of activities by other donors, particularly as financing is
mixed in many instances (drug exchange programs and promotion of condoms, for example). For these
reasons, we were conservative in estimating the project benefits and the figures are only illustrative. It is
important to note that the proposed project would support several activities which would improve future
economic analysis. These include better epidemiological information on trends in HIV prevalence,
behavior, and the impact of interventions on behavior and HIV transmission.
3.    The main epidemiological information now available on the HIV/AIDS epidemic is the incidence
of AIDS. Data of good quality on the prevalence of HIV infection nationwide in Brazil is not available.
Thus, the reported incidence of AIDS is the main epidemiological parameter that is used and the number
of HIV infections is inferred from that data. The figure has been adjusted to take into account delays in
case reporting as well as subnotification, using a methodology developed by Brazilian researchers.



Page 22
4.    In order to estimate the cases of HIV/AIDS both with and without the project, a mathematical
model was developed to simulate the introduction and propagation of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Brazil.
Development of the model was necessary due to the relative lack of data in this country with respect to
the various aspects of the disease, but even with better data, some modeling would be necessary due to the
complex clinical and epidemiological characteristics involved. The infection was introduced into Brazil
at some time before the first case of AIDS was diagnosed late in 1980. It is assumed that the median
period of incubation of AIDS in Brazil is 10 years after infection with HV.
5.    As with many other diseases, different groups of individuals have different risks of contracting
HIV/AIDS. The degree of risk depends on a variety of biologic, behavioral and other factors. However,
unlike most other diseases, this disease demonstrates a dynamic and constantly changing composition of
individuals according to risk level. It is generally recognized that in the early stages of the epidemic, the
infection is contracted by and transmitted to high risk groups. As these populations get saturated or adopt
protective behavior which significantly lowers their risk, as happens in advanced epidemics, most of the
incidence may occur in lower risk segments of the population.
6.    While any reasonably accurate and realistic model of the HIV/AIDS epidemic has to take this
into account, in the case of this analysis it has been simplified into two high risk groups and the rest of the
population which has virtually no risk. The risk distribution curve derived from this specification is only
a general measure of the concentration of risk and varying involvement of certain groups in the
population in the propagation of the epidemic. Another issue that is addressed in the model is that with
the changing mixture of different risk groups in the total population of infected individuals, the risk of
transmission also changes. In the beginning of the epidemic, most infected individuals would be from
high risk groups and thus would have a higher probability to further spread the infection than the average
person in the population. As the epidemic spreads, however, a larger proportion of individuals from
lower risk groups would gradually join the pool of infected people. Although these persons are infected,
and they may have even contracted WV from a high risk individual, their behavior is such that they have
a lower chance to spread the infection to others. In each group, the risk of contraction of infection per
person is assumed to be the same as the risk of transmission of the infection to others once infected. It is
also assumed that in the absence of specific health interventions, infected persons would not initially be
conscious of their condition and they would not modify their behavior until the development of
symptomatic disease (AIDS) years later. The constants in the model (for risk distribution and for the
incidence of HIV infection) were adjusted so that the projected curve of AIDS incidence fitted as closely
as possible the observed (reported) AIDS incidence during the period 1980-1996. The model recreated
the WHV/AIDS epidemic with high accuracy. Sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the values of both
constants. It was found that, except for extremely small variations in their values, no other combination
of the two with fundamentally different values could reproduce the observed incidence of AIDS.
General Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
7.    Once the natural evolution of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Brazil is defined, the next step is the
calculation of effectiveness. In modeling the reduction in HIV transmission, it is assumed that the
epidemic followed its "natural" course until 1993 when due to behavioral changes brought about by the
first project, transmission of fHV infection started to decrease at a rate approximately proportional to
condom sales. This translates into a reduction of transmission of 44 percent by 1997. Currently, the most
objective and general data on risk behavior is that of total condom sales in Brazil. These data show very
little condom use before 1993 and a steady and sustained increase from this year onwards. It is important
to mention that condoms distributed free of charge are not included in this total, since they are not as
reliable an indicator of demand.
8.    It is assumed that given no further interventions after the end of the first project, the reduction in
disease transmission would continue at the same level for at least 3 years. Under this assumption, the
effect of the first AIDS project would be observed from 1994-1997 and then from 1998 to 2000.



Page 23
Thereafter, the estimate of the impact of the proposed second AIDS project follows the same approach.
The baseline of disease transmission is that defined by the effect of the first project extrapolated to June
1998 when the second project begins. Any reduction in transmission caused by the second AIDS project
is compared to this baseline. It is assumed that for each constant dollar spent, the second AIDS project
will cause the same reduction in transmission relative to the baseline transmission. This seems to be a
reasonable assumption since the structure of the proposed second project is similar to the first project.
The estimate of effectiveness defined in this way is a reduction in transmission of 68 percent by 2002.
This would result in the prevention of 43,000 cases of HV infection between July 1998 and June 2005,
with the accompanying effects on prevalence and the population of HIV positive individuals. Total
project cost is $300 million. These funds will be disbursed over a four year period beginning in 1998.
Disbursements will be distributed fairly evenly throughout the four year period. Using an eight percent
discount rate, the present value of the future investment is $250 million. Using these project cost figures,
the projected cost per averted HIV infection is about $6,000. Since each case of H1V infection causes an
average loss of 20 discounted "disability adjusted life years," the project is buying a year of healthy life
for about $300.
Cost-Effectiveness of Specific Interventions
9.    Ideally we would like to be able to calculate the cost-effectiveness of specific components of the
project (by type of intervention or by target population) to set priorities for prevention activities.
However, the data needed to undertake this type of analysis are scarce. While information on costs of
different types of interventions is available, there is little information on the change in behavior resulting
from the activities. After much searching only one project was identified which had data on both costs
and behavior pre-and post-intervention. A non-governmental organization worked with commercial sex
workers to increase condom use. Although a specific estimate of cost-effectiveness cannot be made since
there are no data on seroprevalence among the commercial sex workers and their clients, sensitivity
analysis was done using a series of assumptions on seroprevalence rates. At varying assumptions, a high
cost-effectiveness was shown from preventing HIV infections in this group. For example, assuming a
prevalence of 5 percent among the clients and 25 percent among commercial sex workers, the cost-
effectiveness of the program is a very favorable $21/DALY averted. This estimate takes into account
only the impact of preventing infections in the commercial sex workers themselves. The overall
effectiveness if one includes as well infections prevented in clients and in their partners would be much
greater. The analysis illustrates the relatively high cost-effectiveness of interventions targeting high-risk
populations.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
10.   The annual patient treatment costs of AIDS is estimated to be $17,000 and the assumed median
survival of an AIDS patient slightly less than 1 year. Using those parameters, the discounted value of
health costs prevented over 7 years is $475 million. The present value of the investment costs ($250
million) is significantly outweighed by the present value of the potential direct cost savings, by a ratio of
nearly 2 to 1. This figure is likely to underestimate significantly the benefits from prevented health costs
given the experience so far with the new antiretroviral medications. The annual costs of treatment are
somewhat higher than the estimate used here and the average years of survival of AIDS patients (and
years of treatment) are expected to increase. Death rates for some categories of AIDS patients in some
areas of Brazil have started to decline and the main explanation is thought to be the recent access to
antiretroviral medications for large numbers of patients. Experience with the new medications though is
too recent to establish alternate parameters at this time.



Page 24
Annex 5
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement for equipment and supplies would be handled either using ICB, NCB, or national shopping
depending on the value of the contract. Goods would be procured in accordance with the provisions of
the Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised in January
and August 1996 and September 1997).
Consulting services related to project management would be contracted following theGuidelines for Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997). For contracts
$100,000 or over the Quality and Cost-Based (QCBS) procedures would be used to select consultants.
For contracts below $100,000, expected to be mostly individuals, it is expected that consultants would be
selected according to their qualifications. Single-source selection would be used only in exceptional
cases, and, except in the case of UNDP which is discussed further below, for contracts below $100,000.
The project is expected to use the services of the UNDP to provide administrative support on tasks related
to project management. Exceptionally, this would be a sole source contract, based on UNDP's prior
experience with the first project and the specialized expertise not widely available which was gained in
that work. Over the life of the project, in line with the goal of working towards greater integration of the
project within the Ministry of Health and devolution of activities to lower levels of government, the need
for UNDP would diminish gradually. In addition, the government has asked UNDP to work with them in
this area to improve its capacity in the areas currently supported by UNDP. To this effect a plan of action
would be worked out. During the execution of the project, the govermnent would also cooperate with
other United Nations agencies, including UNDCP, UNICEF and UNESCO on certain activities.
However, the project would not finance any associated agency service fees for these other agencies.
The first year plan for procurement of equipment and office supplies, as well as consulting services, has
been prepared and is in the project files.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Consultant Selection Arrangements (Table Al)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Disbursement
The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of $165 million would be disbursed over about 4 years. The
project completion date would be June 30, 2002 and the Loan closing date is December 30, 2002. The
Bank would finance contracts retroactively for eligible expenditures incurred up to 12 months prior to
Loan signing up to an amnount of US$24.7 million (15 percent of the value of the loan).
Required Documentation. Withdrawal applications for goods with a contract value of $350,000 or more,
and for consulting services with a contract value of $100,000 or more would be supported by full
documentation. Disbursement under contracts valued below $US350,000 for goods, US$100,000 for



Page 25
consulting services and other activities not undertaken by contract, would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for which supporting documents would be maintained by the
executing agency and made available for periodic review by the Bank.
Special Account A special account of US$20 million would be opened for this project at a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank. The CN-AIDS/STDs would submit replenishment applications for the
Special Account on a monthly basis, or whenever 20 percent of the authorized allocation has been used,
whichever occurs first.  The replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary
documentation: a bank statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation bank statement of the
Special Account against the Bank's records. Replenishment of the Special Account would follow Bank
procedures. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval within six months of the
fiscal year.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)



Page 26
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Goods
a. Goods other than            31          26          22                       79
instructional materials and   (31)        (21)        (16)'                    (68)
drugs
b. Instructional Materials                 14         11i                       25
(11)        (9)                      (20)
c. Drugs                                                          19            19
(0)           (0)
2. Services
a. Consultants' services                              27                        27
(including technical                                  (27)                     (27)
assistance and studies)
49                       49
(40)                     (40)
c. Infonnation, Education                                         802           80
and Communication Services                                         (0)          (0)
d. Supervision                                                     63            6
(0)          (0)
e. Administrative Expenses                            103                       10
(10)                     (10)
3. Miscellaneous
Maintenance                                                        4             4
(0)          (0)
Total                        31         40         120         109          300
(31)       (32)       (102)         (0)        (165)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
'National shopping
2About half would be service contracts for mass media campaigns.
3 Consultant services



Page 27
Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant    QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS       CQ       Other    NBF   Total Cost
Services                                                                      (including
Expenditure                                                                   contingencies)
Category
A. Firms       (10)                                                    40        50 (10)
B.                                                  (27)                6        33 (27)
Individuals
Total          (10)                                 (27)               46        83 (37)
Note: QCBS = Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 28
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Goods
>350         ICB                             All
100 to 350  NCB                  First Two Contracts
<100         Three quotations              None
2. Services
Firms                         >100         Bank guidelines                 All
<100         Bank guidelines               None
Individuals                    >50         Bank guidelines                 All
<50        Bank guidelines               TORs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   30



Page 29
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Goods (other than instructional materials)       68               100% foreign
85% local
2. Instructional Materials                           20               85%
3. Training                                          40              100% up to
31,000,000 and 50%
thereafter
4. Consultants' Services (including technical
assistance and studies)                              27              100%
5. Administrative Expenses                           10              100%
Total          165



Page 30
Annex 6
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$100,000             $100,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     9 months
First Bank mission (identification)             12/9/1997            12/9/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     5/30/1998            3/20/1998
Negotiations                                      /7/1998             7/6/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/15/1998           10/15/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Health/National Program for AIDS/STD
Preparation assistance: USAID cofinancing for NGO-conference ($10,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Polly Jones                      Task Manager, project design and
administration
John Wilson
Sandra Rosenhouse                    Evaluation, reproductive health
John Garrison                 Social assessment, Participatory Approach,
Issues Relating to NGOs
Dariush Akhavan                           Economic analysis
Sue Dietz (CDC)              Training, Counseling and Test, and Evaluation
Phil Musgrove                    Peer Reviewer (Economic Analysis)
Livio Pino                           Financial Management
Tulio Henrique Lima Correa                  Financial Management
Jose Baigorria                             Procurement
Wendy Roseberry                            Peer Reviewer
Martha Ainsworth                            Peer Reviewer



Page 31
Annex 7
Second AIDS and STD Control Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
AIDS II: Desafios e Propostas (Government of Brazil - Project Implementation Plan)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS Prevention in Brazil by Dariush Akhavan
Social Assessment for AIDS II Project by Jane Galvao
C. First Year Procurement Plan
D. TOR for Evaluation Studies and Impact Indicators together with Supplementary Notes
E. A Epidemia da AIDS no Brasil: Situa,co e Tendencias (Coordenacao Nacional de DST e AIDS, 1997)
*Including electronic files.



Page 32
Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 206
Active Loans
BR-PE-35728   IBRD42320   1998   STATE OF BAHIA                     BAHIA WTR RESOURCES              51.00        0.00            0.00        51.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-38895   IBRD43100   1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                FED.WTR MGT                    198.00        0.00            0.00       198.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-38947   IBRD42660    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               SC. & TECH 3                   155.00        0.00            0.00       155.00        5.00       0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD42110   1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO            RJ ST.PRIV.                     250.00        0.00            0.00       125.00       50.00       0.00
BR-PE-40033   IBRD43180   1998   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS          MG STATE PRIV.                  170.00        0.00            0.00       170.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-42565   IBRD42510   1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                    PARAIBA R.POVERTY               60.00        0.00            0.00        60.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-43420   IBRD42920   1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL            WATER S.MOD.2                   150.00        0.00            0.00       150.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-43421   IBRD42910   1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO             RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.              186.00        0.00            0.00       186.00       10.00       0.00
BR-PE-48357   IBRD42450   1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                  CEN.BANK TAL                    20.00        0.00            0.00        20.00          .50      0.00
BR-PE-50762   IBRD43110   1998   GOV. OF BRAZIL                      FUNDESCOLAl                     62.50        0.00            0.00        62.50        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-51701   IBRD42520   1998   STATE OF MARANHAO                  MARANHAO R.POVERTY               80.00        0.00            0.00        80.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-6474    IBRD42380   1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO                  LAND MGT 3(SP)                  55.00        0.00            0.00        55.00          .67      0.00
BR-PE-6549    IBRD42650   1998   TBG                                 GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT           130.00        0.00            0.00       130.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-6559    IBRD43120   1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO              (BF-R)SP.TSP                    45.00        0.00            0.00        45.00        2.67       0.00
BR-PE-34578   IBRD41650   1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                   RGS HWY MGT                     70.00        0.00            0.00        70.00        7.34       0.00
BR-PE-38896   IBRD41200   1997   STATE OF RGN                       R.POVERTY(RGN)                   24.00        0.00            0.00        21.24        4.14       0.00
BR-PE-39196   IBRD41390   1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU           RGS ST.REFORM                  125.00        0.00            0.00        50.02       20.02       0.00
BR-PE-42566   IBRD41220   1997   STATE OF PERNAMBBUCO                R.POVERTY(PE)                   39.00        0.00            0.00        28.99        3.44       0.00
BR-PE-43868   IBRD41480   1997   STATE OF RGS                        RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY           100.00        0.00            0.00        97.00       11.10       0.00
BR-PE-43871   IBRD41210   1997   STATE OF PIAUI                      (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                30.00        0.00            0.00        24.98        4.28       0.00
BR-PE-43873   IBRD41690    1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                 AG TECH DEV.                     60.00        0.00           0.00         55.51        8.83       0.00
BR-PE-46052   IBRD41900   1997                                      CEARA WTR PILOT                   9.60        0.00           0.00          8.92        -.68       0.00
BR-PE-48870   IBRD41890    1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO          MT STATE PRIV.                   45.00        0.00            0.00        45.00       16.68       0.00
BR-PE-6475    IBRD41470   1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                 LAND RFM PILOT                  90.00        0.00            0.00        75.05          .89      0.00
BR-PE-6532    IBRD41880   1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                  FED HWY DECENTR                300.00        0.00           0.00        285.00       11.67       0.00
BR-PE-6562    IBRD41400    1997   STATE OF BAHIA                    BAHIA MUN.DV                    100.00        0.00           0.00         98.98        8.65       0.00
BR-PE-37828   IBRD40600    1996   STATE OF PARANA                    (PR)R.POVERTY                  175.00        0.00           0.00        158.64       66.07       0.00
BR-PE-40028   IBRD4046A   1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG            151.48        0.00           0.00        142.62       25.95       0.00
BR-PE-6512    IBRD39240    1996   CVRD                               ENV/CONS(CVRD)                  50.00        0.00           0.00         30.13        7.56       0.00
BR-PE-6547    IBRD3633A   1996   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                  METRO TRANSP. RIO                47.48        0.00           0.00         27.02       27.32       0.00
BR-PE-6554    IBRD40470   1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                 HLTH SCTR REFORM               300.00        0.00           0.00        261.09       88.58       0.00
BR-PE-35717   IBRD39170    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. (BAHIA)              105.00        0.00           0.00         61.37        9.39       0.00
BR-PE-38882   IBRD3915A   1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              RECIFE M.TSP                    98.72        0.00           0.00         98.72       49.05       0.00
BR-PE-38884   IBRD39180    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.- CEARA                70.00        0.00           0.00         46.81        9.15       0.00
BR-PE-38885   IBRD39190    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.-SERGIPE               36.00        0.00           0.00         20.21        2.00       0.00
BR-PE-6436    IBRD37890   1995   STATE OF CEARA          ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO            140.00        0.00           0.00        103.61       70.27      -5.40
BR-PE-6564    IBRD3916A   1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                BELO H M.TSP                     83.32        0.00           0.00         78.65       44.36       0.00
BR-PE-6564    IBRD39160   1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                BELO H M.TSP                     15.68        0.00           0.00           .36       44.36       0.00
BR-PE-6452    IBRD36630    1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION             NE BASIC EDUC III               206.60        0.00           0.00         80.52       60.88       0.00
BR-PE-6522    IBRD37670   1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO               ESP.SANTO WATER                 154.00        0.00           0.00         86.36       62.22       0.00
BR-PE-6524    IBRD36390    1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS                MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT             150.00        0.00           5.00         34.82       33.13      -2.53
BR-PE-6543    IBRD37330   1994   GOVERNMENT                         M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC            150.00        0.00           0.00         50.41       17.74       0.00
BR-PE-6546    IBRD36590    1994   GOVERNMENT                        AIDS CONTROL                    160.00        0.00           0.00          5.89        -.03       0.00



Page 33
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37130    1994   STATE GOVTS                       STE HWY MGT II                   54.00        0.00          18.00         16.30       12.49    -10.00
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37150   1994   STATE GOVTS                         STE HWY MGT II                  79.00        0.00          18.00          7.52       12.49    -10.00
BR-PE-6558    IBRD37660    1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                 PARANA BASIC EDUC               96.00        0.00           0.00         29.01        1.83       0.00
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35470    1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                  STATE HWY MGMT                  50.00        0.00           0.00          3.73       24.02      -2.45
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35480    1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                  STATE HWY MGMT                  38.00        0.00          18.00          3.63       24.02      -2.45
BR-PE-6427    IBRD36040    1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION   N             NE BASIC EDUC II                212.00        0.00           0.00         53.91       40.58       0.00
BR-PE-6540    IBRD35540    1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                  WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERP.           145.00        0.00           5.00         20.28       25.27      -7.93
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35030   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)              9.00        0.00           0.00          5.26       77.25       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35040   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            119.00        0.00           0.00         34.02       77.25       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35050   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                 WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)           117.00        0.00            8.00        29.99       77.25       0.00
BPR-PE-6547    IBRD36330    1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                 METRO TRANSP. RIO               81.02        0.00            0.00           .29      27.32       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD3442A   1992   GOVERNMENT                          WATER SECTOR MODERNI            69.62        0.00            0.00        43.23       43.68       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD3442S   1992   GOVERNMENT                          WATER SECTOR MODERNI           167.88        0.00            0.00           .46      43.68       0.00
BR-PE-6454    IBRD34440   1992   GOB                                 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M           167.00        0.00            0.00        37.01       37.00       0.00
BR-PE-6505    IBRD34920   1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               MATO GROSSO NAT RES             205.00        0.00            0.00        82.02       82.02       0.00
BR-PE-6364    IBRD33750    1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO                 INNOV BASIC ED                 245.00        0.00           0.00         26.63       26.63       0.00
BR-PE-6492    IBRD33760    1991   PETROBRAS              BRAZI       HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO           260.00        0.00            0.00         3.22        3.22       0.00
BR-PE-6446    IBRD31730   1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NAT ENVIRONMT                  117.00        0.00            0.00        23.53       23.55       0.00
BR-PE-6453    IBRD31700    1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NE IRRIG I                     210.00        0.00           69.00        28.67       97.69      28.69
BR-PE-6473    IBRD31600   1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA             LND MGMT II-S. CATAR            33.00        0.00            0.00          4.05        4.04     -1.94
BR-PE-6370    IBRD30130   1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NE IRRI JAIBA                   71.00        0.00            0.00          3.91       3.92       0.00
BR-PE-6414    IBRD30430   1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO                   NTRL GAS DIST                   94.00        0.00            0.00         2.66        2.64       0.00
Total                                                                                             7,337.90        0.00         141.00      4,094.75   1,551.04    -14.01
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,116.95          15,767.01           18,883.96
of which has been repaid:                291.92          12,535.05           12,826.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,945.87           3,236.01           10,181.88
Amount sold                     :                0.00               45.83              45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00               45.83              45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            4,094.75                4.05           4,098.80
a. Intended diabursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 34
Brazil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval          Company        Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1973/78/83          CODEMIN               0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.34      0.00     0.00
1975/96             Oxiteno NE           30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1980/87/97          Ipiranga             40.00    6.32    0.00   150.00    0.00    6.32    0.00      0.00
1980/88             OPP                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1980/92             DENPASA               .15     1.00     .12    0.00      .15     1.03     .05     0.00
1981                Brasilpar             0.00     .04    0.00    0.00    0.00      .04    0.00      0.00
1982/84/86          PISA                  0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00       0.00
1982/86             Cimento Caue          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1983                SOCOCO                0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50       0.00
1984                ALQUIM                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1987/92/96          MBR                  10.78    0.00    10.00    11.97    10.78    0.00    10.00    11.97
1987/96             Perdigao             32.81    10.00    0.00    18.00   32.81    10.00    0.00    18.00
1987/96/97          Duratex              22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00    22.00     0.00    0.00    78.00
1987/97             SP Alpargatas        25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   20.70    0.00    5.00       0.00
1989                ELUMA                 0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00       0.00
1989                Politeno Linear       1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.70    0.00    0.00      0.00
1990                ENGEPOL               1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00       0.00
1990                Ripasa                5.71    5.00    0.00    0.00    5.71      5.00    0.00     0.00
1990/91/92          Bahia Sul            16.43   20.97    0.00    5.00    16.43   20.97     0.00     5.00
1991                Bradesco-AL          26.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1991                Bradesco-Bahia       5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.25    0.00    0.00        0.00
1991                Bradesco-Eucatex      7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00       0.00
1991                Bradesco-Petrofl     7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00        0.00
1991                Bradesco-Romi         2.38     .40    0.00    0.00    2.38      .40    0.00      0.00
1991                Rhodia-Ster           8.57    5.95    0.00    0.00    8.57    5.95      0.00     0.00
1992                CRP-Caderi            0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00      0.00
1992/93             TRIKEM                0.00    12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    12.86    0.00     0.00
1993                BACELL               12.50    10.70    0.00    25.20    12.50    10.70    0.00    25.20
1993                Coteminas             0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00      0.00     0.00
1993                CEBRACTEX             1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00    0.00      0.00
1993                Macedo Alimentos     16.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.08    0.00    0.00      0.00
1993                Votorantim           14.29    0.00    0.00     1.14    14.29    0.00    0.00     1.14
1993/96             CEVAL                53.86   20.00    0.00   118.14   53.86   20.00    0.00   118.14
1994                GAVEA                10.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    10.00    0.00    5.50      0.00
1994                GP Capital            0.00    16.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.32    0.00     0.00
1994                Para Pigmentos       30.00    9.00    0.00   35.00   25.50      9.00    0.00    29.75
1994                Portobello           15.79    5.00    0.00    0.00    15.79    5.00    0.00      0.00
1994/95/97          Sadia                50.00    10.00    10.00  200.88    50.00    10.00   10.00   200.88
1994/96             CHAPECO              25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   25.00    0.00    0.00       5.00
1994/96             S.A.I.C.C.            0.00    7.85    6.87    0.00    0.00    7.70    6.87       0.00
1995                Bradesco-Hering       7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00       0.00
1995                Brahma - BRA         32.50    0.00    0.00    86.10   32.50     0.00    0.00    86.10
1995                Cambuhy/MC          22.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.50    0.00    0.00        0.00
1995                Lojas Americana     28.00    0.00    5.00    18.00   28.00    0.00    5.00    18.00
1995                LATASA - Brazil      15.67    0.00    0.00    3.00    15.67    0.00    0.00      3.00
1995                Politeno Ind.        17.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.54    0.00    0.00      0.00
1995                Rhodiaco/PTA        25.00    0.00    0.00   24.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    24.00
1995/96/98          Globocabo           35.00   27.97     0.00   118.00   35.00   27.97     0.00   118.00
1996                Banco Bradesco      40.00    0.00    0.00   60.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00
1996                Banco Liberal        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00



Page 35
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996                 Mallory                8.00    3.96     0.00     0.00     8.00     3.96    0.00     0.00
1996                 TIGRE                25.00     0.00     5.00    21.36    25.00     0.00    5.00    21.36
1996/97              Lightel              25.00    18.17     0.00     0.00    25.00    18.17    0.00     0.00
1997                 Bompreco             25.00     0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997                 Copesul              40.00     0.00     0.00   180.00    32.00    0.00     0.00   144.00
1997                 Rodovia              35.00     0.00     0.00    79.50    16.81    0.00     0.00    37.83
1997                 Samarco               18.00    0.00     0.00    16.00    18.00     0.00    0.00    16.00
1997                 Sucorrico             15.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    15.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997                 Wembley                0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00
1997                 Wentex                15.00    0.00     0.00    20.00    15.00     0.00    0.00    20.00
1998                 BSC                   14.00    0.00     0.00     7.50    14.00     0.00    0.00     7.50
1998                 Empesca              25.00     0.00    10.00     0.00     5.00     0.00    10.00    0.00
1998                 Saraiva               15.00    3.00     0.00     0.00    15.00     3.00    0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:               966.15   218.79    67.99  1,281.7   770.13   217.38    62.92   988.87
9
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996                 AGUAS LIMEIRA         17.00     1.00    0.00    23.00
1998                 ARTEB                20.00     7.00     0.00    20.00
1998                 BANCO ICATU           30.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                 COPESUL BLINC.         0.00    0.00     0.00    45.00
1997                 CTBC                  35.00    0.00     0.00   150.00
1996                 GLOBOCABO II           0.00    0.00     0.00    38.00
1997                 GUILMAN-              30.00    0.00     0.00    90.00
AMORIM
1998                 ICATU EQUITY          0.00    30.00     0.00     0.00
1997                 IPIRANGA               0.00    0.00     5.00     0.00
EXPANS.
1997                 IPIRANGA RI            0.00     .32     0.00     0.00
1998                 LOJAS RENNER          16.00    4.00     0.00     0.00
1997                 NOVA DUTRA             0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00
BLINC
1996                 OXITENO/ETHYL          0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00
0
1998                 SANTHER              25.00     0.00    10.00    45.00
1997                 SP ALPARGATAS          0.00    0.00     0.00    30.00
II
1998                 TRIKEM II             25.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1998                 UNIBANCO              40.00    0.00     0.00   250.00
1997                 UNIBANCO              50.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
LIVESTO
1998                 VARGA                 20.00    0.00     3.00    15.00
Total Pending Commitment:      308.00    47.32    18.00   716.00



Page 36
Annex 9
Brazil at a glance                                                            8/28/97
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development diamond*
Population mid-1 996(millions)                      161.2       485      479
GNP per capita 1996(US$)                            4,360     3,710    4,540               Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                             702.9     1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population(%)                                         1.4       1.7      1.5      GNP                             Gross
Labor force(%)                                        1.6       2.3      1.8      per                            primary
Most recent estimate'latestyear available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index(% of population)              17
Urban population(% of total population)                78        74       73
Life expectancy at birth(years)                        67        69       69
Infant mortality(per 1, 000 live births)               44        37       35              Access to safe water
Child mainutrition(% of children under 5)              18
Access to safe water(% of population)                  92        80       86
Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                    17        13       13
Gross primary enrollmenf% of school-age population)   114       110      107          -Brazil
Male                                                           ..                         Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1988       1995    1996
Economic ratlos*
GDP (billions US$)                         121.8   222.9      716.9   748.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP               26.8    19.2       20.1      19.5            Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.5     12.2       6.7      6.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  22.9    24.4        19.2    18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                  21.1     19.3       17.6    16.3
Current account balance/GDP                  -5.8    -0.2       -2.5    -3.2
Interest payments/GDP                        1.7      3.3       1.2      1.7     Savings                      Investment
Total debtVGDP                              22.4    46.5       22.2    23.8
Total debt service/exports                  43.5    39.1       43.1     46.7        
Present value of debtGDP                       ..      ..      22.1
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    270.7                           Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1996      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                              -     Brazil
GDP                                 3.1      1.2      4.1       2.9      4.8Upemidencegru
GNP per capita                      0.2      -0.4     2.8       1.6      4.0               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      10.5      6.5      -1.4      6.1      7.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1975    1985       1995    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                 12.1     11.5       14.4    14.4      10-
Industry                                    40.2    45.3       36.5    36.4       s-
Manufacturing                              30.3    33.7       23.8        .
Services                                    47.7    43.1       49.1     49.2             9      2    93   94   95   96
Private consumpton                          66.5    66.8       64.9    65.7    -10
General government consumption              10.6      9.9       15.9    16.1                     GDI       GDP
Imports ofgoods and services                11.5      7.1       7.6      7.9
197545  1986-96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  4.3      2.6        4.9      3.1     40
Industry                                     3.0    -1.1        2.1      2.3
Manufacturing                               2.6    -1.5        2.1              20
Services                                     2.9      2.8        5.3     3.3
Privateconsumption                           3.0      1.8       11.0     4.1 o
General government consumption               1.2      0.7       2.4      0.8             91          93   94   95   96
Gross domestic investment                    -2.9    -06        9.4      0.0    -20
Imports of goods and services                -4.0     8.9      36.8      5.9
Gross national product                       2.5      1.1       4.2      2.9                   Espots   -mporta
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 37
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996    F   al- --
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                          3,000
Consumer prices                               25.0    226.9       67.0     15.5    2.650
Implicit GDP deflator                         33.9    231.7       74.9     11.1    1,5w0
1.000.
Government ftnance                                                                  1000
(% of GDP)                                                                             o  - _ __,
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       31.5     32.4               91   92   93   94   95   96
Primary surplus/deficit                         ..       ..        0.4     -0.1              -GDPdef.           CPl
Operational surplus/defidt                       ..      ..       -4.8     -3.9
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Exportandimportlevels(mill.US$3
Total exports (fob)                             ..  25,638    46,508   47,746        eo,ooo
Coffee                                        ..   2,607       1,970    2,059
Other food                                           2,545     3,896    4,665
Manufactures                                  ..  13,356    25,568   26,247        40,000
Total imports (df)                               .   13,153    49,663   53,286       n    nIL
Food                                                    "      3,535    6,044      20,000         j_p  j
Fuel and energy                               ..     6,176     4,649    5,752            i1lIi
Capital goods                                  ..    2,480    19,688   19,804         0
Export price index (1987=100)                    -       97        128      126            s0  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..      79       124       125                   c Exports  [a Imports
Termsof trade (1987=100)                        ..      123        103      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                9,418   27,713    47,960   49,558       1
Imports of goods and services               14,323   16,928    54,306   59,355
Resource balance                            -4,905   10,785     -6,346   -9,797      o
Net income                                  -2,106  -11,213    -15,419  -17,402    |  .
Net currenttransfers                          -10        16      3,973    2,899  
Current account balance,                                                           |2
before official capital transfers          -7,021     -412    -17,792  -24,300
Financing items (net)                        5,956    1,826    30,779   32,935
Changes in net reserves                      1,065   -1,414    -12,987   -8,635      4
Memo:                                                                               ___
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          4,166   11,613    51,469   59,663
Conversion rate (locaVlSS)                 3.OE-12  2.3E-09        0.9      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Composltlon of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        27,329  103,601    159,130  178,131                       A    c
IBRD                                       1,045    5,274      6,038    5,876              G      6038  142  D
IDA                                           0         0         0         0             30494              3327
Total debt service                           4,320   11,470    22,328        ..                                      E
IBRD                                         98       796      1,868    1,638                                    19451
IDA                                           0         0         0         0    | 
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               9        34        64
Official creditors                         1,059      935    -1,378
Private creditors                          4,213      149      9,827
Foreign direct investment                  1,302    1,348      4,859
Portfolio equity                              0         0      4,411                                  F 9
World Bank program                                                                 !9I
Commitments                                 538    1,525        404       858      A -1FtRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               249       765       838    1,500       B - IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         26       406      1,377    1,222      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   224       359       -539      278    1                           _
Interest payments                            72       391       491       416
Net transfers                               152       -32    -1,031      -138
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28/97



