Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4392-BR
Loan Agreement
(Second AIDS and STD Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 11, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4392-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1998, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has provided support for the Borrower’s first AIDS and STD 
Control Project through Loan 3659-BR;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated  January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS” means the acquired immune-deficiency syndrome, a severe life 
threatening disease which represents the late clinical stage of human infection with 
HIV (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“Consolidated POA” means a plan containing the consolidation of all the 
activities to be carried out by the Borrower and the Executing Entities (as 
hereinafter defined) under the Project, for any specific calendar year, as referred to 
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Contractual Arrangements” means the contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into by the Borrower and each of the Executing 
Entities (as hereinafter defined), other than the agencies and the departments of the 
Borrower, in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Executing Entity” means any of the Participating States (as hereinafter 
defined), of the Participating Municipalities (as hereinafter defined) and of other 
entities (including NGOs, as such term is hereinafter defined) in charge of the 
carrying out of any portion of the Project;
(e)
“HIV” means the human immune-deficiency virus;
(f)
“MOH” means Ministério da Saúde, the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(g)
“National STD Reference Center” means a national center which offers 
services related to sexual transmitted diseases, carry out research and training, and, 
supervision activities regarding regional and local STD reference centers;
(h)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization;
(i)
“NGO Subproject” means any Project related activity to be carried out by 
an NGO, as referred to in Part A.5 of the Project;
(j)
“NRL” means national reference laboratory, a laboratory designated by the 
Borrower as reference for quality control, research and training for laboratories;
(k)
“Participating Municipality” means any of the municipalities in charge of 
the carrying out of a portion of the Project and which complies with the criteria set 
forth in the MOH's Portaria No. 622, duly published in the Official Gazette dated June 
7, 1993;
(l)
“Participating State” means any State of the Borrower in charge of the 
carrying out of a portion of the Project and which complies with the criteria set 
forth in the MOH's Portaria No. 622, duly published in the Official Gazette dated June 
7, 1993;
(m)
“PIU” means the unit in charge of the implementation of the PNC-DST/AIDS;
(n)
“PNC-DST/AIDS” means the Borrower's program for the control of AIDS and 
STDs (as hereinafter defined), under the responsibility of MOH, which includes the 
Project;
(o)
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter dated November 17, 1998 
delivered by the Borrower’s National AIDS and STD Coordinator, setting forth the 
indicators to be used in monitoring the progress of the implementation of the Project 
and in evaluating its results;
(p)
“Research Committee Regulations” means the regulations issued by the 
Borrower on June 1, 1993, through MOH's Portaria No. 588, duly published in the 
Official Gazette dated June 2, 1993;
(q)
“RSC” means the research steering committee established on March 25, 
1993, through MOH's Portaria No. 348, duly published in the Official Gazette dated 
March 26, 1993;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  3
this Agreement; and
(s)
“STD” means a sexually transmitted disease.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred sixty-five 
million dollars ($165,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a  calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
Page  4
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.".
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Health, and the person or persons designated in 
writing by such Minister, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOH, with the assistance of the Executing Entities, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each Executing Entity to carry out its 
respective portion of the Project and, for such purposes, shall enter into Contractual 
Arrangements, which shall contain, inter alia, the obligations of the Borrower to 
transfer to any such Executing Entity the proceeds of the Loan necessary for the 
carrying out by any such Executing Entity of its portion of the Project, in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to any of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable any 
Executing Entity to perform its obligations under the Contractual Arrangements and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Contractual 
Arrangements, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of 
the Contractual Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out the activities under the Project 
during any specific calendar year, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than October 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Page  5
Bank, for comment, the draft Consolidated POA for the subsequent calendar year;
(b)
by not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank the 
Consolidated POA for the subsequent calendar year, taking into account the Bank's 
comments thereon;
(c)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, such Consolidated POA, in 
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
by not later than March 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
an annual report, in a format and scope satisfactory to the Bank, such report to be 
based, inter alia, on the  indicators set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of the carrying out of the research activities 
under the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the RSC during the implementation of 
the Project, and, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or 
fail to apply the Research Committee Regulations.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain the PIU during the implementation of 
the Project, with organization, structure, functions, management and staff, all  
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than June 30 in each year, starting on June 30, 1999, except 
in June 30, 2000, review, jointly with the Bank, the progress under the Project and 
any implementation issues that may have arisen during the previous year, based on, 
inter alia,  the annual report referred to in Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)
by not later than June 30, 2000, or when an amount of the Loan equivalent 
to 50% (fifty percent) thereof shall have been disbursed by the Borrower to pay for 
expenditures under the Project, whichever comes earlier, review (the mid-term review), 
jointly with the Bank, the progress in the carrying out of the Project, the 
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the Contractual 
Arrangements, and the achievement of the objectives of the Project, based on, inter 
alia, the Implementation Indicators; and
(c)
promptly after the conclusion of any of the above reviews take or cause 
to be taken all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary 
for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MOH, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts and financial statements referred to 
in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts 
for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
Page  6
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request;
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered in the Borrower's Central Bank.
Section 5.02. The date March 11, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda - PGFN
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P", 8º andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Page  7
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
MEFP Brasília
61-1506 MFAZ-BR
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Saúde
Coordenação Nacional de DST/AIDS
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "G", sobreloja
70058-901 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Carlos Sturzenegger
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Danny M. Leipziger
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  8
Witness:
By /s/ Jose Serra
Witness: 
By /s/ Paulo De Tarso Flecha de Lima
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other than
  68,000,000
100% of foreign
instructional
expenditures and 85%
materials)
of local expenditures
(2)
Instructional
  20,000,000
85%
materials
(3)
Training
  40,000,000
100% up to 31,000,000;
and 50% thereafter
(4)
Consultants'
  27,000,000
100%
Services
(including
technical
assistance and
studies)
(5)
Administrative
  10,000,000
100%
Expenses
TOTAL
 165,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Administrative Expenses” means expenditures made for 
Consultants’ Services, travel and per-diem, office supplies, communications and 
equipment maintenance in support of the coordinating and supervising activities to be 
carried by the PIU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$24,700,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after a date one year prior to the date of this Agreement;
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent (except the first two contracts for goods costing 
between $100,000 and $350,000); (ii) services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
Page  9
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce the incidence and transmission of 
HIV and STD infection and expand and improve diagnosis, treatment and care of persons 
with HIV, AIDS and STDs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Prevention of AIDS and STDs
1.
Carrying out of mass media campaigns to raise awareness and understanding of 
AIDS and STD transmission and promote safer practices.
2.
Promotion of safe sex practices through education and condom distribution.
3.
Carrying out of: (a) targeted preventive activities among specific sub-groups at 
greater risk of contracting and/or spreading the HIV virus including intravenous 
drug-users, sex workers, adolescents, prisoners and truck drivers, among others; and 
(b) preventive activities oriented to other vulnerable groups such as women and low 
income populations.
4.
Carrying out of campaigns promoting non-discrimination against persons with 
HIV/AIDS.
5.
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of AIDS and STD prevention and care 
activities.
6.
Carrying out of counseling services and support for the provision of a dial-in 
AIDS information service (Pergunte AIDS).
Part B:
Diagnosis, Treatment and Care for persons with HIV, AIDS and STDs
1.
(a) Improvement of the operation, standardization and quality control in 
diagnostic laboratories; (b) Establishment of about 100 new anonymous testing and 
counseling centers (Centros de Testagem e Aconselhamento - CTAs) and maintenance of 
selected existing CTAs; and (c) support  Municipal public health laboratories through 
the purchase of equipment and supplies for diagnostic testing.
2.
(a) Care and treatment of persons with HIV, AIDS and STDs including about 80 
group homes (casas de apoio) for the care of AIDs patients and about 40 homes for 
orphans of AIDS; and (b)  support about 80 existing specialized care units, 30 
existing day hospitals, 40 existing home care programs and AIDS inpatient care in 
about 100 hospitals.
3.
Strengthening of STD diagnosis and treatment services through: (a) training in 
STD case management; (b) licensing of about 10 National STD Reference Centers that 
will review and test norms and procedures and undertake studies, including studies 
comparing different types of treatment, different approaches, among others; and (c) 
provision of re-agents, drugs, condoms, educational materials and other related 
supplies.
4.
(a) Implementation of a centralized logistical control system for drugs and 
condoms; (b) implementation of a cost control system for HIV/AIDS care; and (c) 
development of a reference system for gynecological care of HIV positive women.
Part C:
Strengthening of Public and Private Institutions for AIDS/STD Control
Strengthening of Executing Agencies through:
1.
Epidemiological surveillance including sentinel surveys for HIV/AIDS and 
expansion/upgrading of the HIV and STD case notification system, as well as the 
Page  10
carrying out of a national study of STD transmission, HIV prevalence studies among 
specific risk groups, HIV sub-type studies and other epidemiological studies.
2.
Strengthening of the NRLs for HIV and STDs including support for quality control 
in lab testing, expansion of the national network for STD drug resistance studies, and 
the  implementation of a network to monitor HIV susceptibility to anti-retroviral 
therapy.
3.
Training activities including training of PNC-DST/AIDS staff, specialized 
training of health workers involved in prevention and treatment among high-risk 
groups, training for NGO personnel in project development and reporting, as well as 
training in counseling and testing, epidemiology and laboratory diagnostics for AIDS 
and STDs.
4.
(a) Carrying out of research including studies of survival, case notification 
delay, opportunistic infections, epidemiology and projections, cost and impact, 
behavioral change, AIDS among indigenous populations and in mining camps and 
extractive reserves, and a national study of sexual behavior change; and (b) selection 
of and support for about 3 scientific centers of excellence to carry out long-term 
multidisciplinary research.
5.
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities including: (a) monitoring 
and evaluation of CTAs and public health laboratories; (b) evaluation of all State and 
Municipal institutions undertaking project activities; (c) evaluation of NGO  
Subprojects including monitoring of 80 NGO Subprojects; (d) studies on impact of 
preventive activities in the workplace; (e) workshops for NGO participants on 
evaluation; (f) preparation of monitoring and evaluation reports; (g) Project impact 
studies; and (h) evaluation of interventions among specific populations.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 2004
through November 1, 2013
8,250,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Page  11
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each; and
(c)
the invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but less than $350,000 
Page  12
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $32,000,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank  in standardized form for the Project, shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount  of $25,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured under Part B.1 of this 
section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost between $100,000 
and $350,000 equivalent each; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Additional ao Frete para a Renovaçao da Marinha Mercante), established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31, 
Page  13
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may replace it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3.8 and 
3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  14
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that any single-source selection of consulting firms shall 
be subject to the Bank’s prior approval. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 (or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, by notice to the 
Borrower), to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
Page  15
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
