Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23520
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-20003; IDA-26190)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19 MILLION (US$26.3 MILLION)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
3/13/2002
AFTH3
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2001)
Currency Unit = FCFA
794 = US$ 1.00
US$0.0126 = 100FCFA
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1994)
Currency Unit = FCFA Franc
590 = US$1.00
US$ 0.016 = 100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January I         December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABBEF                              Association Burkinabh du Bienr-Eire Familial
AIDS                               Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
IPPF                               International Planned Parenthood Association
CBD                                Community-based distribution
CAS                                Country Assistance Strategy
CNLS                               National AIDS committee
CONAPO                             Inter-ministerial population committee
CPR                                Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CRESA                              Health and hygiene education center
DHS                                Demographic and Health Survey
DPF                                Directorate for the Promotion of the Family
DSF                                Family Health Directorate
FDC                                FondaZion de Developpement Communeulaire (local NGO)
FP                                 Family Planning
HIV                                Human immunodeficiency virus
ICR                                Implementation Completion Report
IEC                                Information, Education, Communication
IHW                                Itinerant Health Workers
KAP                                Knowledge Attitudes Practices
MAP                                Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region
MCH                                Mother Child Health
MEF                                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOH                                Ministry of Health
MSASF                              Ministry of of Health, Social Affairs and Family
MTP                                Medium-Tenm Program
NGO                                Non-govemmental Organization
OCP                                Onchocerciosis Control Program
QAG                                Quality Assurance Group
SAR                                Staff Appraisal Report
STD                                Sexually Transmitted Disease
TBA                                Traditional Birth Attendants
UNAIDS                             Joint United Nations Progrnune of HIV/AIDS
UNFPA                              United Nations Family Planning Agency
USAID                              United States Agency for Intemational Development
VHW                                Village Health Workers
WHO                                World Health Organization
Vice President:             Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               A. David Craig
Sector Manager:               Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader:                  Ibrahim Magagi



FOR OFFICIAL USE: ONLY
BURKINA FASO
Population and AIDS Control
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                25
Annex   Map #28673                                                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000308                                      Project Name: Population/AIDS Control
Team Leader: Ibrahim Magagi                             | TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 13, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Population/AIDS Control                       L/C/TFNumber: TF-20003; IDA-26190
Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                       Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HA - HIV/AIDS
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/07/92                              Effective: 12/05/94           05/02/95
Appraisal:  11/19/93                                 MTR: 06/01/98             10/01/98
Approval:  05/31/94                               Closing: 12/30/2000          09/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Govemment of Burkina Faso/MEF/MSASF
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     A. David Craig                           Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                    Birger J. Fredriksen
Team Leader at ICR:  Ibrahim Magazi                           Bruna Vitagliano
ICR Primary Author:  Ibrahim Magazi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the project were to assist the borrower in: (i) reducing fertility levels
through an increase in contraceptive use; and (ii) slowing the spread of the H1V/AIDS epidemic by
promoting behavioral change and treating Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs).
The objectives of the project were clear and appropriate for Burkina Faso, which figured amongt



the poorest countries in the world. Its population, estimated at 10 million in 1992, of which 86 percent in
rural areas, was growing at an annual rate of about 3 percent. While migration to neighboring countries,
such as C6te d'Ivoire, partly mitigated the impact of the high rate of natural increase, demographic growth
was a key constraint to development, as it taxed the government's ability to expand access to economic and
social services. Population pressures also contributed to the progressive deterioration in soil fertility,
forestry cover, and water resources. At the household level, policymakers considered it important to
encourage use of modem family planning methods, as a means for reducing the high levels of fertility and
mortality. To this end, the Govemment adopted a National Family Planning Strategy in 1993. The project
built on this strategy which emphasized the need to develop a comprehensive outreach program and to
intensify collaboration with NGOs in expanding contraceptive use. While the targets set were ambitious
the proposed strategies were appropriate.
The project was also timely in responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic with the emergence of the
first cases of AIDS in 1986. HIV infection rates amnongst pregnant women rose from less than 2 percent in
the mid 1980s to over 7 percent a decade later. Infection rates were dramatically higher for vulnerable
groups (e.g. commercial sex workers: 15-60 percent; TB patients: 34 percent). Geographic areas
characterized by heavy intemal and extemal migratory flows were disproportionately affected with
migration serving as an important factor in fuelling the spread of the infection to rural areas. The
govemment recognized the potentially high costs of addressing the epidemic and begun adopting a series of
medium-term national plans. The 1993-95 HIV/AIDS Plan placed a special emphasis on promoting
preventive activities (e.g. IEC, social marketing of condoms), developing institutional capacities, and
strengthening epidemiological surveillance). The 1996-1999 I{IV/AIDS Plan expanded the scope and
range of activities, to also include STD screening and treatment, blood screening and treatment of those
infected or affected. The project played a pivotal role in supporting the government to intensify the fight
against the epidemic, funding well over 50 percent of all activities carried out during the past five years.
The project was an important element of the Bank's country assistance strategy. The objectives of
the 1994 CAS were to: (i) promote private sector development through reforms in the policy and regulatory
environment; (ii) improve management of public resources; and (iii) alleviate long-term constraints on
economic growth and social development, with a focus on population, health and education issues. The
project was a central part of this assistance strategy. A separate Health and Nutrition Project was
approved in March 1994. These projects were complementary, as it was felt that separating them would
ensure simplicity in design and a tight focus.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project included three components: population and family planning, HIV/AIDS/STDs, and a
fund to provide support to NGOs and the private sector for the financing of family planning and HIV/AIDS
activities.
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING COMPONENT (US$15.6 million) The
population and FP component aimed to: (i) expand access and improve the quality of family planning (FP)
and matemal and child health (MCH) services; (ii) support information, education and communications
(IEC) activities to improve knowledge of population, FP and women's rights issues; and (iii) strengthen
capacities in the areas of population policy and planning, and management, monitoring and evaluation of
famnily planning activities.
-2 -



The family planning sub-component (US$6.2 million) aimed at increasing the contraceptive
prevalence rate from 17 percent to 32 percent in urban areas and from 1.5 percent to 9 percent in rural
areas by 1999, with the projected number of family planning users expected to rise from 80,000 to
350,000. These goals were to be attained in conjunction with parallel-funded activities supported by
USAID and UNFPA. The project was expected to extend family planning services to about 400 health
centers, as 250 of the 650 health facilities already had access to these services. To this end, the project was
to: (i) provide training for about 700 nurses and obstetrical assistants, 60 regional trainers, 50 doctors and
100 nurses in Norplant insertion and (iI) finance contraceptives to meet 80 percent of the national needs. In
view of the limited procurement experience of the Ministry of Health (MOH), WHO was expected to
procure condoms and UNFPA would handle the procurement of other contraceptives. Finalization of the
training program and of agreements with WHO and UNFPA were conditions of credit effectiveness.
In addition to strengthening access to FP services at health facilities, the project was expected to
support the introduction of a community based distribution (CBD) scheme in about 400 villages, which
relied primarily on village health workers and traditional birth attendants to provide contraceptives and to
refer women in need of other methods to their local health facilities. The project also included financial and
institutional support to the Association Burkinabe du Bien-Etre Familial (ABBEF), an affiliate of the
International Planned Parenthood Association, to expand family planning services through an upgranded
model clinic in Ouagadougou, a pilot CBD scheme in three provinces, and FP/AIDS/STD counseling
services for youth in Koudougou. While the IDA-funded Health and Nutrition Project, which was prepared
on a parallel track, was expected to address the broader needs of the health sector (e.g. decentralization of
health services, provision of essential drugs, improving access to primary health services), the Population
and AIDS Control Project also included financing of village ambulances to deal with medical and
obstetrical emergencies.
The population and women's rights sub-component (US$4 million) aimed to: (i.) increase
support for population issues among political, religious and traditional leaders through the organization of
about 30 seminars for 1500 leaders and the dissemination of publications and presentations through the
newly created inter-ministerial population committee (CONAPO); (ii) expand knowledge of and demand for
modem contraceptive methods through research and mass media communications contracted out to local
research and advertising agencies, staff training (i.e. 700 nurses, 400 auxiliary midwifes, and 1000
secondary school teachers), and decentralized IEC activities in about ten health and hygiene education
centers (CRESAs); and (iii) enhance public understanding of women's rights and gender issues by
disseminating the new family code adopted in 1991, establishing legal information centers to provide
information and support, and providing financial support to a volunteer organization created to educate the
public on the dangers of female circumcision, a practice that was outlawed but still widespread.
The institutional capacity sub-component (USS5.4 million) was focused on three institutions. It
would strengthen the capacity of the permanent secretariat of CONAPO in the Ministry of the Economy,
Finance and Plan to coordinate all population activities through the provision of intemational and local
specialist services, staff training, office equipment and three vehicles. It would enhance the capacity of the
Family Health Directorate (DSF) in the Ministry of Health to play a leadership role in strengthening the
planning and programming of FP/MCH activities through the expansion and rehabilitation of training
centers, office equipment, 2 vehicles, staff training and intemational and local specialist services. Finally,
it would help the Directorate for the Promotion of the Family (DPF) in the Ministry of Social Action and
Famnily promote women's rights by financing staff training and providing office equipment.
HIV/AIDS/STDs COMPONENT (US$14.9 million) The second component aimed to strengthen
-3 -



Burkina's capacities to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, promote behavioral change, strengthen
screening and treatment of STDs, and clinical management and community care.
The institutional strengthening sub-component (US$4.2 million), aimed to: (i) strengthen the
capacities of the permanent secretariat of the national AIDS committee (CNLS), which was established in
the MOH in 1990, to manage and coordinate the national program; (ii) reinforce epidemiological
surveillance through the establishment of five sentinel sites; (iii) improve blood security through provision
of supplies to five hospitals and to the national reference laboratory; (iv) support operational research,
periodic assessments of the STD surveillance system and an economic impact evaluation of the epidemic.
The IEC sub-component (US$2.6 million) was to support activities aimed at promoting safe
health practices and behavioral change. A Knowledge Attitudes Practices (KAP) survey was carried out
before project initiation to provide baseline data. The survey was to be repeated in year 5 of the project. A
seminar to design an IEC strategy was to be held no later than June 30, 1995. The project was to finance
the production and acquisition of IEC materials, in-country training for social workers, teachers and
CRESA's staff, seminars for opinion leaders, surveys and studies, two IEC specialists, and decentralized
activities.
The condom promotion sub-component (US$3.3 million) was to support an expansion in condom
use, by aiming to protect at least 20 percent of the sexually active male population by 1999. It was
estimated that 30 million condoms would be sold by 1999 to achieve this objective. The condoms would be
sold at a highly subsidized price through public and private facilities. The project was to provide
three-quarters of the 84 million condoms for the 1995/99 period.
The STD sub-component (US$3.8 million) aimed to strengthen screening and treatment of STDs.
To this end, staff training was to be provided for 54 doctors and 16 nurses, a workshop to elaborate STD
treatment protocols was to be organized, and drugs would be provided to health facilities.
The clinical management & community care sub-component (US$1 million) was centered on
establishing an integrated system for HIV/AIDS testing, care, counseling, and psycho-social support, and
on rationalizing the cost of care. The project was to provide drugs for opportunistic infections, training for
health and social workers, religious and commnunity leaders, and NGOs, and consultant services.
PRIVATE SECTOR/NGO COMPONENT (US$4 million) The project was to establish a fund
that would provide grants to NGOs, associations, and private organizations to finance activities in the areas
of MCHIFP services, IEC, counseling, education, condom distribution and community and home care of
AIDS patients. An independent selection committee was to be established and a procedural manual was to
be adopted as conditions of credit effectiveness.
The total cost of the project was estimated at US$34.5 million, of which the IDA credit was
US$26.3 million. Denmark and Norway agreed to make a grant of US$3 million each. The Government's
contribution was estimated at US$2.2 million.
The project design was generally reasonable but somewhat complex. Combining population and
HIV/AIDS activities under one project made sense because of the synergies involved as the objectives and
strategies were broadly similar. Nevertheles, it made for a complex design with numerous stakeholders and
multiple activities and insufficient coordination across institutional boundaries. The project involved three
ministries and a large number of NGOs and private organizations. The large number of conditions of
- 4 -



credit effectiveness also added to the complexity of the design and led to implementation delays as
discussed below. While the 11 conditions were important for satisfactory implementation most should have
probably been met before Board presentation, or as conditions of disbursement. The operation aimed to
build on the experience of previous IDA operations in Burkina (i.e. HIV/AIDS Project, Onchocerciasis
Control Program launched in 1974 and the Health Services Development Project approved in 1985) and
complemented activities to be carried out under the Health and Nutrition Project which was approved in
March 1994. By contrast to these design limitations, the project appeared well tailored to the capacity of
the borrower and the risks (i.e. time required for behavioral changes and weak capacity of the Government)
were well assessed with appropriate mitigation measures identified (e.g. IEC activities; mobilization of
political, religious and traditional leaders; reliance on NGOs and capacity strengthening).
3.4 Revised Components:
The credit agreement was amended during the last year of the project to allow for financing of
work programs of line ministries and of decentralized authorities, with a view to intensifying the fight
against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The amendment also served to pilot a community driven scheme that
would be scaled up under the new HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project, which was approved in July 2001
as part of the Multi-Action Program for the Africa Region (MAP). While the objectives and components
remained unchanged a new disbursement category was introduced to Schedule I to permit funding of annual
work programs rather than continue financing activities by disbursement category. This amendment was
inspired by the successful experience with decentralized management of funds under the Health and
Nutrition Project that is described in the ICR for that operation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory. While the objectives of the project were fully
consistent with government priorities and the CAS they were overly ambitious. The project was essential
for reducing pressures due to high population growth and avoiding the disastrous consequences of a
full-blown AIDS epidemic. Two sector policy letters, one on population and another one on HIV/AIDS,
provided a suitable framework for project implementation and time-bound indicators for monitoring
progress. Moreover, the conditions were far from being met for the smooth implementation of the project
when the credit was approved. While the team made an effort to draw on the experience and lessons from
previous projects this was not always done.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objective of reducing fertility levels through an increase in the contraceptive prevalence rate
was not achieved. While there has been progress in raising the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) in
urban areas (from 17.0 to 20.1 percent), which contributed to a significant decline in the Total Fertility
Rate (from 5.0 in 1993 to 4.1 in 1998/99) of urban women, there has been only modest increase in the CPR
(i.e. 1.5 to 2.6 percent) in rural areas. Given that Burkina's population is predominantly rural, there has
been no change in fertility rates. These CPR targets fell substantially below the SAR targets, which, with
the benefit of hindsight, were highly unrealistic (i.e. 9 percent in rural areas; and 32 percent in urban
zones). The SAR targets implied annual rates of increase that are not commonly found in similar low
educational settings in sub-Saharan Africa. The average annual percentage point change in the CPR for a
sample of 64 countries worldwide was about 1.5 (all methods); by contrast, the average for a group of
sub-Saharan African countries was only 0.8. The sustained annual increases projected in the SAR (1.5
percent in modem methods in rural areas and 3.0 percent in urban areas) were clearly optimistic. In
- 5 -



practice, Burkina's performance was comparable to the average for a group of sub-Saharan African
countnies at similar socio-economic levels.
The objective of slowing the spread of H[V/AIDS does not appear to have been achieved but this
can not be completely confirmed from existing information. The HIV prevalence rate was estimated at
about 7.2 percent in 1997, making Burkina the second most HIV/AIDS infected country in West Africa.
Some sources cite a figure of 10 percent for 2001 but it is unclear on what basis this estimate has been
derived. The only recent data which is available on HIV infection rates comes from sentinel surveillance
sites, which are not nationally representative. Moreover, the data depict a mixed picture for 1997/99,
showing a declining trend at some sentinel surveillance facilities (Bobo Diaoulasso, Saint Camille,
Ouahigouya and Tenkodogo) and a rise at other sites (Kossodo, Gaoua). The government is planning on
carrying out a national survey shortly, which will give a fuller picture of trends and patterns in HIV
infection rates.
In terms of knowledge and behavioral change, data from the latest Demographic and Health Survey
found continuing improvements in knowledge levels but only modest progress in bringing about changes in
sexual practices. The 1998/99 DHS found that there was a marked increase in reported knowledge of
AIDS among the rural population, particularly women who are at greatest risk. The proportion of rural
women who reported being knowledgeable about AIDS increased from 80.7 in 1993 to roughly 85 percent
in 1998/99. Knowledge levels among rural men rose from 92.4 to over 95.0 percent. In urban areas,
reported knowledge of AIDS has remained high, reaching about 99 percent for both men and women. In
spite of increases in reported knowledge levels, changes in sexual practices have been relatively modest. In
total, only 53 percent of women reported having changed their sexual behavior in spite of having solid
knowledge of the risks associated with AIDS. By contrast, the proportion of non-married females who
reported having 2 or more partners dropped from 10 percent in 1993 to less than 4 percent in 1998/99,
suggesting adoption of more cautious sexual practices. Behavioral change among men appears to have
been more common. In total, 78 percent of men reported having changed sexual practices, with the highest
levels reported for urban residents (88 percent), those with secondary education levels or higher (89
percent), and those living in Ouagadougou (90 percent). While 26 percent of non-married males reported
having 2 or more partners in 1993, by 1998/99 only 13 percent reported having two or three partners (5
percent had four or more partners).
In spite of progress made in expanding contraceptive use, improving knowledge levels and bringing
about behavioral change, the project fell short of its stated development objectives, and is thus rated as
unsastifactory in terms of outcomes.
4.2 Outputs by components:
POPULATION COMPONENT
Improving access and quality of MCH/FP services FP services were expected to be available in
all health centers (650 at the time of project appraisal). About 920 health facilities are reported to provide
such services, but the quality is highly uneven, particularly in rural areas. In 1997, only 54 percent of the
total number of health facilities met minimum staffing requirements. The project has equipped 300 health
facilities and supplied virtually all the contraceptives used by the national FP program. Weaknesses in the
management of the national MCH/FP program, combined with continuing weak demand for FP services,
have impeded the full attainment of the appraisal target, as discussed above.
The project has also supported the construction of 50 village ambulances, of which 40 drawn by
- 6 -



motorcycles and 10 by donkeys. Given the high level of matemal mortality in Burkina Faso, developing
effective means of transporting women with obstetrical emergencies is an important means of saving lives.
An evaluation of the use of these ambulances was carried out after one year of operation. All villages
concemed had established management committees to take care of operating costs. Most of them indicated
their preference for ambulances drawn by motorcycles, even if operating costs were higher than those
drawn by donkeys. Following the evaluation, another 100 village ambulances drawn by motorcycles were
built.
Under the outreach program, the project was to introduce a commnunity-based distribution (CBD)
system of modem contraceptives in at least 400 villages. Project support was delayed, however, as the
Ministry of Health resisted the proposal to use traditional health workers to refill contraceptive
prescriptions. Eventually, after much prodding, efforts were made to train community agents (two per
village) and provide them with contraceptives, mostly condoms. A total of 716 villages benefited from the
new system, of which 600 with government support, and 116 through the support of two NGOs (ABBEF
and Fondation de Developpement Communautaire - FDC).
The project supported the construction of the ABBEF clinic in Ouagadougou, which provides
highly appreciated FP services. The project included a pilot component for CBD in 15 villages (5 in each
of the three provinces of Houet, Kouritenga and Kadiogo). In total, 70 villages benefitted from the new
system, which proved highly successful. Over 20,000 people, of which 60 percent women, used the
services provided. The project also helped build and equip a youth counseling center in the town of
Koudougou. In 2001 about 75,000 people aged between 15 and 25 sought guidance and advice from the
center. The Japanese bilateral assistance has agreed to finance the operating costs of the center.
The output of the MCH/FP sub-component is rated as marginally satisfactory. Quantitative
objectives have been achieved but the quality of services remains low.
Promoting information, education and communications campaigns Knowledge levels on
reproductive health have generally improved. For instance, the proportion of women who reported
knowledge of modem contraceptive methods has increased from 62.4 percent in 1993 to 76 percent in
1998/99. This has been accomplished mainly through multi-media campaigns, awareness-raising
workshops for about 1400 political, religious and traditional leaders, training of health personnel, and
publication and dissemination of demographic data for improved policy-making.
The project was expected to disseminate the new family code, establishing ground-breaking rights
for women. A survey conducted in 2000 has estimated that about 60 percent of the population had
knowledge about the new code. There is now a high demand for registering births and deaths, but vital
statistics offices have not followed suit. The campaign against female circumcision has been highly
effective, as over 95 percent of the people surveyed indicated that they did not approve of this practice.
The 1998/99 DHS reported that the female circumcision rate among 15-19 year-old women was 64
percent, compared to 71 percent in the 20-24 age group.
The IEC sub-component is rated as satisfactory.
Institutional strengthening An institutional assessement of CONAPO was carried out with
project support. In 1996 the permanent secretariat of CONAPO was reorganized and five additional staff
were recruited. The project provided training for CONAPO staff, office equipment and vehicles. Since
1999, CONAPO has been adequately funded by the Government. The Family Health Directorate (DSF) in
the Ministry of Health benefited from project support. A new office was built and equipped, but the
- 7 -



information technology system proved defective. An instutional assessment was carried out in 1997 and
the direcorate was restructured. Its efficiency has only marginally improved, however. The Directorate for
the Promotion of the Family (DPF) in the Ministry of Social Action and Family and the committee to
combat female circumcision were reinforced during the project. They have now established a network of
offices nationwide.
The institutional strengthening sub-component is rated as marginally satisfactory.
HIV/AIDS COMPONENT
Strengthening the national AIDS committee (CNLS) and the health system's capacity to deal
with AIDS needs. The permanent secretary of CNLS has been strengthened. A twinning arrangement
was signed in May 1997 with the Center for Intemational Development and Health (CCISD) of the
University of Laval (Canada). The secretary has demonstrated its capacity to manage a complex program.
The project has established a network of five sentinel surveillance sites for measuring HIV infection rates
during prenatal visits through the provision of long-term assistance, training of 35 agents, application of
new protocols and supply of materials and logistical support. It has strengthened the national capabilities
for blood screening through training and the supply of reagents. The studies envisaged under this
sub-component were carried out, but without the need for project support.
The capacity building sub-component is rated as satisfactory.
Promoting safer health practices and behavioral changes through information, education and
communications campaigns. The project has supported intensive IEC campaigns and large-scale training
programs. As indicated above, IEC activities carried out under the project have contributed to improved
knowledge about the transmission of HIV/AIDS and to behavioral changes, particularly in men. It is
estimated that 78 percent of men have changed sexual practices, with the highest levels reported for urban
residents (88 percent), those with secondary education or higher (89 percent) and those living in
Ouagadougou (90 percent).
The IEC sub-component is rated as satisfactory.
Promoting condom use The objective of the project in this area was to attain a condom utilization
rate of 20 percent for sexually active adult males. As already indicated, it is estimated that the condom
utilization rate reached over 26 percent by 2000. Annual sales of condoms through the social marketing
program have increased from about 7.5 million in 1996 to 13.5 million in 2000.
The condom sub-component is rated as satisfactory.
Screening & Treating STDs Efforts have been made to improve the screening and treatment of
STDs. Training has been provided to about 90 percent of district personnel, supplying drugs to 31 districts
out of 47, and providing algorithms. The impact of the project on the incidence of STDs is not clear,
however. Data on STD incidence rates do not reflect the full magnitude of the problem, with about 1
percent of women and 2 percent of men reporting an episode during the 12 months preceding the 1998/99
DHS. An assessment of the capacity of nurses in health centers to diagnose STDs and provide adequate
treatment was carried out in 2001. The assessment found that about one third of diagnoses were conducted
in accordance with the syndromic approach. Treatment prescribed was appropriate in about one third of
the cases, highlighting the importance of further strengthening these activities. A number of health centers
were not adequately equipped. For instance, only 38 percent of centers reported having a microscope.
-8 -



About 26 percent of respondents indicated that they had frequent problems with drug availability.
The STD component is rated as marginally satisfactory.
Strengthening clinical management and community care The project has procured medicines
for the treatment of opportunistic diseases. It has supported the preparation of a guide for the care of
IJV/AIDS infected people and the development of guidelines for the use of antiretroviral drugs. The
project supported the construction and equipment of an Ambulatory Treatment Center in Ouagadougou for
the care and treatment of AIDS patients as well as provided support for two centers which provide
voluntary testing and counseling to those affected by the epidemic.
The sub-component is rated as satisfactory.
Support for NGOs & associations for FP & EIIV/AIDS/STDs activities The project provided
valuable support to build capacities of NGOs and associations and to finance about 60 sub-projects,
covering about half of Burkina's provinces. Sub-projects covered mostly IEC for HIV/AIDS (84 percent of
funding), FP, and female circumcision activities. In total, roughly US$2.6 million or 92 percent of the total
Norwegian grant accompanying the IDA credit was disbursed by project closing. A number of problems
were encountered in the preparation and implementation of sub-projects in the initial years. Approval
procedures were found cumbersome and proposals were poorly prepared and not always discussed with
beneficiaries. These problems resulted in difficulties and delays, which were reflected in disbursement lags.
By project completion many of these problems were addressed. An evaluation of these activities was
carried out in 2000 and found a generally positive impact in terms of raising knowledge levels,
demystifying AIDS, encouraging behavioral change and motivating individuals to seek care for STDs. One
notable achievement was that many local NGOs benefited from the support of intemational NGOs and
smaller associations linked themselves up with umbrella NGOs to be able to benefit from the project. A
good start has been made in hamessing the energies of local associations. The capacity of local NGOs to
prepare and implement projects has been enhanced, and valuable experience has been gained. The
experience gained through this component assisted in the design of the recently approved US$22 million
IDA-funded HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project. The component is rated as satisfactory.
Support for annual HIV/AIDS work programs The January 2001 arnendment to the credit
agreement and the 9-month extension of the closing date opened up the possibility of supporting the
execution of annual HIV/AIDS work programs of line ministries and the piloting of a community-driven
scheme in Poni province. This amendment was inspired by the successful experience with funding annual
action plans of health districts under the parallel funded Health and Nutrition Project (ICR Report
#23519). Several ministries, including Agriculture, Education, Defense, Tourism and Transport, and
Social Action and Promotion of Women, have benefitted from project financing with a view to analyzing
the impact of the epidemic on their respective sectors and to design and carry out work programs. Most of
the activities funded during the context of a 9-month extension of the closing date included IEC and
training.
The Poni pilot scheme, implemented during the last year of the project, appears to have produced
some promising results on the ground. In nine months, the pilot supported a massive social mobilization of
all key stakeholders in the province, training of roughly 2000 trainers throughout the province,
establishment of HIV/AIDS committees at the village, department and provincial levels, and the
preparation & execution of micro-projects. During this period, close to 600 micro-projects worth
US$175,000 were funded in support of preventive activities, reaching close to 95 percent of all villages of
Poni province. In light of the initial promising results and the potential use of this model for scaling up to
-9-



the national level, the new sub-component is rated as highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project contributed to the development of institutions in the public sector and of NGOs.
CONAPO, DSF, DPF, and CNLS gained considerable experience during project implementation. The
project coordinating unit was effective in providing support to these various stakeholders. It has developed
into a highly efficient entity for implementing Bank-supported programs. The institutional development
impact of the project is rated as substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The capacity of local NGOs to prepare and implement projects was far weaker than expected at
appraisal. The Staff Appraisal Report indicated that the risk of low government capacity would be
addressed through heavy reliance on the private sector and NGOs. This expectation was clearly not based
on a capacity assessment of NGOs. Had such an assessment been carried out, it would have indicated an
extremely low level of capacity. During project implementation, efforts were made to build up capacity of
local NGOs, in particular through two contracts with umbrella NGOs, which were responsible for helping
their smaller counterparts prepare and implement projects.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Ministry of Health has not always been fully supportive of the project. A number of key
officials of the Ministry of Health appeared to believe that the operation should have been based within the
health ministry. The Ministry of Health was slow in supporting health-related activities that were under its
control. This was the case for instance of the community-based distribution of contraceptives. Only
recently did the Ministry agree to promote this activity beyond the 15 pilot villages reached in the early
phase of the project. The Ministry of Health was also slow in expanding voluntary testing and counseling
and in integrating the distribution of contraceptives in the essential drugs distribution channels of CAMEG,
the drug procurement and distribution agency.
During most of the project implementation period, the low quality, poor coverage and low
utilization of health services nationwide have been major constraints to improving MCH/FP services.
Government efforts to address these constraints were supported under the IDA-funded Health and Nutrition
Project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The remarkable stability of the project implementation unit has been a positive factor in ensuring a
satisfactory completion of a number of key activities. The unit was keen on ensuring a strict control of
project expenditures, so as to satisfy Bank requirements for adequate procurement and financial
management. Following the mid-term review in October 1998, the unit has proven its effectiveness in
improving access to project funds for all stakeholders.
- 10-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Disbursements; initial allocations and actual disbursements (US$ 000)
Category                            Initial allocation  Disbursed        %
Civil works                          500                 934             187
Goods                               5,500               3,282             59
Drugs & contraceptives              9,100               6,835             75
Consultant services                 2,900               2,623             90
Training & fellowships              2,100               4,565            217
IEC                                 2,200               3,098            141
Operating expenses                  1,200               1,835            153
Salaries                         (500)               (1,461)
Other                            (700)               ( 374)
AIDS grants                                              426
Unallocated                         2,800
Total                               26,300              23,371
As can be seen from the table above, actual disbursement for four categories, including civil works,
training, IEC and operating expenses, were much higher than anticipated. On the other hand they were
significantly lower than expected for goods and drugs and contraceptives, and, to a lesser extent, consultant
services. The disbursement schedule was amended three times. The first time, allocations for civil works
and salaries were increased in March 1999. Another reallocation took place in June 2000. Finally, in July
2001, a new disbursement category called AIDS grants was created.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project should be analyzed along three dimensions: technical, financial and
institutional. On the technical side, the knowledge transferred to health agents and social workers through
training seminars supported by the project should be maintained over time. Refresher courses will be
needed to ensure that these agents remember all they leamed and get continually updated information as
well. The infornation provided by the project on reproductive health and HIV transmission to the general
population is now acquired knowledge, but will need to be repeated and reinforced to promote behavior
change. The studies financed under the project need to be intemalized to ensure that activities aimed at
behavioral change are well targeted. On the institutional side, the agencies supported by the project in the
public and private sectors are likely to maintain the capacity acquired. On the financial side, the Burkinabe
government made budgetazy provisions for the operating costs of all executing agencies supported under
the project, but large additional extemal resources are required for an effective fight against the HIV/AIDS
pandemic and for reducing population growth over time.
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely on the technical and institutional sides, but
unlikely on the financial side.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Sustaining and broadening efforts on the reproductive health front will depend in large part on
- 11 -



continual efforts to strengthen the provision basic health services in the country, as discussed in the ICR of
the Health and Nutrition Project. Activities supported by the project in the area of HIV/AIDS prevention,
particularly during the last two years of project implementation, have prepared the ground for a more
sustained and intensive effort under the recently approved HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project, within the
framework of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was identified as a key element in the Bank's country assistance strategy, to the extent
that bringing about a reduction in fertility levels and slowing the spread of the H1V/AIDS epidemic were
considered essential for Burkina to realize its development potential. The Bank provided valuable
assistance to the Borrower during project preparation. The project was a complex undertaking, but
activities in a number of areas were required for achieving meaningful results. The performance of the
Bank in project identification and preparation is rated as satisfactory.
Appraisal of the project was generally thorough. The Bank team sought and managed to get
concessional funding for the project from two bilateral donors. One of them decided, however, to continue
its assistance in a separate way. The team designed an operation which was built on the Government's
commitment in the area of family planning and HIV/AIDS. Nevertheless, with the benefit of hindsight,
neither the Bank nor the Borrower took into account sufficiently the weaknesses in the health sector. The
appraisal report acknowledged that capacity was weak and proposed actions to strengthen key institutions.
The report, however, did not make an adequate assessment of the incentives of key stakeholders to
participate in the project. Appraisal of the project suffered from four major flaws. Outcome indicators
were overly optimistic. The project relied on IEC to change knowledge, on the assumption that it would
lead to changes in behavior. This assumption was not based on an analysis of effective demand. Project
implementation arrangements were not in place before credit approval. Finally, the appraisal team failed to
recognize and address the weak capacity of NGOs, which were expected to play a substantial role in
project implementation. The performance of the Bank in project appraisal is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
In the four years following Board approval, the same team leader supervised both the Population
and AIDS Project and the Health and Nutrition Project. During that time there were about two supervision
missions per year, but the teams were small and the missions lacked focus. Although little was happening
on the ground and disbursement lags were progressively increasing, the Population and AIDS Control
Project was consistently rated satisfactory for both implementation progress and development objective
achievement. The ratings for this project were downgraded in early 1998 when a new team leader was
appointed.
The new team carried out a mid-term review in October 1998. The mid-term review gave a new
impetus to project activities. It acknowledged progress made on IEC and institutional development. It
noted that a number of activities had been initiated, most of them, however, directed at urban areas. It
recommended that: (i) the project team give more attention to a number of issues, including the specific
needs of the rural population; (ii) the selection of activities to be supported under the project take better into
account their cost effectiveness, their sustainability and their contribution to capacity building; (iii) a major
effort to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system be made; (iv) the policy and institutional
framework for HIV/AIDS be clarified; and (v) project management, which was too centralized, become
- 12 -



more flexible, so as to allow a timely access to funds by local groups. However, the mid-term review failed
to make concrete recommendations on how to improve the flow of funds, and it did not revise the project
objectives.
Following the mid-term review, supervision became more effective. In October 1999, the
supervision indicated that a six-month extension of the closing date from June 30, 2000 to December 31,
2000 would be conditional upon the design and implementation of a rigorous and participatory evaluation
of Burkina Faso's experience in fighting HIV/AIDS. An internal Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review
did not agree with this proposal, however, and recommended that the credit be closed.
The supervision mission, which took place in February 2000 changed the rating for development
objective to satisfactory, on the basis of solid progress in three key areas, including establishing a strong
learning approach to HIV/AIDS, working more closely with civil society groups, and developing a
multi-sectoral approach to HIV/AIDS. While the change was understandable, it was not justified, as the
outcome indicators were clearly out of reach.
In the last year of project implementation, supervision became highly effective. The credit
agreement was amended to firtroduce flexible procedures for channeling funds to local stakeholders. The
closing date was extended to allow for the successful completion of ongoing activities, particularly the
evaluation work, and the initiation of activities in preparation of the new HIV/AIDS operation. These
activities included the preparation of action plans by line ministries and the piloting of a decentralized,
multi-sectoral, community-driven scheme in Poni province, which would serve as the basis for scaling up
the national HIV/AIDS program. Both these activities were highly successful.
Following the mid-term review, four task managers were responsible for the supervision of the
project, which was considered disruptive by the Borrower. There was nevertheless some continuity in the
approach taken. It was issues-oriented and highly supportive of efforts made on the ground. Despite
inadequate support provided by the Bank team during the first four years of project implementation, the
performance of the Bank in supervision is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Marginally Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
In 1991, the Govenmment adopted a national population policy with ambitious goals. In 1993, it
established CONAPO to coordinate implementation of the policy. It initiated an EEC campaign on
HAV/AIDS in 1987 and launched its first medium-term program for AIDS control in 1989. The following
year it established CNLS, the AIDS national committee as a multi-sectoral body under the responsibility of
the Minister of Health. A second medium-term program (1993-95) was prepared. It was heavily weighted
towards prevention activities and served as a basis for the design of this project. Despite their overly
ambitious targets, the government's population and HIV/AIDS policies were sound. The performance of
the Borrower during project preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was slow in meeting the conditions of credit effectiveness, in particular the
reorganization of the permnanent secretary of the CNLS and the recruitment of staff. Part of these delays
- 13-



may be due to ownership problems, as the home of the project was the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
This implied that other key stakeholders, such as the Ministry of Health was not always as engaged as
might have been desirable, particularly in the early years. The mid-term review re-energized support to the
project from various segments of the Government. Project implementation accelerated and most project
activities were successfully completed.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project coordination unit did a remarkable job throughout the life of the project. It was a
well-managed unit, and it ensured that Bank procurement and financial management procedures were
applied. Audit reports were prepared on time and were all positive. The unit demonstrated that once the
procedures for channeling funds to communities and line ministries were revised it was able to overcome
some of the earlier criticisms about slowness in disbursements.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned are grouped into five broad categories:
ROLE OF NGOS
*   NGOs and associations have demonstrated their potential in supporting the government's HIVIAIDS
and reproductive health programs. Experience under the project has demonstrated that these
organizations have an intimate knowledge of local communities, facility to deal with beneficiaries on
sensitive matters, and often use participatory & innovative approaches. Against these strengths, NGOs
have been found to have limited capacities, especially in the technical, financial management and
monitoring & evaluation areas, highlighting the importance of strengthening these organizations and
assisting them to work under larger umbrella associations. In addition, experience under the project
has shown that it is equally important to facilitate access to financing as well as to ensure continuity in
funding, particularly for the smaller organizations which are highly dependent on donor funding.
Building and refining on the process of contracting NGOs under this project, the main lessons taken
into account in the new HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project include: (a) promoting a competitive
process for awarding contracts to these organizations to stimulate innovation, encourage transparency
and target interventions to vulnerable groups; (b) adopting flexible procedures and standardized
contracts, which stipulate deliverables, performance indicators and conditions of tennination; (c)
developing and adapting monitoring and evaluation reporting mechanisms to the capacities of the
respective organization; (d) strengthening capacities of these organizations and relying on umbrella
NGOs for reaching smaller organizations; (e) incorporating information from Behavioral Surveillance
Surveys and Beneficiary Assessments into NGO contracting in order to link investments to behavioral
change and to better track client satisfaction; and (f) getting a better handle on the costs and quality of
the services provided by these organizations.
COMMUNTY DRIVEN APPROACHES TO HIV/AIDS
*   The Poni pilot scheme demonstrated that it is feasible to mount a major HIVIAIDS community driven
initiative, in a relatively short time, and at a reasonable cost. According to an external evaluation
(2001), the scheme demonstrated the capacity and commitment of provincial and local authorities to
mount a large scale initiative and the feasibility of getting financial resources quickly to a large number
of stakeholders. The 'learn by doing' approach generated promising results, highlighting the importance
- 14 -



of strong political commitment, leadership, and community involvement. The adoption of flexible
procedures for channeling resources based on annual work plans, directly from the center into village
bank accounts demonstrated that once the credit agreement was amended the Project Management Unit
was able to overcome many of the earlier criticisms that funds were not reaching beneficiaries in at
timely fashion. At the same time, the pilot scheme highlighted the important challenges that need to be
taken into account in scaling up. Noteworthy lessons relate to the need to: (i) adapt the pace of
activities to the local socio-cultural context; (ii) specify rules of the game clearly from the outset; (iii)
assist communities to shift the focus from educational activities to care & treatment; and (iv) ensure
that activities are well integrated into other local activities to reap potential synergies.
BEHAVIORAL CHANGE AND INTEGRATION OF FP & HIV/AIDS ACTIVITIES
*   Increasing knowledge levels of HIV/AIDS and FP issues is insufficient for bringing about behavioral
change. Even discounting for the self reporting nature of this information, it is clear that a sizable
proportion of the population has knowledge of these issues. Nevertheless, behavioral change continues
to lag substantially behind. This is not surprising given the high levels of illiteracy in Burkina. It does,
however, raise important lessons as to 'how' infornation is disseminated and 'what' other
complementary measures need to be taken to bring about behavioral change which will stem the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Burkina. While the majority of the IEC efforts supported under the project
consisted of mass media campaigns, experience from other successful programs (e.g. Uganda) has
demonstrated the importance of receiving messages from peers and family members rather than through
the mass media. Thus, a key lesson for the Burkina program which has been taken into account in the
design of the new IDA-funded project is the importance of better targeting IEC messages and
expanding behavioral change communication efforts. Furthermore, experience also has shown that
behavioral change is more likely to occur when preventive messages and condom promotion are
accompanied by genuine changes in gender dynamics that empower women to better control their
sexuality. While this project did not address gender issues it is generally well recognized that these are
fundamental to behavioral change, as young women need to be empowered to negotiate their sexual
relations and need to be provided with altemative ways of eaming their livelihood.
*   There is a need to transcend institutional boundaries in order to reap the potential synergies between
HIV/AIDS and FP efforts. Even though the project supported both of these critical programs, with the
benefit of hindsight, there was insufficient coordination and little integration of these activities. Given
that both programs have broadly identical objectives (i.e. adopting safer sexual practices) and use
similar strategies (e.g. behavioral change communications, community based condom distribution), it is
paradoxical that they are seen as being competitors rather than collaborators. This apparent paradox is
related to both perceptions and realities on the ground, as HIV/AIDS activities have received greater
intemational attention during the past decade and sometimes increased levels of funding. In Burkina,
this issue manifested itself at the local level, where supporters of FP activities in Poni province felt that
the HIV/AIDS pilot was absorbing a disproportionate amount of attention and taxing the limited local
capacities. A couple of lessons are worthwhile highlighting. First, there is a need to break down
institutional barriers and work towards common goals in a multi-sectoral fashion. Second, there is a
need to reassess how health staff and community workers are compensated to ensure one program does
not create perverse effects to neglect the other. Third, greater use of management contracts which
stipulate deliverables could potentially create greater incentives for all stakeholders to work together.
MONITORING & EVALUATION
*   A solid monitoring and evaluation system is critical to the development of an effective national
program. A number of key lessons have emerged from this project and have been incorporated into the
design of the new operation. First, there is a need to select appropriate indicators that correspond to
- 15-



program goals and objectives and to set realistic targets for changes that are expected as a result of the
proposed interventions. As already noted above, the goal of slowing the spread of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic was probably overly optimistic. While target setting for reduction in infection rates was
common to many of the first generation AIDS projects, the bulk of the new operations supported under
the MAP focus on process and outcome measures, as is the case with the new HIV/AIDS Disaster
Response Project in Burkina. A related point worthwhile mentioning is that, with the benefit of
hindsight, these targets should probably have been revised at the rnid-term review to correspond to
what could realistically be achieved. Second, it is important to prepare a baseline study against which
progress can be monitored. One of the shortcomings of this operation is that at project closing
policymakers still do not have a good grasp of the magnitude and scope of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, as
there was no baseline study and data from the sentinel surveillance sites are not nationally
representative. A related lesson deals with the importance of striking the right balance between
quantitative and qualitative studies, which the project did fairly well. Finally, another related point
deals with the importance of incorporating into the project design the 'gold standard' surveys (e.g.
Demographic and Health Surveys, Behavioral Surveillance Surveys), which provide comparable data
across countries and over time. Third, there is a need to assess institutional arrangements for
handling monitoring and evaluation and to make provision for strengthening capacities during the life
of the project. Experience has also shown the importance of establishing a dedicated M & E within the
national program, as will be done shortly. A related point which is also worthwhile highlighting is the
need to change the institutional culture, so that information from M & E systems is used strategically
for decisionmaking. Finally, experience from Burkina and other places has shown the importance of
partnerships in supporting monitoring and evaluation activities. Collaboration with UNAIDS, USAID
and its specialized sub-contractors (e.g. MEASURE/Evaluation Project) is a key feature of the new
Burkina HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project.
IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
* Adopting flexible procedures for channeling funds to multiple stakeholders improves accountability,
raises motivation, accelerates the pace of implementation, and enhances results. The centralized
nature of the project design and the rigidities in the flow of funds represented major shortcomings in
the design, which impeded the smooth implementation of the project. While the parallel-funded Health
and Nutrition Project was restructured at mid-term to address a similar problem this project was not
restructured until the last year. The ICR team was told that the multi-sectoral nature of this project
rendered it difficult to restructure and that the Bank wanted to monitor the experience under the health
project before expanding the pilot to other sectors. With the benefit of hindsight, perhaps there was a
missed opportunity at the mid-term review to address the systemic problems hindering implementation.
Once the project was restructured in early 2001, the project management team proved its effectiveness
in channeling financial resources in an expeditious manner to multiple stakeholders, paving the way for
the introduction of a new way of doing business in the context of the Burkina MAP operation. Finally,
it should also be noted that it is critical to establish clear procedures for accessing funds in an
operational manual prior to credit effectiveness.
*   Minimizing the number and complexity of the conditions of effectiveness is critical to a rapid
start up. Implementation arrangements should be in place before credit approval. Special
effectiveness conditions should be avoided as much as possible. Delays in meeting effectiveness
conditions sap energies on both the Borrower and Bank sides.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 16 -



Translation of Fax of March 11, 2002:
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
GENERAL COOPERATION DIRECTORATE
No. 2002/426/MEF/ /SG.DGCOOP/DCM
Ref: Your letter No. BS/057/02 dated February 14, 2002
Subject: Comments on the World Bank Implementation Completion Report
on the Population and Aids Control Project (PPLS)
To the Resident Representative of the World Bank in Burkina Faso
Ouagadougou
Dear Mr. Resident Representative,
We acknowledge receipt of you letter transmitting the Implementation Completion Report of the
Population and Aids Control Project (PPLS) prepared by your technical unit. I appreciate the high quality
of the analysis and the analytic rigor used in reaching the conclusions in the ICR at the completion of the
PPLS.
Indeed, with the assistance of your institution, the Government of Burkina Faso set up the PPLS
for the period starting January 1, 1995 up to December 31, 2000 and extended it to September 30, 2001.
The main objective of the Project was, on one hand, to contribute to a reduction in fertility through an
increase in modem contraceptives, and, on the other hand, to limit the spread of HIV/AIDS by promoting a
change of behavior and by treating Sexually Transmissible Infections.
At the end of the Project, it is therefore appropriate that we examine together retrospectively the
activities carried out This will allow us to take stock of the strengths and weaknesses and to look for ways
to strengthen the achievements so that they may serve as an orientation for future interventions.
In general, the results of the Project (gathered from various studies) were assessed favorably by
over two hundred participants from diverse backgrounds (Implementation Units, NGOs and Associations,
Beneficiaries and Development Partners) who took part in the final evaluation workshop of the said Project
which was held in Ouagadougou on September 27-29, 2001.
It became quite clear that the Project, through its financial support, contributed to the
implementation of numerous activities in the areas of population and HIV/AlDS as well as against
Sexually Transmissible Infections.
On behalf of the Government, I am very pleased with the positive assessment by the World Bank of
the quality of the project management. This is very reassuring for us, in view of the complexity of the
activities and of the multitude of implementing structures which have benefited from the Project. Before
sending you the Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Government, which is currently being
finalized, I am happy to emphasize the following main points:
- 17-



I.     Assessment of the Project Design
The PPLS assisted in financing a large number of activities in the area of reproductive health and
of women's rights. The objectives of the Project were viewed as pertinent and timely, even though the
assessment found that the quantitative objectives were ambitious. This is particularly true regarding the
objective dealing with contraceptive prevalence in rural areas.
The activities of the Project, through the three components, have had a positive impact in
improving knowledge and attitudes with regard to reproductive health and in mobilizing NGOs and
Associations.
2.     Population and Family Planning Component
With regard to impact, we can observe that the acceptance of modem contraceptive methods has
effectively improved in urban areas. Indeed, the results of the second Demographic and Health Survey
show that the contraceptive prevalence rate was around 20.1% in 1998/99 against an target of 32% to be
reached by 1999. The contraceptive prevalence rate was around 17.1% in 1993. For rural areas, the
contraceptive prevalence rate rose from 1.5% in 1993 to 2.6% in 1998/99. This result shows that the 9%
target (in the PAD) is far being attained in rural areas, and that many efforts need to be made in favor of
the rural population in this area.
3      HIV/AIDS and STI Component
In the area of AIDS control, we can observe that all segments of society have effectively become
aware of the dangers and adverse effects of HIV/AIDS. The implementation of a sustained program to
sensitize through multi-media campaigns, the establishment of a disease surveillance system and the
creation of structures for the care and treatment of IDS patients by the State and NGOs/Associations have
all contributed to achieving these results.
New strategies and promising approaches, such as the experience of line ministries and the very
rich experience of the Gaoua Pilot Project in the fight against AIDS in Poni province were pilot with a view
to replicating on a larger scale, in order to stem the impact of the epidemic.
4.     Population and AIDS Fund Component
The financing of micro-projects executed by over three hundred NGOs/Associations covered all
areas of intervention of the PPLS, with an emphasis on NGOs/Associations active in the area of HIV/AIDS
and mostly in urban and semi-urban areas. In terms of impact, we observe notable progress in community
mobilization and awareness efforts as a result of the actions led by NGOs/Associations.
In conclusion, PPLS has generally assisted in carrying out activities and in achieving convincing
and satisfying results for all components, sub-components and sub-activities of the project, even though the
initial objectives of the Project as described in the appraisal report did not reach the expected targets. The
achievements of the Project will serve as building blocks for future interventions.
Drawing on the satisfying results regarding the management and implementation of the PLLS, the
Govemment has already been able to benefit from an IDA Credit in the amount of 17.3 millions SDR
toward the implementation of the HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project (PMLS).
- 18 -



In addition to the various points mentioned above, we have made some observations regarding style
and presentation, which you will find in the attached annex (comments incorporated into ICR).
We hope this contribution will improve the final version of the report. We also thank your
institution for the invaluable assistance you have rovided us in our fight against this pandemic.
Sincerely yours,
Jean-Baptiste Compaore
Officer of the National Order
(b) Cofinanciers:
The Norwegian government inforrned the Bank on March 13, 2002 that the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs has no comments on the final report.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
A completion workshop was held in September 2001. Representatives of all stakeholders
in the project attended. A general consensus emerged from the workshop on the following issues:
(i) complexity of the institutional framework; (ii) excessive centralization in project management
and funding procedures; and (iii) extreme weaknesses of local NGOs. Participants recommended
that the Government pursue its decentralization efforts aimed at bringing public services closer to
the population. Modem methods of contraception should be aggressively promoted through
intensification of the community-based distribution schemes. Local NGOs should be further
strengthened. The workshop strongly supported the pairing of local and intemational NGOs
initiated under the project.
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase the prevalenoe of modem methods                                  Rural: 2.6%
of contraception in rural areas from 1.5% to                               Urban: 20.1 %
9% and in urban areas from 17% to 32%;
Slow the spread of HIV infection                                          Sero-prevalence rate was 7.2% in 1997; it is
estimated at 100% In 2001
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Make family planning services available in all                            AU 920 health facilities provide FP services,
700 health centers (Centres de Sante et                                   but quality is uneven
Promoton Sociale-CSPS)
Introduce a community-based distribution  400 villages                    716 villages benefit from CBD
(CBD) system of modem contraceptives in at
least 400 villages
Promote knowledge on reproductive health                                  76% of women had knowledge on modem
contraceptive methods in 1999 versus 62.4%
in 1993
Reduce Excision                                                           Excision rate in 15/19 group was 64% in
1999 (71% in 20/24 group)
Provide protection to 20% of sexually active                              26%
male population
Studies towards establishing a leaming                                    5 studies completed (see Annex 7)
approach to HIVIAIDS interventions
Create and expand partnerships with civl                                  512 villages
society to fight HIV/AIDS (Civil society
committees in villages);
Develop a coordinated, multisectoral strategy                             Completed
to fight HIV/AIDS;
Create safe blood supples for transfusions.                               Completed
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal    Corrected  Actual/Latest Percentage
Estimate    Estimated    Estimate   of Appraisal
Costs
Project Cost By Component        US$ million  US$ million  US$ million
1. Support for the Implementation of the   13.00        15.63        12.33       78.90
Government's Population Policy
2. Strengthen the National Capacity to Contain  12.70   12.86        11.34       88.14
the Spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs
3. Encourage Private Sector and NGO         4.00        3.00          2.74       91.61
Participation in Population, FP and
HIV/AIDS/STDs
Total Baseline Cost                        29.70        31.50        26.42       83.89
Physical Contingencies                     0.90
Price Contingencies                        3.90
Total Project Costs           34.50       31.50         26.42
Total Financing Required           34.50        31.50        26.42       83.89
Since the Danish Funds were not made available and since a Norwegian Grant was added after
negotiations, the Project Unit requested to add a second column entitled "Corrected Estimated Costs"
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Civil Works               0.00         0.53         0.10          0.00        0.63
(0.00)        (0.53)       (0.10)       (0.00)      (0.63)
2. Goods                     4.60         0.81         0.72          0.00         6.13
(4.60)       (0.81)        (0.72)       (0.00)      (6.13)
3. Drugs                     4.60                                                4.60
(2.60)                                              (2.60)
4. Contraceptives            4.30                      0.00          0.00        4.30
(4.30)                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (4.30)
5. Preservatives             3.30                      0.00          0.00        3.30
(3.30)                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (3.30)
6. Specialist Services
a) Local                                             1.70                       1.70
(1.70)                    (1.70)
b) International                                      1.30                      1.30
(1.30)                    (1.30)
7. Training
a) Abroad
- 21 -



0.80                         0.80
(0.80)                       (0.80)
b) in Bukina Faso
1.70                         1.70
(1.70)                       (1.70)
8. Funds for population and                                    4.0                         4.00
HIV activities                                            (4.00)                       (4.00)
9. IEC                                                        2.60                         2.60
(2.60)                       (2.60)
10. Recurrent Costs                                           1.23           2.2           3.43
(1.23)                       (1.23)
Total                        16.80          1.40           14.2           2.2          34.50
(14.80)        (1.40)         (10.2)                   _(26.30)
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB           NCB           Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Civil Works                  0.00           0.86           0.04          0.01           0.91
(0.00)         (0.86)         (0.04)        (0.01)        (0.91)
2. Goods                        0.99           1.15           0.84          0.00           2.98
(0.99)         (1.15)         (0.84)        (0.00)        (2.98)
3. Drugs                        2.31           0.00           4.13          0.00           6.44
(2.31)         (0.00)         (4.13)        (0.00)         (6.44)
4. Specialist Services          1.24           0.00           1.65           0.00          2.89
(1.24)         (0.00)         (1.65)        (0.00)         (2.89)
5. Training & Scholarships      0.00           0.00           4.13          0.00           4.13
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.13)        (0.00)         (4.13)
6. IEC                          0.00           0.00           2.81          0.00           2.81
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.81)        (0.00)         (2.81)
7. Additional Recurrent         0.00           0.00           1.59          0.34           1.93
Costs                       (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.59)         (0.34)        (1.93)
B. Norwegian Grant               0.00          0.00           0.00           2.74          2.74
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.74)         (2.74)
9. Funds for HIV Activities      0.00          0.20           1.29           0.00          1.49
(0.00)         (0.20)         (1.29)        (0.00)         (1.49)
Total*                       4.54           2.21           16.48          3.19         26.32
(4.54)         (2.21)        (16.48)        (3.19)        (26.32)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governmnent units.
* The total amount reflects the total amount of the Credit + the amount of the Norwegian TF.
- 22 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate  Corrected Estim.   Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
Costs
Component        Bank   Govt.   CoF.  Bank   Govt. CoF.   Bank   Govt.  CoF.   Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Support the Impl. of  14.31  1.32  0.00  14.31  1.32  0.00   12.11  0.21   0.00  84.67   16.37  0.00
Govt.'s Population Policy
2. Strengthen the Nati.  11.99  0.88  2.00  11.98  0.88  0.00   11.19  0.14   0.00  93.41   16.37  0.00
Capacity to Contain the
Spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs
3. Encourage Private   0.00   0.00   4.00   0.00   0.00  3.00   0.00   0.00   2.74   0.00   0.00   91.61
Sector & NGO Particip. in
Pop., FP, &
HIV/AIDS/STD Programs
TOTAL                  26.30  2.20   6.00   26.30  2.20  3.00  23.31   0.36   2.74
-23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
NA
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1993                    3    PH, Oth (2)                      S             S
05/1993                    4    PH (2), 0th (2)                  S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1994                    8
Supervision
11/1995                     5   PH, Op, Oth (3)                  S             S
02/1996                     1   PH                               S             S
06/1996                     3   PH, 0th (2)                      S             S
03/1997                     3   PH, 0th (2)                      S             S
11/1997                     8   HP (2), Op, Ec), 0th (4)         S             S
01/1998                     2   Op, Oth                          S             S
07/1998                     7   HP (3) Op (2), Ec (2)            U             U
10/1998                     9   HP (3), Op (4), 0th              U             S
05/1999                     8   HP (3), Op (2), 0th (3)          U             S
09/1999                     8   HP (2), Op (2), Ec, 0th (3)      U             S
12/1999                     5   PH, Ec, 0th (3)                  U             S
02/2000                     5   PH, Ec (2) 0th (2)               U             S
05/2000                     1   0th                              U             S
09/2000                     8   HP, Op (3), Ec (2), 0th (2)      U             S
11/2000                     1   Op                               S             S
06/2001                     1   HP                               S             S
ICR
10/2001                    8    HS (2) ,HP,Con, Op (2),          S             U
0th (2)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                   144,224.92
Appraisal/Negotiation                                        144,224,92
Supervision                          184.97                  224,420.92
ICR                                   14.34                   29,741.85
Total                                199.31                  254,162.77
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
OG Physical                              O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
O Financial                              O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
El Institutional Development             O H  0 SU O M   O N   0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction              O H   OSU*M      O N   O NA
El Gender                         O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
LI Other (Please specify)         OH    OSUOM      ON    * NA
LI Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  O SUO M     0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
Reinforcement of NGO capacity.
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS        O U   O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       0  U   O HU
LI Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
FI Implementation agency performance                0 HS OS      0 U    0 HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.   Staff Appraisal Report, May 31, 1994
2. Rapport d 'Evaluation, 31 mai 1994
3.  Development Credit Agreement (June 8, 1994)
4.  Norwegian Grant Agreement (March 27, 1995)
5. Seroprevalence et Pratiques d Risques a l 'Infection par le VIH en Milieu Carceral au
Burkina Faso/Cas de la Maco (Min.Sante/CNSL)
6.  Etude de la Distribution des Condoms au Burkina Faso (KFW, J.P. Tchupo, C. Mikem, J.
Timyan, S.S. Toe, J.G. Ouango, S. Watts, April 1995)
7. Etude pour l 'Organisation et le Fonctionnement du Secretariat Permanent (CONAPO,
August 1995)
8.  Planification Familiale i Base Communautaire au Burkina Faso : Experiences et Le,ons
by Gaston Sorgho (MESP/GTZ, May 1997)
9.  PremiereMesure des Indicateurs de Prevention (IP6/1P7) des Maladies Sexuellement
Transmissibles dans les Unites d 'Intervention du Projet (Centre de Coop&ration Intl. En
Sante et Developpement : Rapport Final, avril 1998)
10. Evaluation des Comportements Sexuels, de la Perception, de I 'Acquisition de l 'Utilisation
du Condom, et des Methodes Contraceptives au Burkina Faso (CNSL/PROMACO,
December 1999)
11. Evaluation des ambulances villageoises ((DSF, rapport final, janvier 2000)
12. Evaluation de l 'Impact des Interventions Financees par le Fonds de Population et de
SIDA et Audit de la Gestion et de l 'Utilisation des Fonds D&aisses (Rapport Provisoire,
PPLS: April 2000)
13. Enquete Demographique et de Sante 1998-1999 (INSD: June 2000)
14. Evaluation de l 'Impact des Interventions Financees par le Fonds de Population et de
SIDA et Audit sur la Gestion et l 'Utilisation des Fonds Decaisses (Rapport Defiritif:
PANAF CONSEIL, 18 septembre 2000)
15. Enquetes de connaissances, Attitudes et pratiques (CAP) (PPLS: July 2001)
16.  Evaluation Qualitative des actions de lutte contre le VIHISida/ISTaupres des
beneficiaires (PPLS: September 2001)
17. Evaluation de la prise en charge des cas d'infections sexuellement transmissibles au
Burkina Faso (IP6/IP7) (PPLS: September 2001)
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8.Be neficiary Survey
A survey was carried out in August 2001 to assess sexual behaviors of specific groups.
Community leaders educators, health agents and representatives of at-risk groups were
interviewed, individually and through focus groups. About 37 percent of respondents indicated
that they were faithful to their partner. About one third were engaged in multi-partner relations,
and 12 percent practiced abstinence. The distinction between the first to categories of respondents
was blurred, however, because several of them considered that they were faithful, though engaged
in multi-partner relations. Faithfulness was more prevalent in rural areas and among urban
women.
Condoms are used by close to 60 percent of people in at-risk groups, but systematically
only by students and sex workers. Knowledge about HIV/AIDS is still limited, despite
information campaigns. A number of respondents said that they could identify infected people
and stay clear from them. Respondents among at-risk groups were of the opinion that sexual
relations without protection bring about good luck.
Religious affiliations had clearly an influence on responses given. Christian respondents
emphasized abstinence, while Moslems considered that condoms were not acceptable on religious
grounds. A number of traditional customs, such as post-partum abstinence or the obligation for a
widow to live with the brother of the deceased, favor the spread of the HIV infection. Social
conditions among miners, truck drivers and former migrant workers provide also fertile grounds
for the spread of the disease.
-29 -



- 30 -



MAURITANIA
BURKINA              FASO                                                            M A L I                          Area ofm mp
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                             NUKNAFS     R :
'3 CAPITALE D'ETAT                                                                                              BUKN A SO
.~RIVERS                                                                                           GUINEA , ,'LJ  '<    NI
RIVIERES                                                             OUDALAN 
____PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                             eGroGrm                         (0
LIMITES DES PROVINCES r                      *'mn                                                      CTE L  GHANA 1 ,
_,_ -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                        L - -                 UMSOUMiIEEPIA5 DIVI1pl
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                         0Djib-
0__________50  100    150     200 __t_s_ENO_A_ NotL4Nrlc t                                                      CEAN
KILOMETERS /KILOMETRES    W        AEG      }      )    t                        ,?, 
YATENGA
rQ   1   \ Ouahigouya    BAM
-( >, SOUROU           usA M(EGAoNouI                                                           E R
(              0~~~~~~~~~lugan                  K AMAEG D.GAGA          -
M  A  L I         *   KOSSI          | --  -  >    / Yako e                  c)    0 0Band,
Nouno       AAA 
~*4  O  _  NAYALA / '9   / "OUBRITENG      Bou sr
-             /   7~~~~~~~~~EWE~~uo G4, IOG
p.        Dkdougou    ~~~~~~~~~~R& 'Kouo  "'O,
1  BANWA        M   OUHOUN  SANGUIE6    C ULKIE E  A   \   Z
-12,                       - _-                               -    I ombissirio                                            Diapaga 1A2A
,~~i ~~~  BAZEGA  -Fd-N'Gourma
J 1 -'          LES wBALE         7_ J              } )'<, Mangac <Tenkodogoo   .                   D           12'
KENEDOUGOU ',                      I,-~~  ZIRO       zuoW       BOULGOU)
} KENEDOGT               -TUY                              pI 26'f6                KOULPEL     KOMPIENGA
Bobo-                4-    S S S LI        NAHOURI                           |
0Dioulasso'\  -         A".   _.-
|  ERs     Eonom   */        dvGURII It                        (,                                                   B E N I N     
-R  Ordaa    -' -              Di bo-go                                                  ) 
COMOE            PN Goa- 
This np was produd by th 1
-  . NUMBIE                                                                   Map Design Unil of Th, World Bank.
J, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h onais.ab,deniten
and cnyotber ink, ration shown en
thin snap da nnt imply, en the part af
The World Bank Group, any judgment  F
G  H  N  A                              o~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~n the legalstate- ofany territory, o, r
COTE     D'IVOIRE      t                                                                         TOGO        r-chbeptunonrief
'0                             4'                               2'                                                                2'         a0
-4'01
N4I1 



