Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2619 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and AIDS Control Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2619 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1994, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received two letters dated May 4, 1994 and April 1, 
1994, from the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to promote: (1) the Borrower's population policy; and (2) the Borrower's 
policy relative to the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), respectively, 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway (Norway) intend 
to enter into an Agreement (the Norwegian Grant Agreement), for the purpose of making 
available to the Borrower a grant in an aggregate amount of twenty-two million five 
hundred thousand Norwegian Kroner (NOK 22,500,000) (the Norwegian Grant) to assist in 
financing part of the Project and, for that purpose, Norway has requested and the Bank 
has agreed to administer the Norwegian Grant pursuant to the provisions of an 
agreement to be entered into between Norway and the Bank and a Development Grant 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank as Administrator on 
behalf of Norway;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of the Kingdom of 
Denmark a grant (the Danish Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"MS" means Ministere de la Sante, the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(d)
"MASF" means Ministere de l'Action Sociale et de la Famille, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Social Action and Family;
(e)
"MEFP" means Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning;
(f)
"IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
 
(g)
"MCC" means Ministere de la Communication et de la Culture, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Communication and Culture;
(h)
"WHO" means World Health Organization;
 
(i)
"UNFPA" means United Nations Fund for Population Activities;
 
(j)
"CNLS" means Comite National pour la Lutte contre le Sida, the National 
AIDS Committee;
(k)
"PS/CNLS" means the Permanent Secretary of CNLS;
 
(l)
"FP" means family planning;
 
(m)
"MCH" means maternal and child health;
 
(n)
"HIV" means human immunodeficiency virus;
 
(o)
"STD" means sexually transmitted disease;
 
(p)
"Family Code" means the Borrower's family code as enacted by ZATU AN 
VII-0013-FP-PRES of November 16, 1989;
(q)
"NGO" means non governmental organization;
 
(r)
"DPF" means Direction de la Promotion de la Famille, the Directorate of 
Family Promotion in MASF;
(s)
"CONAPO" means Conseil National de Population, the Borrower's 
Page  3
Interministerial Population Committee, created by Decret No. 83-104/CSP/PRES/PL dated 
February 18, 1983 and amended by Decret No. 93-413/PRES/MFP dated December 28, 1993;
(t)
"PS/CONAPO" means the Permanent Secretary of CONAPO;
 
(u)
"DSF" means Direction de la Sante Familiale, the Directorate of Family 
Health in MS;
(v)
"ABBEF" means Association Burkinabe du Bien Etre Familial, a Burkinabe 
NGO for family well-being;
(w)
"CM" means Centre Medical, medical center;
 
(x)
"CMA" means Centre Medical avec Antenne Chirurgicale, medical center with 
surgical unit;
(y)
"CSPS" means Centre de Sante et de Promotion Sociale, health and social 
development center; and
(z)
"CAMEG" means Centrale d'Achat des Medicaments Essentiels et Generiques, 
the Borrower's procurement entity for essential and generic drugs.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
19,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank in Ouagadougou on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2004 and ending February 15, 2034. 
Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an  annual rate agreed with the Association 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEFP, MS and MASF with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, sociological and health 
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction of its obligations under paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) provide in its annual budget amounts adequate 
to cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the Project; and (ii) open and 
maintain in a commercial bank in Ouagadougou an account (the Project Account) to be 
used exclusively to meet expenditures under the Project and deposit into the Project 
Account: (A) an initial amount of $25,000 equivalent by January 1, 1996; and (B) the 
remaining amount of its counterpart contributions, quarterly in advance, according to 
a schedule of payments agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) no later than March 1997, or at such later 
Page  5
date as the Association and the Borrower shall agree upon, carry out jointly with the 
Association an in-depth review of the Project implementation (mid-term review), and 
invite Norway, Denmark and other donors contributing to the Project to participate in 
such review; such review to assess, inter alia: (i) progress in meeting the Project's 
objectives; and (ii) status of Project implementation assessed against: (A) monitoring 
indicators agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association and attached to each of the 
two policy letters referred to under Recital B of this Agreement; and (B) the 
monitoring and evaluation system referred to under paragraph (3) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and propose ways to improve Project implementation, if required;
(b)
furnish to the Association, not later than one month prior to such 
mid-term review, a report intended to prepare such review, with proposals for change 
to improve the effectiveness of Project implementation, if warranted; and
(c)
following such review, act promptly and diligently in taking any 
corrective action deemed necessary by the participants of the mid-term review, and 
prepare and implement an action plan and take such measures satisfactory to the 
Association as appropriate in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure the conclusion of an agreement between 
MFP and MCC, satisfactory to the Association, stipulating the scope and frequency of 
IEC and media activities to be carried out under the Project. 
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  6
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or significant parts thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for 
financing Part D 
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled 
or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for Part D of the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section 
and shall continue for a period of one hundred and twenty days.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Norwegian Grant 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Danish Grant 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has concluded with WHO an agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of Part B (b) of the Project;
Page  7
(d)
the Borrower has concluded with UNFPA an agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of Part A (b) of the Project;
(e)
a training program, acceptable to the Association, has been approved by 
the Borrower;
(f)
the staff of the Coordinating Team referred to in paragraph (1) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph and has assumed its positions in offices adequate to carry out their 
functions;
(g)
PS/CNLS has been reorganized according to paragraph (2) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(h)
the monitoring and evaluation system referred to under paragraph (3) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been established;
(i)
(a) The Fund and the Committee, referred to under paragraph (4)(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, have been established; and (b) the standard contract and 
the Manuel des Procedures, referred to under paragraph (4)(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, have been adopted by the  Borrower, all to the satisfaction of the 
Association;
(j)
the accounting firm referred to in paragraph (5) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement has been recruited in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph, and 
has installed a computerized accounting system for the Project; and
(k)
the independent auditors, referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, have been appointed under a multiyear contract in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of  Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances
   et du Plan
BP 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SEGEGOUV
5555 SEGEGOU
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Thomas Kambou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Works                        360,000        100%
(2)     Goods                      3,960,000        100%
(3)     Drugs,                     6,550,000        100%
        Contraceptives
        and Condoms
(4)     Consultant                 2,090,000        100%
        services
(5)     Training                   1,510,000        100%
(6)     Media                      1,590,000        100%
(7)     Incremental
        operating costs:
       (a) salaries                  360,000        100%
Page  9
       (b) other                     510,000        100% through
                                                    December 31, 1995;
                                                    65% through
                                                    December 31, 1997;
                                                    35% thereafter
(8)     Unallocated                2,070,000
                                   __________
        TOTAL                     19,000,000
                                   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Media" means all costs related to information, communication 
and education campaigns, inter alia: (i) radio and television features; (ii) 
interviews; and (iii) salaries and fees for artists and interpersonal communicators;
(b)
the term "Incremental operating costs: (a) salaries" means salaries, 
benefits, travel allowances, per diems and recurrent operating costs for the 
Coordinating Team within PS/CONAPO and the two IEC experts with PS/CNLS; and
(c)
the term "Incremental operating costs: (b) other" means operating and 
maintenance costs for items under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth under 
paragraph (1) of this Schedule.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in his efforts to 
reduce the rate of fertility by increasing the prevalence of modern contraceptive 
methods and to reduce the incidence of the human immunodeficiency virus infections by 
promoting behavioral change and
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Population Policy, Birth Control and Public Awareness
 
1.
Strengthen the quality of, and the access to, FP/MCH services in about 400 CSPS 
not currently providing such services through:
(a)
training of medical staff and supply of training equipment; (b) 
acquisition of contraceptives; and (c) construction of animal drawn village ambulances 
for about 400 villages.
2.
Support to the establishment of an outreach program.
 
3.
Promotion of an IEC program to: (a) increase support for population issues among 
opinion leaders; (b) increase public knowledge of, and demand for, contraceptive 
services; and (c) strengthen women's rights through: (i) dissemination of the 
Borrower's Family Code in four selected provinces; (ii) establishment of legal 
information centers; (iii) support to the National Committee Against Excision and its 
plan of action; and (iv) training of social workers.
4.
Integration of population topics into the curricula of secondary schools.
Page  10
Part B:
Health Policy and HIV/STD Control
 
1.
(a)
Promotion of behavioral changes in the field of sexual activity through 
the services of: (i) public health facilities; (ii) NGOs; and (iii) IEC and the Media; 
(b) distribution of condoms; and (c) inclusion of HIV/STD information in the training 
curricula of DPF;
2.
Support in upgrading HIV/STD prevention and control capabi- lities through: (a) 
strengthening of epidemiological surveillance; (b) strengthening of blood screening 
capacity and STD diagnosis and treatment capability; (c) carrying out of research, 
surveys and studies; (d)
acquisition of equipment, tests, material and vehicles; (e) financing of operating and 
maintenance expenses; and (f) construction of civil works; and 
3.
Strengthening: (i) clinical management to improve the capacity of staff to treat 
HIV infected patients, and (ii) community care for HIV infected patients and their 
families.
Part C:
Institutional Support
 
Strengthening administrative management, supervisory and coordinating capacity 
of: (a) CONAPO to coordinate effectively all population oriented activities and 
execute demographic research; (b) DSF to plan and implement family health policy 
within a coherent policy framework; (c) CNLS to implement the national HIV prevention 
policy; and (d) DPF to promote social programs through: (i) pro- vision of technical 
advisory services; (ii) carrying out of local and overseas training programs; (iii) 
acquisition of equipment, material, vehicles and scientific literature; (iv) financing 
of operating and maintenance expenses; and (v) construction of civil works.
Part D:
Establishment of a Fund
 
Support the establishment of a Fund to provide grant financing for projects in 
the areas of: (a) FP/MCH; and (b) prevention of HIV/STD infection, carried out by 
NGOs, associations and private organizations.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Works and Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof works and goods, (drugs, condoms, 
contraceptives, etc.) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
1.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
2.
In the procurement of works and goods, in accordance with said Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. For the procurement of drugs, the Borrower shall use the 
sample bidding documents "Procurement for Drugs and Vaccines" published in September 
Page  11
1993. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized 
standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) contracts for 
goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 
or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
(a)
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000; and (b) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Works and goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out: (a) Part B.1 (b) of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ WHO; (b) Part (A).1 (b) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ UNFPA; and (c) all other parts of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
Page  12
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant  Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall 
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard  contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review by the Association or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior review by the Association shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection 
of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the  contracts' value to $75,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$30,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall:
1.
establish a Coordinating Team within PS/CONAPO to include: (a) the Coordinator; 
(b) an administrator; (c) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; (d) an accountant; 
(e) a junior accountant; and (f) four support staff; all such personnel referred to in 
this paragraph to be suitably qualified and experienced, acceptable to the 
Association, to be recruited in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; said positions to remain staffed by suitably qualified and experienced 
personnel acceptable to the Association at all times until the completion of the 
Project; said Coordinating Team to assist PS/CONAPO in the execution of its duties and 
to administer and coordinate Project activities and supervise Project implementation 
and progress;
2.
appoint a suitably experienced and qualified Permanent Secretary, acceptable to 
the Association, to head PS/CNLS; such Permanent Secretary to be assisted by suitably 
qualified and experienced technical officers, acceptable to the Association, to be in 
charge, respectively, for: (a) surveillance; (b) case management; (c) blood safety and 
laboratory; (d) IEC; and (e) research; and recruit an additional IEC expert suitably 
experienced and qualified, acceptable to the Association; the IEC officer referred to 
under subparagraph (d) of this paragraph and the additional IEC expert to be recruited 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
3.
establish a periodically updated monitoring and evaluation system, featuring 
process and impact indicators for each activity implemented under the Project, 
satisfactory to the Association;
4.
(a)
establish: (i) the Fund, under administration of PS/CONAPO, referred to 
under Part D of the Project, according to the Manuel des Procedures as agreed upon 
between the Association and the Borrower; and (ii) a Committee, staffed by officers 
suitably qualified and experienced in
population issues, health care and IEC, acceptable to the Association, to select 
projects to be financed under such Fund, consistent with eligibility criteria 
stipulated in the Manuel des Procedures; and (b) submit to the Association for 
approval: (i) the first three agreements to regulate activities of third parties to be 
financed under the Fund referred to under (a)(i) of this paragraph drafted in 
accordance with the standard agreement as agreed between the Association and the 
Borrower attached to the Manuel des Procedures; and (ii) all such future agreements 
containing obligations in excess of $75,000;
5.
recruit, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Page  13
Agreement, a qualified accounting firm experienced in working according to the 
International Accounting Standards, acceptable to the Association, to assist in the 
establishment of an accounting system for the Project and to give periodic support to 
the Project accountant;
6.
(a)
recruit, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement: (i) an IEC firm under a three year contract; and (ii) two national IEC 
experts, assigned to PS/CNLS; and (b) assign one national IEC expert to PS/CONAPO; 
such firm and such experts to be suitably qualified and experienced, acceptable to the 
Association; such expert positions to remain at all times staffed by suitably 
qualified and experienced personnel until the completion of the Project;
7.
undertake: (a) a study on HIV/STD prevalence among gold miners; and (b) a study 
on HIV transmission from mother to child, according to terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association, and submit the final reports on such studies within twelve months 
after the Effective Date;
8.
(a)
undertake a knowledge, attitude and practice survey according to terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association; (b) inform the Association of the result of 
such survey within twelve months after the Effective Date; (c) repeat such survey 
according to terms of reference satisfactory to the Association: (i) after twenty-four 
months; and (ii) forty-eight months after
the Effective Date; and (d) submit the final reports of such surveys to the 
Association;
9.
monitor distribution of contraceptives and condoms and take corrective action as 
required;
10.
(a)
develop, test and produce mass media campaigns designed to inform on 
HIV/STD transmission; (b) evaluate their impact after twenty-four months of campaign 
activity; (c) invite NGOs, donors participating in Project financing and the 
Association to an assessment meeting of such evaluation; and (d) implement an action 
plan, based on recommendations of such meeting, satisfactory to the Association;
11.
(a)
construct animal drawn village ambulances for about 50 selected villages 
within twelve months after the Effective Date; (b) evaluate the effectiveness of such 
ambulances after one year of service; (c) report the result of such evaluation to the 
Association; and (d) expand, if
found satisfactory and recommended by the Association, such construction to cover an 
additional 350 villages;
12.
ensure the adoption of the agreement referred to under  Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement prior to the Project launch workshop;
13.
enter, by March 31, 1995, into a twinning arrangement in favor of PS/CNLS with 
an international institute specializing in HIV control management;
14.
(a)
evaluate the IEC campaigns by PS/CNLS; (b) based upon such evaluation, 
convene, by June 30, 1995, a seminar to define a IEC strategy directed at HIV/STD 
prevention; (c) invite NGOs, donors participating in the Project and the Association 
to attend such seminar; (d) based upon the
recommendations of such seminar, elaborate, by September 30, 1995, a national IEC 
strategy satisfactory to the Association; and (e) implement such strategy;
15.
establish, by June 30, 1995, an epidemiological surveillance system, 
satisfactory to the Association;
16.
by June 30, 1995, ensure the submission to the Association, for its approval, of 
the CONAPO research program, and implement said program, as approved, by June 30, 
1998;
17.
(a)
construct an extension to the ABBEF model clinic in Ouagadougou within 
twelve months of the Effective Date; (b) implement an ABBEF pilot project of community 
based distribution of contraceptives in three selected provinces; (c) support ABBEF 
counselling on FP and prevention of HIV/STD infection to youth in Koudougou; and (d) 
submit to the Association, in preparation of the second annual meeting referred to 
under Paragraph (21) of this Schedule, an evaluation of the activities referred to 
Page  14
under subparagraphs (b) and (c) of said paragraph;
18.
(a)
establish, by December 31, 1995, treatment protocols for HIV/STD related 
diseases, based upon rapid STD assessments and the experience of other African 
countries; (b) convene a workshop to assess such protocols; (c) invite to such 
workshop NGOs, other donors participating in
the Project and the Association; (d) finalize such protocols taking into account the 
recommendations of such workshop, as approved by the Association; and (e) submit to 
the Association for approval any proposal tochange a protocol affecting the use of 
drugs to be procured under the
Project;
19.
undertake contraceptive prevalence surveys every two years, the first such 
survey to take place within the first twelve months after the Effective Date, and 
submit the result of such surveys to the Association;
20.
(a)
evaluate, twelve months after the Effective Date, the STD treatment 
training received by about 54 doctors and about 16 nurses at CMs and CMAs; (b) submit 
the result of such evaluation to the Association; and (c) extend, subject to the 
recommendation of the Association, such training
to all staff of those CSPS depending on the CMAs referred to under subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph;
21.
hold annually in March, beginning March 1995, a Project implementation review 
meeting with the Association, based on a report, submitted one month prior to such 
meeting by the Coordinating Team referred to under paragraph (1) of this Schedule, of 
Project implementation in the year past and a proposed budget for Project 
implementation in the following year; such meeting to assess: (a) Project progress 
against monitoring indicators agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association, 
attached to each of the two policy letters referred to under Recital B of this 
Agreement; and (b) the effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation system referred 
to under paragraph (3) of this Schedule; and to agree on, inter alia: (i) the number 
and content of CONAPO organized seminars; and (ii) HIV/STD related research;
22.
evaluate, twenty-four months after the Effective Date, contraception and condom 
procurement under the Project and decide, in consultation with the Association, on the 
prolongation of  respective technical assistance agreements;
23.
conduct, prior to the mid-term review referred to in para-graph (a) of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, according to terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, operational research on HIV infections, including their impact on the 
economy of the Borrower; and
24.
not repeal, nor substantially modify without prior approval of the Association: 
(a) Decret No. 93-413/PRES/MFP dated December 28, 1993, amending Decret No. 
83-104/CSP/PRES/PL dated February 18, 1983, creating CONAPO; and (b) Decret No. 
92-127/SAN-ASF dated May 21, 1992; and Decret No. 94-070/PRES/SASF dated February 15, 
1994, establishing and regulating CAMEG.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  15
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Arti-cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  16
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
