Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8765
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1009-GH)
JUNE 18, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
TIs document has a restited dbutio anl may be used by      oly I the   o       Of
thei offiefil dutese Its content may uu othewise be dcledWouddBn  uhd.lu



GLOSSARY OF A3B1EVIATIONS
ASRP               Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
BPP                Bovine Pleurisy Programme
CIDA               Canadian International Development Association
CFO                Chief of Field Operations
CRI                Crop Research Institute
CSIR               Commission for Social and Industrial Research
FASCOM (VR)        Farmers Services Company (Volta Region)
FAO                Food and Agricultural Organization
FSC                Farmers Services Centre
GOO                Government of Ghana
GIMPA              Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
IDA                International Development Association
IDA (Ghana)        Irrigation Development Authority
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA               International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
ODA                Overseas Development Administration
PPMED              Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (MOA)
RAC                Regional Agricultural Co-ordinator
RMWA               Resident Mission to West Africa
REVIEW             In-Depth Review Mission (IDA/IFAD)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
T&V                Training and Visit System
UST (Kumasi)       University of Science and Technology
VORADEC            Volta Regional Agriculture Development Executive Committee
VORADEP            Volta Region Agricultural Development Project



FOR OFFCAL UR OLY
THE WORtL DANK
Washmgtou, D.C. 20433
USA.
Oht. d DOmtor-G.tut
O0*Mm twiglm
June 18. 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOzS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ghana - Volta Region
Atricultural Develoyment Pro4ect (Credit 1009-GH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Ghana - Volta Region Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 1009-GH)" prepared by the Government of Ghana, with an
overview memorandum prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operatiors Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a retrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMicia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Dank authrntion.



FOR OFFCiL US  ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1009-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................... ...........................           i
Basic Data Sheet .ii
Evaluation Summary.                                                     iv
IDA OVERVIEN OF THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT .ix
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND.                                     1
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION.                                           2
IIT.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .. ...............................    10
IV. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .19
V. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT .26
VI.  ECONOfIC RATE OF RETURN ................ 31
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT .35
VIII. SPECIAL ISSUES .43
TABLES
COST AND BENEFIT TABLES:
1.  Administration ..................      ,    . , . .    49
2. Land Use Planning .50
3. Agricultural Research .51
4. Roads Program .52
5. Boreholes/Water Supply .53
6. Extension Services .54
7. FASCOM.                                                         55
8. Livestock Activities .56
9.   Fisheries Development ..........................,              57
10. VORADEP .58
1.   Rate of Return, Data and Assumptions.                         59
2. Research and Extension .64
3. Input Supply .''..                 ''....             '..       81
4.   Livestock and Fisheries ............................,.         94
5. Rural Infrastructure .99
6. Monitoring and Evaluation .117
ATTACHMENT I - Comments from the Ministry of Agriculture .119
MAPS
1.   IBRD Map 12798R
2.   IBRD I(ap 12802
3.   IBRD Map 12805
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of ther official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1009-G0l
PREF-ACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Volta Region
Agricultural Development Project in Ghana, for which Credit 1009-GH in the
amount of US$29.5 million was approved on April 22, 1980.   The loan was
closed on December 31, 1988, three years behind schedule after cancellation
of US$0.7 million. The last disbursement was in June 1989.
The PCR consists of a main report prepared by the Government of
Ghana, supplemented by an Overview prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Western Africa Department, Africa Regional Office. The PCR
is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement;
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and t1he Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and IFAD for comments and they
are attached to the Report (Attachment I).



- ii-
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ci.rdlt 1009-GHA)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as
Estimate          Estimated               X of
Project Cost (Cadis million)                  137.1             975.6             712X
Project Cost (US$ million)                    40.7               43.8              90X
Credit Amount (U8} million)                    29.6              28.8               06X
Date of Board Approval                                       04/22/80
Date of Effectiveness                                        03/31/81
Closing Date                              12/31/85           12/31/88
Economic Rate of Return (X)                     16               16               1OOX
Number of Direct 8eneficiarios              60,000              90,000            1S6X
(farm households)
Cumulative Disbursements
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY8S    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million)             4.8    13.1   20.2   24.7   29.5
Actual (US$ in)           0.1     0.7     3.2     4.0  6.7  /      7.8    14.4    17.5    28.8
Actual as X of
Estimate                  2.1     6.3    15.8    16.9    22.7
Date of Final
Disbursement        (arous d June, 30, 1989)
STAFF INPUTS (Staff Weeks)
FYM7 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY8S FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89
Prappraisal   40*
Appraisal           34-
Negotiations         8*
Supervision              3.4  9.2 17.6 31.S 10.5  6.9 10.6  7.9  2.0
TOTAL
*Thes are estimates. Actual date are not available.
1/Sourco: Supervision Report of 7/3/89



- iii-
MISSION DATA
Darte     Number of     Mondays     Specielizations  Performance  Trend  Types of
Mission        (mo/yr)   Persons        in Fi-ld     Represented c/   Rating       cl    Problems  /
Identification  ?/V6         1            6           a                  _          _        _
Preappraleal    1-2/77       6           150          a,b,c              -          -         -
ApprAisal       1-2/79       8           170          a,b,d,-,t,g        _    -               -
Supervision 1   12/80        1          3             *                  2          1        0
Supervision 2   4/81         2           14           *,b                1          2        0
Supervision 3   7-8/81       1           7            b                  2          2        O,1
Supervision 4   12/81        1          6             a                  2          2        M,F
Supervision 6   7/82         2         10             *,-                2          2        P,l
Supervision 8   2/83         4         52             a,b,-,h            2          2         M,P
Supervision 7  C/88          2         14             *,h                2          3         M,0
Supervision 8   2/84         4         44             *,o,f,i            3          2         M,O,F
Supervision 9   10/84        2         14             a,o                3          2         M,F,O
Supervision 10  4/86         1          4             a                  3          1         M,F,O
Supervision 11  11/86        2         12             a,.                q          3 S
Supervision 12  9/88         2          S             a,*                3          3
Supervision 13  4/87         2         18             a,0                2          2
Supervision 14  11/8?        1          6                                2          2
Supervision 15  11/88        1          S             *                  2          2
o/a r Agriculturist, b = Economist, c  ^ Livestock Specialist, d = Extension Specialist,
f = Engineer, 9 a Loan Officer, h = Operations Assistant, I = Fisheries Specialist.
b/l - problem free or minor problem; 2   moderate problms; 3 = major probims.
c/i 1 improving; 2 = stationary.
iff f Financial; M = Management; T = Technical; 0 a Othtr; P = Politica.i
;,No data available.
V/New Form 690 in use that shows rating for ovorall status (year 198S).
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                      -     Republic of Ghana
Executing Agency              -      Volta Region Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and Farmers' Servi;es Company (Volta Region)
(FASCOI - VR)
Fiscal Year of Borrower       -      January 1 - December 31
-     July 1 - June 30 (before 1983)
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)  -    Cedi (C)
Appraisal Year Average           -    US11.00 2 C2.75
Intervening Y-ors Average        -    Cl.1(19?7); C1.S2(1978);
C2.79 (1979-1982); C3.45 (1983);
C12.0S (1984); C64.1 (1985); C89.3 (1988);
C149.2S (1987);
Completion Year Average (1988)   -    C1?8.57



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1009-GH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        This is the eighth lending operation for the development of
Ghana's Agricultural Sector. The Volta Region Project followed in concept
and design the Upper Region agricultural development project financed by
the IDA in 1976. The project included agricultural services, input
supplies, rural infrastructure and training components.
Objectives
2.        In the late seventies, the Government of Ghana (GOG) introduced
policy changes, (e.g., reduction of fertilization subsidies and increase in
producer prices for cocoa), decentralized agricultural development planning
and implementation, and reaffirmed the importance of smallholder
development. In support of these changes, the project sought to increase
agricultural production, farm incomes and welfare, particularly of the
smallholders in the Volta Region, thtough the provision of a basic
agricultural services package, concentrating primarily on major field
crops. About 60,000 farm families each cultiviting about 2.1 ha farm on
the average were to be directly benefitted from the project. The project
includeds improved extension services, credit and training for farmers;
livestock and fisheries development; the construction of 65 farm service
centers for the distribution of farm inputs, staff housing and project
offices; construction and improvement of about 650 km of access and feeder
roads; rural water supply; strengthening of the MOA's Regional Office; and
consultant services.
Implementation Experiences
3.        The pxoject was expected to be completed in five years in i985,
but it took three more years to complete. The project start-up was very
slow -- it was effective in March 1981, but it was not until a year later
that most of the key staff, including the international staff, were
recruited. The position of the Civil Engineer was not filled until March
1982, and this contributed to the poor implementation of the Civil Works
component during the first three years. The project period coincided with
a period of political changes and serious economic and budgetary
difficulties. Adverse weather conditions during 1983-84 also hindered the
prog-ess of the project. During the early years, adequate and timely
release of Government funds and fertilizer allocation for the project posed
problems. In addition, staff inadequacies and low morale, lack of clear
definition of some components (e.g. livestock and fisheries) and inadequate
working arrangements with agencies in other sectors (e.g. Ghana Water



- v -
Supply Company and Ghana Highway Authority) for the water and road
components resulted in project performance in the first three years well
below expectations at appraisal.
4.        In early 1984, an IDA/IFAD mission was requested by the GOG to
make an In-Depth Review of the situation. The major revisions proposed by
the mission were accepted by the GOG. These included increase in the
target group to 90,000 farm households and addition of a *semi-improved'
category of farm practices within a higher target area. Input supply was
to be offered to all farmers in the Region, and extension staff was to be
increased. The infrastructure and the livestock programs were modified in
the light of project experience and reassessment of needs. These changes
and the replacement of the expatriate staff by a team recruited through a
consulting firm revitalized the project and gave it a new momentum. With
greater availability of fertilizers and other inputs and availability of
Government budgetary funds for the project, implementation greatly improved
in the later years.
5.        The PCR points out that evaluation of the projects' financia'.
history in terms of appraisal expectations is difficult due to the changes
in the mix of activities following the 1984 in-depth review, delays in
implementation in early years, and major variations in the exchange rate
and domestic inflation. In general terms, however, the actual monetary
expenses denominated in cedis have been much greater than envisaged, due to
domestik inflation, and in dollar terms these have been more than offset by
the decline in the value of the cedi. Government contribution was
basically available, except in the early years when, partly due to the
general economic situation and partly due to difficulties in the release of
capital funds in Accra, there were shortfalls. Consequently, the
contractors were unwilling to undertake VORADEP works, and the project
funded some expenditures through the operation oGf a local account. In
general, loan and local funds were efficiently administered, and budgeting
and reporting functions were satisfactory, except in the case of PASCOM
where performance varied considerably from one year to the next. Delays,
however, occurred with the auditing of accounts by the locally appointed
auditors, due to pressure of work. The PCR concludes that the project
represented a considerable degree of decentralization of financial
autonomy, which appeared workable.
6.        The organizational and management performance was generally
satisfactory. A degree of structural flexibility was allowed to meet
changing needs. The PCR, however, mentioned that the IDA/IFAD supervisory
missions dealt more with the Project Management; VORADEC, the Committee
responsible at the regional level for overseeing the project, and the
policy makers at the ministerial level in Accra had less direct exposure to
the recomiendations of the missions which apparently lost useful leverage.
Review of the Supervision Reports and Aides Memoire, however, show that the
missions had regularly met with the concerned ministers and senior
officials on policy and other major issues affecting the project, and that
at least one mission attended an emergency meeting of the VORADEC. It was
appropriate for the missions, however, to let the Project Manager formally
deal with the higher echelons, particularly at the Regional level, to lay
the foundations for effective management capacity, cosuunication and
problem resolution procedures.



- vi -
7.        Within the crop development program, the Adaptive Research
Component was successful in realizing its main objectives. Useful
collaboration concerning on-farm trials with the Ghana Grain Development
Board for maize led to recommendations on the best variety suited for the
project area; the Research Department started prodicing these varieties of
seed maize for sales to farmers. The extension and training part of the
project achieved impressive results, especially since the introduction of a
unified T&V System. This enabled the project to increase the target
population by fifty percent and attain a more favorable extension
worker/farmer ratio around 1:500 (1:900 pre-project). Home extension,
incorporated with the main extension service, achieved substantial results
through its programs focussing on women and youth. The input supply
through FASCOH, a new organization, has been erratic due to operational
difficulties, particularly transport, timely availability of fertilizer and
sufficient seeds, and conflict between the intention to let FASCOM operate
as a commercial company and the Government's control of input prices and
procurement. The divergence between target and actuals of sales of
fertilizer and improved seeds was quite marked. This was partly due to
supply problems and timing; SAR estimates of fertilizer usage and crop
areas may also have been optimistic. GOG is now committed to privatization
of fertilizer sales and removal of subsidy.
8.        The livestock and fisheries developments were vaguely specified
in the SAR and little progress was made in the first two years. After the
organizatioual and technical changes following the 1984 Review,
implementation of both these items registered major improvements, though
relatively less for the fisheries compone:st. Coverage of cattle by anti-
rinderpest vaccination increased from 69 percent in 1984 to nearly 90
percent in 1985-86, and with the completion of 12 dips in 1987, the dipping
program target was reached. In fisheries, overall fish pond construction
and stocking in commercial and household sectors was satisfactory.
Following two consultants' studies under the project, a pilo*: project was
zecommended for determining the feasibility of brackish warer aquaculture.
On the infrastructural side, ach.evement was mixed. With the completion of
the expanded road program, better access and communications wil. benefit
the farming population. The building program was very much delayed with
attainment of about 83 percent of middlelsenior level staff housing and 15
percent of junior staff housing. The office building program (50 percent
achievement) has improved working conditions and the 34 village FSCs will
improve input distribution. The project has drilled 246 successful wells
which account for about one-third of all wells currently in the Region (78
percent of wells in the Northern Zone). The program has contributed to
health and welfare through improved rural water supply. The SAR proposals
for the irrigstion component was over-optimistic, since a long time is
required for planning and design of irrigation systems. The project
achievement has been data collection and design of 7 pilot irrigation
schemes, against a target of completion of 10 such schemes during the
project period.
Results
9.        At appraisal, the main direct benefits of the project were
expected to be derived from crop yield increases. Reliable data on yield



- vii -
increases with or without the project were, however, not collected. Based
on sample survey by the monitoring and evaluation department in 1986, it
appears that for maize for which the estimates are reasonably firm,
significant yield improvement resulted fL3m fertilizer application. The
1986 survey showed maize yield well above the appraisal estimate. This can
be attributed to the concentration of the extension services on maize
component of the crop program and its success. The best estimates for
other crops under the project appear favorable when compared with Appraisal
yields. The project experience demonstrated the contribution of certain
cultural practices in generating increases in yields over and above that
obtained by improved seed and fertilizer application.
10.       The PCR estimates the benefits derived from the crop development
program. The largest single source of benefit arises from incremental
maize production. Additional benefits are estimated for several componente
e.g., roads, boreholes, FASCOM,, livestock and fisheries development. The
project is estimated to have a 16 percent internal economic rate of return,
which is the same as the rate of return calculated at appraisal in 1980.
The returns well exceed the real opportunity cost of capital. However, the
PCR points out that the nature cf benefits realized is different from those
projected at appraisal, both with regard to the extent of benefits from the
crop development program, and to the range of returns from other
components.
Sustainability
11.       The project sustainab.lity involves the question of whether the
improved agricult'tral productivity, farm incomes and the rural
infrastructure would be maintained and enhanced in future years. In order
to ensure continued focus on overall developments in the region, VORADEC,
the overseeing inter-agency committee for the project, may need to be
maintained. A composite approach to budgeting in the Region will also be
essential as returns from crop development depend upon investments
continuing to be made in extension as well as in rural infrastructure. The
financial and administrative responsibilities regarding feeders roads.
boreholes and water supply maintenance are in the process of being handed
over to the respective sector authorities, which presently have the
financial and technical resources to sustain them. For the critical
constraints to agricultural development-research, extension services and
collection and management o. _nformation for planning, and policy making, a
provision of $1.2 million of external financing has been made for the Volta
Region under the IDA financed Agricultural Sector Rehabilitation Project
for three years. This would ensure continued funding for activities which
have shown good results, until VORADEP becomes fully integrated into the
Government's overall extension, research and M&E Systems.
Finding and Lesslons
12. Some of the main lessons to be learned from the VORADEP experience
are:
(a) Detailed institutional and staffing arrangements for the
execution and coordination of area development projects should
be worked out at Appraisal-Negotiations stage;



- viii -
(b) A mid-term project review is essential for all projects. Its
timing. particularly for a large multi-purpose regional
developuent project, is to be judiciously determined-
(c) For coverage by extension services and impact on production, it
should be recognized that the farmers will adopt improved
cultural practices and make input application at varying speeds
and at different levels; this is important to the setting of
realistic targets in the first place; and
(d) It is difficult, if not impossible, for the government to
operate even semi-autonomous services (e.g. input supply),
simultaneously based on commercial and development
considerations which often do not coincide.



- ix -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1009-GH)
IDA Overview of the Project Completion Report
1.        The Completion Report was prepared by consultants for the
Government of Ghana (GOG) for the Volta Region Agricultural Development
Project (VORADEP), covering the period 1981-88. The report is in one
volume and includes six annexes covering various aspects of the project.
The main report provides a good overall coverage of the project, is well
structured, compares achievements in each section with the expectations of
the staff appraisal report and offers an analysis of lessons learned for
each major component. Taking into account the limitatior. of data, the
annexes covering all the components are well prepared. Since adequate
coverage of project performance is provided in the PCR, this overview will
focus on those areas which impinge upon future preparation and execution of
agricultural projects in Ghana. These include the project design and
organization; implementation experience and project review; extension and
input supply; IDA and Borrower performance; and project sustainability and
future development. From these areas, some lessons will be drawn for
future IDA projects in the country.
Proiect Design and Organization
2.        In the late seventies, GOG started to accord higher priority to
agriculture and by 1980, it accounted for about 8 percent of the total
budget, compared to only 3 percent in 1971. GOG policy changbs at the same
time, recognized the key role of smallholders, allowed increase in producer
prices for cocoa and a beginning was made to reduce fertilizer subsidies.
Measures were also initiated to decentralize agricultural development
planning and implementation. The project, seeking to support these policy
changes, was prepared by the Bank's Regional Mission for West Africa. It
was designed on the pattern of a similar IDA financed regional agricultural
development project in the Upper Region of Ghana. The project was *-ased on
the premises that the technology to be applied for agricultural
improvements was si.ple and well tested under local conditions, and with
extension work and input availability, the adoption rate of the farmers
would be high. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture's Regional Office
staffing was adequate for project implementation, and coordination with
other related Government Agencies (e.g. Ghana Water Supply Company and the
Ghana Highway Authority) could easily be ensured. Expatriate staff and
consultants would be needed, however, in selected disciplines within the
project management. For input procurement and distribution, a new Farmers'



-x -
Services Company (FASCOM) was to be set up in the Region, as was done for
the project in the Upper Region. The project was to be Jointly financed by
the IDA, International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), Government
and Banking institution.
3.        The traditional part of the project design was the concept of
area development with a variety of components as diverse as crop
development, livestock and fisheries, irrigation and water supply. roads
and houses, nutrition extension, and training. Having the project
organization sttuctured within the Regional administrative framework (which
the Appraisal Mission considered adequate), and taking into account the
operational experience of the on-going regional project the mission was
sanguine about its implementation. The Mission's confidence was also
founded on the fact that the proposed technology was simple and would not
require major changes in the traditional farming system and institutions.
4.        The inevitable question that arises in respect of the project
concept and design is whether the project should have concentrated on a few
and more directly related items. Undoubtedly, a diverse project, partly
depending on agencies in other sectors, imposes demanding management and
coordination responsibilities on the project entity. In addition to the
reasons in the previous paragraph, the IDA's decision to support an area
development project resulted froms (a) obvious Government desire to
improve the income and welfare of the Volta Region farm population,
particularly the smallholders. This could more easily be attempted through
an integrated approach; (b) replication of Upper-Region project
designlorganization. It is possible that political and regional pressures
on the Government would have precluded a more focussed and limited
agricultural project; (c) the project as designed would be more in line
with the Government's decentralization initiatives, including establishment
of the inter-agency Volta Region Agricultural Development Committee
(VORADEP), mainly a policy based committee, to oversee the project.
5.        While the project concept and design was consistent with the
Government's and the IDA"s strategy at the time, the organizational and
staffing arrangements could have been better designed. The project was
presented to the IDA's Board on the basis of Government's assurance of
making satisfactory institutional arrangements for the execution of items
involving agencies outside the MOA (e.g. GWSC, GHA, and PWD).
Implementation experience later showed that delays in defining and agreeing
on respective roles hampered the progress of the project. It would have
been more prudent to get these arrangements worked out in detail at the
time of appraisalinegotiations or at least before the Board presentation.
The livestock and the fisheries components were not clearly worked out, and
the irrigation component was over-ambitious within the time-frame. Until
the 1984 modifications to the project, the progress in these components was
poor. On the staffing issue, the confidence of the Appraisal Mission with
regard to the MOA Regional Office strength for project implementation was
not justified because of the skill and experience mix required for the
project. Throughout the project implementation period, the supervision
missions highlighted the over-staffing of the MOA at lower levels and
shortage of competent and experienced staff at the Senior levels, with
obvious deleterious effect on the project's progress. The Credit's
effectiveness conditions included the appointment of the Chief of Field



- xi -
Operations and a permanent Regional Agricultural Coordinator; the position
of the Civil Engineer in the project was not a condition of effectiveness.
Since delays in construction of expatriate and project staff housing.
offices and service centers until later years of the project was a major
problem affecting the efficiency and morale of both the expatriate and
local staff, the Civil Engineer's availability from the beginning of the
project was critical. It would have allowed timely planning, design and
tendering of the housing and other construction items, and obviatad the
cost increases and the prolonged debate on what type of housing was to be
constructed (more traditional or the pre-fabricated wooden houses).
6.        In retrospect, the design and organization of the project had
the advantages of simplicity, tradition and Government support. However,
during the appraisalinegotiation stage, some of the components were not
clearly defined, and some of the detailed but critical implementation
arrangements were not adequately dealt witb. These shortcomings adversely
affected the project's execution.
Implementation Experience and Froject Review
7.        The project was expected to be completed by December 31, 1985,
with disbursements completed by June 30, 1986. However, the project
continued until December 31, 1988, with disbursements continuing until
June, 1989. The long, but not unusual, delay in the execution of such a
project in a country at Ghana's stage of development was mainly due to
staffing problems (expatriate and local), delays by other agencies in
undertaking the water and road components, financing problems involving
release of budgetary funds and foreign exchange availability, and erratic
and insufficient procurement and distribution of fertilizer and other
inputs. Political changes and some uncertainty about continued commitment
to the project, serious economic and budgetary difficulties, and adverse
weather conditions (1983-84) also hindered the progress of the project.
8.        The local staffing and other agency problems have been mentioned
previously. The expatriate staff in the Project Unit created special
problems of relationship and team-work. Undoubtedly, they were needed for
the positions they were recruited for, as suitably qualified Ghanians were
not available. An impression is created that the four experts, recruited
individually, were operating in separate compartments at their own speed
and with scant regard for the role and direction of the (Ghanian) Project
Manager. The expatriate staff were generally unhappy about housing and
goods availability issues, and the local staff of the salaries and
benefits, including import privileges, of the expatriate staff. The IDA
missions could have exercised their supervisory and good office roles more
energetically in the early stages with a view to resolving the issue.
Instead, the matter was allowed to drag on. The missions also were
sometimes, perhaps unfairly, drawn into this relationship problem.
Considerable uncertainly persisted with regard to the responsibility and
tenure of the expatriate staff, and a good part of the project management
problems and lack of direction may be ascribed to this problem. Not
surprisingly, contracts of these individuals were not extended and a new
team of experts, recruited through a consulting firm, was put in place in
1985. The coherence of this expatriate team, the general overseeing of
their role by the consulting firm and greatly improved work relationships,



-xii -
particularly with the Project Manager, led to expeditious implemeniation of
the project in the later years. The question that ALLses in tts respect
is whether it would have been wiser in the first i-nit    1 an
recruitment through a consulting firm. At lea-tèfrom this instance, it
appears that the benefits of experiences an4-6ack-up provided by
experienced consulting firms in recruitmeji and servicing of staff for
projects in developing countries, with he resultant coherence and team
work, can far outweigh some extra cos that may have to be incurred.
9.        The project risks relating to Government funding and foreign
exchange allocation were correctly  fentifed by the appraisal mission.
The Credit conditions required ade  ate and timely provision of funds and
foreign exchange for importation    farm inputs.  During project
implementation in the early yea   (until 1984), there were frequent lapses
in this regard which caused slow execution of project works and inadequate
procurement and distribution of essential agricultural inputs. The funding
end foreign exchange allocation problems reflected the difficult economic
conditions prevailing at the time. The fund availability problem was
further compounded by procedures in Accra for the release of budgeted
resources. Inspite of this, and the tight Government budgetary situation,
funds were made available for the development program to be carried out.
Apart from the availability of direct funding for specific project
investments from the IDA/IFAD, the external financing of working capital
(e.g. incremental inputs, research material and tools and equipment) was
doubly beneficial. The counterpart funds, generated by the sale of the
inputs and other supplies, were available to the VORADEP authorities in a
local account. These funds enabled the project to often substitute for the
inadequacy and untimeliness in the Government's contribution to the
capital, as well as the recurrent expenditures, thus facilitating the
execution of the project.
10.       The turning point in the project came when in early 1984 it was
agreed between the IDA-IFAD and the Government to undertake an In-Depth
Review of the project and its problems. The project was faltering due to
management problems which held back.decisions and implementation of all
other components at this time-and required an objective reassessment.
Meanwhile, another change in the Goverqjnent had taken place, the expatriate
staff were about to leave in disharmony and the standing of the Project
Manager with the new Government became uncertain. The Review recommended
fundamentally sound and innovative decisions, both with regard to the
content and organization of the project. The revised project envisaged
low-adoption farmer coverage by raising the number of the target group, a
very practical move, and it decided to cover all fanmers with the services.
In view of the imprecise definition and design of the animal husbandry
component, it was agreed to eliminate it. Support for veterinary services
was continued, with increase in prices of drugs and vaccines. It was
decided to bring in a new expatriate team through a consulting firm with a
Chief Field Officer to coordinate the activities of the experts. The IDA
and IFAD showed flexibility in agreeing to financing changes involving
greater local cost financing by the donors. The Government's response to
all the above was delayed somewhat but was positive. The project took a
decisive turn for the better from this point onwards, with a distinct
improvement in the Government's performance of its obligations and that of
its agencies. The importance of the mid-term review and its contribution



- xiii -
in revitalizing a problem project can not be over-emphasized. This is an
important lesson for other projects, particularly multi-purpose relatively
large integrated regional development projects, which should incorporate a
mid-term review. Unlike the regular Bank supervision missions, It should
include active participation of Government representatives, to ensure
continued ¢overnment comnitment to a project going well, or to allow
practical restructuring and changes in projects with serious problems.
Extension and Input Supply
11.       The project investments resulted in improvement in the output in
the Region. Implementation differed substantially from the design at
appraisal and thus incremental benefits achieved differ from those
originally envisaged (entirely from crop development). Also, the speed and
extent of the farmers' attitudinal change and diffusion of technology under
the project were also below the appraisal expectations. Incremental crop
production accounts for some 60-752 of estimated benefits in the early
years of the project; this proportion declines in later years as benefits
from other components (e.g. livestock, fisheries, roads, etc.) begin to
come on stream. Most focus of extension activity was on maize, considering
it was cultivated on only about half of the farms in the Region. Project
impact on aggregate maize production is estimated to be in excess of 8000
tons per annum after 1988. Between 1982 and 1987, the farmers' adoption
rate of recommended practices for maize increased significantly. By 1987,
for example, 552 of farmers were adopting the recommended practices for
fertilizer application on some of their maize, while 67Z were adopting the
improved seed varieties. Crop yield surveys conducted by the monitoring
and evaluation department (M&E) suggest partial adoption of extension
recommendations by most farmers: for example. using fertilizers to a lesser
extent than recommended, or by using fertilizer on unimproved seed, or by
planting in lines but using only traditional material. Consequently,
potential benefits from new technology extended to the target group are
constrained. Studies conducted for the Grain Board elsewhere in Ghana
confirm the picture of partial adoption and indicate that most farmers will
move towards their production possibility frontiers, but at different
speeds and at different levels, with only a relatively small proportion
becoming complete adopters. During the 1984 Review of the project, the
*semi-improved* category of farm practices was recognized, with most
emphasis given to crop areas of such farmers by the extension services. It
was a realistic measure and future extension programs would do well to
provide for the likely phenomenon of *semi-adopters* to achieve greater
impact.
12.       Input supply, through FASCOM and the VORADEP-constructed Farm
Service Centers (FSCs), significantly contributed to the rate of
agricultural change in the Region. From a supply level of 2000 tons of
fertilizers annually in 1982-83, the supply in 1987 rose to around 5500
tons, plus seed, chemicals and small items of agricultural equipment. The
relative real cost of fertilizer had risen over the project period, and the
agricultural credit availability in the Region was rather limited. FASCOM
was, however, able to dispose of its annual supplies of fertilizers. It
appears that usage is limited by supFiies and even ith rising prices, a
much larger quantity of fertilizer can be sold. FASCOM incurred
substantial losses due to inadequate stocking, late delivery and lost



- xiv -
sales, high transport costs and inappropriate capital structure. The
allocation and arrival timing of fertilizer were in the hands of the
Government, and FASCOM was left with a short evacuation period from the
port to meet the planting season. This factor, along with a policy of
self-sufficiency in transport capacity, led to FASCOM acquiring high
depreciation and interest costs. FASCOM operations also suffered from a
confusion between a commercial role and a developmental role, roles which
may often conflicE. The consultancy study in 1987 by Coopers and Lybrand
provided a critical review of FASCOM operations. In the context of the
overall macro-economic objectives of Bank supported structural adjustment
efforts and the on-going Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
(ASRP), the Government has decided to phase out fertilizer subsidies and
introduce privatization by 1990. The provision of farm inputs in future
will thus depend on improvements in organization and operations of the
supplying companies which take over FASCOMI's responsibilities.
IDA and Borrower Performance
13.       In all, fourteen supervision missions visited the project in a
matter of seven years after its effectiveness, and thus the project was
adequately supervised. The missions persevered through the early
frustrating years of the project when a combination of adverse economic,
financial, organizational, staffing and weather conditions hindered the
progress of the project. The PCR has raised two apparent deficiencies in
IDA's supervision quality. These relate to (a) a rather late determination
(in 1984) by IDA that a serious reappraisal of the project was essential in
spite of the dismal early implementation; and (b) a failure by the missions
to deal more directly with the Regional Conmittee (VORADEC) for the
project, and the policy makers in the mlnistries in Accra. The Supervision
files indicate that the missions were fully aware of the difficulties of
the project, which were partly due to design, management and institutional
problems, but also due to inadequate provision of Government budgetary
funds and foreign exchange. Through meetings at the regional and central
government levels, aides memoire and follow-up letters and telexes, the IDA
attempted to resolve the problems as they surfaced and often in
anticipation. It was not until 1984, however, that it was considered
incumbent to conduct an In-Depth Review of the project. With the efforts
and time spent in preparing, appraising and in obtaining the IDA and the
Government's approval to the project, and the belief that the early
implementation delays were mainly due to teething troubles, which could be
overcome, reappraisal and restructuring of the project naturally followed
an assessment that the situation was indeed desperate. Concerning the
inadequacy of IDA missions' attempts to resolve project issues l1ce
pricing, input procurement and budgetary allocations for the project
through its so-called leverage" with the policy makers, the files do not
indicate any lack of efforts. It can be appreciated, however, that the
Government's failure to provide adequate funds in a timely manner reflected
the general economic difficulties. Regarding pricing and input
procurement, the missions were particularly conscious that the project's
requirements should be accommodated within the national policy context.
14.       The GOG's general support and attention to the project were
available throughcut, whether from the MOA or the Ministry of Finance and
Planning. In sensitive matters, like the expatriate staff situation and



- xv -
fertilizer pricing and input distribution arrangements (FAsCOM and/or
privatization), the GOG, both at the Regional and Central levels, showed
realism and flexibility of approach. The PCR found the working
relationship between the IDA and VORADEP management to be normally good.
Most reports and aides memoire reflect the extent to which VORADEP
responded positively to IDA's recommendations.
Sustainability and Future Development
15.       With the termination of the project, VORADEP'S agricultural
activities and institutions will be integrated into the main MOA
organization and structure. The responsibility for VORADEP'S non-
agricultural components (water supply, roads. etc.) will revert to the
appropriate line ministries. Maintenance and expansion of facilities which
contributed to the project benefits are important to sustain the increase
in agricultural production and rural income and welfare. A composite
approach to budgeting for the Region will be essential, and it would be
useful to maintain an inter-agency committee (like VORADEC) to ensure
continued focus and coordination of overall developments in the Region.
The Government is of a slightly different view and maintains that, in line
with GOG's decentralization programme, all agricultural activities in the
Volta Region should be implemented under the jurisdiction of the P'DC
Secretary for Agriculture as is apparently the practice in other regions of
the country. This would be acceptable provided such an arrangement is able
not only to focus on the progress achieved hitherto under VORADEP, but also
to continue the momentum of agricultural development in the Region. For
this purpose it would be vital to make sure that project activities and
supporting services and infrastructure are well provided for in terms of
adequate funding and appropriate staffing under the umbrella of the MOA.
Together with effective inter-ministerial coordination this will constitute
the key to project sustainability. With improved Government finances, and
donor support for sector programs like rural roads, it is believed that
rural infrastructure will be sustained. Concerning the MOA's directly
productive areas of Crop Development, Livestock and Fisheries, essential
support services are being funded by IDA's on-going Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation Project (ASRP) which will provide $1.2 million for
extension, research, and monitoring and evaluation over three years for the
Volta Region. ThiL would allow the activities which had had a favorable
impact on project benefits to be sustained, until the VORADEP becomes fully
integrated into the Government's structure and organization.
16.       IDA's implied commitment to a second phase project should not
necessarily be narrowly construed to mean financing of a replication of the
VORADEP over an extended time frame. Its objective waa and remains to be
supportive of those developments which have contributed to positive farmer
response while putting these within the national policy context. In doing
so, attempts could be made to combine the distinct advantages of national
programs and regionally based projects. The PCR has pointed out that in
the VORADEP case, the benefits of regional collaboration between various
Government agencies were not fully realized. It has also emphasized the
need for regional project execution within a national policy framework.
According to the PCR, the deficiencies in institutional aspects could have
been anticipated and worked out at appraisal, and with greater efforts by
the IDA missions, the VORADEP execution could have been better linked with



- xvi -
the central policy planning apparatus. In this context. the PCR concluded
that intensive geographically-based development projects have a role to
play in development strategy; such projects are not to be replaced by
national-level development programs.
17.       Experience, however, indicates that there is no single frame for
undertaking agricultural/regional development. A pragmatic strategy can as
well lead to a series of appropriately synchronized, national (or multi-
regional) sub-sector projects. The design of such projects can provide for
a regional focus on special characteristics, with varying emphasis on
different components, together with a decentralized coordination and
execution of projects. The benefits of such an approach, particularly for
a region like Volta, where the foundations for area development have
already been laid, are: assurance of financial resources, management and
technical expertise and stronger commitment from the Central Government
ministries/agencies; possibilities of varying the sub-sectoral programs
suited to the particular regional needs and redeployment of technical and
manpower resources as necessary between the regions; decentralized
coordination allowing a closer understanding of the regional problems and
priorities, and a composite view of the emerging changes. It thus appears
possible to innovate and reconcile the alternative approaches with regard
to the content and the mechanism of future agricultural development
programs. This is a task which would require close attention and
collaboration of the Government and IDA in the near future.
18.       Fid nd s and Lessons
Mi)       Area Development Projects have their rightful place in the
stages of economic development, but necessarily impose a
severe managerial and inter-agency co-ordination burden. A
higher-level regional inter-agency committee to oversee
such a multi-component project is useful. It is, however,
essential to work out the detailed role and
responsibilities of concerned agencies through bilateral or
multi-lateral compacts/agreemeuts;
(ii)      expatriate staff are often essential, but when recruited
individually and placed within a new/weak management
structure, it could create disharmony and slow down the
project's progress. IDA supervision missions have an
important responsibility, particularly during the early
stages, to effectively determine expert roles and
functions. It may be prudent to consider recruitment of a
team of experts through an experienced consulting firm with
back-up responsibilities;
(iii)     project design for all components, including project
administration, should be precisely worked out at appraisal
stage, and all appointments critical for a smooth start-up
should be completed before credit effectiveness;
(iv)      mid-term review of a project is essential.  It should be
approached with pragmatism and flexibility, and involve the



- xvii -
local government to ensure full-commitment to project
redesign. or changes:
(v)       a balance needs to be struck between heavy IDA mission
involvement with project execution and the necessity to
develop local management and official procedures for
sustained future development. IDA mission inter-change
with the policy makers at the regional and central
government levels is important for putting the regional
project requirements within the national policy context;
this should not, however, substitute for the regular
official comaunication channels;
(vi)      it is difficult, if not Impossible, for the government to
operate even semi-autonomous services (e.g. input supply)
simultaneously based on coumercial and development
considerations;
(vii)     the extension services should recognize that relatively few
farmers will completely adopt the new technology and
practices in the early years. Most farmers are likely to
adopt the improved packages at varying speed and at
different levels of technology; and
(viii)    project sustainability involves identification of the
success areas and the critical elements which brought these
about. Once the foundations are laid, the benefits should
be sustained through national sector projects and/or
integrated within the regular government/institutional
structure. Future regional development could combine the
advantages' of nationally-based sub-sector projects with
the central financial and technical support that this
approach ensures, and the regional focus and involvement
with the selection and execution of project components.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1009-GH)
1: I D DUCTIOI AID BCKGRIOUND
introduction
1.  Thi documen is the project completion report (PCR.) for the VOLTA
RGION                          PRCOIIIUCL TVeLaHT   Ecr   vering the period 1981-1988. It
hsb n prepared by   taa of consultants provided by Landell Hills
Associates, in "asocitiQn wLth SEL of Accr, Cbha.
2.  The document follows In broad terms the guidelines for the preparation
of PCRJ set out in    D op         manuals. In addition, Arnexes hae been
prepard for ech of the major component activitie  of the project. These
provide a nrrative of the devlopmt of the component during project
implementtion.
3.  VOAEP mm intended to benefit small-scale farmrs throughout the
Volta Region. Volta Region covers about 20,500 sque kilomtres (just under
9% of Ghana s area) and lies betwee  latitude 5 dege*s 45 miutes and 8
degrees 45 minutes North.
4.  The project area population is now estimted at 145,000 fam familes,
eacc.uing for a ru*a population In excsi of 900,000. The majority of
these falies cultivate relatively small areas of ply  subsistee
cxops. Th project was designed to raise the welfare of thi target
*  populato  by -ringing about incrases in icme through grter
agicultural prodtivity and p        tow. S S to be acheved. thro&.
th  provisio  of better agicultural  other extenion advioe sorvices,
rov         astrufaclties (paticularly roads ad rural water
supplies), input delivery ad generally Improvedltul
administration.



-2-
11: PROECT IDENTIFICATION, DESCRITION, TARGETS A4D COLS
project Zdentlition and Prearatin
1.  The project vas first identified by an MM Mission which visited Ghana
in November, 1975. At the ed of 1976 term  of reference wer prepared for
7 basic working studi". A preparation mission comprising VW& and Ministry
of Agrculture Staff visited     a in erly 1977 and the drft prparation
report was submitted to thO Goverment Jn July 1977. Howevr, due to the
economic sitution, the project Was not appraised until June, 1979.
Following a Yorld Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) In Magch 1980 (report
so. 2527-GH) and subsequeut approval of IDA credit of US 829.5 willion and
IFAD loan of US $ 12.64 mllion, the project wa finally established in
March 1981 and become operational ia June of that yer. However, the
calendar year of 1982 wa officially recognised as project year one.
Project ObjectIves
2.   he primary objectives of the project were increaase  in agricultural
production, ftam Incoms, welfare and standards of living of the f vaing
Population*, pticularly small-holders, by into ducing and difwfuSng
irve farumig technology, providing farm support services and developlng
rural iafrastructure. This would be dome iu a mumnar which sustained ad
aclar ated sector gprowth for the lon  rm. nproject w"L4 also
strngthen Ministry of Agricultur  papabilities by providing training to
extension and technical st     and streamlining ezistint institutions In the
project area.
Project DJS4 ad S-trategy
3.  Th project was dasigned as the first phase of a progrme of
agricultural development in Volta Region which woudv   c entrae oun tho
deelopment of major food crops,  elated support service   and,riutural
infratruture* The emphasis was to be directed to simple cop production
methods ibich would not require major changes In the existifg cropping
pattern, farm sixes and lad teure. The Project would be iplemented
mainly by existing Ins t utious and only fazr input distribution would be
undertaken by a new orgpsation.
4. The proj ect, to be iplemented over a fve year period, woudl
comprise the following components.
mcrop deelopment; to improve farming practice  via offective extenion
advice and provLsion of fam inputs; to establish on-farm trials and
research; -u to Initiate low cost smell scal irrigation schebes.



-3-
-   lveLstock a" fbarles 4emelopment; to s            th  =A's Veterinazy
and Fishries xtenio  service  ad to exted support to 1vestock farma
end fiLpond.
-   iLfrastiurmtur; to contruct projet offics, workshop, staff qu      s
end ISCs; rehabiltate (Oa's b1<ui      1  facilties and iprove fam
access and feeder roa6s.
-   institutional; to strengthen Mos ReSional OffLce, by  o_mt
managemet and technical rets; eupand and improe staff training;
cret a mm 1nstftuUoV4l calpUty for providing fam Input and other
services.
-   consultants srvi ces; to assit M   In specific areas wher local
expertise ws not available or wher short ten support  as required.
Targets and Goas - A Genera Assessment
S.  During Projeact Implement      considerable chbne were made to some
of the main targets end goals specified at Apprisal for crop devlopmnt.
Thi section takes account of these In the genral outli  of progress that
follows; a more detailed discusion is take  up In Olapter UI  on
implementation  The main. focus of thbi section Is thecop dm lom
progr   *sine it was eoYisged at Appraisa that all ptojt benfits
would be Seueated by thisce component.
6.  The target pom for the co  dsvelopment prgrame was specified by
M  as sfamer who grow cs py to mt sabste
needs. An etimated 60,000 far& familie  (35% of te lRegina total),.
cultvating a average 2.1 ha, would benefit directly.from the Project.
Tis was; raised at Revltw to 90,000 farm failos, wth serious    lto
for Project activitis, especially extenason and input suppies.
7.  Surves undertake  during the Project by the MonLtoring a  lValuation
Deccit sugpst that the avrag  sire of tarpt famr' holding was as
envisaged at appraisal. The Contact Farme Suxvey of 1982 reporte  a mean
of 3.0 ha,  when adjusted for e    onal estiates In tw  districts.
owever, thiL survey also tindcated a WIe rang  aroun the mean, frm 1.5
ha to 3.8 ha across the varios disticLts of the Region, with over 60% of
t  holdUin  below 2 ba.  oever, an mportnt cract t                the mea
..size of th  parels or ^fazms which cooprise the holdin; the parcel is the
most meaningf  concept as regards the adoptoan of imp d method and
practices.   ere the mean siz  of ^fam   as 2.1 ha for the leon "a-a
wholo, ranging from 0.6 ba to 2.0 ha.



-4-
8.  A primary goal of the crop component wa to Increase production through
offective extension of appropriate technological package to farmers who had
hitherto not adopted them. Packages were to be dvloped for the following
crops and areas.
maize                        1,o00 ha
Cassava                      12,000 ha
Yam                           2,400 ha
Rie                           1,100  ha
Groumdnuts                    1,100 ha
Sorghm                          600 ha
Vegetables                      700 ha
9.  At Review (1984) these originl targets were revised upwards mainly to
reflect the fact of the partial adoption of the reommended package i.e. a
semi-biproved category of uptake of the sodern  ethods. Th1  re-appraisal
placed mosc empasis on the growth of the sem-faproved level of adoption.
Rence for maizd-, the major crop, the Iproved target remaiod the sam, at
11,000 ha, but the sem-Improved category was targeted at 29,000 ha.
10. One of the greatest problems facing the current assssment of Project
implementation bas been the lack of data on key aspects of crop davelopment.
No sytematic daca collection prograies were undertaken during the Project
to estimte crop area  or yields. Heome, other less direct methods of
assssment ha"v had to be adopted, depending on fr-pentary, and sometimes
derivative baes of cacuaion
1. Th table below assemble the avalAble    otoand pre ts
comparisos with ShR and Review targeto for the main Project ctops.
Crop Targets and Estimted
Are  Crovpped bwr
IMrove, and Semi-improved #Mangement Levels
lmrowO           Semi- ImDr d
TarMt   Atul-  Taxmet    W
Hai"e    11o000    10,000    29,000    27,000
Cassava   1,000     2,000    20,000    18,000
Yam        2,400    3,000 0
Groundt   100         200    2,400      2,300
Rice       1,100    1,000      -         -
Iorahm      200       300    1,000        900
Cowpea      400    3,900k      -         -
Vegetable   900       700    1.200        900
17,100    21,100   53,600    49,100
Source : VRADEP
Sea over for lote



-5-
Note:
In the asenC  of direct methods, the estimates of actual ae" were based
for the most part. on seed ra  fte gurs.  This "sums tat seed rat norms
are both ralistie anC feasible. It is felt that due to the shortage and
poor quality of "sd during the Projeot that farmo  probably uswd less see
Wr bctare thub recOmended. There is some evidwee fro  the Extension
Impact Survey 1987 to beer this out - about two thirds of contact and 40% of
non-regirtered farmers adopted the seed rate reooendation.
12. It ma assumed at Appraisal that  ceases In production woud be
exected to arise more from substantil yield inrese  than from Increases
In areas uwur cultivation. The expeted incases Ln yields were, by ay
standards, drmatic - ranging frm 300% for maize to 60% for veptable.
Such increas were to be gained by the adoption of a number of reod
practices, selled out in considerable detail In the Appraisal (Section V
SAR).
13. Considerable emphais was placed on the mprovemet of productivity by
the adoption of a number of specific cutural practices. Subsequent surveys
within the Project reveled a less than Pected rate of adoption of some of
these practies, though the SAR did not precisely set requirod adoption
rates for their predicted yield           t.  iae wa the best documented
crop In this respect and the available lrolts show that for adoption of
practies the picture Is erratic, the best adoption rate being
associaed with recommended plancLug time, 63% for contact farmers. Les
than balf non-regLstered farers however adopted thse practic". Other
practles spelflsd In  the Appraisal had much lower adoption rates. Ln most
cases belov 50%.
14. The Appraisal report postulated target yield rates for the major crops
on the basis of the  aumptions about the adoption of specified
techoologies. It has bee  difficult to compe actual yields achieved with.
thos predicted for rasons already explained. Estimates of actual yields
in the following analysis therefore have to be.regarded as boadly
indicstLvo for most of the crops shown. The with-project yields ar also
based on the assumption of adoption of full rc          extension Packages
whereas in fact many farmers only adopted part packages - the somL-improved
category.



-6-
Conarative Yield Utimates (SAR)
(tonash)
CI22             ?re4rojsowt With-Poaect    -Rsearch/Trial
Yield  (1)           Yield (2)         Yield (3)
Maize                   0.75               2.25                3.3
C"aa                    5.00               9.00               15.0
Y_m                     4.00               7.20               15.0
Lice   upland           0.50               1.30      ,         2.0
C      _o~~nurs         0.40               0.70                1.2
Sorghum                 0.50               0.80                2.8
Vegetables              8.00              14.00
1.  Pro-project yield is taken to be synonymus with tr       oal
leves of practice. It is therefore assumed that little or no
proved seed or fertilUser were used by fszurs  before Projoet
implemntton.
2.  Aveag yield eaw ed In each project year.
3.  Sources of estimtes are varios fostly from trials oan farmrs'
15.  Informationon the actul yields acheved undr the Project is
reaonably fim for maize oaly; - estiaes er produce bv a sampl  survey
carrd out by the Monitoring and  valuation Dcparvnt In 1986.  Compared
with Appraisa  the'survy provided dta on a fa*rly wl" range of cultural
practice  which wre desiged to identify criticl factors In yield
performanc. Raults of th K & I Survey suggested that there is no
sipifleant diffxence In the yield  of farmes using local or Improved
mAi- seed, if they both applied fertilLsers. Tbhi might be explained by
the l   leel of fertilizer afpplcation.  Howeve,  for both improvd and
local seed, there was a significant dfferene In the yields between field.
with and Without fertililers.



16. The following aalysis gives survey yitld results for various
@Cobintions of practices.
Comative Yields by Different Practice
Comnbnations, 1986 season
Practice                          'i ld (tonAh^)
Improd maize with fertilizer        2.61
Improved maize without fertilizer   1.81
t tmped maize planted in lIne       2.31
Improad maize not plntd In line   1.62
oved maize plated in 1lie
With fertilizer                  2.83
Loma maize with fertilizer          2.00
Local maaze without fertilizer       1.57
Local maize plated in lines         1.85
Loal aize not -plated in line       1.52
Local maize plated in lines
with fertilizer                  2.32
17. sAR predicted yield for maixe with project (this assues specific
maemt practices adopted as well as afoptio  of Improved sed ad
fertilizer) compared with actua achievement in 1986 seaso  is as follows.
BAR                 2.25 tons/ha.
Project survy       2.83 tosw/ha
The favorble reult of Project maize .famrs ea b  ated to the
succes of the extenson services, which tendd to cn t    on the maize
component of the crop progris.
18. Anothr Important aspect is the performance of loca maie vreties
compared with target yield. Local matze yiel with fertllser uso and
adoption of plating in lnes mu altmt identica with the target yi14
figure (2.3 tons/ha cmpared with 2.25 tons/ha).
19.                   clerly suggest that the resu2t of r
agricultural practies when combind with use of ipr    inputs Ca  hav
favourabe Impacts on maie yields.
20. Compa  ox yields of othor crops is more diffiult to undertake.
Sam  idea am be obtained frm on-fam trials by the Rosearch Department,
though dths assumes that the conditions prevailing In suh tials will be
repLiated by farmers In the ormal field situation. Howver, best
*st ates for other crops ar as follows:



-8-
LMMroved      Traditional/
(local)
C"sava                          15.00           3.00
Yams                             1.50           0.30
Rice - uplad                     2.00           0.90
Cowpe                            1.50           0.50
Groundnut                        1.20           0.50
Swet potato                     8.00            4.00
Vegetables
- s*alots                    5.00            3.5
- tomatoes                   7.00            4.00
21. The poor yields for yam  ca  be explaind by the 4lay in providing
farmers with improved planting materils which did not materialise until the
1986 Season. Coupe. did not fore part of the Project until 1985/86 (it was
not specified in the SAR but receives attention in the In-Depth Review 1984
- see Chapter III 06). Cowpea cultivation requires fairly sophisticated
inputs.
22. Rice yields for the upland economy, at 2.0 tons/ha for the Improved
rgime, appear rather high by 1evels observed in other West African
countries. (Typical upland rice yields under similar regimes In Sierra
Looe, for exampl , are around 1.5-1.6 tons/ba.)  The Project has provided
inputs to the Aflfe Rice Project, under irrigation, and developed
apjropriate cultural rouendation  for some 800 plus hectares of
cultivation. Yields bave ben impresive at around 3.5 tons/ha.
23. Thus compared with Appraisal yields. those es tated as being attained
by the Project apper to be favourable, especiUlly as regards maize. Uhat
has been demonstrated-is.-that cortatn cultural practices, If adopted as
recomuded, can generate substantial ncreas  In yieLds. over. and above
yields obtaind by applying fertilLsers andor improvd seeds.
Ruzal Infrastrcture Components
24. Crop production goals were based on assumptions concerning the-
development and improvemet of a rang. of agricltural support services;
particularly extension, input supply, seed multiplication, applied research
and Irrigation.
25. For other directly productive agricultural activities - notably the
Livestock and Fisheries components - SAR was far- less specific ia defining
goals and activities. As a conseqa  nc  the project never got to grips with
strategies and priorities necessary to the d vielam6t-of these componeuts.
Recognising this failing, the Review 1984 made substantial adjustenats in
the targets for these components, especially for livestock activities.



-9-
26. Tt Infrastructure coupouts were to provide facilities ad services
to:
-   ensure th  succes of the crop developmnt program, by   constructing
feeder ad far  access road  to alleviate Leput  distbution and reduc*
markting constraints to agricultural develop_mts.
*   contribute to the effectivenes anA productivity of project staff, via
the office, workshop and housig construction proF.
-   provide improved access for rual comnities to basic services,
especially rual water suppU", bit also to a batter roa" networ.



-10-
III: ROJlT  UIO
Introduction
1.  This soction pr ents an assessmet of the lpl        ation performnce
of the Project hlghlighting the progoss nd achievements of tho various
components. Ulmre appropriate* some indieatio  of imct is also Lve.
LU ectivenss
2. - Th conditions of the effectiveness of the IDA credit and FAD loan
were as follows
a)  All conditions precedent to the effectiveuss of the proposed lo
ha been fulfilled.
b)  FASCON had boen established in a form  atisfactory to IDA and o
subsidiary financing agreement had been executed betwen COW and
FASCOK.
c)  A sepate bank account, with an Initial deposit of C 3.Om and
Governt-guaranted overdraft facilities of up to C. 3.0m, had been
opene by Volta RegioL EC with a come*cil bank in Ho.
d)  VORDE had bee  established with powers. functiogo ed
copsiton satisfactory to IDA.
f)  The RAC had bee  appointed with qo and powrs
satisfactory to IDA.
f)   Tb. ChLef of Feld Operations adb bnappointed.
These conditions were subst     ly satisfied- by 17 Jue 1981.
Start-up
3.  The Projeet vas offLcially established In Narch 1981 and became
operational In June 1981. Tbe- fLrst 6 months to end 1981 ma a period of
moblisation of key staff, espsciaUy hoso on whose placement depended
credit effectiveness.
4.  Uhile most of the key staff, Includinit   national staff . were
recruited in this period, oa key position, that of Civil Engineer, was not
filled untl March 1982.   sr" is no doubt that thiS proble  coA   tut  to
the delays In comncing the Clvll torb  program  and to he poor
iplemstatio  perfo     c       this compon_nt during the first two to thre
years of the Project's life.



5.  The ShZ assumed tt wvith the  eption of a few senior ad
interiediat level posts (largely consequential to the proposed
restucturitg of the RegLol )OA), the MOA'  curent Regional establishment
La large enou_   to meet overall Project manpower nees'.  (SAR par, 4.08).
In 1980 *A establlshmet In Volta Region n=bered 26 senior, 52
Intermediate levl and 630 field staff. I a total of 708. This ma a
substantial underestimte of rel manpower needs. Actul Project
establlshmet at the ond of 1981 was 1706, comprisin  18 NOA staff and 21
other staff.  It is suggeted that r ecuiteet of additional staff of the
right calbre was difficf lt ad may have had an effect on the poor early
implementation performace . 
6. FollowLag effectiveness a numbor of important revisions were proposed
by the In-Depth Review carried out by IDA and IFAD in early 1964. It had
bocom  clear, both to proj-et management snu GOO, that.project performance
La the first three yers had been well below exp ctations at Appraisal. In
almost all ares.  An IDA/IFAD mission was thus requested by the GOG and
VORADUP to review the situation. Consequently the Mission thoroughly
appraised both original targets and implementation problems and the reasons
for the shortfalls.
7.  The major revisions proposed by the Mision are suris ed below.
Crop     -      
the, focus of the proj et would remaln small farm but input supply
shold be off red to all farmrs La the Region.
gare"s under Increased practices were revised upwards and    recognition
given to the fact that many farmers were adopting    only part of the
package of Improved practices. A 6semL-Improvd      c tegory was thus
designated and areas to be cltivated were targeted.
-    xatension staff were to be Incresed to 180 through aSmlgomting lower
level anlml busbandry staff. Th target group wans  ccordingly rased to
90,000 far. households.
- implemnat tion of the Resarch progra im was to be speeded up.
Infrastructure prograes were amended as follow:
- water supply; the nWuber of boreholes was raised to 50-60 in the
Northern Zone, sub-contracted to a "ermmn company, already operation 1S
Volta legion.
-   roads; procburemet of additional road equlpment was reoended
upgrading was ralsed to 250IS and monitoring raised to 1400hmkyear by 1986.
-   buLldings; a cutback was reco aended In the buildings prograe.
PrLorLty wouLd be given to village FSCs and staff housing.



- 12 -
FASCOt - the organisation should be adjusted to include 11 farmers.
Organisation and   a t
8.  Impl      tio  performnce Is gretly influzeed by th  effectiveness
of the orga itLonal, manageent avd institutional structures desiLgd for
the Project. In this sectiov the various leels of organLsation are
"sessed in terms of their contribution to the rlasation of Project
objectives and goals.
9.  The SAR proposed the following organisational and managemet set-up for
VORADEP :-
a)  the MO, via its regioml office In Ho, vould have over4l
responsibillty for project Implementation. Hoveer, In line with
Govornmant policies of decentralisation, all operational
responsLbiltios, and financial, administrative and policy matters
would be delegated to the Regional level. L&iison with EOA in Accra on
matters of national agriculture policies and priorities would be
maintained.
b)  within the above framework, the project orgnisation would consist
of :-
Volta Regional Agricultural Development Committee (VO ZADEC)
*   A restructured regional W&
-   A Farmers' Services Campany (FASCON)         *
10. VORADNC was to determine project policy, exercs budgetary and
financial control, approve work programs, ensure coordination with various
setoral and national institutions and to liase closely with KOA In Accra
on matters affecting national priorities and policles. A Regional
Agricultural Coordinator (later the Regional Director of Agriculture) would
have the priSary responsibility for coordnataig all project activities; he
would also-be the project anager.
11. The organisation chart shown the cnfiguration of Project depar3ent
at various levls.. Thls was desiged to ensure the necssary adaptation and
stream luning of the Regional EOA to organise and co-ordinate the Project
components. Basically, there was to be a three-tier structure, comprising:-
CCentral Support Services; Administration and Personel; FLnance and
Procurement; and Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation - to provide nocessary
administatidve and planning support to the Regional Director/Project
anager.
-   Tecbnical Support Services; under the co-ordinatin  of a Chief of
FLld Operations (MFO) to implement VORADEP activities In the field.



-13-
-   Field Operations; organised and co-ordinated along Zonal and District
lies.
12. While this was the intended organisation and management structure , a
number of changes were made at various times to facilitato more appropriate
Implementation of activitis. The proposed changes were
*   Training was merged with Extension.
-   a Ry∂!drology and Rural 'ater Supplies Department was set up.
civil and mechanical engineering actlvities were separated, though
both ca_ undbr a Chief Engieer.
1.3 A numbsr of functional revisions were also effected, the most liportant
being the incorporation of all extension services (Anl%al lnsbandry, Plant
Protection, H6&I Extension) into an enLarged Extension and Training
Department under the general operation of the T&V system.
14. As regards Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, the SAR was not very
clear about the planning responsibilities of this department. In fact, no
planning activities, so far have beon carried out by the deparcment,
although at one stage the introduction of a planning dimension was proposed,
either through the recruitment of planning personnel or by merging the
Regional Economic Research and Planning Services unit Into VORADEP. Nelther
was realised.
sey of Perfomauce
15. On the whole the org nisational and managemnt performance bas been
satisfactory  nd in line with project objectiv
16. As regards the higher  ag       t levl (VO2ADEC, Project Manager, etc)
tke following aspects sbould bhe metion,as lessoA for the future
-   it appers that VORADEC, as often happens with this type of body became
too larg for effective decision-making. Perhaps this was inevitable since
the intention was to  kes VORADEC representative of all those organisation
and institutions with development interests In Volta Region;
-   oa the otber hand, the  rra  of the interests represented In VORADEC
ensurd that the committee played a vital public relations and imag-making
tolc for the project;
-   the regular metingp of VORADEC ensured continuity of supervision and
general co-ordination of proj3ct activities.  owever, the all- important
supervisory mAssions of IDA and IPAD tended to by-pass VORADEC and deal
directly with the Proect Management. Decisions and recommendations made by
the Missions then had to be p aed on to the VORADEC by the PM, thus
creating a situation which could have caused difficulties end confliet.



- 14 -
17. The Contral Support Services have carried out their responuibilities,
despite difficulties in the first two or three years of the Project when
financial and procuremet problem  vere enoutered.
18. The   enal Support Service  faced  merous problem  In the  arly
period of the Proj ct. Thes are detailed in the compomet reviews, which
ar  annexd. However, the overall perforuance of tbeo services Improved as
a result of the structural and fuctional changes Introduced during
ImplemntatiSon (see pares 4 ad 5 above).
19. in princple, the orgstio  and mplenttion of field operations,
on a Zoanl ad District basis is saemd, and the concept of Zonal and
District co-ordination has muob to comend it. In practceo, bowever. a
number of -problem were *bouamtred:
-   Zonal co-ordinators were crop specialists and tended to concentrate on
extension activities inrsted of providing a co-ordtnation function with
regard to Zon.l and District programes;
-   there was also conflict between the essentially horizontal nature of
such co-ordination and the vertical loyalty of technical units to their
project-basod department in Ho;
*    the difficulty possibly lay In the failure to ensure that co-
ordinators, especially at the Zonal levol, understood their t echnical roles
as well as their administrative and reporting responsibilities.
20. Hene, dplite diffiudlties in the UVpl ntat   of organisational and
maagemet objectives, the Projoet dld mana  to develop appropriate
structures consonant with planned objectives and goals. A substantial
degre  of structural flexibility,was allowed In order to met. chaging.
needs.
lmplementatiou performance  - a esmry
21. This section prestens su ieats of the component reviews whicb are
detaIled In various Annex" to this report.
22.  As.rpgards the crop development program, th  Adaptive Rsarch
component has had increasing success in reallsing its main objectives,
especially the carrying out of trials on farmer fields. Activities ha"v
4oncestrate o0n cereals nd root crops. Useful collaboration on on-farm
varietal trials with CIDA/Ghana Grains Dvelopment Board for maize has led
to rcc---edtios on the varieties beat suited to the ecological zones of
the Project area. Futhermore, the Research Department started producing
the rcomended varieties of seed umaze for sales to farmers.



- 15 -
23. The most sisgLfiwmt achievements ln root crop research concern
cassava, yam and sweet poto developments. Thee include progress in
cassava disoase control and Variety selection to Increase yields
signlficantly, and the introduction of ya a ii-sett technlques, with a
current adoption rate aong farmers of around 40.50 per cent. Selections of
high yi.dClng sweet potato varieties have produced Impressive results.
Research on other crops (groundauts, cowpeas, rice, ate) has concentrated on
variety trials, mainly in conjunction with other national and international
resarch bodies.
24. In the ares of extension and training the project has achieved some
fundamental and Impressive results over its lifetim, especially since the
introduction of a unLfied T&V ystem. This enabled the detprtment to
increase the tarpet popUlation from 60,000 (SAR) to 90,000 (post-review) and
to attain a more favourable extension worker/farmer ratio of around 1:500
(1:900 pre Project). An iacrease in staff from 120 to over 250 allowed a
more equitable distribution of field contact to farmers. Training under the
T&V approach has been Intensified and made more responsive to farmers'
needs. Theus improvements, coupled with more effective co-operation with
Research, have led to itprassive contact and Impact performances, achieved
tbrough a wide diversity of extension motbods.
25. Comparisons between early Project (1982) and later Project (1987)
extension performance reveal sgnificant improvements in all major measures
of extension progres and impat; namely, frequency of vsita by extension
staff, increase in awarenes of Improved cultural practices for a variety of
crops, and higher adoption rates of modern agronomic practices. Favourable
diffusion effects from contact farzmrs to other groups are also being
achievd.
26. Rome exteaio, now a part of the Extension Depertuent, has achived
substantial results in the community via its progr as focussed on womn n
and youth. The pxogress In lts varied programes has been commendable
despite sious transport problms, which had, In the first few years,
iahibited its programmes ia rural areas and especially ia the Northern Zone.
27. The food production progres, in homs and schools, has concentrated
on urbn h bom gardm, farm vgetable growing, and school gardens. With the
improvement ia the Depertet's transport situation, penetratlon iato rural
areas ba intensified. Total number of partieipants registered rose from
just over 50OOO in 1982 (PYI) to over 20,000 in 1987 (PY6). On the basis of
average rural household size of betwen 5-6 members this aouns that the
programes are ifluecing directly the welfare of some 110,000-120,000
people i the Region. Demonstration effects would place the total number
Influenced considerably above this.
28. Howeer, ther  Is ow an urgent need to asses objectively the impact
of the home extension programmes on the autritional status of the
population. ange  in nutriional status often have fairly long gestation
periods; howevr, tbere is enough evidence to suggest that the programms
are Impiuntin favourably on goneral and nutritional welfare. Ths ought to
be documented as a basis for future program.es



- 16 -
29. Igmt suLoly has been the responsibility t'f FASCOK, a ne*w1ycontituted
body. The development of FASCONl's operations concerned with the supply of
fam inputs and other requirements ha bee affected by * nuber of
inhibiting factors, the more important of which are :
-   an apparent conflict between the Intention that FASCOI( should operato
as a commercial company and the control of input prices and procurement
policies and procedures by the Governent.
-   certain organis- aonal and operational dlfficulties, especially as
regaids FASCOM's transport activities vhich hav had adverse effects on
costs and msxgis.
-   performances of its input supply programs has boen somehat erratic
especially for the two ma in 1iuts. fertillsers and seeds. Failure to
ensure tLtoly supplies of fsrtlliser and suffieLSnt quantities of s* d has
adversely affected farmer uptake of improved packages.
other factors of importance have been the slow implementation of   the
FSC programm, partly due to poor management of the outlets and partly to
delays in the construction of the VORADEP purpose built District and
V11age centrs. Furthermore, original crop recommendations were too input
intnsive and, coupled with transport problems and Laput price rises,
explains why sale  were often below expctations.
30. Given CON coltment to privatization of fettiliser sles and removal
of subsidy, provision of farm inputs In fuure will depend on a wmber of
:=proemens i ogi            and operations of the supplying omopany (ies).
If FVASCO contiusi theS role (and It clearly has advantages of an
existing supply network, adequate tranport facliLties, experience, *ec)
improvements wll bave to be acheved and current constraints removed,
especially in the areas of procuree and distribution (infrastructure and
transort). The present inconsistencies created by  ts duel role of
comercial company/devlopmet company will hav  to be resolved and
rflected in its organization and agnagemnt structure and performanc.
31. Llv_estk_develonmen sufferd   from insufficiently cler
specifLcations ti the SAL  Consequently, little wa achieved in the first
two yars of the Project. The Review of 1984 took a pragmatic view of the
r quirets and recommendd soe achievable and relevat ch          .
32. Finacial issues wre a key objective and two changes were made towards
that end, amely, support from the poor psrforuac   stations wa
withdrawn, and drug subsidies withdran.
33. A major  aprovaemt to the orgisation of livestock services was
achleved by the erger of anLmal husbandry extension staff into the general
Extenion and Training Department. For veterinay service, support v"s
contLnued at the level of previous yers, drugs to be sold at a mark up with
no subsidy on vccinatons. Vehicle avalabilLty vas also improved for
vaccination campaigns.



- 17 -
34. Progress in the livetock progre picked up after 1984, with the
launch of a successful autt-Underpost campagln. Numbers of all livestock
categories recovered and increaed over the nxt few 7ears. Coverage of
cattle by sati-rinderpest vacinatian incrased dramatically, from 69% in
1984 to nearly 90g to 1985 and 1986.
35. During 1986 and 1987 several improvements oc=s  d, following the
recoamendacione of the 1984 Review. Progress was made in the construction of
cattle crushes, dips and refrigeration of vaccine via * cold chain system.
36. Like livestock, fishbrioe  developmt was only vaguely specified in the
SAR After poor achievements in Its first two Projoct years# tbo Review
recomenmded far more specific and technical proposals for futuro
development. Fis  soed production  nd a demonstration fish farm were the
main physical development iitiatives, while intensification of training "s
also proposed. Th Fisherie  Department's efforts were also to be augmnted
by two consultancy studies.
37. The period 1982-86 witnessed an Impressive bulld up of fish pond
construction and stocking.
38. New potential development areas, namly coastal lagoons, estuaries and
swamps, were assesed by a consultant. A second study evaluated soil
acidity and a pilot scheme was rscommended to determine the feasibility of
brackish water aqua-culture. However, this recomm"edation as made too near
to the end of Project life to allow implemtation
39   The rural infrastructure prograsw  were envisaged as ws to
facilitate the achievemnt of tOm nasic Project sims of Improving welfare
and standards of living of the rural population. Programmes iuvolved the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of farm access and feeder road;
improvement in domestic water supply; provision of housing and office
buildings for Project staff; assessmnt of small scale irrigation and
Impl  ntation of pilot scbhmes.
40. The acehvemets and Impacts of these various sub-
comonnUOts can be summarised as follows :
R2NU´ - when all contracts aef coyleted, by end 1988, the Project vill have
rehabilltated 657 km of feeder roads and $41 km of trunk roads. bmpact, as
yet, is difficult to assess, sine* Force Account progrmes did not identify
lkely Impacts, and road benfits ae elusive and long term in generatin
beonfts. However, gSVen the scope and distribution of the road "schmes,
there is no doubt that the better access and counlicatious t-nus achieved
vill benefit both the target faming population through Improved access to
imputs and markets. th Regional population in general iU also benefit
tbrough  quality of life' nmnoumeit



- 18 -
BYUldins  d Houwing - the mot imrsive aem             s of this copenet
were Ln the contrution of senior intermdiate staff houslng, with-ICO  ed
63% of targts reached.   oweve.. only 15  of targeted junior staff housing
ws attained, and none of the FASCOK Regia al HQ, the District stores or
Zoal offices hae been built. The impact of the building programme on the
we1 being and productivity of Project staff has been ainlmised by the fact
that completion of staff housing cam only at the end of the Project.
Howver, the invcea   in housing stock is a good investmet for the future.
The 50% achievement In the regional office building program  has definitely
mproved the stadard of office aceomoation of VORADU staff, with
consonant benfits to working conditions, and; possibly, productivity.
During 1987 and 1988, 34 village FSCI, will have been cmpleted ad this
should hav  favourable offect on the input ditribution progrs in the
Roegon. MechanicAl services he" been plced on a better footing with the
completion of the central workshop and the 3 zonal workops.
Rural Water Sumly - The wells programe was slow to Set off the ground,
with little achievemet In physical terms dur"g the first 2 yeas. jgpts
were revised by the Review Mission and the construction of the planed wells
were contacted to a compay with a good track record In the Region. The
Project bas drilled 246 successful wells In the Region, about 50% of the
total of wells drilled by CGSC under a Geran aid progre in the same
priod. VODIP wells program  ha accouted for about one third of all
wells currently existing In the Region (CVSC is responsible for 44%). In
tee Northern Zone VORDP wells account for 78% of wells currenly existing.
Impacts of ral water suply programes ae difficult to assess side
Improved water iS only one component of many             to helth and
welfar of the rual area. Given the scale and distribution of VORADP
wels, hover, It Is reaonable to assum  that the progrine  has
contributed and dll inSrlengly contribute to iIpr tn halth
sta .       s, In tim, will, have favourable overspill, effects on
agricultural production, etcational prfoc  and the -quality of UfeT
dimnuions of the ural population.
Central Worksho and Vehicle Ooeratiors - tbe estgblisbmet of a Central
Workshop has Improved the Project's capacity La vehicle and equipaent
_ai,ntnanceand repairs. Th intallation of 3 Zonal worlahps Us also
*   tbute  this capabilty thrughout the Region. Improvements in vehicle
usag  ad in the assessmet of vehcle operational costs have also bee
intituted. F"rthermre the _echancal Sev sD r t has assi
facors In clearing farmland (about 160 Ha betwen 1984-1988) and
costructig dug outs. Reeue from ths  servics have ben paid into
*Jest accounts.
IrriSation - the SA1 proposals appear to have been over-optimUtic sinc  the
t    of planning, design, constucetion and operation of an irrigatio  scheme
is a long and expenive. one. There was reasonable an  planning
ad survey wock, but mh more progress would have bee made If the
relationship betwee VOA    and the Irrigation Development Authority (Da)
had been more carefully plannd and devloped. The main              ha bee
In the are  of data collection and design for 7 pilot Irrigation sches.



- 19 -
IV: FINACIA  PERCNAI
1.  it *w  enwised at appraisal tbat the total coat of VOIADR
activities over a five yer period vould be *ome $48.7 millio. Thi emmt
would cover the rague of local ad foreign costs which would be Incurred,
-A would be finSa   from three main sources. Thes were to be the
Covermnt of Chna, th  It        o        lopment Ageny (IDA) am of the
Zuteruatinlt Bank for Rscouta uction-a- d Devlopmet (I=, or World ank)
ad the   tation    md for Agricultural Devlopmt (IFAD). In addition.
a amal amomt of capital wa to be provided by local banking
instititution.
2.  The prpse  financing ple. ca  be s:auisd thu:
(US $S nillion)
tems          IDA            IFAD          Goa       Total
Local         11.0           4.6           6.3       21.9
FreinL        18.5           7.9          -.-        26.4
Total         29.5          12.5           6.3       48.3
aa.... -aefbla..fl.ean   n.... _ _.
Local bakg institations we" to provide $0.4 milio  tOwards local costs
(as equity to 1As00 for orking capiLtal), therefore bringing the total
prject cost to $48.7 mllion.
3.   IDA-wa thus to fund 6% of ths project, VAD 26% ad the Gove.mentof
*h aa 13e, with the remmai,in4  ls t*n is coming       loca 
inetitatona. ML ad WAD wer to finance all t_ forig   a            costs of
VOmDu, (in b. ratio of 7:3). and 49% and 21% respetively of loal
costs.
4.  Lsoa agremns  ware therefo negotiated betwen Cove|meet of Ohane
and IDa ad hAD. The IDA loan of $29.5 millin cari  stadad tame ad
conditions for such creits, and the DAD loan of $12. 5- mllion wa
negotiated  n c      onazy te=& with respeet to snevice  argws nd grace
ad repaymn. pertods. The usual arnent regading cemicomnt fee on
undraw  fouds apple, as did         ts on procedue for th  clain  of
reim      n from  MD ad procedurs for prcemt 11oui
competitive bidding. As regards tat part of teb IDA/AD loan ($3.9) oe
by Goveromnt of Gbhma to FASCO= for ir n   fam  inpus, thi was to be
repaid ovr o30 years, with a 7. ye  a  period. Tbhs loan becae
effective in 1981, allowing the project a notial start date of March 31,
1988. lecus of tbe delayed imto  of the project, e-edture in
19J1 ma minual, and project year  1 La regudd as calendar 1982. 1988
e    ditur is tebrefore inluded with that for 1982 in the tables which
follo.



-2 -
Actual expenditures
5. A comparison of actual financial performance with that envlsaged at
appraisal Ls beset with problems. Those problem. relate both to tho
operations of the project itself .wd to the environment within which It has
been operating. In the first &is*, the actual mIz of activities vwech the
projoct has undertaken has d£fferred from those outlined at appraisal. In
part thi has been the result of deliberate policy changes following the in-
depth review of VORADiEP n 1984 and in part du to the project flndlng that
som proposed activities were not feasible, and consquently redirecting its
efforts elsewhere. The relative importance of tdfferent project components
has changed as a result, and therefore the overall cost structure of the
project has changed. The delays in implementation which occurred In tho
early years of the project also contributed to daviations betwoen expected
and actual financLal porformance. In the second case, the macroeconomic
climate in which VORADEP has operated has been subjoct to major variation,
most notably with respect to the exchange rate and, (partly as a consequence
of this), the rato of domestLc inflation. Since the tim the project was
first appraised the exchange rate botween the US dollar and the Cedi has
changed by a factor of nearly 100; recent doamstic inflation has been of the
order of 40% per annum.
6.  Given the above considerations, the evaluation of the project's
financLal history simply in term  of appraisal expectations isextremely
difficult. What cam be sald, in the most general tems . however, Is that
satual monetary expenses dLominated in Cedis have been much Sgreter. tha
envisaged due to the effects of domstic inflation, but that in overall,
dollr ters these bave been more than offsot by the declin  in tho value of
tho. Cedl. This, plum the the relatively slow Initial Implementation of the
project ha smet that part of the loan funds available hav not been
utised. (in erly 1986 =nRs situation wa revlewed -at the tim  It
appekred that as 'muh as $24 million of loan funds would be unspent at the
end of project year 5 - and lt was decided to extend the life of the project
by one year, with an additional 6 maonths iwLnd-diown' timb to the end of
1988. Ivan so, lt is ulikely that all committed funds will used by the end
of the period.)



- 21 -
7.  A breakdown of project expenditue by source of funding over the period
demonstrates these feture:
Actual Project Expanditure by Source, 1982 - 1987
TlM          Go CG           DA            IFAD
(Cedi a)       (U8$ a)        (S$4 a)
* nee.--.   o-Ö- -Ö- -.                     .....
1982          34.73        *2.69          1.15
1983          24.80         0.99          0.42
1984          36.98         0.88          0.38
1985         145.24.        3.37          1.45
1986         229.92         4.16          1.78
1987         353.86         7.19          3.08
,...............................
TOTAL        825.53        19.28          8.26
~~~~,,O,,T ,    ...............__...*---
DUMT          28.4         29.5           12.5
Total Cedi monetary expenditure to the perW   eqding Decebmbr 1987 Ls shown
to be roughy 50 ties 8greter than enwisagd -tt appraisal. At tbs. xobae
ate of 18$ 1 - CeAL 2.75 In 1980 Governmet of   na e     itu wa to be
the equivalent of US$ 6.3 millin, or Cedi 17.4 =Illion. Using recent
aution rate  for forign exhag of aound lS$ 1 - Coed 200, ral Cedi
expnditure In V8$ tar.s has actuaily been bilow tavrgt, only about two-
tirds of allocated reel funds bhaing been utiised. Howevr, using a
nominal figure to reflect the weighted average ehanpg rate wer the
period, Covenoment Cm otributions rin excess of theos envisaged, largely
due to unanticipatd staff costa.
Si ? Au 4 SAR for Cedi Anuual Goverrment Financing
Annze 6 tUA for ID  and IhAD



- 22 -
Us* ot lom fiads
8.  Ts tscm of lon funds use  and re.af.g the sitution (to the end of
1987) is shown beow by IBRD categories of expenditure:
IDAFAD Di            Stuation (to Dece_er 31, 1987)
* to cc..... cc~.. --c -.--       co..... .ce .......... 
CAXOK  DESCIPTION    ALOACTIED         DlSJUSlD  UIDISBUISID
(US$ a)         S$ a)    (US$ a)
.........                   e..............................  -------ee........
1        CIIL gRKS/
MAZUIALS         12.50          7.41        5.09
2        MQIMKEUT/
vuICLu &
SPARE PARTS       8.00         10.75       (2.75)
3        FARx nnPuTS        4.72          4.71        0.00
4        Ualto G&
*   SALARIES      5.00          4.41        0.59
5        00 
NAIUTWANCZi        8,50         1.79        6.7n
6        WUAlocaID          3;43          0.20*       3.22
...   ...               ... 
TomAL                      42.15          29.27      12.86
Ö ..........   ..   c.  ..c c.
amut in special revolving dollar a_omt)
Of whish:
IDA los                    29.50          20.49       9.01
WIAD loan,                 12.50           9.79       2.71
ccc........c.....cc...... ccc ...e..c... eccae...c.... cc...
As of the end of 1987 therefore, only about 65S of allocated loa f und had
been dram down. With the eztesion of the project and the iclusion of nw
activities, however, the rate of expndte Is increasing 3apidly; In
January, 1988, for example, the project spent US$ 1.81 mlluon. Of loan
funs usd, capital         tus (der ID categories 1 and 2) accounted
for some US$18.22 million  or 62% of the total. The balnce of the loan
funds were  aitoly usod for recurrent exp nditures rliubursable under
cateSy 5, and for purchase of farm inputs for FASCOK.



- 23 -
9.  An aalysis of proJ3ect e iture by compon_nt (or project output) is
extrmly desirable for the purpose of "esetlzt  return  to indiLVdul
cimponents. As Ls the cse for nearly all such projects, howeer, actua
accouttig practcess facilitat. only an  ppro        pieture. The data below
reprJest an attempt to spUt total project expenditures by the major
identifiable project output to which they relate.
Approximate Project Eeture by Compo_ent, 1982 - 1987
Component/Output                   oporn of total (C)
............     * t~ ........ec .....  n.e..........e...c...
dinistration (saccmts, COiiatios,
management. II & K)         19
R"erch                                       4
Extension (crops, home, animal
husbandry)                      14
Vetinary                                     S
Fisheries                                    2
rrigton/ral  ter supply                7
Civil e    erg  (rao,  buildin)             21
Lad use plannng
Eecanialservices 
Plant qu~arantine1
FASOI=                                      21
..... .......... 
TOM~~~~~~~~~ 100  
Thi breakdown shos a fdaily typical stuaton wLth the direct ovevhead
costs of admiunstalo    and mechanuic  servies togeter absoxbing arond
on quarte of all e nr. Also typical is the relatively high
expenditue on civil works, wit  its captal-intesiv. imt requiremts.
I*5A0K for tiput purchases and distriution are also of the sane ordr of
magnitude. Etension costs are net In importane (split betwen staff costs
and transport costs), folloved by the other, smeller components.



- 24 -
10. Expendtur by District is available for the period after
1983, and breaks down into the following proportions:
District                      Proportion of total
expenditures (t)
...._....... .......................................
so                                26
Hohoe                               6
Xpaudo                              7
Jasikan                             8
krachi                              3
Ekvanta                            4
Sogakupe                           7
Denu                               5
Anloga                              2
Regional IQ (Ho)                   31
Volta Region                      100
This pattern reflects the Lnevitable concentration of resources at the
Regional centre for administration and organization, as well as th
operation of some project compneants In spoecfic areas only (for example
fisberLes and rod rhabiliation.) Given the population distribution of the
Region and the considerations just described, no major equity Lssues are
apparent fromthe geographical patt    of expenditure.
Operation of loan        es
U. As regards the actual operation of the loan funds for development
purposes  it can be said that there have been no problems with the flow of
funds provided under the loans which have $mpeded project activity. InLtial
difficulties connected with inexperience in managing such agremntx and the
provision of adequat documentation to enable reimbursement of expendStures
were soon overcome  The original credit agreemnt was amended twice; once
to change the level of rvimbursaoble expeaditure under category 5 from 85%
to 95% of the total cost, and once to allow the rallocation of funds
following the redefinition of project targets. IUD also approved the
"tting up and operation of a special revolving dollar account with a
Chanalan commercial bank In London to faclltate small-scale lovorss
purchases uhichwvas not In the original credit agreement. The role of
procuement agents in the prepar tLon of doc4met tion for international
competitive bidddiag has been found extremely useful by technical staff of
the project, although this has been criticised by IUD supervisLon missions.



- 25 -
Local fund sources
12. Funs from the Government of Ghana hav  basically been forthcoming.
Problem La this respect in the very early days of the project were more
connted with the genral economic situation than ay specific probls
with VOREAD. The centralisation of the capital vote at Acera did cause
problosn of access to *and release of, funds, however. This led to
contractors being uwilling to undortake VORAOEP work. and the projeet
funding some capital activities from current e2lpe1dtur  through the
operation of a local account in Ho.
Local administration of funds
13. In general th. picture has been one of tfficient adinistration of loan
and local fund  at Ho. Budgetlg,  planning atu reporting functions have
boon maintained satisfactorily, althougb delays have occurred with the
auditing of accounts by the locally-appointed auditors due to presjure of
work. The project bhs represented a considerable degree of decentralization
of financial autonomy and demonstrated that such systems ar workable.
fture Considerations
14. In the liht of this eaperLence It is to be hoped that some degr  of
self-accountability can be maintalned for VORADRP following its "bsorptIoP
Into moe traditiona  gverent structurea in the futpure. It  ast oe
eupbaaseed that there ifl be a definite nee" for planning the finances of
fturo activities currenitly undertaken by WinDUP on an Sitegrated basis if
the momaznum of development In the Region is to be, mintaied.
A  oaposite apprch to budgetilg for the Region wll be essntil a  the
.returns from crop development depend upon. investeents continuing to be made
in the iarloui area  (roads, eztension, water-supply *tc) whbih contribute
to the returns. This ned hs iMplications for .future fin=ancil
administration of the RdgLoh.



- 26 -
V.  cL IMACT
Znoeo  nalOutpu
1.  Project invesneent 1a impved output in the region ard details of
pysical ic        a outp  ae discuss" below. (An eclonic aalysis of
the project impt is dscused In the  et chapter.)  PQojOeCt
imlementation differed substantially fm  the design at appraisal ad
thus incementalbeeits achiev"e  ffer from those orgivally enwisagd.
Betimats of project benfits given below aSe subject tk lmitations In the
qulity of the data onwhich tbhy are based.
Nature Of Benefits
2.  Incremnat    l crop production accounts for sme 60-75% of "timated
benofits in the early years of the project; this proportion declins in
liter years as benofits from other components (eg livetock, fisheries,
roads *te) begin to come on stream.
3.- The most important coaponent of incremetal crop production, and the
erop on which most extension activity has focussd, has bee seaze. Araund
half of the ferns In the Region cultivate aize, as eitbhr sole or mixed
crop, typically on area of 0.75 - 1.25 hectare, out of a total fare size
of aroud 3 bectares (Soure :  onoitoring and evaluatiol dapartts.
basllne and 'contact famers surveys.) Project Impact on aggregat maize
production is estimated to be In excess of 8000 towoes per nUm after 1988
(PY7.)
4.  *-h crop extension service bas morked through a  rlsin 'sg and visit'
(T&?) system of fortuightly meetings with 'contact' farmers to promulgate
* recomndation  for the cultivgtlon of Improved varieties of maize, using
Improvd se  sad timly *plicahon o ffetilisers. Zecodations for
-plant densitie  (spacg, plants per stad ate) and weedIng practic  bave
also been developd. Potential benefits from full adoption of extension
re omencations are coniderable; project research results sug t that
yilds cm be more tha  doubled.
5.  Th overoblaing picture on maize   lttn     the Region, however, Is
of prtial adoption of extension re    e    i. Crop yield surveys
* conducted by the   & 6   dep rtent sugget that few farmes ars complete
adopters. By 1987, for example, 55% of farmers weeO adopting the reoedd
practis for f lisr   plication osme of thelr maze, whil 67% were
reported as adopting the lmproved seed varieties. The majority of famers
ony partlly adopt re        tio : for exmple, usian  fertilisrs to a
lesser extent than r c    d, or by usng fertUlzer on unimprove seed,
or by plating In lines but using only traditional material. For this
reason, potential beofits from new technology extended to the target
population are greatly eonstrained. As a reult, averag estimated benofits
per farm are couseratively estimated at something under one tonne of maize.
for 'adoptersJ. This is based on data from the Monitoring and Evaluation
Deparment daize Yield Survey undertaken in 1986, when It was found that the



- 27 -
range of shelled maize yields was from around 1.5 to 2.8 tons por heceare,
with yields being a function of both type of s"ad used as well as app-ication
of fertiliser and recommended planting practices.
6.  Very little information exists about trends in the uptake of  mproved
practices In the Region, apart fros the partial data contained in the
Contact Farmer and Extension impact surveys in 1982 and 1987 respectively.
The project has not been going for a sufficiently long enough tim for
survey data to measure the rate of the knowledge-diffusion proess. Studies
from elsewhere in Ghana on maize growers (conducted for the Ghana Grains
Board by CIK!TM) confirm the picture of partial adoption and also suggest
eventual rates of adoption of Improved practices Results indicate that most
famers wifl move towards their production possibility frontiers, but at
different speeds and In different respects with a smell proportion becomlng
complete adopters.
7*  Recommendations on other major staple crops in the Region (cassava,
yam, sweet potato, sorghum *te), have had much less of an Impact. The
'mini-sett' propogation techniques for yam, to overcome the shortage of
planting material, have been developed and there is reson to think their
effect (combined with a greater supply of planting material) in future can
be considerablo. Similarly for cassava (which is a staple to some degree for
the majority of the Region's population), an TTA-developed variety has been
multiplled by the psoject and associated recommndations issued. Although
the potential bonefits from the cowpee componaet of extension work are
lage, they must be discounted due to thixr Ugh dependence on relatively
sophisticated inputs; no estlmate of bonefits bas tbhrefor been attempted.
.  Beonfits from other crops are mors m  surable. In the case of rice
(grow  by some 15% of farmers In the project area), the project has not only
developed appropriate-recommendations but has actually. sustained production
through the supply of inputs to the Afife i¢Le Project. AnnSal incremental
rice production (both rainfed and Irrigated) Ls stimated to be some 2000
tonnes In 1988 (PY7.) gstimates of  nI irrigated rice production.
com from the Aft.2 Rieo Project. Benefits from Input supply under VORADEP
also apply to shallots. whre the availability of essential inputs has
awvrted a production collpse In the pat (estimated in crenmt of 600 tonnes
per run by 1988.) The iact of the project on tomato growing appears
widespread, with the establisnent of institutional and 'backyard' gardens
across the Region, with ncremental production estimated to be of the order
of 1200 conoes per anum. Financial and *conoLi bonefits from all these
activities are considerable due to the crops bhigh values even though
absolute production volums my be relatively low.



- 28 -
9.  Input supply, through FASCOI and the VORADEP-constructed Farm Service
Centrir(FSCA) I ha been a major feature of VORADS? activity and has greatly
affected the rate of agricultural change in the Region. At the start of the
project in 1982 - 83 FASCON wa supplying less thaui 2000 tomes of
fertilisers annually; by 1987 this had risen to around 5500 tones, plus
seed, chemicals and smll items of agricultural equipmnt (such as
cutlasses.) The supply of the inputs theoelves has obviously been
fundamental to the bringing about of technological change; their delivery
and availability tbrough a network of FSCs bas had benefits in the nazture of
both efficiency and equity (in the latter case more so after the project
input supply pollcy change In 1984.) It is Impossible to assoss thb impact
on the agriculture of the Region of the simple availability of these inputs
4ithout referenee t the overall econoic environment within which'-they have
been supplied. In this respect, the relative real cost of fertiliser to
farmrs has risen drastically over the period of project life, and continues
to do so; and the availability of agricultural credit in the Region is
extremely limited. Even so, FASCON is currently lisposing of its entire
annual supply (apart from a small transactional wastage) of fortilisers. It
therefore appars to be the case that supply, rather than demand, is the
constraint to usage. (FASCON estimate that some 10000 tonnes of the right
proportions of fertiliser, available at the right time, could be sold
annually at current prices, but supply to FASCON through VORADEP is limited
by foreign exchange limitations.) The impact of input supply on agriculture
would therefore appear to be great, but constrained by factors external to
the project.
10. VORADEP has also had other, non-.crop agricultural impacts. The
veterinary progr _  of              'acc"iions urn helped to keep tha cattle
population stable (if not Ulightly increasing) in the face -of outbreaks of
rindepest and CMP In the legion. The roads and water supply programmes
have had major lipacts upon the infrastructure of the legion. In the case of
roads, some 1150 kilometres of trunk and accesa roads will have be n built
or rehabilitated (eitbhr by contract or fore account) by the end of 1988,
and over 240 boreboles have been sited as part of the water supply
programme. The Impact of the roads Improvements are more direct upon
agricultural production, and traffic surveys conducted by the monltoring and
evaluation unit of VORADEP together with estimates of teo quantity and value
of marketed production, allow an estUate of the extent of this impact. The
poor state of roads in theb  egion (especially In the north) plus the high
valuo of the increental arzketed produce has  eant that the roads programme
appears economically worthwhile as a component on its own. The cae of
boreholes Is harder to quantify, though the welfare effect throughout the
legion appears to be measurable by the declining Incidence of water-borne
and associated diseases (particularly gulnea-worm) as recorded by the
Ministry of Hbalth.
11. The impact of the fisbhriSs aqyculturo extension component has not
been estimted, although the component has offered extension assistance in
the form of design, stocking and harvesting Snputsato small farmer wishing
to establish ponds over a period of several years. Of much greater Impact is
likely to be the substantial invstment In marine capture equipment for
coastal fishermen in 1988. The Impact of this investment should be large,
with savings In foreign exchange and a potential doubling of annual catch.



- 29 -
Other Project impacts
12. The project h&. had other, non.messurable impacts on the Regton.
Foremot amonp t these hs beou the decoutralisation of decision-making
rogarding the devlopment of the Region. VORADEP ha bee  responsible for
plannAng end Lm1lementing an integrated agricultural developmnt strategy
for the Region, with the undertaking of associated administrative functions
for finuacial administration, budgeting etc.
Foreign exchange and revenue Implications
13. The incremental production of some of the crops from the legion as a
result of VORADEP should result In a savinLg of foreign exchange over the
period of project life. GbAna currently import a rang of cereals to meet
its food defi¢lt, and Increments of maize production should be directly
substitutable for some of this. the case of rice is even more apparent, as
Ghana imports (or receives as aid) most of this pref&_,red food at presont.
Long-ru trends towards the production of rice at near-compotitive world
prices will result in substantial foreign exchange savings. Foreign sxchqnge
exponses will continue to be incurred, however, on both the diroct inputs
(fertilisers, chemicals *tc) necessary to generate agricultural increments,
and on the indirect inputs which are also necessary (especially
Infrastructure investment.) Vithl the terms of the economic impact analysis
the nett position is one of foreign exchange saving.
14. -Shaoets and tomatoes are potential. foreign exchange earners, both
being currently xported to nighbourting countries. The development of
shallot eports to Togo and Suria Faso appears pcularly attractive.
The impact of the livestock component is assumed to be limted to within the
Ohanela  economy. The fisheries lnvestmnt which is about to be made should
hve  an impact on foreign esibanpe i two ways; firstly it should result In
the saving of foreign exchange as fishuerme no longer travel to Togo to
purbhase equipmnat, Sad, secondly, can result in the earning of foreign
excange with the incresed sales of fish to other neighbouring (especially
landlocked) countries.
15. The revnue effects of the proj ct are negative. The project activities
and their  t     on  beyond 1988 demand large a zmt  of Goveznmnt
resources (perhaps as much as Cedis 900m pe  amam as astimated.by GNA),
and thse wil not be recouped In the fom of higher taxtlon or ces
revenues from small farmers; hovevr the economic  aysis of the project
which follows sugets that this levl of financial comitment in the
relatively short-mm wold result In long-ru economi benfits.
Incms, Employmet and Equity
16. Agricultural money and rel incoms are etimted to have risen as a
result of VORADEF. For individual farm familes ths ins a function of their
levels of adoption of new technology (and In particular thelr use of
purchased inputs) and the resultant extent of crop Inerement. These money
returns re typically modest at present In absolute teros, (perhaps Cedis
20000 per farm from Tha of maize), but represent a substantiaL relative
incree In disposable incoea.



- 30 -
17. There are no definite emplomet impacts as a reult of VOADEP
obsevable at preost t.a crmts of real incomes should in the meium to
long-run call fo@ft changes in the pattern of demand for goods anA xevvices
iu the Region (through 'Fowth linkage' mechanis). and thus cause an
increae in specific ars of employment opportunity, but these are not
sale at praeset and ae c9aventionally excluded from the anlysis of
such develpment projects. The project has of course itself beie a major
direct employer ia the Region (currently with over 2000 staff, man of whom
A"I      entl to the previous levl of public sector activity.)
18. There aro no mjor equity issues arisng, from the pattern of resource
4location under V Dtl. The pattern of project expenditure by District
presented in the capter on financial performance shows no geographicl bias
beyond that unavodable in a project of VODZP a nature. The ealy emphasis
on maize cultivation by the project is possibly to some extent questionable
on grounds of eqity whe only balf the farmers In the Region are growing
the crop. Rover, thiss probably both unavoidable and (in impact terms)
uniportant when benfits from tecbnological change are apparent from maize
cultivation to a muc greter extent than other crops (especially cassava,
which is more widely grown). Moreover, the benfits to maize growers have
been incrasingly coaplemted by the returns to other crops and other
activities (such as livestock, fisheries etC) which embrace an incresingly
greter proportion of the Region's population.



- 31 -
VI: ECMICC RAZ OF RUM
BaSIS of  calultio
1.  The bao assumptions for the lnteral economic rate of return estimate
are described in Annex* 1. The cot and benefit struture for the project as
a whole is shown Im  Table 58 on page 62. Tables 1 to 9 of the sam  section
describe costs arA (where possible)  easurabl* benfits for individual
project components, or sets of components, grouped functionally. For the
purp6aes of construetion of the Table", all tbo bonefits from the crop
dvelopment programme are shown to acreo to the extenolon component; it ls
of course the case that these benefits depend directly upon input supply
through FASCOM, and lidirectly upon a range of adminstrative and
agricultural sor'ices. In other cses, returns to individual components ars
more easily identified due to the discreet nature of the activity (eg
livestock and fisheries).
2.  No benflts hav  been included for those components whose output is
inhetently uimaurable. These include adlinistration (managaunt, accounts,
communications and monitoring A  evaluation), lapA use- planning end
agricultural research (Tables 1, 2 and 3.) Costs beyond 1987 are assumed to
be Incurred only for thosa components whose benflts  a measrable after
that date. In the case of road  and borehoes a percentag  of the capital
cost of istall.e  resource  ban been assumd to be ne"d anually for
maintenanc; for extesion ad lvestock activities a movig averapg of
totl costs over te 1982-87 period bas been assumed necessar  to keep the
program  going. No new devlopment work is assumed to occur beyond 1988.
3.  All costs an benfits ae expressed iu 1982 constant terms. The if
of the project s assumed to be 25 yeas.
The  natur of Deefits
4.  Th project La etimated to have an nternal economic rats of return of
16 percent: this co=cL&s. with the rate of r*tuqa calculated at app;aisul
In 1980. The nature of benfits realisod is different from those projected
at appraisal, both regarding. the extent of benfits from the crop
devlopment programe   d the range of retuns fom other components.



- 32 -
5.  The largest single source of benefits coms fro        etl  size
production under therop developmet program  (a. Table 4.) Under the
assumption that Ghana continues to be. not recipient of cerals from aid
and/or coinrcial sources, this increment to production ba a tolatively
hlgh real value. Other itncrementl production (especially rice) also has
i high real valu. oven thoush the quatitios produced as a result of
VORADI? activities may appea relatively modst. The prodction of shllots
(valued at oca" prices plus a mall premum due to some quantitis being
eported to neighbouring eountries) in the Region is also estmated to have
risen as a direct teult of FASCOM input supply; in on yea but for
VORADE-supplied inputs prodution would havecollapsed. The project ha
also ecouragd the production of tomtoe, with a relatively high local
value. Other crop production incrmats (cassava, yam, compoa) be not
been Included for the period  o 197 as croppg recommdations bave only
recently been extended to fares; benfits thouSh are estimated for futwe
years. All benefits estimted for years beyond 1987 are sensitive to inpu
availability (see 6 below.)
6.  Additionl benefts are also estimted separately for sevral
components: roads, boreholes, FASCON, livetock and fisheries developmnt.
In the case of feeder rods. (Table 4) bnefits are estimted for the
implicit savtgs  labour tim  In a change from head-loading to the us* of
motorised trauport, for the value of a small moun   of produce whLch  ould.
vot oterwise bhe   rketed, anA (in the long run) a smll Increment due to
prodution beixg stimulated by the proSity to a road. In th  case of
rehabilltated trunk roas no incrmental traffie Is geerated, although
there are some cost savgs to existing traffic. On the basis of these
calculation  ta  roads preogra   shos a positive retu  to its directly
idetifiable costs. Costs a" asuaed to bo incurred- foz           c  of
those roads contructed or rehabilitated before the and of 1988 throughout
the reomaing assumed project life.
7.  In th  case of boreholes, benefits arxp harde to estimte. They depend
upon better quality water ad bettr acess to water  aUlting in better
health which has an effect upon agrilatural productivity ador production.
Data from the Ministy of flalth sugget that the measured inidenc  of
_unea-worm is going down In Volta Region, and this has been taken as a
proxy for bettr heath and prodction. Tabl* S tborefore attribute  an
Increment of production eqal to 5S of that of tbh csop d      mnt.
;cggra to the insutllation of boreholes and consequent better. levls of
rural health; at this level ths componet shows a postive return, am4g
that futur ms costed at 5% per aniu= of total capital cost
imurred before ths end of 1987.
8.  FASCCM operating costs and  stimated benefits are shown In Table 7. Tbe
only benefits Included ar th*o  teultiug from better storap  facilitie
for fertilisers. chemicals  d. sed. These have been "timated at a small
(4%) proportion of the value of anual tbroughput, although te actual
supply of the Inputs temselves is critical to the sucess of the whole crop
developmnt program. As a result, the component shwo  4 substantial
notional negative return.



- 33 -
9.  Veterinary services and animl husbandry extension costs and benefits
are shown in Tablo 8. Based on animal Census  ata ad the namber of
vccinatLons undertaken, an estimate hs been made of the change In the
mortality rate of cattle in the Region and the economic value of the herd
saved. So stimte of the value of veterinary servwces on chic-kens  shep,
go*ats  d rabbits has been Included. Animl husbandry axtenion is assumed
to hae a valuo equal to 10% of the cattle saved; this is likely to be
rather a conservative figure. The component as a whole shows a positive
return on this basis.
10. Fisherie  devlopment costs and benefits. are shown in Table 9. No
beeflts are assumed for the extension aquaulture co_mpont of the projoct.
All benefits cacrue from the purcbase (for oard sale to fisborn) of
nets, outboard motors and ancillary fishing equipmet ln 1987. Thi is
assumed to be a 'one off' event, and increnv tal production (ovor a four
year period) is valued along the lins of that used to justify the purchase
in the first place (little else can be done, ex ante.) This lwestment
appears extremely attractive to the Region.
11. Overall, the returns to the nvestments under VORADEP as estimated
above appar more than satisfactory, and well exceed the real opportunity
cost of capital.
Sensitivity of Betorsa
12. The calcltion of the project's rate of returzn is based on such
avnaible ds-a as tbere is, plus a realistic set of assumptions. It is the
case, bowever, that retusrs in future periods are sdsitive to a number of
factors. The main ones arc,
*        wether CGhma remains a nDtt Importer of cereals,. and consequently
what the value of incremenal matze and rice production is;
^the effect of the rsearch and extension progrp      s on other major
crops In the Volta Region (esp eilly yam and cassava);
*   the rate of diffusion of Lmproved practies amogst contact and
follower firers over the long term;
the ability of the public sectOa  (tboxugh FASCON) to contiue to make
available thoso inputs to farmers upon which nucrements of production
depend, and the abLilty of farmrs to purchase nessary inputs at prices
which make thir use worthwhile;
*   the ability of the extension s.rvice to maintain the intensity of
coverage lt presently offers to farmers, and the level of resources it will
require so to do;
the actual levls of lxv stment requyred to maintain the capital
lnfrastruture (roads, boreholes etc) over the long term;



-34-
-   the Inclusion or omission of benfits frm components wios outputs
ar currently very difficult to            d
-   the rea value of foreign exchang  to the Gbhanaan ecoomy.
13. As ld; of the abov  factors ar potentil soures of varUbLity over
the raining perio  of project life, it is bet to thik of the lkely
eventual economic rat of return as lying in a rag  around the actual
figure suggted In part. 4 (above); them. orunfavourable outcoms in
relation to the above factors will tend to depres the rate of retun. and
the more favouable outomes wil tend to increase it.



- 35 -
VII: InnITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVEOPMET
IntitutiSal D"sgn and Cowth
1.  Details of the growth of institutions concrned with the delivery of
Project srvices are given In Arnexes 2-6. Below are higlighted the main.
features of Institutlonal development and the likages vhich have had a
signiLIicant effect on the overall progres of Project perfonmac.
2.  There is concern relating to the perfomatnce of those orgaistions n
institUttions carged wlth an integration and co-ordination role. VORADE? was
a specially constituted entity, f,,orged from the exiting OA, structure and
streamlined to met the needs of the'VpAcific objectives and goals of
agricultural development. The key question is whether the emergent structure
of VORADEP ws appropriate to the pursuLt of the strategy expounded in 1930
(SAR) and whether it had the capacity and power to carry out its objectives
of agricultural and rural devloapmt.
3.  A number of issues are central to this question:
-   the adequacy of top-level organisation and magemet. By and large
managemt reoures have been adequate and effective. At th  outset, it
must be adumtted that thee were conficts and tensions betwee  the
international tems of spec    ts an  the Project Nanagement. But,
thereafter, with the arrlval of a replacemet expatriate team, the situation
impraovd and progress of Projeatntaion gatbhred momntum. It miat
also be stressed that In the oarly years  agement problm were
exaersbated by the strains imposed on the Project by the economic and
financial problem  facing the CO at the tim.
-   teb increase In staff is an indication of Institutional development.
lb 1981 the total staff establishmnt vas 1706; by 1988 it was 2009. Uhile
BOA staff durLig the period was fairly stsb1l at around 1500-1600, the buLld
'p of other staff, i.e. directly contracted by the Project, grew
inreswingly, from 21 In 1981 to over 500 In 1988.
-   given the primacy of the pollcy of decentraliSacion of OGm (and
IDA/IFAD) it is Interesting to observe how VORADEP, within its geographical
context, responded through its regional dscentralisaton of organisation and
activity. The organisation ¢birt had a decentralLsod structure by
which the Project planned tho region-wide impl enttion of its activities.
The Zonal and District arm of the Project's support and technical servlces
has ldd an effective network through which both administrative and
operational services can be extended. ThLi Lustitutional outreach has also
proavded a fr_amork for devlopmet which bodes well for future
agricultura strateg  and actLvities In Volta Region.



- 36 -
Support Services
4.  The componAnt activitios of VORADEP, designed to deliver key services
to the fazuers and to the commnity as a whole, hoe also been mediated
through a number of appropriate and potentially sustainible institutions.
S.  The most important of these support sorvices is Extension. The most
Important institutional characteristic of extension In the Region bas bee
the establishment of a unified T&V system, with an operational capability
which ha brought (and W     incringly bring in future) extension servicei
within the reach of the farming population of. the Region. The iact of
Extension programes is examined in Annex 2. Possibly its most iportant
evolutiory feature during the duration of the Project has bee  its
response to the lack of skilled staff to meet the needs of diverse set of
requiremets for crop, livestock, hom  extension and plat protection needs.
The programme to train extension staff to impart all (or most) of the
kunoledge requLred by faromrs with several interets shows a flexibility of
approach and a drive towards optimum utilisation of field staff which is
commndable and forward looking.
6. The evolution of research during the Project shows a similar
rs ponsivenes and flexibility. From tha start, research had been directed
towards adaptive work with a strong on-field trials orientation. Hrower,
there bas bee a s*hift in mphbasis, dictated by farmers' needs and the
Importance of effective extension work, which has made the Research
earmen lat more relevant to project goals. In particular, the stablishment
of greater formal co-operation betwon    trch/Extnsion/Fasom inmore
recent years marks a watershed in the integration and Impact of thes
essentially Later-related and complementary compoaents of the Crop
Development Programsm. Th Research Department bh  also shown a sipificant
propensity to collaborate with othor research institutions, national and
international, In its own work progrme at the experimntal nd field trial
stages.
7. *he thLrd Important component of the COW development thrust is FASCOM.
ThsJ institution,, charged with the paocurement nd distribution. if farm
Inputs and other farm requirements, bas ben faced with a nimber of serious
problems inclll to its development (see Annex 3). From the Istitutional
point of view It has been oenumbered with an exeautive ad organisatlonal
structure not alwos supportive of its trading operations. The central
organisation of Its activities, at HQ in Ho, which hs been, depite certain
shortcomings, adequate to its tasks, has not been matched by the development
of its field network of supply outlets - the FSCs. It is only In the lst
two years of the project, 1987 and 1988, that tho construetiop targets for
FSCs have been satisfied.
8.  Continued development of an effective crop development programme In the
future will depend heavily on a sustained and co-ordLnated.development of
the above thre institutions - Research, Extension and FASCOK. When the
VORADEP ends, every effort must be made to ensure that of these service,
coatinue to exploit the development opportunitites. The Agricultural
Servites Rehabilitation Projcet (ASUP) will be particularly important in
providing resources for further institutional development.



-37-
9.  The Monitoring and Evaluation Department (called th  Economic Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the SAR), was created in 1982, as part of
central Support Services, responsible directly to the Project Manager. Its
terms of refernce focus on Project-related activities, and its efforts have
concentrated on surveys and studies of project components and regular
reporting of project progress. More general data on agriculture
developments in Volta Region were the responsibility of the Economic
Reearch and Plarning Services (EBPS) of MOA, which was never integrated
into VORADEP. Furtherzore, lack of staff, resources and direction provented
tIlfrom carrying out these tasks. Cosequently there was a great gap in
data of certain key aspects of agricultural activity in Volta Region vhich
was never covered either by the project Monitoring and Evaluation Department.
or EUPS-i   k.
10. The further development of the project M & E department will depend on a
number of factors. The first is the re-organisation and itr ng        of
tho Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of Kok
within the frmework of ASEP. This re-organisation is underway ad the
tr ngenin  of PIKED is part of the broader reform. The effectiveness of
the Regional PPXED will require a number of changes in its role. During
VORADEP the X & E department has undertaken no plarning as such. Hence, a
priority would be to introduce a planning function into the newly expanded
PIKED. Secondly, the scope of future responsibilities would be wider as the
regional arm of PPNED. This would require additional staff, resources and
training. Som of these needs could be met from tha funding expected under
the ASRP for N & E and from the Research and Extesion budgets ($1.2a in
total over 3 years).
Staff and ?rainin
_li  Theo streamlinng of thoe HA orgaasation and structur  at the beginning
of VORADEP necesitated International recruitment of some key positions not
filled by local personel. It should be- stressed that evezy effort was made
to identify qualified and.experienced Gh*nie staff.
2. At the higher levls, several senior posts were filled from outside the
EQA, icluding the Project Manager and Chief -Acountant (who later became
Flinacial Controller). Moreover, it was felt that several of the Heads of
Tecbhneal Support Services vwuld have to be filled by interaztional staff-
notably CFO, Extension, Enaioering *tc. As noted earlier, the experience of
the first few years with the international/local   maagmt relationship was
unsatisfactory. Thee vere recruited directly by the World Bank but
problems vee ecountred nsurlng solection of staff with the right
abilities for forging the necessary relationships with local staff.
13. As regards training, a considerable number of project staff bonefitted
from local and external training courses, both short and longer term.
Suinarsed below is the training undertaken, by type nd by department.
p*



- 38 -
VORADE? TR U ,N
BY DEPARIDT. LEVEL OF STAFF AND IDOCTIOt
Department            Senior Staff (NO)          Junior Staff (No)
Local Training                          Local
Admiui                 9                   1                8
Finance                -                   1                4
l&E                    -                   4
Land a".P1.            -                   5
Resrch                 2                  19                2
* ydro/Vater S         *                   2
Extension              -                  14               [5
CLv.Eng
Kch.-Zu               32                   3                -
Fiseres                -                   3                1
Vet.Servtces           -                   -                3
Ain4. ua-b.            *                                   11
Total                 43                  52               44
14. Given the highly specialLsed rts of R"earch and its
inaequte statmus n Volta Region pre-Projact, it is not surprisiag that the
Research  ehas cared out an Impressive training programs. rm
sm  is true for Extension, although in ths case reasonable opportuitis
for training were avaiable locally, arlarlytUS Kue   and
University of Gbaia. A surpising number of local cours" wer of long
duration (2-3 years) while the majority of external cores we. short term,
igbly speciallsed units of betwen 3 and 12 -moths. Forty of the total of
52 external programmes war sponsored and flianced by the World leck; other
sponsors Lucluded USA Goevrnmt, oE rl and, oV         , OD UK, ItalianS
Governent, Japoase Government and FAD.
15. .The hgh incidence of trainin  suggets that tbh  Project diagnosed that
local staff, at all levls, especally senior, required further itensive
training to be able to carry out thser jobs more effectively. An aalysis
of the timing of the senior training shows that a high proportion of
programe  took place late in the Project's life, with 34 of the programes
occrring 1985-1987/88. ThLi night bo explained by a lack of a plauned
training programme in the erly years of the Projet becaus of failure to
"igose training neds. It aight also reval an urgency to take advantage
of trad  progr    before the Project ended.
16. An evaluation of the succs and              of the training is
dificldt to make, since benefits of training have a long gestation period.
It would appear, from dicussions with senior _maagent, that the retention
rate of staff after traing was favourablo and sugests that the
benSficiaries found that the training experience had           to an
incresed interest and effectivenes La their'jobs.



- 39 -
Special Coultacy Inputs
17. An important componet was consultany services to assist VORAEP in
specific area. During the Project consultancy inputs were provided for:
- KSonitoring and Evaluation (two visits per year)
* Extension
*   LLvestock
-   Fbishries
-   Rlutrition (Mome Extension)
-   FASCOK
The purposes of these consultancles were varied and were designed to respond
to specific component problems.
18. For K & S. a relatively new discipline, the aims of the regular
consultancy inputs were to monitor the progress of the work prograe of
each Department and to suggest an mpleme  mtion methodology for field and
other surveys. An input was also envisaged to assist In the analysis of
sults. Ths would appear to have bee an effective coasultancy and
contributed to the role of the Dp.rtDmt as an important management support
service.  owever, the scope of K & I In the future wil require elaboration
in order to satisfy regional data needs and further consultmncy may be
required. It should also be noted that advice alone may not be sufficient,
and that external inputs In future might profitably assist with programm
execution, especially during the erly stages of progrm   developmnt
19. Consultnces to Livestock  nd Fisheries were a response to the
shortfalls in tho performane of those Dep rtments In the first two years of
the Project and studies were commissioned following recom- endatons of the
Tn-Depth Review iu 1984. Deteiled studies Identified priorities and future
progr  es   The recoiendations for fisheries were adopted as an important
part of the current and future progrmme, especially with regard to
*gua¢ulturo development and the esploitation of brackish-waters. Furhe
funding will be necessasy, however, to fully exploit the  aooultancy  dvice
g1ivn during Phaso I of VORADP.
20. A comprehesive review of Extension (T & V system) was undertaken by a
consultant In 1985. An Important outcom  has been the continuation of T & V
tralning by the consultants, who undertook the Initial trainins program,
in order to ensure that new staff are exposed to appropriate in-service
trainLng on T & .



- 40 -
21. Hom  Extension (mw a part of Extension) has biefitted from one
consltancy study, of Nutrition and Food Consumption in the Northern Zone
(Rabanek 1985). Thore should have been a follow-up study, possibly in early
1988. but the recommendation (made in a consultancy to th1 N & S Department
as part of a data review prior to the PCR) for such a follow up was not
carried out.
22. A FASCOI consultancy in 1987 undertook a comprehensive review and
critique of FASCOH's entire operations. Uhile the body of tho report Is
still under consideration, FASCOK managemat has already followed up on some
of the recommendations, especially concerning- transport.
23. On balace, it appears that the consultancy inputs have ben more than
mere cosmetic exercises and many of the recommendations have been taken up
by the Ptoject. The problem, as elsewhere in similar situations, is that
the mechanism for review of consultancy reports is extremely cumbersom and
iavolves many interested parties. Feedback is thus delayed and ln some
cases fails to emerge. There are still recommendations from past studies
which could contribute with initiatives for the future development of
agriculture ln Volta Region.
Intitution IUilding
24. This chapter has outlined the main institutions developed by the
Project to provide the mangement, support and technical servics required
to deliver the planued outputs of VORADEP. Originally, It was boped that
there would be a phase UZ of VORADEP under which tbeseo Istiutions could be
further dbveloped and refined. However, VBADEP will now almost certainly
terminate at end 1988 unless furthor external funding cAn be attacted.
25. Some discussion is needed of the futur drectioan  momentum of
chanes initiated by VORADEP. The mode of future developmet is vital, not
only for the integrity of future Institutional growth but also for the
realisation of the future beneftts Crates of return) projected over the
Project Lffetis from the iuvEtment alredy made.
26. Given the assumption that VORADIP as a smia-utonomous entity
termintes at end 1988, the result will be the   tation of VORSDEP's
agricultural activities and insttutions Into the main IA organisation and
*structure. This means that responsibllity for VORADEP's nona-gricultural
components (water supply, roads, ete) will revert to the approprat line
Ministriss. What is essentially left under MA is therefore the directly
productive areas of Crop Development, Livestock, and Fisheries, together
with essential central support services.
27. A dcisive factor In tha future prospects for these activities will be
the extent to which the Government Implements the proposals for development
of agricultural services under ASRP and the ways in which such
implementation influences the future direcion of existing Volta Region
agric''tural Institutions.



- 41 -
28. The followi" issues are vital In this reect:
Extemion - under AU? this activity is to bo ro-organizsed and
strnd   two phases. The fixst phase will focus on a field-based
pilot programe, concetrating on food crop etesiont services under W&,
and the second phse will compriso a national leel re-orpnisation of
agicultural extension servic" supported by a proposed national agriculture
extenion project. lhe Phase I pilot prograom  would draw hevily an
VOREh's epriece with-h the T&V approa. 'he future of the developmnt
of Regional Extenion services sems assured for 3 yers by a comittment by
Covernmnt to continue suort for those services under AS3P, although the
finae available is modest (about $ 400,000 for 3 yews). The most
1mportant question is whether at the end of Phase I the Goermnnt (H)
will opt for the T&V approach as a basis for the national extension service
or move to some other approach. This bas erious implications for the
extension program. In Volta Region. After three years, when the ASRP
funding cease, the responsibility for Volta Region extension will be
Government's and the development of *xtension In the Region will be
integrated into the national framework.
Research - proposals for re-organisation of research (under ASRP)
empbasise the seod to avoid the fragmentary and independ nt ature of
research, with a variety of special-interest institutions Carrying out
research without wuch formal co-ordination. Mhe ASRP states that sptims
responsibility for implemnting the research programs wil be with CMi.
Tbe MA will enter into conWractural arrangemets with CSIR and ,a=,  hbich
will collaborate with  nd obtain specalised   sistance fio local associate
institutions i the conduct of the wovk* (AM. Annexe 3-3. pe 8). ThLs
asns presumably that contnuation of a VORADtP-type Adaptive Research
Department in Volta RaiUon will not take place and  grcultural research
needs will be met througb the national roseach o:gnisation and/or whatever
regionally decentral-d structure eventually emerges. The regional
d-imesions of the proposed syste e av not yet boe  vorked out. Th. crop.
based focus of the ASRP proposals for research prioritiS, at a national
level, could well undermine the regional-based activities of the Adaptive
Research De4rtent in the past few yers. Anotebr Important characteristic
which requires continuity and development is the researh-extension link
which has been caefully fostered in VORAW. oiw such a link LS to be
forged in the national research plan i as yet unclear.



- 42-
Honitorimt - the Monitoring nd Evaluation Departent of VORADEP has
been concerned with Project requiremts for th monitoring of cop t
activities, specific evaluation exercises of project departmet programmes,
and reporting of progres  and perfouswuc.  No plarnin  work htas bee
udertaken. The propoal under ASRP for coitinuing support of HU
Activities in Volta Region presumably relates to the continued mouitorng of
on-going programmes in Research and Extension, a a first priority. The
funds available (around $ 400,000 for 3 years) hav been cosidered to this
light and preliminary proposals for use of these fund have been directed to
str ngthening the capacity of the Department to carry out these
responsibilitis. The long8r tern prospects for the Policy, Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation activities to Volta Region mest wait the
imple entation of the proposals for the central PPlMD and the nature of the
regional decentralisation of their activities.
conlusions
29. It is clear that the viability and capaeLty of VORADIP institutions to
survive project phase-out will depend largely on the plans for the re-
organisation, and the regional modalities to be developed under ASRP. For.
the period 1989-1991 commitments have been made under ASRP to continue
support for Research, Extension and Monitoring and Evaluation. Hence,
providing that effective use ca be made of the resources thus provided,
there is expectation that the momentua generated by VORADES in tbhs key
areas of agricultural development will be sustained.



- 43 -
VIIY: SPECIAL ISSUES
Subatitut.o  and DiveISIou
1.  There is no evidence that Project funds were substituted for funs
avilable, from other soures for on-lending.
2.  There were seeral Lostanes whero physical invstments indepth were
not made. Thi was due principally to recmendations mad by the Review
Mlssion In 1984  s a response to the poor performace and problems of
implementation in the first two years. A major cutback In the building
progra wm v proposed and revised targoet for staff housang and FSCs were
established. The compat sion betveen the new targets, the SAl and actual
achieveents roe analysed In the appropriate Annex. Another Important cut-
back cone rned the AniLml Nusbandry component where, after 1984, no further
investment was to be made on the four animl husbandry stations. In no case
were the funds diverted to other purposes.
Wather and Othor Risks
3. Apart from one season, the weather pattern during the Projoect period
was not unduly alwvrse. However, In 1983/84 failure of the rains caused
bavoc wIth the crop prograems and, in co ajunction with the unfavourable
economic conditions nationay, the porfc of the Project was.well
below expectations durIng tblS period.
Researh and Techinical Capablity
4. Adaptive Research was an Integral part of VORADIP. In the first 3
years or so of the Project perlod, progreas In developing, testing and
extending new techniques was slow, vith the excption of thoe saie
programe. However, this ws only partly due. to the eseorch Department.
Other factors icluded a failure to eatabUlsh close links with extesion to
further tho dissemination of new metbods to the farms and to test
response. This detect howevor was rectified later In the Project period.
S. Perbaps an important cause of the relatively slow speed of the planred
Rsearch program was the rathor optimistle assessuent of the time nseded
to deovlop and test nw techniques. Before the Project, links with other
research Institutions wers almost non-4st.nt. Such links take time to
forge and outputs from such collaboration may take considerable time to
eImrge. During the Project period the Research Departmnt set up links with
a numbor of leadlng rsearch bodies, national and international, to good
effect.
A



- 44 -
6. Aadaptive research requires highly qualified and experienced
officers and the Departmnt began with insufflelent staff of the right
calibre. Nowveor, during the Project a successful trakning program vas
implemnted and a substantial number of officers benefitted. This should
prove to be a vital Invosmeont for future research efforts both in the
"Region and nationally. provided the uomentum and motisation of reont years
can be maintained.
Sector and Political Influences
7.  Sector influaene  on tbh  Project Manif sted themselves In several ways
and at various levels.  OADEP  as supposed to be a semi-autonomous body.
with close links with CA. Its m*eutive comittee, VOBUDEC, was charged
with supervising and co-ordinating VORADtP activities In line with MOA
policies and strategies. Howevr, this proved difficult, ln many Instances,
since ROA policies were not clearly defined and, in other instances, had
limLting effects on Project progress. The effects of procurement policLes
and pricing of inputs (especially fertilLsers), both of which lay outside
VORADEP (FASCON) control have been detailed elsewher.
S. As an Integral part of the Regional Administration, and responsible to
HOA for all substantial matters. VORADEP had little real say in policy
formulation, and Project manageent vas dependent upon the good offices of
VORADZC to achleve any positive impact on Gover:ient thiakdng and policy.
The Project Manager certainly had leverage on all costituent bodies of the
Project, such as VOBUDC, FASCOM, *tc buC little real nfluence in the
corridors of power In Acmr.
9.  The Bank's role In this project could bave been more constructive, in
some areas since it had leverage potential by virtu  of its position as
donor. Rowever, Bank missions were concerned more with adminstrative and
technical Issues relating to Project Implementation and perfozsancp and less
with the larger issues of overall Project rel tionship with, and response
from, central bodies, *hich were having a profound negative effect on
perfomne. As noted elsewhere, Bank missions delt with Project
aageet (at VORADKP levl) and not at all with VORADC, the rel source
of  nuence in c      t       problem  ad constraints.
Integrated Devlopment
10. The structural and orgmnisational designs for Integrated development of
VORADEIP activities ere adequate to the task. The managerial and
operaional links appeared appropriat  to the need  of decentralisation of
project administrratio and lplementation into the zones and districts and
to the diffusion of Project services within the Region.
11. Two mjor problems hinderd the creation of an integrated struture and
prevented the emrgence of an-effective co-ordiated approach to regional
issues and problem until late in the Priject period.



- 45 -
12. The first problem stemed from serious delays in implemntation and
physical shortfalls in thb-first years of VORADRP. These have been
documented in the Project component reviews. The attainment of Projoct
objectives and goals dependd upon the delopmnt of the Project's delivery
system  and support services, as was envisaged in the original
implmentation schedule. Delays in, and lack of, implementation especially
in the lnfrastucture programe, until Well into the second half of the
period inhibited progress in the key components related to the crop
devflopment progres. Notable examples are the lack of progress in roads
and buildings (especially FSCs - crucial to the input supply effort) which
had a direct relevance for the delivery of Project services in extension and
input supply. he TMproveme  achieved In the second hulf of the Project
moved towards a more integrated approach and it can be argued that by en
1988 a fairly sound foundation will have been laid for the future of
agricultural development in Volta Region. The extent to which the benefits
of this success will contribute to future development will depend on the way
in which Volta Region agricultural programes will be integrated into the
I(0 plans.
13. The other typo of integration is that between Project activities and
outside agencies, the extent to which co-ordination occurred between them is
an important factor in future prospects. Regretably, little real co-
ordination and effectiv links were achieved. As noted, some useful links
were established between Adaptive RJea rch and other Research bodies in
Ghana and elsewhere. Howver, problms were encountered In a number of
other important cases e.g. betwoe the Rural Water Supply component and
Ghana Water and Sewerage Company; between FASCOO and GSC; betwee the
Irrigatiov componet and IDA (Ghana); *e.  The difficulties faced In those
as s are recorded In the componenot revies. At the general lvoel, it means
that continuation of these components after Project phase-out will not have
-benfitted by the experince that could hbwv been gained duri4g the Project.
period tbrough a close working 1.aison between Project and relevant line
Ministry agencies.
14. The problems and tensions Inherent in the implementation of a large
scale multi-component project lik VORADMP plae heavy responsibilities on
management and tehnical rsources. There is no doubt that the early years
of impl eentato  witnessed somie sigficat problems for management and
seaSor technical staff, partly due to Internal constraints and pattly to
economical conditions. With. the reforms -f the Review mission, the
imprroveent. in th  genoral oconomic  nvironment of the Project, and the
emrgent benefits from the traivnig programe, tbhre is equally no doubt
that mnagerial and technical capabilities and performance Improved markedly
In the later stages with positive effects on progross and performance.
15. From a m       et and technical point of view a less complex Project
design would hao beei easier to implemnt.  owever, on balance, it is
concluded that the integrated approach to the array of needs of, and
constraints to, agriultural development (and indeed rural developmnt as a
whole) in Volta Region bas generated real and manifold benefits which, with
judicious and caeful planning, can be sustained In the future.



- 46 -
plication and fiture issues
16. Th. question of replication of VOWEADI-typo projects L a complex one.
This depends not only on the lessons to be learned from the VORADEP
experience but also on the current thinking of agencies financing and
executing agricultural development schems.
17. In the VWJRDEP experience, the principal lesson to be drawn is that the
type of organization required to implement a complex, multi-component
project place  enormou  strain on local administrative and technical
resources. The benefits which accrue from this type of Integrated
development project are substantially roduced when impllemntation of any one
or more of the major components is delayed. The interdependence and
complementarity of the components is such that a rolatively high level of
managerial skills iS required for effective implementation. It maust
there-ore be questioned whether such project design is appropriate in the
current circumstances prevelant in the Volta Region. It my be the case
therefore that future projects should concentrate on those fever, more
specific areas which are identified as constraints to agricultural
development; at present in Ghana these are likely to be research, the
delivery of effective extension services and the collection and management
of information so as tz facilitate the planning and policy-miking process.
These considerations are currently incorporated n donor proposals for
assistance to the Ghana Government; it is to be hoped that actual project
Implemntion (for example under the Agriculturs4 Services Rebabilitation
Project) follow* this course;,
18. A second difficulty of this type of project is the lack of influence
wvhih management usually exerts at the national level.  oiicy making
proeoeds at ths leel ofte  In apparent disregard of regional
circumstances, and with little regional involvent In formulation. Thuw
regional development projects are often excuted in a policy environet
which is unhelpful or, even    trtl to project objectives. In
VOWADEP's case the policy eiro      t, over which It had little or no
contro1, created problems with the purchase and distribution of gricultural
inuts - inluding seed from the Ghaza Seed Company - wbich resulted Inf
slower tha anticipated progress.
19. Thirdly, collaboration between the various government agencies involved
In project eeuustion ZS often not sufficiently strong. Whllst relations
betweon VORADEP and the Avrious executing agencies have not been
antagonistic, collaboration has often been weak. Thus the difficulties of
persu"ading GhCbu  Water and Sewag to take over -antenaq  responsibilities
for the boreholes constructed by the Project, and of recelving a sufficient
volume of seed from the GhaCn Seed Campapy. Both issues must be resolved if
Project benefits are to b sustained. In conclusion, it is felt that
Intensive geogr phically based developmet projects have a role to play in
development strategy, but they wust be planned and excuted within a kinim
and consistent.e pocr environment, and be linked to the central policy
plazming apparatus. Further, institutional aspects of ee cution must be
spolTed out clearly at appraisal (this is an equally important aspect of
appraisal as economic analysis) and systes introduced at project ineption
to ensure institutlonal responsibility, For example, protocols may be



- 47 -
established between the project *nd its oxeuting or supplying agencies *nd
institution representatives on projects boards of directors may be held
responsible for the actions  f that institution.  Regional projects are not
to be replaced by national level developoent programes, but should be
executed within a national policy framework.
Bank performce
20. The diagnosis of the priorities for agricultural development In Volta
Region at Appraisal was realistic. Analysis of constraints wa generally
appropriate and the emphasis on the nmed for institutional' development
accurate. However the rate at which cbange in the attitudes and practices
of farmers wvs expected to occur ws over-optimistic, especially given the
low level of awarenss of liproved methods at the time.
21. At the time,of Appraisal, and subsequently, economic conditions in
Ghana deteriorated to the point where government finances were In a parlous
state. Government subventions to VORADEP did not materialise to the full
extent expected and progress in Implementation in the early years was
minimal. However it was not until 1984, some two and a balf years after
project start-up, that the project and IBRD recognised the neod for a
serious reappraisal of the situation. The Review of 1984 made some
substantial changes.in.di"etion and targts at a time when the project had
difficulty In trying to attaie the previous targets.
22. There is no doubt that the size and complexity of project design,
together with the need to achieve parallel and integrated devolopment of the
project co      ts, contribUted to implementation difficulties in those
years. The original design of te projet was over-ambitious; tbi Is borne
out by  the sealing -down of a n=ber. of activities at Review:
23. As regards iuplementation performance it must be stressed that the
* appraisal report was not clear and specific enough in a numbpr of key areas.
-hile specifications for the crop component were detailed they were proved
subsequently to have been unrealistic, given the existing agricultural
*envicnment within which they were supposed to be Implemented. In otber
cas , particularly livestock and fisherle, the specifications laid down In
the SAR were either vague or,.non-existent.
24. The all-important civil works programs wero planned to be implementet
in time scals which  ver  clearly too ambitious, given the  anagerial am
technical capacity in these areas at the start of the project.
25. In addltion, there were a number of serious shortcomings in the early
stages in the 1'roject's manpower capacity. The oxiginal assessmnt that
existing MQA staff could meet the project's.manpower needs was unfounded
both -as.regaras quantity and quality. Furthermore, the technica assistance
input at the early part of the project was unsatisfactory and this caused
some tension and conflict within the managment of the project.



- 48 -
26. The project was supposod to strengthen and streamlne the existing IA
organiation; this m0eat that existing MA agenies iL the Region should
hav  either been absorbed into the project strcture or hae been brought
into closer cooperation with the project. This did Lot happen: for example
the Emonoi Rssex  and Planning Services DepartNmt of HU remained
outside the project's operations throughout its lifetim. Furthersor.  lin
DirAstry agenies with obvious liLnks to VORADEP (eg GWSC, Feeder Roa
Department, and Irrigation Devlopment Authority) were nevr fully involved
in the relevant activitie  of the project. There is little evidoe  that
much effort was made to forgo a closer liaison with these agencies.
27. Bank supervision of VORAP was attentive and effective. Howeer;
certain problis faced by tho project we"r nevr alequtly resolved and
poeristed throughout the project life. To be fair, such supervisio missions
should (and can only) focus their attention on internal issues and problems
confronting VORDEP's operations. It ix£ not lkely that Back missions can
have much levrage on problems originating outside the project and
particularly upon those relating to government policies, *g pricing and
input procurement. Working relations between the Blank and'VORADEP management
were normlly good; most reports and aides memoire rtflect the extent to
which VORADEP rsponded positivoly to Bank recomndations.
28. As regards project reporting requireomts the appraisal docunent was
vagu. much more gixidane could have been give to the format of required
reporting and especially to the ned for regular information collection. The
most glaring omision conDCernd th. need for regular progress reporting
usign the key-indiator format whbch would havw provided a useful frameork
for systmatic collection and analysis of information on project
implementation. This would bav facilitated both regular project evaluations
(quarterly and anrual reports) and net the more densding needs of' mid-ters
anti post-project evaluatiorn. Despite these conttalats th  Monitoring nd
Evaluation Deprtment developed and imples 'inted a comprehensive and relevatn
system for periodic reporting.



IMP : EC_UIIC EY*lQIII
tabet Is Prsj,nt Cuau          U     lNUs l           u, ucmtsl   CMiuicat, mite     a0  evaluation)
"*       P12      P13        14        5      P16       P        Pn        Pn      PYIO    fYlt    P12              "13-25
(Fiprmn is iWel '   .k   .n93                                1934      £8       196      198        9       i8        l9       19"1     19        193          194-201
Camo_ut tCtml
Curt Cl    is                             SW        12     00 k        9*90    Om      1110*
192 C tst tCiis                           5290      3240     2043    1141      IM       18w0
Currnt I"S Dolar                          1350       344      409                  1       4
1962 bCmtat NS kilwn                      1350       121      368       05       69      1192
total 19M   mttlt iedi C.t.              43400    138"   13810    2440    it4s9         50104
Compat ksti .ts
(1912 Cestua   tedJii
1t.t1  Coetst Cdi kS l    its        a  IitUIfLE  EFItS lEl mEIInimS
..neeefbfl  .e                                             e     0    fl.. .



IAEP, ECliHIllC EllAuMIS
Table 2, ProJect Ceepmmt:L*I 9S£ FUIUII
"I n      12      PS       P         P1       n        P1        P l          P9   91       11 Pll      2          P 2
(Figqn to '400)                           l6       55       5934      1111     1936     503                1999 59           5991      1ff2     15S3         1194-21
Cqaisat cuts;
Cfru    twit                              20        42.)              lo0 1M            Wa
Il2Cbtmat Ctudis                          209       19      162       301      413        2
CUrrHlt usIoHar                            101        0        0         0       20      150
1562 Cateat US toilors                     100        11                 0       11      120i
Total 192 Cttnt iei Costs                  200      I5       162      301      104      4112
e-eee-n.enee.eee..e..efape             ~     ~     ~      .. ........ .....
Coa t Ssfitst
119W tmtnt t ldisl
Total Casuist   ei lsfitti          A 1 F U" IlEl lF51S  lEl 151503 11
*                                                                               *            *



a        *HIfAS 131X1 3                                                                                                      S1I3ll  31I~IdIJ, U1    Om     5j41103    tl3 IWIIJ∞! 1311
1 {X tiO~~~-1                 19g1   {Ul              t      l og3 111103 mllt X1e
*ti      1OL       wit    ItII       £61      OK                               SIMtJ 1  11" 113
QO &2  IQI  i    Zt  *nIo                                                 IAIsO31JP
6US          60tn      Z**      G4 19    OWl                              11962 ls 1J U
ftsuj) itlw_w
flit    r.4.11    1641      UI       wt1   8661        161.    99*         ml       5*961    £641    tZl                          twCO. 3t B JUti
;'-il.          :I$e t-f "        AtlI    4Ad        1W      LAd        qd       Sd i     tlAd      fAd      V4        ld
tMESN  1,u1j1W IP114aww1   130164  1£ O;t;
jPljj911 3 )UI:O33  d3i a



I(1S    U10 AU
.1101    tUlf £
46s9        *        419       91       OrM        to    6 061    L9111    IlUt-   1010    Itoi-   6M-    Ul-                         1-                         U    If Ad
9158   ,            6£" *Li       6  ki ss  OM               *15ll    6t61      44161-   16101-   Stil-   int-    Ow'               M1-                          "I1 it Md
61'                 ;t0        W         9t-       W*        to         W        n          "         uo         *        uI        co                      ut If lmani
oil                  noK       ;it        et,r     W         It.          1       Ito       P          WI        W        10        *1                      loS  it      J 51l
P..   .... .                  4.        It'......   . .1.0                 _'0_ ...........0'  96               0'                                          1011_.
"ilM               Let"        1*UO      Me        IKU       1U1       ISO      11114  I9 11        I 4U15I Yt0   I 11*    11001  9                              31103 1111 33194113
91951     50*1      9091      SAi9       94'"    "0il    Kol           "Ott    0n           Vit                 0         0                                     1 ni0J  Pial.
461111              81941    91141    91945         614      94        KM        0 StI                          95        Mt        0K4               351023 1103        5 O4WIj 5Uw50
1"it                tat    tfic  S1:6               U        u         tZ  aLl   itsO  Oct    ut    41                              t                        Mll" on 101             i
1:94                1ot       lot        IN1       1ot       II        In        OKC        *9        09        @61       0f        06"M 1  uiIq                              u 1 i3r
6614149                       49        49        49         AU        A 91                6011       a1        M6         M5       OK                            S11    lUio l 16431
1 6091561           144         1        14        0445      464        61       £61        m1        6u1        ml45    1En1       1841                           o1       f va  "lZ I
il-ISAd             ISi      IllS      01d   U M           gAd       lAd   H A           lAd       ltd        t I       t 1 d      lAw
35 U1UW43 230J4 tQ ft
Ie!VrW3 311u'n 'diYIF6



UbM t ECIMIC ItMlI
Idle 5: Proiect foaptoatiEULSiU               WRY
"I1      112      P13       P14       M1      P14       116                P19I  "  1110     Pvit     P112           91`1-25
lFilor" i   h                       m    lm   lul   nm    m    iw   .m                                 lm       It"   eIQ   Ml   1"  H)
(fiqan ir  0000,)                          192      1163    £19N       193      191       196     1933        b 1939 £90       19t      399       1993          1994-2001
, .......... _ .............. ___ .................  .                                    .      __ .................... .     .......  ._........    __. 
C.eput Csts;
Currut Cdis                                3521      537       m        U12       95      2345
Im  tCstit Cidis                           m1        242       241      2        4511      3;
Cirrnt US hilars                            100       40         0      N10      600         0
19S C itastt iSh 1 rls                      to        51         P      m        u           a
ola12 Causlat Lodi bits                    421      20        24      2 3    219           3       2104      2610     24)1      2754     1644 IiU                     8338
._._ _. ..................................................................... _.............. . .    .. . ..... . ...........
otearsist Saaalit
(196  Coastalt "Its)
hreblft abrstallitlml                         0        0       425     22ml     3744      4549    59        1*3      7245     112?      om        981S             52U 241
isprowi sitar %W1pl
wtits Ias costs                          -4121    -N1          31   -22252   -115M3       41.    24          31       4.12      5310     7345      9223             1199'
*iacm     t tol                    I1                 1 I          I        I          '   I  I      I                           0        0 I
ite,,,l At 12I                      I         I        I         I        I         I       I                  0        0         0        0                  0
PP at 10,                       472       -I£11      311   -1109   A-2212       259£1    141        I97      2159     2276      2031     3233              21570
PP at 123                        412      -3344      300   -£1195   -1140        2m3      1319      I714     109    .1931       23a5     2152              £459
I"  0103       434
WV 0121      -416
_.__ _ ...... __ ........................ . .._ ........ ............. _ ........................ .. .... . . ... ...... _. _ ...



fit      P12       M~    M4i         805       PV&      81       pie       Mt      Pit-)    Fill    h1 t -11-25
lfiqvn~ 0,t 'Of$                           1962    liSI     IM4        1905     1956s    1907    1ti8       19119     1030     113t      jq-      131394-! 
Cwtaret Cedis                              4200)    1411    84900    44560    6800      91b00    91600    916*    taw0        %6+4)   91I&-0    HOO v'w
192 Caoisat C*is                          4200       MS5    4716   1292    15640    14656    14656    14656    14654    1465            14hi    14*5*t             110521
WCureak us boIla'g                          1100      254         0      2*       826       £66        0         0    .33           0        0      333               1332
1962 CoastmotUOdui uls                    1100       201        4       i72      6*6      533         0        0       266                 1       I.."              -ieS
latal 1982 ECoisat  eiii Costs          3SSW        6351     4136    18426    31719    31100    14656    10656    23181    HZ%3    1465*    23111                  3o135i
locreaaual ikput colst:
Fec tli)kw                                    0        0    12800    19204    2560       320*    3200      352*    384O    410:    44900    46W0                   603100
Seed                                          0        0      1200     1300     2613      1315     3658     I1I1      5226     6410      155      7819             101107 
CbmaicalkS                                    6        9         0     394      5129      6400     640       10408    it 16 0   320      89*0      MO0             12h.4
Lebour                                        0        0     Po0    01400    26100    348*    43300    5220*     696          8040~   9135       951M             12441*0
blota  Ikputs                                 *        0    22700    4224      59433    76336   80558    9362    120906   142930   1521*5   159219                206P47
total cr08 otveolpwsl costs              39400      3351    27416    60*6      91012   10*41   100214   113271   144007   15159   1WEI2  I2404                    2371197l
Laaostmrst leaeittet (1982 coastaat Cedist
Palle                             6 ~ ~~~~~~ 0    56'3   2115       59500    14305    6122   104139   t10816   133533   AWO~  It5:47                    9254)
Race                                          0        0     2318    157941   .554        5194     5194      519      5194     574       4??z4    57*4              IM1
ca*peas                                       0        *             0         0        0         14108      1364     1612      14       287*     2;12              353*0
Cassava                                       0        0        0         0        0         0        6       40      10       26         541A.                       40
tan                        0        *         0        0 ~ ~~            ~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  0  0  I92  2400    4281  33a-t  3340        49920
hale         .                   ~~       ~~ ~~~~~~~0  0  222 4  2   2790     2180M    213       20 2780       2     1827)   2710      2?80             36U
SIaaUels                         ~~        ~~ ~~~~~~0  0  152  3705  552      1562      1562     1562     ISO2      162      1562      1W6              26306
Total Crops:                                  0        0    11741,   4203      6964    9M52    108436   116995   1349314  150913   06696    183223.               1192499
trap sterN). practlces Iswarioqb nai2a        0        0       869      893     17105    - 2232    2609     3124      3516     4011      4463     490               13922
Kmos edeaimai                                 0        0       5W      2102     342       4226     !024    15950      674      75.49     814      90.1             119W15
total Eonsleat Ciii lenf its                 0         0    12091.  45021    149111    90919   10*138   128069   145504   i625.138   17913   197293               25*46)!
lenefats less Cost                      -39(40    -8357   -14939   -15639   -22100   -1106         VI97    1419?      12*7     495?    029522   14*94             22634*5
.e....a.... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ---- -        .....................        -----
aico it*  103                            I      AM26    .7513     .603         1    .5645     r.53     .4665    .424)    .3855    .3501,5             .1)93
oascotualt 13                       1              .191     .7)18    .6355         1    .*06      .4523    .4039    .3060      .321    .28175              .145
FV at 1OX                      -3940     -7591   -12345  --1)7501  -05094   -*0594        #5011    1591      5*8      21 V4    4W'       52:0             WM71
Mr it 1.3                      -39400    -7462   -1)909   -11132   -14045    -9688        4040     6*90       491     11*      4171      42.52            32955a.
lIPI *IIA    35Th ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~       .........  



VDIAs EtltE EMiPAh10N
tail 7: Project Co.  ,otfISOI
"I       Pt2      P11      Pn4       Fis       n6      P17       pie      pig     kilo      Pill     P112          fll-34
IFiapor  n io                    b        1k9       9        £4       £0s      1996     199       t   16   £9       It"       MI       5992     1993          M99i-2001
*Cuspomt Cots;
Curret tCdis                              27       52b       940    24347    49025   105153   £05153    0  5153    05153   1*5153   105153   10153              £38HA8
19M2  ontat Codis                         237      2383      3021     Ml0   11211    16U         124   U121    16824    16824    16824    1624                   218?18
Cureu uSh)i)ars                              0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0                 0                  0
amS Cbst usDUSollars                                                              0   1      0       0                 & 1                           
tJtSl 190  olsant tdo  cots               2337     2383     3021      701     11276   £124    1024    104    16824   U1*24    11324    1824                      2U1718
_oIemn    kootitst
11952 CAMsta  Ctdis)
1   storage uavims.
Sreed                                        0        0        40      90      1260      1600             1£70       I90      26       224O     2320              316)0
Funtltsr                                     0        0         0               £31        57      1o       2         21       30       353       392              595
C.eIgaIs                                     0        0         0      192      251       20       320      352      384       418      448      464                *32
.titl tonstat Cadi 8mnlits                   0        0       7?      1242     1617     20n       2103     232£     2565      2716     301      317               4123
hefel  INS Cost                      1 2337)    2363) 1 2321) 1 519  1   W  I  1 14741) (14         ) 1t.14501 1 14259£ I 14t29)  1    I   136491             11774311
._.__ ...............................------. --                        - -   --__.   .. ...........-.....-- ----------------- --....................................  .....
htea FtCUMA  costs ari local oprting  uosts oly, not total Ebliar  murts mint to FAOUIS Itro  _
Disceua.i at Ift                    I    ."II   .02&        .7513     .A      . 6       .545    .5132    .4165    .4241    .36S5    .35*5                .1?ß
IiOfcout at £23 I                        .0i29    .7972    .7118    .6355    .5174    .W5 U      .4523    .4*39    .360i      .32'    .2875              .14i
PV at In                       -2337    -2167    -1916   -4372    -513    -9157   -4310    -7443    -6652    -SM49    -5314    -4784                   -3I9U,
PV at 122                       -2337    -2128    -180s   -4142    4101    -l83        -7456    4510    -S75        -5*s    -4416    -5924              -2.0;3
ani  01!    -96ll5
WV  122    456
Ö .  .. .. .. _ .. . .Ö.... . ....... ,_ ..._.._.            ._.  . . . ..............Ö..................................



|YWSPSE;;Eol
1labI  Si Peeled  C.paenti:UW1J9: UIIVIIIES Iiacldn veteglsrv cerice  auu airls.  hse*ry autais
. .  ... ._........
Ptl      P12      *!        Pn4      P15      FP1        "I   h.$          P19     ly        Pill     P12            PMl3-25
ItF4ee  i,      s                    %    1U        11$ 1962 1993  1   1         98       19"7     1t98     1         1990    til       19M2     9IS9          I?4M-2007
Carrest Ceits                              380      413t8    65s3     14032    392N 0    30       21053    24504    26451    3?441   3t423    3A4                  43924
1912 Ctoat Cedis                          30        2132     2732      290      Sl3*      4224     339       921      455      5191      59i'     58n               7528
jttait uS bulits                           tOI       217        9       110      510       39"       95      314       334      4         459      439               '$97
19  Cetutat uS bilitE                     20        20         0        9S5     415       III      2l 5                1?                17       351               455?
totI   1912 l i tet Cot Costs             102%      an2t     2il2    5S9    2ziO3    111i2   102           1t1s    130         541    1n          ms1              221165
_ ....... _._ ... _._._ _____~~.  .  ..................... .... .....~_.
Coegecat kasef its:
O11   Coesalt Cadil.
Iateriovservce
UatUe vAcutiftl      oas                      0        0      44               12480    1440    15MO    1433*    14321             1     6336    1.320             212116
im, Pats, paltry utwiscs                   1U aUIFIISl        N    fITS 5515I.*                               
blaul ttar    testim                          0        0      14O      252      3144      4        44        439      46       41        419      43f9              a4
teU  Coitaat Ciii biftits                              0     620    11M2    1U24    18M           i194    21214    21214    21216    2121t    21214                21n
hafit It   s  Cost                      IO2 II  I1          35W       529   I   4t9      253      K42      M2l       U120     51        37       41)               "1414
_* ___-___...S* fl     e .       . l f .             e     l    .     e      a       n     l      n    l      b      e .       f
fl* et at it                        I    .M9       .2        .7513     .An     .UM           1    .5132    .41       .4241    .3M55    .35                 .m
Sismi t 122                         1    .39        n .192   .1135    .u       .5474         1    .402      .039    .360        .322    .21I5              .145
n  at 103                      -1o02      -1935     289       S91     -55       l57       10       44        37U      2449      1314     1440               97
t t 1-192                                 -1794     219      3719    -4O        14        451      413       3280     2082      1150     139l               731n
IIW 810"     1373
an323t   .99                                                                                                .



6611      UItt S
irt Ulf AM
eo                9        9         0U       re"      9        NW       all-   mt Ll-   9   1- £1     C-     69-       gm-                        1l1t Ad
o0 O   9                            106      O0Ot   "1Oi1    9L6-  .6961-    U1-    16H-    la-              ULl-   .Omt-                         tot it P
91                UK* S    Ut'    ;9r   6t*    two  9' 966   Mt*  11t    flu*  U1W   gall  I                                                 U11t 1U3P310
COW      ICUI    1811'   CIII.        1WK   gm*   an*   tw               1111'  1"W         16W     WI  1 to' ; ws 
9                          4         11951    118t1  IUU11    149t1-   991-   Ltol         -         91t.   6-    01- O -                               S 13ul 1;;gUq
11811    lUltlion          BtK      0            *         9         0             *                  11     1"4  104113 PIo
,                                                         £1111  11811  IWZ                            0                                                                 9ait  ltlt  mu    mu    *  0  *  *  *  *  23 3aNi
' Inlu 363                               1  $1 i1n   3UIAJ          WI                   SW;3  1331e 562
*801    919911   LOLl       ml6   91          of1       Om9            31036  loss") test Iop
00911    091      a3       1*       0         0        Om1                  'J'19a3twin" cut
owl5   06t        of1      0        0         0        o9f                         uPIgg   *  JVVJA63
6911       o 016   601     680      HI8    09810  1196103   ml63
99U  fat  mu  WI    610    m                               SIM   I"JA~11103910636
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l"
. ..,.,, ...~.......... _...__
L*C-1661          £161      661      461      96I      66to         6610    t     "it 61 96ml t 8661         14   t86                             gq I,  1   Ali
Cl-0lAd          104      111 BAd     3      auW               I"d  l   9U        lAd     dU        O        OA       ISd
*                                                   IIUIdSMAN IN*gfhb         "       1341JI  % o  IVI
I11'0V036  31163  Id it1



Awmr4tt Lxtu.11L ; Lkv1u81Av4.
51.61. I3:rI3 ( eomis  - v4dif
FYI      fM2      fYI      P94       95        9f      P91        Pi       PtS     ; itv,    itt      ft12            Fil3-25
INgures in '0001                           19E!    13        Ila 14     iS      199       191 t is          199      1990     1$ I92             IS3          l420>>
1W01bE0  Colts 41902 Croatett Ct.s,
Aiuirlstraltin                            040    1360    I927    2440    41997   5U744
t5m   oso Plaaai                           5200     1"        162      341      I04      4172
is9raceliir.  rneirco                      20       1977     1101      6002     7023    140*
bails pnyas.w                              19        404      4576    10541    20101    91200    19"0       1,133    1930    19$5       IYS1i    19310             270999
eprp4)igst,at,r nupv                       6721     26        240    25003    2169         375     20       2610      267      27tS      1i4       04b               9339
irtmu,                                    3940      035      4731    11426    3159    31706    1456         4656    23131    1465      14656    23131             R1M
FAlO                                      2337      2363     3921      1061    11276    TAM4    1924    12N    1624    16824    1824    16024                      216?13
1av~tiaor1                                102    0  3'29     2732       936     M393    16102   .1926    11U         13096    15441    I'4S    11051               221165
Fiwulin                                    3600      139      316      19131 307   IBM           3340
KfiT. 0l  UP ECtlmiiC COSTS I           12295      301      3079   109    160191   24331   10450    6 4    75576    c95S7    10*i   7753M U0071
..   _  .............. .. * _  ..... _ .. _* ............... __ __.._ ......   .   .  .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . ............... ...  . .....
Eoapoamt hktits,
1195 t.usttat tedi,)
buisisltraeF                         110 _IFIZIE Not"Z
4Aical atsol Ut*tu                         IUITIFIAW    S 1111111
Roads Irq                                     0        0        0      33I      $310    42079    4079    42          4079    42419    42011    42079               303179
4nalvt    0V                                  0        0         5     ml       3746      45"      59        64       7265      SW27     398      996S             1232I41
Ezieuta                                      0         0    12491    45021    74911    90979   100191   12 9   145304   162530   179177   191293,                 264815
FuAIR                                         0        0      700      1242     1"?       2077     2103      2321     2565       196     3041     317t              41237
tlVtStKk                                      0        0      640    11m       lf52      50720    19MA      2121f    21216    21213    21216    21216.              1500
Fidlin                                        0        4         0        0        0         0    21437    21437    25437    21437
luAL VYll ELSOiIC 050l510 0                                 2002    6369   101          153        I1N    221525   23        250394   25507   27329                7906
&"elit%  Is l osts                     -1258   -37    -1067    -44627   -66334   -05121    953 1 556 131   16429    f67?   134"                  96093             7E251
lumtl A  103                        I    .1909     .8264    .7513      .6      .620      .5645    .5152    .4165    .4241    .36515  .3505                .1Am
kscut At 121                        1    .6929    .7m       .7113    .5        .564    .50I       .453      .4039    .3a6       .322    .'s75              .145e
IV at 1lo                     -122953   -3409    -323   -332.9   -4530    -532    5402    m7               7W64      01       71120    s0n3               I4e*
* Y at In                     -122n     -393    -8553   -3176*   -42155   -412    43499    70392    66357    0037    594(05    5317                       1139
U*V 0121    193204                   EtNIC IAE 6f 3t11F51 ISEINME *               Il
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . ........ . . ................ ..... .  ............. .... . . . .......... .
3 TfitL ECOMAIC OS9S IS INE PiA  lf thOSE i[EItIFIA3LE TO 1dE V611 CtItEitS.
tilE 10 HiMULtIKS itv.I.VEL 111 AHttIRUIIU tf ALTIUAI   SIS 1A*        ASE tS1 II   05EI
MAiIM        ES 1f It WM11  AiND ElCiiA , tlIS SE  hILL NOT IECESSiRILY ArEE  IITI
ClM.  . .EAC1       slid      Mi        OLAF



- 59 -
A m 1 -
RJUE OF REZUN, DATA AD ASSTVMP S
1. This Annaxe details the assumption contained In Chapter 6, and In
Tabls" 1 to 9, ad which axe fundametal to understanding tho eAls for the
estimation of VORADIs internal economic rate of return. The basis of the
methodology for dealg with Ghanaian domestic  inlation, exchange rate
movemets, shadow wage rates and the valuing of nemetall crop output have
'son discussed with staff of the funding institutlons, as well " the
MInistry of Finace and Economic Planning, the Statistical Servlce and
VORADEP staff.
2.  All component and project costs and beefits hae been converted to
1982 (ie PY) constant terms. C          it     after 1982 hav been
conevted to 1982 constant torms by app9lyig a fac tor calculatd from the
Gha All Items Combied Consmer Price Index for the 1982 . 87 period. This
data was obtaind from the Ghaa Statistical Service (publicatioa no.
All/87.) The relevant coeffieients for applying to actual money expenditures
and benefits for each year are therefore as follows:
YER                  InVuna  O31T
1982                         1
1983                       .4U
1984                       .32
1985
1986                       .23
1987                       .16
3.  All ollar ebaeditures  ave been deflated by approximately 5 per
sasm  over the 1982 . 87 perod. This is to allow for the effect of US
domestic inflation and for the dollar's relative deprection over the
period. This is relevant as projoct expenditures have been denonated in
Pounds, Marks, Yen *t. as well as dollrs themselves.
4.  All dollar expenditure  have been conwerted into constant CedL tarus.
The massive cha   In the relative itetonel values of the two
currencie  over the period hs necessitated the us of some type of shadow
echange rate. Because of the political sensitivLty In the estimtion of
such pamter  during the ealy years of project life, little work was done
In Ghana on the  sttimtIon of the rel econmic vale of foreign exduhng  to
the Ghmnaian ecoomy, either by domestLc or    rtionl istitution. Tbe
methodology adopted In ths report bha beoe  to take an appxiation of a
current rel exchang  rate, bsed -upo prmveiling foreign exchangs auctLon
rate w ad dicuLnst it back over tim  i line with domestic inflAtLon. This
method gives tho following C*dW/dollar exchange rates:



1jI         tllllZSt  [ß9
| g fN'              fUEl Xr  e'4t
;  0"   | 4staigt  t2Wßef~a 
ptn||  [|!Vel2!E;j  t  I
C9~Ii   



-61-
8.    rojeted future economi costs whiob have bein included in the ?&bles
represemt those dizrct inestmets which ar necessary to sustain benefits
over the remainder of project 1Lsf. Essentially these relate to the
,maiutenauceosts of roads,  te          of boreholes. maintenace of farm
service centres,  d      t      of etensio, livetock and fisbhries
servicos. In the case of roads It has bee assumed that 1S of the total
cost Incurred on the programee to 1987 is needed ainually to maintain the
new and rhabilitated trunk ad aeess roads; In the c"a  of boreholes it is
assme that 5% of their capital cost Is needed annually for  aitenance,
and in the coa  of extension servlcs It s assumed that inrtal costs
relate to the grt  t        it  of staff required under the ?&V systm.
Vehcles (4 VD and ntoried by tie extension service are written
off and replace  evry 3 yars. No extra costs over the period PY6.1Y25 are
assumed for admListration, NM etC, and no benefits are included for
activities such as resoarch, aquatulture etension and land use planAnig.
9.   here some approxmate estimata of benefits is possible for individual
co_ponents thLi has been attempted. This applies to roads, boreholes,
buildings, livestock and fisheries. Given the integrated nature rf the
pattern of investment which VCE*EP represnts, however, it is more
meaningful to consider the package as a whole.
10. In the case of the roads prograi. benefits have boen   timated along
the lines used in 1985 to appraise the lnvestmaet in the rehabilitation of
roads in the Northbrn Zon of the Egion. For access roads, savings are
estimated on dho Implicit swivnI  So Ubou  tlim  frm motor transport as
compared to head-load tranuport. Estimates have therefore been made of
average head-load weights, tim  spent travolln  to markets, distanes
covee, populto/tffi rates, annal toags of crops pr kilometre of
road *tc. A  ma  mount (10%) of                         basprod onh  bee  added to
this estimste in lAt  years as a result ofmproved access roads.
encourHagin. agricultu    production, a       as r tg In savings of crop
losss which would otbervIse not be marketable in perlods of bad weather
condltions. In the eas of trunk roads, no incrmntael traffic or productLon
is envisaged, although savings in some tranport costs ae included.
11. Borehole  and water suppyI i           are assumad to call forth an
incement of production valved at 5% of that attrutable to the crop
development progrMe. In the absence of a:y quantifiable measure of tho
result of ebath improveMent_ du to a lowr estimate of the incidene of
guinea wom and other diseases among tho target population, this sems a
reasonable approach. The am  logie apples to the home extension prograe.
whre production benfits are assumd to aecrue from better nutrition and
health circumstances.



-62-
12. In Table 6, describ ng the extension component, it will be noticed that
all benefits from crop development are attributed to this component. It is
of courso the case that the benefits frou crop developmnt are dependent not
only upon extension but also up"n thoso other components which provide
services without which incremental production would not be possible (most
obviously input supply.) Benefits are assigned here, however, on the basis
that extension is the last and most direct link in te chain of services
reaching the target farmers. It is of course more realistic to cosidar these
benefits as resulting from all the activities of VORADEP components, and
tbhrefore to consider the overall picture of project costs and benefits as
presented in Table 9. Benfits from crop development activities are based
upon the supply of inputs (seed, fertiliser etc) actually available, the
estimated extent of adoption of a variety of practices by target farmers,
the likely results of partial and complete adoption (from N&E Department
surveys), and projected possible rates of diffusion of technology amongst
all farmers over the full period of project life (partially based on surveys
conducted by C2hlfIT for the Ghana Grains Board in a similar region of maize
growers in Ghana.) ME Department survey data have also been used in the
estimation of the proportion of firmers growing various crops, the
distribution of erops' areas and relative importanes of sole and aixed
cropping.
13. Estimtes of the benefits accruing to lnvestments in livestock
activitis are based upon changes In stock mortality rates as a result of
veterinary ad animal husbandry extesion activiti". Anlmal Census data and
vaccination rates (for CMP, rinderpest etc) bave been used in this repect.
14. Retunsm to flbserle unvestments bave beon confined to marine capture
fishing only, and are based upon estimtes of returns from tte purchase of
new equipment (motors, nets, twine etc) using a simiLir methodology as that
employed by th. fisheries consultant engagd by the project In 1985. Ample
scop  for lmpboveenits, In tonage of wet fish landed seem probable and the
same rates of economic value added (of about 3 tims the vulue of the landed
catch) In preparation and processing usod. No quantifiabl estimats of
benefits are made for the aquaculture extenion component relating to
fishpond services and dovelopmnt.
15. Icementl  output has been valued at nrnational prices whore goods
are traded, and at local wholesal prices were goods are. not traded. In the
case of malze and rico, relevant international prices have been used. There
is cortainly a deficit of rice production In the country, and maize must be
assumed to be substituable for the range of cereals currently brought into
Ghana on either commrcial or concessionary/aLd terms. Yams and cassava aro
not generally traded. Tomtoes  nd (to a greater extent) shallots can be;
they have therfore been valued at their local price plus a premium of lO 
No benefits have been attributed as a result of developments la any other
crops as research under VOADEP In thes  areas is presently unpredictable as
to Lts outcome.



-63 -
16. The difference betwee  ths st of assumptions wsd In the estisition
of an internal econmic rate of return for VOWRADEP and that used by the
Ghaa Institute if Managemt and lhubc Administration (GIlA) in 1987
needs to be somianted on. The CIA study used a shadow exchange rate based
upon the subsequent years actual rate as a wa of determining what the
excha_p rate should have bee  in any one year; a shadow wage rate equal to
the minimum wage rate for 1987 was used; costs and benefits appear to be
preseted in current tem, and foecast costs mer based on the su  of
component costs for the last oprat       y     of project life for which
GlA had dta. The valuing of outputs due to project inwesteent was voy
simlar, although no rotur  wore estimated to livtock and fsheries. The
calculaion of benfits frm crop devalopuet In the ¢lA study was al*ot
entirely based on t_yWretical return to the actul volum  of inp1u
ditributed; usequent  te available from proj ct ad non-project somes
has faciitated   refinement of this approach.



-64-
AMMZ 2 - RESRARM AND  UESICOt
Objectives and Gals
1.  The Staff Appraisal Report 1980 did not st targets for reseach.
Rover, the objectives which th. report secified under Research and Farm
Trills Vero as follows:
-   liaison with natLonel ad International agricultura reserch
institut".
-   collection and dissemination of crop research  o     ti  of regional
interest.
*   on-farm trials to test research recomndations for ne  technology
undr locl conditio   and otbr int              evel technology (Lncluding
us of         rl   achry).
2.  Mh Tn-Depth Review Misson Of JaqAry 1984 re_inded that
UVpl.ttion of the research progrim  shuld he _peeded up ad to this
end the   o act shldseek cona            assistance from the  r   ti
i3sltate for Tropil         cultua (IA). Subjet to thi advic, the
statio  at Ip1v  would be improved for wock in the south and Zonpo Macsr
for the north.-
StaKffg and mactious
3.  Th Applied Research Departmet iS headed by a Chief Agronmt nd
assited by 5 Agrnmists,.13 Seior TeShicis of various grades    18
Technicl Officers in carying out location-specific on-fam trials ad some
see maltipliain
4.  The fivo agronomists specialLse La the folloin  are   : cereals and
1Lsms roots and tubers; faming systems, including plantain and bananas
as well agro-forestzy; cocon_ts; and veptable.
5.  Relant techologies dvloped eltbhr by po  and appled rch
bodies ae tested on  Nor I*lientat stations. In Volta ReSgo Ipv
Agricultural Station is usd for ths purposo. Sub stations bhv been
established at Zope and Banda.  Promising techniques or prctice  are then
teted in f&_Ws field".



-65-
Activities and Achievets
6.  Activities in research and fild trials have boon mainly AA the areas
of coreals and root crops.
7.  in the case of cerals, lialson with the CIDA/Ohua Grains Development
Project has been in the joiLt organisation of on-farm variety trials of
maize. The results of these trials have boen used to make recome_ndations
on the varieties best sulted to the ecologLcal zones of the Project area.
In addLtLon, the research department started producing the recoimended
varieties of soed maize in 1983 for sale to farmers, starting with 15.6
bectares. In 1984, som 1.15 tonnes were produced. The departmont has
subsequently produced and supplied seed maLze to farmers in the project are
every year.
8.  Co-operation with the Vst African tic  Develop mt Association (WARDA)
started in 1984. Rice variety trials have subsequently been carried out
jointly with reoaendations of varieties suited to the project are.
9.  As regards root crops, the most significant achievemets in root crop
re sarch and development bave been with cassava, yam, and sWeet potato.
10. Co-operation with rTT in cassava disease control and variety selection
resulted in the lowering of the incidence of the cassava mealy bug and
spider mite infetations wbhch WAd hitto  drasticaly depressed yields.
Varietal tests also led to the selection of 2 varietLes which gave an
avrag  yield of 20 tons per bectare. These ae being multiplied, and
planting materials to cover an area of 50 Ha to date have bee produced and
supplied to farmes malay thrgh the extension system. Thi is expcted
to increase signficantly the tonnage of casava produced in the Project
ar3.
11. The yam mini-sett technique wa Introduced In 1984 in co-operation with
1ITA on the Projet. Results of       r    taoved that mini-setts of local
y1 Sve sproutn  pentag  varyLg from 70 to 90g. The. adoption rate
of the technique aong fa=ore  to  hom it was Introduced ws around 40%.
The tchnique is          ely being incorporated into the TAV extenion
training progrisme. Further research work is also boeng cirried out to
simplify the systm for farmers. The adoption of this technIque will
LUprove the supply of seed yam In the Project area.
12. Research on meet potato obtained from ZITA via the University of Ghana
has resulted In tho selection of varieties, yiolding 20 tons/ha or more,
almost twiCe as much as local varieties. Planting material to cover 100
hectares of these Improved varietieS hav subsequently been supplied to
farmers in the Project are  through the extesion service.
13. A groundnt valrty trial at one location was one of the five
experiments located at 29 sites throughout the various ecological zones of
the Project are in 1983. Severe drought howvevr adversely affected
germination in the field. Test contlnued in 1984 and processing of the dta
for publication was also -tarted.



-66-
14. Contcts to obtain cowpeas for testing,in the Project Area were
initiated in 1982 by tho Senior Reserch Agronomist at an international
workshop at ITa. Subsequently, in 1983, one cowpoe variety trial was laid
at one location in the project are. Also, ahother trial involving a
maize/cowpea lntercrop was carried out JoLntly with CIDA/Obana Grains
Development Project. Lialson with the Semi-Arid Food Grains Research and
Development (SAFGRAD) project ln Burkina Faso for cowpea varletal testing
was inLtiated in 1984. Co-operation was also sustained with the CIDA/Ghana
Grains Development Project on thelr trials in the Project area. Coupea seed
whLch wa produced in i984 for further multipllcatlon ln 1985 amounted to 1
ton. This consisted of two varieties, Vlta 7.and TVY  2394 - 02F. The ars
under whlch selected varieties of cowpeas (1843, 1239) for seed
multiplication in 1985 was 2.25 hectares. Following the trials and selectLons of
produced and supplied to farmers through the extension xervice in
1986 and 1987.
15. Work on oll palm has concentrated on making available to farmrs in the
Project area the lmproved varieties developed at the oil pals research
stations of the University of Ghana.  In 1983 the Research Department
maintained 5,200 soedllngp at Kpetoe out of whLeh 3,400 were sold to
farmers. In 1984 the Project procured 20,000 germinated nuts from the Oil
Palm Research Centre at Kusi which were nursed at Kpetoe, Vakpo, Hohoe and
Jaslkan for distribution to farmrs in 1985.
16. Followig discussions in October and Decebor 1982, a coconut plan of
actoan was prepared by the I=O for 1983 to 1985. Thls was followd by a
two-week training in coconut agroonmy for three research officers at 1310's
Marc Delors Station, Port Boust, Cote 4'1volre in March 1983. * In 1984, a
coconut variety trial consisting of 720 seedllngs of five hybrld varieties
was laid at Anloga. The experimaent w   designed to compr. the local Vest
AfrLean Tall variety with the hybrids In a randomised complet block design
of 6 replications. The seeds of the local variety were procured from the
Western Region where uaulterated local plats now exlst. Sites wore
selected at Mafi-tmasi And at tbefl for other trials to be stablished in
1985. Subsequently, a plantatLon and a seedling nursery were established at
Anlogs In 1985. Shallow wells were construcetd to Lmprove on the watering
fu.ilities at the sLte.
Other Research Ixperlnts
17. Other research expermentslinvolved co-operation with the CIDA/Gh an
Gralns Development Projet  In 1982 there wr Mieronrtr ent nd Nutrient
experimnts at 2 locations, Starter Fertllizer trilas at 2 locations, a Zero
Tllage tril at 1 location and Vertification Demonstrations at 25
locations. To provide poultry for usw on research plots, the rosearch
station at Kpve wa supplied wLth 1,500 day-old chicks by the Project In
1983. In 1986 the poultry and llvestock unlt maintained 7,609 bLrds.



-67-
EXZSION ANUD TAICG
18.   efor the ieption of VORADEP. extenion was chaacterised by
sevral systems and irregular visits usually coupled with non-extension
activities (e.g. sale of inputs, proc"sing of loans to farmers, etc) by
exthusion officers.
19. with the start-up of VORADEP the T&V stm was adopted and
introdced In 1982, following the recomendations of the Staff Appraisal
Report ($ARI) of IDA/U'AD.
20. The hiR sa  the extein coomponent as the key instramnt In the
VORADEP Crop Devlopmnt programme and envisaged that the T&V sytem would
intensify gOA genral extension services in the reion. Th& scope, methods
and qualLty of the sorvices would be improved ln a number of ways, viz :-
-   systematic extension via T&V
-   Increase In field staff to reduce the extension officer/farmer ratio
from 1: 900 to 1:5 00
-   provision of adequate logistical support for extension, improved
sorvice conditions and adtquate training.
*   provision of strong tehrnical support and supervision from senior
technical and management staff.
Targets. aoals and Zarly l.erformsnce
21. The original target of the extension systea was amamum nuMber of
60,000 fam families. An extenion offlicr to farmer ratio of 1:500 withln
an area of lOke ceatred on the offie r's station wmm specified.
22. Criteria for the selection of a contact farmir (CF) for each group of
10 farmers were as follos :
-   the Cy should be   good farzmr who is well respected by the other
group maebers.
-   the CF should be receptive to new idea  and willing to allow hls farz
to be usod for de_mstration purposes.
-   he most be able to co-unicate with his group members and other CIs.
-   the CY's farm should be the average for the group and the famer should
be a full time farmer, with no alternative source of Income.



-68 -
23. A target of 120 Technical Officer circles eovering a famingt family
populatton of 6SQ000 was sot Ln 1982. One of the Iuitial problem whLeh was
revealed In tho registration of farmers to be visited by the Tecnical
Officers was that this vas done without tho officers visiting the Contact
Faruers' farm as per sch*eul during the cropping season to advise the
famers on Improved techniques.
24. Monitoring exercises subsequently shoved that 35%, 7b and 76% of
Contact Frmers in the Northern, Central and Southern Zones respectively did
recive at least one visit from the Tecbnical Officors during the mjor
season of 1982. (Contact Farmer Survey 1982 carried out by the Monitoring
and Evaluation Deparment.)
25. lefore the end of 1982, three Mobile Training Unit Land Rover vehIcles
and 108 motor cycles wer supplied for extnsion activities. in 1983,
mobility problems were created by inadequate avail.bility of fuel and
lubricants for both motor cycles and training veieles. in the Northern
Zone, the frequent breakdowns of the Dambai and Damenko ferries coupled with
breaukdons of the training vehicles hindered the regularity of fortnightly
training sessions.
26. The constraints which prevailed in 1983 carried over Into 1984 and wore
aggravated when budgetary allocations by GOO were restricted to staff
salaries only. Howeer, a total of 66,634 farms were notionally covered
by the T&V systm and technical officer strength by the- and of the yer was
172. The unification of crops, hom  and anisml husbandry extension was
initiated by the organisation of comon training for the officers of these
units. However, farm visits under the T&V system vere carried out mainly by
the crops offle rs.
27. IZn 1985, one of tIa main objectivs of extension was to determie the
most effective wumber of farm visits which could be made -in a fortnight by
en extension officer. A feedback monitoring report system was therefore
desiSgnd to facilitate this. Close collaboration with the Research
Depar-ent and the Ghana Grains Development Project also led to the
cmpilation of recme      io  and design of demostrations to be carried
out oan Contact Farc rs farm.
28. By May 1986, foflowlng recomendations by the 1984 in-depth review
mission, extension officers from the lilestock and plant protection unSit
were Integrated Lnto the T&V extensLon system. The nuiber of Field
Extension Officers was therefore Increased to 242 of which 70 wore of the
TA/STA grad. There also were 33 Agriaultural Extension Officers or
Supervisors, 9 District Extension Officers and 3 Zo0  Extension Officers.
Subject Matter Specialists also were assigned for each disiplin.
Furthermore, the nber of 50 farmr groupa per FED hich was considered
aeessive wa reduced to 8 per FO.
29. To rationalie further the extenson servie, the Hom  Extuion ULit
was Integrated Into te TV extenion system during  1987. By the end of
1987 therefore, the number of FLeld Extenion Officers vas increasd to 257
throuph the integration process and also with the intake of college levers
and officers on re-settlement schems.



-69-                               -
30. AC tha stsg, lt Is useful to oxaUe In mors detail the now
rganisactioual scre of the T&V system an hiliegt lts maLa links ud
funtions. Toh .  aisotion structure whlch .me:g  after the
recoendatt.ns of IDAD In-depth RevUe  of early 1984 Ls attached.
EVOLVED T&V Oa SATION
The roj act      r
Reg. DL. of Agric
!f ∞ t Sovcz |
Regional SMSs (Beads of Units)
Crops, Animal Husbadry, Plat
ftotection & Hoe Eteuson
ZonalC N1                                       Ms
D.    mm. 
rsis}-                                       i' 



- 70 -
A2btsvi.tton:
sO            DBSIGV   o-
1   HAD        EMSION SRvICZS
4  11TS41o-3 SKS-. Ol HZAD OF mT
12  235       bilL SUIJCT MATT  SnCIALIST'
3    210      ZoL . Mr Ioi omcuR
9   D1D       DISTRICT ImSION omCR
9   DM0       DISTRICT ANIMAL HUSBAZD  O7CER
9   DUIO      DISTRICT om     =0810 O7CR
34  AEt       AGRIULTURAL ZXTZOS   077XCEI0O RANME omcza
257  710      Ft=, mlsiomR  72CR
82  HBO       am  ESIOi omc0       t



-71-
Th Orgaiational Stuctre
31. The Extension department is headed by the Head of Extenion Services.
Wording under and closely with the Head, ar the legioal Subject Metter
Specialists who are the hbead  of units of Crop Extenion. Home Extenion,
Animl Husbandry ald Plant Protection. Mhe spatial stretur  of tet system
reflects the zonal and district units of the legion. At the zonal level,
there is a Zooal Extension Officer (ZIO) co-ordInating th activities of the
department. likewise the District Extension Officer (D00) at the district
level. Each District Exteosion Officer is responsible for a number of
gricultural Extension Officers or Rang, Offlicrs, who in turn is
responsible for 8 Field Extenion Officers (FCOs). In each zone tbhee are 4
Subject Hetter Specialists who are responsibl for tce±ing in the 3
districts In the zone.
Distribution of Technica  Offlcer Cxrcles ad Inactions
32. FleU Extension Officerx(FEOs) are fairly distributed in the project
area, basoe on the distribution of a total of 145,000 farm famllies,
achieving a ratio of 527 farmers to 1 Field Extesion Officer. This means
that there are more cirles in the densely populated aras of the south,
than In the sparsely populated ares of the north. Each FE0, at the
begining of the year, is expeted to register a mluinum  of 8 farmer groups,
each of 10 "contact farzmrsl. Each group has a leader former. rslected by
the other group members. Mhe FEO, therefore, is directly in contact vith a
mInimum of 80 farmers. A circle is  nned by motly Technical Officers
(TOs), few Senior Technical Assistants (STAs) ao eperieoced Technical
Asslstants (TAs).
lmuctions of Field Staff
33. The Field Extension Officer (710) visits a group each worktng day
within a fortnight, with two days allocated for training sessions and extra
vis' ts to any of the groups. He holds regula meetings on days proviously
arranged and also visits farms to give on-tho-spot advice, also obsorving
and noticing any problems enountred. by farzmrs on the ftiold. This fixed
regular tine schedule is kept by F1O1 to enable farmers ad supervisors to
buom the progrme in advance. The Agicultural Extension Officers (AEOs)
are responsible for the supervision of the FE0s. Each AEO L In charge of 8
circles, thus being responsible for 8 MEGs. They pay regular visits to the
MEOs and any of their farmer groups to give them timely advlce ad also help
with some of the problems. The Subjoct Hatter Specialists (SNSs) are persons
who spend about a third of their ttim training FDO *and Ws5 at the district
level, a third of their tim solvlng problems In the field and collecting
feedback, and a thrd of tbhir tim  In contacting their technical resources
l.e. r"earch stations, etc and planning for the comig fortnight cossions.



- 72 -
The table below show the distribution of field workers by
zoe and by dstrict.
DISTUITO OF FIEUD EXSSon omcS
zOm          District                                 e mFl90IIW
Xra                  . 20         9       3
Ulorant.    19                   10       3
Jikn                    31       11       4
ZOMAL TOTAL                          70       30      10
Rob"                   34        7       4
central       Xpdo                   26        8       4
tlo                    38       10       5
ZOML TOTAL                           98   25   13
Auto                   15        6       2
South              o                 31        8       4
Dean                   43       13       5
Z,.   L TOTAL                        89        7      11
1EGOaL TOTAL                        257       82      34
34. ThisTrainIg and Visit syst of Etesiont i ntelve. The lee of
uce"s            is partly the result of pravision of ad"e te eass of
traU por for eztesion workrs. The FnO  hae been provided with motor-
blkes or bicyces, A*s with motor-bikes,  ilst th   Ms and District and
Zontl Extesion Offices sbare 4WD station wagons or pick ups.



- 73 -
Tra4i4g
35. Training Is considered a vital support to extension. Each season Is
divided Into fornightly cycles and training sessions ar held fortnlghtly on
a flied day In each distxict. This well- structured timetable of training
days is to enable other functionaries, for example Regional SMSs to attend
the training sessions. The training session is convened by the DEO and is
attended by the Zonal SIS for Crops, Animal Husbwady, Hom  Extension end
Plat Protection.
36. At the training sessions, mssages based on the expcted activities of
the far  for the coming fortnight are presented, with empbhis on the
*iupect points", that is, the specific asit of the activity that needs to
be Iproved. It is important to note thathcftese messages have been for
mlated in vays that they can be readlly and clearly transmitted to farmers,
and are appropriate to the specific physical and ecological enviroruent.
37. An extension worker can only confidently explain a new practice to a
farmer if he can dmonstrate it clearly. Without this ability, he carmot
maintaln his credibility with farmers. Practical training therefore is an
important component of the fortnightly training sessions. This is carried
out by the SKS on the training plot near the training centres or on a farmer
field.
38. At the trainlng sessions, SKIS receive feedback from the FEOs on the
needs and problems of the farmers, and give tem solutions where they can.
These problems coveo managemet, pest and diseos control, wather reports,
etC.
Ixtens in ActivitLes =mdet the T&V Systm
39. Snce the re-orgaLsation of the extenion activities of VrAADEP as
described above*, the mathods used by the T&V staff to Impart mA'ssages
regarding Improved farming practices have been modified and SatensifSed. The
main activities adopted are sumazisod bboew.
40. Each FEO works with a ainllum of 8 groups, each of 10 *contact
farmers. He holds rgular meetlg with each group for cne day. Thfs day is
previously arranged and agred with the farmers. FEOs together therefore
are directly in regular contact with a minimum of 21;920 contact farmers
fortnighly throughout the yer to advise on use of IMpromed varieties and
cultural practleso. The HEs, on the other bad, visit 7, CO contact women
fortnightly. This means that 20% of farm families ar coLtacted directly
and regularly by extenion workers. The remaining 80 who are 3followUr
farmars" are expected to benefit from periodic advice from to. extension
worker or tho contact farmer. Information boards have bea set up in 1,000
villages throughout the region showing the Aate of the FEPO naet vislts,
extension posters, impact points, information on fl ld days, *ec.
41. MROs pay regular visits to farmers fields to &asess adoption of
recommendaions, give on-the-spot advice =an  also take notes on problem _   f
the farmers.



- 74 -
42. In an effort to bring research into farmers' fields, and to teach
farmers the increaed yield that results from use of improved farming
technologies, contact faraers assist FEOs to lay demonstration plots. These
plots ranging between '/100 and 1/50 ha ia size are established on farmers'
fields. Farmers are exposed to new recommendations on these plots.
Recommendations include plantlag in lines to obtain optimum plant
populatians, use of improved varietio of crops, general use of fertilizer,
other correct cultural practices, herbicide and pesticide applications,
harvesting, storage, preservation and processing.
43. The crops currently being promoted are incie, rice, cassava, cowpeas,
sweet potato, groundnuts, sorghum and vegetables. Each FEO is expected to
lay'a minimum of 8 demonstrations on these crops depending on the agro-
climatie and *cological 2one. A total-of 2,192 demonstrations were
established on these crops in major and minor seasons in 1987. The other
demonstrations involve rapid yam multiplication technique and the
cultivation of plantains and bananas. Agroforesery has been recently
introduced to the field officers and farmers and alley cropping plots have
been established in each district.
44. Each FEO is expected to organise 3 field days per crop demonstration.
These are at planting time, at fertiliser application, at tasselling. and
barvesting and storage, atc, depending on the crop. Field days are held by
MOs to provide a comparison of improved versus traditional practices on the
farmers fields bhere the demnsotrations are laid and also to have the
opportunity of asquiring new skills.
45. Film shows are organisod to supplement training of FOE4 and in villages
to expose farmrs to reo  _edaons given by the FE0s. In 1987, a total of
246 film shows i.e. an average 27 film shows per district per year wer
organised throughout the egSion.
46. Rallies are hold in each ceircle by FEOs at the beginning of the sason
to inform farmers about fortcoming farm operations and the general farming
progre for the year. Farmers are also made aware of the inpst situation
at these rallis. At the end of the year, simLlar rallies are held to
evaluate suce ss during the year and also plan strategies to solve problems
*enountered.
47. one stratey used by the Extesiosn departeent in VORADEP to achieve
.these goals is targetting. Targets are drawn up for all major activities
undertaken within the department.
Achievements and Xmpact
48. The assessment of achivments and Impacts of a complex syste  such as
the T&V extension system is inhorently problematic. In the case of VCRADEP,
the task is made more difficult by lack of firm data on key aspects, notably
aras cultivated under the various regimes (improved, semi-improved and
tradtional). Furthermore, yield estimtes for different crops and for the
different extension packages is scanty and what is avilable is often
unrepiesantative



- 75 -
49. Consequently, other dta havo had to be used and adapted to give some
indication of the outputs of extension. The main indicators used in this
assessmnt are awarenss by farmrs of iproved cultural practice  ed the
adoption rate of the main practices *xt.endd by the Projeet.
50. Fortunately, the  roject, throug  its Monitoring .d Evaluation
Department carried out two survys in which certain key aspects of extejisn
contact were analyse - thes  survys were the Contact Farmers Suve  (CPS)
1982 and the Extension Impact Survy (EIS) 1987. Therefore it is possible
to compare progress and devolopmnts In extension contact over the major
part of the ProeCt's Implementation. The SAR, ln its spcifications for
crop devlopment states  accelerated acceptance by farmers is expected by
full devlopmet at yer 7, at which tim  some 51,000 he would be under
improved crop productioe (Section C, para 3 .05).* Some light an be thrown
on accoptace but estimates of area cultivated must be nade on other base.
Moreover, there is also some basis, from survey data, to compare registered
and non-registered farmers avd hence to as"ss the diffusion effects to
farmers not in direct contact In all respects with the exten3un service.
Comparisons of Extension Contact 1982 and 1987
S1. Tables prosenting the main dta from the two surveys are analysod in
this section. Th  clidece of extedsion officers' contact with farmers was
analysd by te frequecy of visits to farmer and frequeny of famers
attending organised meting. Between 1982 and 1987 both indlcators shwd
favourable progrss in contact. In 1982, 4"% of tfmexs were visited by
extesion officers at lest once In two weeks; in 1987 the percentag had
risn to over 533*  Rore sig    atly, 29% clalmed no visits from extccsion
officers during the 1982 saon, while in 1987 less than 7% wvere i that
cateory. The range of the extension contact advice as reflected in the
proportion of farmers receiving such advie" for the various stages shows a
ksignifcat improvewnt over the period. The survvey dta by suin crop are
s~arisd Xbelow:
PURCZsTAGE OF FArhBHf RECEIVING ADVICE 0 SPECIFIC CECIl
-MHaize                    37                  84
Riee                        3                 26
CassaVa                    20                 71
Yam                         3                 44
CoWpa                       -                 47
Vegetables                                     31
Source CIS (1982) and EUS (1987) K 4 S Dept. VQADZP



- 76 -
52. Famrs ' awareness of specific cultural practices is * reasonable
measure of the extent of the extension officors' Ogetting over the message"
to the faerz,. The  Oprovement in this aspct of extension contact has
been impressive, as the following coupaisrons show.
PERCZMNIGE OF "  RUS ARMBE OF
AOR RECOMMED PR&CES FOR  A=ZE
Recommended Practice     1982                1987
Use of improved
maize seed                 28                  73
Use of fertilizer          40                  68
Plnting date               33                  66
Hand weeding               28                  SO
Source CPS (1982) and £1S (1987) N &   Dept, VORADEP
53. Perhaps the most meaningful measure of impcts available in this
analysis is th. adoption rate by famers of specific cultural practices
extended by the extension officers. This mset be viewed with caution,
however, because both survey covered activities in one sason only and the
samples were different btve  1982 and 1987. Nevertheless, the adoption
rate ay be regazded as a useful Indicator of farmers' responsiveness to the
extension office"r' advice. Th folloing table shows the results:
PDCEUW        OF FADUS ADOPTING
tRNDKEBDW  PRA=CZS  FOR MAIZE
Recommended Practice               1952      l987
Use of laproved. sd       22                  67
Application of
fertlizer                  17                  55
Plantig date               30                  61
Haod weeding               31                  SO
Source CPS (1982) and t1S (1987) H & t Dept, VORADEP
54. In addition to the above picture of Improaement In the laledgp and
use of major cultural practices the 1987 survey shown careasing awareness
and adoption by famemrs of otber itportant practices;, for malze - sed rate
(awarenes 63%, *adoptlon 63%), thinning (awarevnss 30%, adoption 24).



- 77 -
55. Om of the mjor asSumptions underlyn  the extesion
philosophy of the       system is the operation Of A diffusion effect,
spreadng know4W  fro contact/followr fainrs to  on.trgistercd famers.
Frm contact with dfferent activftie  progrmamd by VMOAD  extension
serviGes, it is possible for non-registered farers to be aware of. and to
adopt, improved inputs and cultural practices. Th 1987 survey identified
some of the main li*ks la the diffusion process.
56. About 39% of non-registered farmers were aware of the presece of
VORADEP exteision officers In their villgs; only 25% and 14% respectively
hovwver, were awar that their follow farmers, wet registered as contact and
followr fazers.
57. Xowledge of cultural practcte  for crops, passed on through exten
officers, was fairly madoest. with the exdoption of a1ize (73% of non-
regstered farmers), cassv  46%* rice 26%,  am 21%, cowpea 31%, ad
vegetables 17%.
58. Awareness of specific reCOMmnded praGtices and their evetual adoption
by no-registered farmers is summarised below:
PZCSC4TGE OF NON-REGISTERED FARMERS
AMAU OF AND ADOPTING RZCOI -EIDED PRACTICES FOR MAIZZ -1987
RecmenIded Practice    * Awareness         % Adotion
mrovd as"e sed               58                  52
Applieation of NPW            49                 47
lanting date                 49                  46
Seed rate                    46                  46
aend Wading                   34                 28
Thinning'                   15          '       14
Soure. ElS (1987) - K & K Dept, VORADEP
Conclons
59. Th foregoing assessmets indicate that the extension system has
commendably Inareassd its contact with the farmers of the Region, both
registered and non-registered. It is useful and instructive to ntOt that
the uajprity of noa-registered kfrmers gained their kn.wledge of recmmenedd
practices from their fellow farmers by visiting the desonstration plots laid
on contact f rsme,' fields.
60. The most iSpres"sive results  ere achieve With regard to improvd
maize, as was expected. ThS wa not solely du  to higher yilds but also
to selection of varieties which were acceptable on grouds of cooking and
taste charaeteristies - an aportant point.



-78-
61. A close similawity was observed for fertiliser use betwoen the two
groups (56% and 52%) but contact farers were significantly ahead In their
awareness of the all important recoiended application of fertliser (NPX -
68% compared with 48%) - a reflection of the corstant contact with extension
workers. The significant Increase in wareness over the period 1982-1987 is
clearly associated with the marked increase In extension contact over that
period.
62. However, traslation fros awareness to adoption reveals substantial
gps, spoeially for the major recommedations - Improved sood and
fertilisers. These significantly lowor levels of adoption are more likely
to be the result of high input prices ndor inadequate supplies then from
lack of knowledge or technical know-how.
Some & tension
63. Though Rome Extension is now an Integral part of the Extension
Department, it started life as a separate department and developed an
approach which has largely been continued within the broader framework of
Extension.
64. At appraisel it was estimated that in 1979 about 4,500 women and youths
vero participating In the programme in 117 villages and 130 schools. By
Project Year 5 it was expectad that 4,755 families would benefit from Home
Extension prograos. It was also proposed that a bousehold nutritional
study would be carriod out.
65. Prfo         trg the Projoet has been substantial despite some
ifficulties, especially with regard to transport. By end 1986 there were
120 field staff (+53 lUbourerJ) and the number of participants  egistered
almost 20,000. The build up of the programme is shown in the table below
which charts the progress in the food production component of home extension
activities.
66. The growth In urban gardens has boen notable because duzrlg the first
2-3 years of the programme the emphasis tended to focus on urban
participants. Following the roiendations of the Review and because of
improved tra"port the programme gradually moved to extend its activities In
the rural area. This is reflected In the icrease In the nmber of
vegetable growers on farms.
67. The number of schools inolved in food production, preparation and
nutrititon programes has continued to rise and demntration plots bave
been astablished. So far, however, only one demonstration bhons has been
established (1984); and because of the difficulties Involved In planning and
materials for further homs, later mphasis for demonstrations bas been on
wations introduced Into registered mmbers' houeholds.



-79-
68. As regards impact of the various prograes of the Hom Extension
coMPOnent. insufficient data exist to a4sses the vital aet ct of th
Department's activiti". Th  mot appropriate indicator is likely to be the
Improvement in nutritional status of the target populatio. A priori, the
oxtent to which wome have been inreasingly itnolved in the variou
activities of the hom  extension programs wuld suget that success in
participation and adoption of new, Improved practices wuld lea  to improve
nutritional boeAviour over a wide range of dtostic and community activites
nhd, in the longer run, upgrading in nutritional statu.
69. In 1985 a study of nutrition ad food consumption was carried out in
the Northern Zon by a consutant (Rabank 1985). A nueber of indicators
reflecting the impact of horn extnsion programmes were Identified, for
effects on food comimption and food security, hygiene and saitation, ete.
Howvr, the homs extension prograe had only bee  going for a short while
and no hard data could be expected to trace obJectively the impacts on the
above aspects of nutritional status. A later consultancy assigment
(Land*11 Mills 1987) suggested a follow up study in early 1988 (3 yers
after the erlier study and 5 years after Project inception) to assess,
where possible, indications of nutritional impacts of the HE programmes,
especially the food production activities. No such study was undertaken.
HMK EUTUSIOM ACTZVTES
1       m2     NYS         PY4  15    116
1982   1983   1984   1985    1986   1967
No of particip nts             5,178   8,800  17,147 14,511 19,959 22,100
No of school gardens             120    160    247   n/a        250    279
No of urban hoe-gwrdens          450   1.520   1,516   n/a   1,853   2,250
No of vegetabl emgroer
on fez.                       1,415   4,147    n/A   4,099   5,600  6,000
Po of demonstration plots          O      28     a    n/a    n/a
RZSEARC  -  D1SI0N UWACES
70. While both the Rsearch and Extension Deprtnts made reasonable
progress during most years of the Project, and especially In the past 2-3
years, it was felt, both within and without the Project, that thore was not
sufficient liaison and close co-operation between the two dpartmts.
n. For the pat two yoers closer liaison betwee Reseach and Extension
has been achieved vis the establishmet of monthly meetin  between
Research, Zxtension and FASCOK staff. For two days each month a workshop
and joint field trtps have bee hold, attended by SESs, ZEOs, FASCOK and the
Research staff. The workshop ia co-chaired by the bead of Estension
Department and the Chief Reseasch Agronaouit at the main experien*t station
at Kpeve.



- 80 -
72.        t      eeting. workshop paticipant review tbe findinp  ad
prop... 9f fiedt trIAls ad sueset topics for Me  tral.; eVOlUate the
succes of fortnightly  training and of production: eons, by
deteniu  b1o well previos reco   ha  been uderstood and
Accepted by 130, AgIs,    f       ; d select            t sand impact
points for the c"ong fortn4hts. lbe rec---etio s  adoted at the
orkshop to fit local envroamftt and fa s resomces. Selecting
approprate prdtion uecoeatio-s and theoi Impct points is therefore
the *ets funtion of the mothly workshops. Ufort are underay to hold
thes workshop at Zoel and District lvel Also.



- 81 -
ANU    3   INT  SUPPLY
Objectives
1.  The pximazy objective of the inut supply component, according to the
SeR, vas that 'tha project would ensure timly and adequte supplies of farm
nputs to the faomeW. Inputs would cmprise fertilzers, Improved see
ad a variety of cheuicals. Further, imrove fam tools and mplements,
and some tractors with related equipment woud be provided.
2.  The project would soll seasoal farm Inputs on a cash b1a, but when
necessary, deferred paymet  ould be employed. It was assumd that meUv-
term credit would be provided by AD and/or coinmrcial banks.
3.  .?roject re     nt of Improved seods wold be obtained through Ghana
Seed Company (CSC). It was assumd that GSC's fams with an epanded groor
schbm  would be adequate for seed suppli" for the project.
Organsatin of Iuput Supply - FASCOM
4S  To spply and deliver inputs and other fam implmets to farmrs, a
specially-constituted company, Famers9 Services Company, (FASCQK) wold be
created. FASCOM would.be  ned by the 00  (ares held by Ministzy of
Flnance), farms ad a consortiun of b1ankin  Instftutions. IASOCK would be
managed by a board of Directors, vith th  Rgionl Aritural Co-ordiator
(RAC), (now the Regional Dictor of        clt), as Cbdsximn, FASCOM
NMnag   Director, 2  pstv   of Ministry of Finane, 3
reprsetatives 8of banking Institutionu and 3 far    . Inus would be
ditribuled troug  65 outlets. (17 FSC atid 8 VLstict store) thoughout
the project area. Farmers Ideally would be group  toetbe with   -
associations and co-operatives for channelling Inputs as well as advisory
and other servics. FSCs would be ouied and maintaind by the MA since Lt
w"  envisagd that they would also be used ford               supertision
and training purposos.
Oprtia Criter
5.  FASOCI would operate slAmg comercia line, with prices of nputs, In
general, being set with a 20% mark-up on ex-SC costs to cover overeds and
provide a profit. For all input involving a GON subsidy (fertilLsers) MLA
would fully reimburse FASCOK for the subsidy, calculated on the basis of *x-
FSC selling price and to be paid in advace at the begLrinng of each yar.



- 82 -
lutituticnal Devlopmt and Pe
6.  Gaven FSM' s objectlves ad operationl n  eads, the  o         tional
soe-up shows a appropriat divslon of function  to Cay out necessary
financial, Commercial and transport responslbilitie.
7. The ability of FASCON to carry out its tmdate out depend, to a great
extent, on the degree to which it anaged to marry Its ememrcial aIa  and
its Regional detlopmt role. The first quetion to ask is whether the
management of FASCoK, vested in its Board of Dirctors, has been appropriate
to th  tasks mentioned above. Th composition of ?ASCOK's Boad of
Directors clearly reflects the Company's role asn Implmenting agent of
VotADEP (the current Board is larger tha  that proposed in SA). Howevr,
such a Board ma not be appropriate to a coercially-orientated company.
8.  The most Important "spect in this issue is that the Dlrectors re there
to represent the intests of the Institutions and organiWtione who
nominated thm. Such Interests could, and In some cases did, differ from
those of a comercil company, whose directors e*nur sound proflt-
orientated policies and management.
9. The development objectives of FASCOK, which are designed to be
supportivo of overall VORAD?P polLcies and strategies, may not be fully
served by a Board with such diverse interests. Crucial In this respect is
the role of the r pr sentatives of .DA and MMll, for two reasons. The first
relates to the question of whether or not OA polLes , as reprosented by
their Board "3rese haatve, ave ben suppportive of FASCOXs (and
VORADWP's) goals. There is evidence to suggest that there ban bee no cler
forualation of IWA poliel"s to widch FASCOK (and VORADP) could relate their
oam policies. There is no doubt that certain central Government poliies,
esp"ecally on ptricig of Lnpus and procurement, have worked ageinst *ASO0's.
Omw objectives and coercia alaIs and have had adverse etfcts on VOADUPs
prormac.
* 10. The prfo  eeof FASCOK as an Institution con tStut   to provide
* agricultural input can be judged from a number of viewpoints. Here the
evaluation  as broken dow  Into the followlng parts
-   financal prformance
- *ffectiveness of its constituout operations esppcially- transport
-   performance as regards input supply and delivery of inputs to farmers.
Finncia Performe
11. The finncial perfomance of FASCMK was subjected to a soarchIng
eainaction by a consultancy study (Coopers and Lybrand 1967.) Their
ovaluation prseated a critique of fianeLal performane for teh period
1981-1986. The findings regarding part performanc may be sumarised as
follow.



.         - 83-
*   a trend of substantial and increasing t,loas
*  Sinadequate and dec""rig margins due to unornemrcial pricing polLies,
leading to 1986 operating costs at a levl of 10 time those In 1983,
compaed with turnover, which increased by just over 7 tims in the same
period.
-   intial mphasis on VOWADEP project farmers rather tha  regional
farmers as a wholo has led to proj et-led rather than ecomrcially-led
procuremet polici.
-   the consequeces of this hav meant               stocking, late dlivery
and lost sales, and high trsport costs, all of which could he bean-
asided.
-   inappropriate capital -Structure, resulting from the financing of short-
term trading stocks with long torm dabt. Finaneing of imported inputs by
long term loans ment that the Company bas in most yers enjoyed a helthy
cash flow position. Consequently, this situation ha  tended to re) M
pressure to get more realistic selling prices and to control costs. The
question of selling prices for inputs is looked at in the section evaluating
the peformance of FASCOn's inpt delivery program_.
Wfctivee_i of F'FACSO  operations
12. Sho Coopers aid Lybrand's report drws atteonton to a nmiber of
deficiencies in the organisdtio  nd operations of the varLous departnats
of FASCOK. Thse motly concern Internal division of responsbiUties and
failure to institute stringent eontros.-over the operation of theso
divisions.
133. For an isbtitution charged with procuring, delivering ad slling farm
Inuts tO s. idely disperset farming population, often with accscs
difficulties, the key Operation must reside with tdo transport activities of
the compan.
14. Tr asport performnc has been influence  by the followaig factors :
-   orgasisation of the transport operations
-   prcuremenn t policy and its Implications for transport operations
*   ownership and size of transport flet
15. Within the FASCON org slistional set-up, transport operations wVer
oversenm by a Transport Officer who reports to th Administrative Manapgr.
TMe rank and authority of this officer were not sUk as to ensure firm
control over transport policy and vehicle usage. Influences other than
those of a purely operational nature therefore tended e@ interfere with the
proper functiOonng of the transport arm of FASCON's operations.



-84-
16. The transport operations and their financial viability have been most
affected by the procuremt policy undr which FASCON has had to pursu  its
lut activities. Oavernrent, rather than FAsCON, has been respous'ble for
determining the allocation and date of arrival of fortilizers which clearly
hba not been pered to FASCON's delivory needs. Often, fertilizers have
arrived late for the planting season and, in such a sita;tion. FASCON has
had to gear its transport capacity to the need to evacuate the fertilizer
from port In as short a period as possible, normally within a period of 2
months.  This peak demand for halagg  capacity bhs ld to little or no
demand for the rest of the Yer.  It also meant that with such a short
period for evacuation FASCON has required more veblcles than would have been
necessaxy if the Company had beon able to plan a more appropriate policy
with regard to procur ment and arrival of fertilizers.
17. The policy of apparent self-sufficiency in transport capacity has been
a costly ono. According to the Coopers and Lybrmad study, in 1988 the
comany will hae around eight ties the haulage capacity it can itself use,
with the associatod high depreciation and Interest charges this involves.
18. in ths situation, it is clear that tho transport operations of the
company must be dependent on substantial hire income for viability.
Hawever, the evidene shovs that hire ousiness was Insufficient to augment
own-use operations to any significant extent. Between 1984 and 1986 hire
Income for each year was 2.4m, 1.9m and 1.6m Cedis for hlred days totalling
121. 96, and 62 respectively. On an individual veilel basti (for a fleet
of 20 serviceoble vehicles) this represents an average of 6 days in 1984 and
3 day in 1986 for the available six moth hire priod.
19- As a result of the foregoing the overall picture of vehiele utilisation
has been one of low and uneconomic exploitation of available capacity. For
NErh-A fy 1987, for example, only 28% of the capaecty of 21 operational
vehiles was being employed on FASCOK related busines, I.e. own-use and
biring. A further 10% was employed on Governmat business and 28% unused.
34% of the vehicles wore not operatioal during tuhis period.
nput SUPPlY - Review of lASCOs Trading   f
20. This review has bee confronted wLth data probleme. Differeut sources
of ainormationabout input supplies, distribution and actual sales yield
different estilates. iWhile FASCOK has been the principal source of inputs
for the Region's famers, there have been other sources, though these hav
been of minor Importance.
21. AS a basis for assessg pforne, actal sales to farmers are
compared with the targets Set at SAR and subequencly revisd at Review.
The first table, below, presents these target data for the period 1982-1986
(1986 was the original planned termnation dat of VORADEP). Both sets of
targets are based on technical crop recoendations and the crop area
tagets and therefore reflect the assumptions made at Appraisal and Review
about adoption of Improved packages and likely crop aresa.



- 8S -
22. Actual distribution and sales of Inputs are aalyse  In the nem two
table  for tb  Rau input catepft", fertilixer an  Ilproved seed. The
dlvergensebeteee tenets an actwas, use quite muked, as an be seon by
.comparing the relevant data. I  as been arued elsewhere t.at $A cro
secomniaios  r.dig fertilLer usag  ad expected crop avea wer  or
optimistic. With saw eceptIos (1983, for example) sa"  atualy taken
up by fuers tnd to support ths coeluslio.



-86 -
InPU SUPPLY (touR..)
(SA  & leVi.)
INPUT        PY1(1982)  PT2(1983)  fl3(1986)  1T4CV985)  PTS(1986)
- 20 20 20    355         885       1657( -  ) 2680(  -  )380(  -  )
.- 1S 15 15    60         130        240(8000)  360(10000) 520(12000)
- S/A.        100         300    .500(1000)  S00( 1500)1U00( 2000)
- C A N        20         40          80( -  )  100(  -  )140(  -  )
- T S P         5          10         20( -  )   35(      )  55(  -  )
- S             -           -          -(2000) -  -( 2500)   -( 8000)
TOTAL         540        1365       2497       3975        5620
SEED
NMA=zE       25          75        125( 125)  200(  200) 275(  275)
- RICE          9          18         36(  42)   72(   56)  99(   66)
-  c Sm         6         15          26(  -)   45(  -  )  n       1o)
* sammiw        1          2           2(  *)    3(  -  )   Sc  -  )
-CWA                                  . (  * )    -(   )   -( -   )
TOTAL          41         110        189( 167). 320(  256) 450(  351)
Figues Ia brackets are mid-tos r*view werpts
SupP OF PuILM  AID ACA 
1982-1967
.93s (tome)   S 1Ae  (ton..")
1982                             531               115
1983                            4140              3450
1984                            1229              1211
1985                            1811              1811
1986                            4936              4936
1987                                              6076
Source   & Note. Supply estimates - FASOOK (thes  differ slgbtly fre.
Review Estimates for 1983 which was 4308 torms). Sles eatimates
are based on FASCOm data



.                                   -87-
23. As regards fertilizers  the supply ts been erratic over the period.
Ths hs been acconted for by supply conditions rather than demad. As bas
alxeady beu noted above a major prblem Lacing the aompany is that sales of
fertiliz#rs haw hin determined by quantitie  allocated, and t8img of
avalabilIty. by  OA. The Ministry ha  rarely been able to finnceC the
coutry's demd for fertilizer due to foreign exchng  sb#wtages within
Gana.  (Tor example in 1984 ad 1985 estiated total fertilizer
reqUrents were 50,000 and 55,000 tomes wherea  imports were 38,350 and
30,000 tome repectively, acording to MM).
24. Fertilxe2r sal" were plannd to be made, through FICs, strategically
located at the vitg  leel and swpplied by District stores, which In turn
were to be stocked by FASC*0  dstribution. Unfortunately, tho progrs of
the ISCa programme oas not been fully developed as enwisaged. Howevr.
since VODZP. had te use of rented buildins for its input distribution
activiti", lack of outlets canot be the sole reason for the poor sales
porfosmance. Thr  Ls some ovidenc   to suggest that lack of efficLent
managemnt of those buildinp may hav  contributed as much to the problem as
restricted effective demand for fertilizers.
25. Too Intensive crop eaqcomqandations have bo anmentioned abovo. Given
the distribution problems. it is not, 'therefore, surprising that farmers
were unlikely to use 300 kg fertilizer/a, (250kg/Ha iA the Review) on maize
when this has to be carried manually to frms . Furthermore, fertilizer
prie s rose (1983/84) at a time when markot prices for crops were falling,
thus addg to the difficultie  of the farmer in purcuhasg fertilizer.
26. Th  situation with regard to distribution of improved see d   s even
more difficult to asess due to serious inconsistancies betwen different
sources of informaion.  The next table assembls estimate  of need supplies
and actual salex to farmrs. It shoulLd b  amphasised theat sals by. FASCOM
ade only one source of supply; others of Importance taclude direct sale by
GSC, supply from TOs, and from fellow farmrs.



-88-
IMWOD  SUD SumIr, by CRO  1982-1987
1982     1983      1984      1985 -   1986      1987
S1SED(tos)
KAU*          32.3      66.0      36.7      16.0     12.7
RIO           19.8        -                  3.5
Grouwmdt       4.0        -
Sorghum        0.4
C.nsp.          -         -     .  -        0.3       0.2
Veptables      0.3       0.1                0.2        -
56.8     66.1      36.7      20.0     12.9
of which
ASCOtl        45.0      15.0        *      10.0       2.0
27. FASOCCI sale  of imprv  sed bav. beeneratic ad dipo"inting.
See sales have been infuened be A nuar of facters, amg thm being the
faiure of ¢SC to met supply r ie         . See quality has not alwas
bn adequate ed this -  Ied farmers to lose confidne In 00 and in
ASsce.                foalsyrs  uptake of impewd sed ha bee  less thin
ezpct*d.
28. . Other sales by 7ASCOK hav. been mainly of  rm tqola. Th epupany has
sold a range of such tools and Squipmet covering about 20 ite.; thi major
one being satlase. bag. sprayes amd boots, accootig for over 90g  of
the volum of this group of produts. . In 1987, about 100 of AS0M0a's
turnover was accounted for by sales of cutlass".
29. Animal feeds hav  also bees a iwortant sales tem, the main products
being wbetbren, yellow maize ad pultry feeds, of which 268 ton  (94%) wa
wheatbran.
30.  A8CMI0 sold 12 ad 59 tons of cemt In 1982 ad 1983 respectively, but
has not stocked any sinc.  Ther  .ears. to be a growing deulmd for cemnt
in Volts Region end, given FA*8=ts transport capacity, it would seem
worthwhile to re-Introduce cement into the company's product busines.
31. Sales of cheicals haw been most. It was sessumed that such sales
would be note favourable since wees are a sajor problem and elso it was
expected that the extenson srvice would stres weed control as an
important ip     practice. However, the Exteni oIpt Survey 1987
shows that only about on-thrd of c"ntt maize famers hae bem
aware of wee contol and only about 10% have atually adopted the
r eueedtion.



a      ,                    .              -89-
Future Prospects for Snpt Demand and Supply. Soplications for FASC=
32. This section discuss.7 the factors likely to detari  demnd for
improved inputs in the futre ad the  ature of the linuts delivery system.
Demnd for inputs In the pet, especially during the Ptoject period 1982-
1988, was expected to be determined by certain assumptions regarding crop
recome    ton, crop area  to be cultivated, and adoption levels of
improve  cutural practices. Not all tbee assumption  were realised and
input detmd did not materals    pradictd.
33. Estimtion of future demd for inputs can be made on more realistic
"amptiom  tha  prvioualy about the fotagoing variables, given the
experi¢en  of VORSP ad a better undorstanig of the emerging trens in
farmers' attitudes, constraints etc which shap  their uptake of mn  metods.
34. The dmand for inpts s to a geat extent dependent on delopaents in
the future agricultural programe in Volta Region and epecially on two
apects. These are total ae  cropped ad pattern of mangemnt practices
(tradionl, somi.improved, liproved.)
35. At pr"ent, data on the first viale is uncerin sile VORADEP had
not collected systemtic Information on crop area   At a rough
approximation estimted sr" undr crops (food) and with Input usge
potntial currently i about 200,000 Ha, of which maUs, cassava and yam
account for 160,000 Ha.
36. At preset the  ounder each management lel ae estimted
t   Ius:
i   Trdtioa             125,500 Na          64%
i  Smi-iprovd            .49,700 H          25%
iii  Improvd             20,000 k           1I%
36% of total area cultivatedi thus estimad to be usin  some
Improved Inputs.
37. A breakdod! of the abo  areas by c    gives a bntter basis for
assessng likely future demand for inputs sInc  extet of awarns and
adoption varies. SI          by crop. Estmtes by cr  of the szreaund
the tbre            levls ae shown below:



-90-
* DISTIITION OF CROPPED AREAS BY
-AAGM    LEVU
Croo          Traditional        SemL-Lawroved            d
maize                   47                 39                  14
Casava                  72                 26                   2
Yam                     87                   *                 13
Coupeas                73                   -                  27
Croundunts              61                 36                   3
RLe                     88                                     12
Sorgum                  63                 33                   4
Vegetables              48                 30                  22
Source : VOhADEP
38.  Xaixe ts the most imortant user of inputs, 53% (improvd and semi.
improved) coverng around 37,000 Ha area. Cassa  is next, with 27% and
around 20,000 Ha under sem- and improved practices. Though -area currently
cropped with use of aodern Inputs are as yet small, the following crops
would apper to have favouable input usag  potential, accordlng to evidenc
of VORDE  souces - rice. cowpe, yams And vptables. In te case of
rice and covpe, the proportin of farmers using inputs is faitly
sipificant. Vegetable have a high percetag  usg  of input, but
curet'ly oly a smell areas actualy cultivated, mainly in the Southern
sone of te  ogi   (especialy shallots). Nevertheless, the ezpansion
possibilities are promising ad vegetable growig is a highy intensive user
of Improved inputs.
3i. The most li1ly futur  input demand sceario wirll bc                by a
gradual ale      n of current constrauts to usa   of modern mateil 4nd
cultural           .2he most benficial Impact La ezpected to come from
greater p tt   of farmers' attitudes and practies by the extension
service. Othr critical factors are avalability of fnd seds,
especially for saize ad ric  farmes; releas  of imve           ti
materials to farmers  ultivating cassava, yam ad ca"ssa; stocking of
recommendedfertilizers for coupea and groundnut ultivatio.
40. Apart frm agronomic factors, aother impovtant issue is that of
availablit of credt to famers. In the past credt finacing has bee
limited by lack of finncil servieas to   lolr famrs due to lack of
security and inadequacy of farmerso                Future expansion. Fun
credit availablity will, to a age ete t,   t        e tho trasition to
more input. Inteneive levels of   l to  and            the demad for
Improved Inputs epecially fert1il"rs.



h      .                                    - 91 -
41. Given dh  foregoing assumptions, it has been etimated that sales of
fortilizors and seeds could inreas  in the following vay. over the next
five years:
Tonne
Fertilizer     Seeds
1987                               6076            142
1988                               7711            174
1989                               9346.           207
1990                              10981            239
1991                              12617            272
Source   Coopand FASCO  Rport 1987
Sectin   43P* Appendix A
future supply Prospcts
42. In order to asss the future prospects for FASCOI as a distributor of
fam inputs, a nuber of assumption  ust be made. The first is that the
Goverament intends to ary out Its comitted policy of privatisation of
inut sale, especially fertAlizrs, and that subsidy wil be reove as
plamnd by 1990/91.  he second assumption is that FASCo     or     stio,
ownershp  nd operatios wll be re-,orgenied, as a matter of urgny  to
relect Its future role as a competitive, comercil organisation capable of
atisfyin  fa=Wes-' input re- irents. As the previous analysis of growth
suggests ther would- appea to be sal o rmities for viable
opration of a reformed IPAS0.
43. Although 1ASC0 do" nt have en overall  nopoly of the "l of inpts
Jmd tools (a rnge of other bodie  ae also actively inolved), it holds a
near monopoly th sho le of fertilers and chbeical, together with the
necessary   stribution              eto continue to do so. FASCO' s
network of ditrit and vllae stores (liCs) gives it a competitive
advantg  over cdpttors; especaly given the    r"sive                  t of
the VO ZI IS  costrution programee In the past two yea.
44. FASCI's         mful ro       the efficient and timly provisio  of fam
inUrts dqm_& on the resolution of a nber of Important issues and
problem, som  of which hae alredy been touceId upon in thi chbater. The
Cooprs ad Lybrand's study dealt comprehensively with the compay's
problem and with the possibl options for future viability. Here it is
appropriate to identify the key issues and their Implications In suary
form.



-92-
Commercial verw a Dvelopaent Interets
45. Th crucial uned ls to clarify this conflict. Is FASCWK to be a truly
coe rcLal enterprise or is Its primary role to nsure the equltable
distribution of farm inputs in Volta Region? Are these roles copzatible?
Failure to resolvo this Issue w11l create a situation Where the deficewncies
of tha past five or six yers will tend to continue and FASCOM's viability
as a supplier of inputs w1l be undermined by confusion of purpose  nd
direction.
Owneship of WIG
44. An iLportant part of FASCO' a *-t up is the PSC notwork. It has been
suggested that the FCs should be sold or handed over to farmers' co-
operatives  td associations. Thls has been a long-ttra objective and has,
prim  facie, advantages, hot least that of giving the farmers a firm
involvement ln the input supply activity. Other consequenes howevor havo
to be weighed up.
47. To date  there is not much evidence of widespred popularity for
farmers' co-operatives in Volta RegLon; the difficulty in setting up FSC
Management Committees tastifies to this lack of interest. It might not be
possible to soll even a majority of PSCa. This would create competitLon
between FASOOK and Earnr -owned FSCs, whlch may or may not be an advantae.
Individually onud and sonaged PSCa may face transport problems regardLng
transfer of stocks betwee FSC.
* Government, 1artiCIP"Iin
48. The te ee of Governmet participation in FASCOK will undoubtedly be a
key influOCe on potential Investors' attitudes. Major participation, as In
the past, could deter such investors; but minority Government interest ma
be of some benefit, not lest in demonstrating Governmnt's support and In
keeping Government informd of the progres of the co my.
ove0       -p Op-G=
49. SAR endsagd the. particLipation of all farmers in the regLon in FASCGO
via the Farxers Equity Scebom, which was, hover, never Implemented.
Perhaps the original idal failed to Identify farmers preferences mod later
surveys confir  that farmers would prefer reduction In sals prices to
paying for shares In FASCOC. Moreoevr, it is unlikly that ordinary
farmers would have ben selected as directors; most probably elected,
influential farmers with strong local, *ethnlc interets rather than purely
comercial aspirations in the company's nterests would have dominated the
scene. Sales of shares to coorc1s1 farmers may be feasible, provided it is
limited to minimum subscription (individual farmers and legally registered
co-operatives) and after tbey hav  clarly understood the problem  faciLg
FASCOW.



.
- 93 -
50. Ownership by othr intets coul be considered: for example,. eeral
traders, a ready scum of capital with appoprtes management experiece
PASCI employees to provide *cm  equity participation; locl financa
Institutions; and possibly other acceptable Interests.
51. Uhicheer option rgrding owership La prefre. no desirable chng
im the ownesipL structure of FASCOI am take place  nless the compaW is seen
as capable of operating as an  de    encommercial entIty. 1ore Important,
if Satisfactory chang"s In ownershp a  to be achieved by 1991 th  problem
elating to exsting practie  ad ope olconstrants    t be speely
resolved ad the preferred solutIons set ia train.
.  .   .     .          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-94-
ANNJM 4  LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES
UVESTOCX
!arsets and Goals
1.  Mm LVestock compoent, comprisng  nmal Hsbandry and Veterinary
Services, was Inadequately specified In the SAL. go tarpts were set and
proposed activities vere drawn In very geeral terms, wieRout clear
obj.ctives or programes.
2.  On the alal husbandry side, the propoals embrace tbi following
provlsion of equipmet, vehicles and stff training for the existlig stock
breeding fams; provision of a pig fee sil,.
3.  For veterinary service", the foUowng were proposed : provision of
vehicles, equipment, vaccines and drugs; laboratory facilities would be
upgradd, both ia Hio and in the districts; 5 dipping tanks were to be
constructed.
4.  Not surprisinly, little progress was mad in the initial period of two
yers of project   pltaon. As a rest the IDA/IAD In-depth Review
ade* a dnmr of re      dton  to retriee the situation.
Ravisas to frogame - ln-Depth Reviw 1984
5 S   As regad  anml   Vus     as follows;
-   support to the station  to be withdrawn
-   all drug subsidies to be withbdraw  and revenues paid Into a reolving
'fm.
aimal husbandry extension staff to be absorbed ito the gnral
exeenson staff.
6 *  As regards veterina  services, recstom a follows;
continued support of veteinary service  at the level of previous
yea*, provlded that all drugs are sold at a mark-up and proceed  deposited
in a revolving fund for drug.
-   phasing out of Govoenments subsidy on vacins agaitet rinderpest
and B21.
-   leasing of project vehicles to the veterlnary service  for the
vacintionca upp.



- 95 -
lAYiev of Vestotck ACtivities 1982-86
7.  In 1982 the main constraint to livetock prodction wm  unvailabillty
ad htig  cost of feed inputs. In 1983, littlo significant devtlopent
ocurred ad there were no no changes Ln population. During 1984, tbere wa
roent in food ad drup supply, though Perfomence on Projeet
stations  aos poor de to dieas  icidence and feeding problems in the d0y
season. The situation wa aggravated by ineffective co-ordination withn
the Veterinacy Deparnent a personel were not attached to the livestock
stations. 1985 saw the effort of the previous ye  startin  to bea frut
with positive results from the anti-rinderpest caupai, and hoen  a'
signifcant increase In cattle. All catgori ez             growth in
numbers.
BY NAIE TYPE, 1982-1987
TIRS          1982      1983      t984      1965     1987
Cattle        86.000   87,000    87,000   96.000   100,000
Shep         144,000  144,000   187,000  220,000  426,000
Goats        230,000  230,000   178,000   209,000   310,000.
Pis           27.000   27,000   34,000   38,000    62,000
PouLtry       31.000   27,000   41,000   55,000    65,000
Rabbits        2,000    1,000      1.000     2.000    2.000



- 96 -
V92ga    SERVICES
(It CoVersge)
Mctitty        mI          nY2         PY3          PY4         PY6
1982        1983         1984        1985         1987
No     %   so       %   No      %   No       I   No      I
Vaccinetioc
aIdedrpest    11,982 14.0 u.&   n.e  60,200 69.0 85,997 89.1 90,000 90
311            4,573  5.3 n.&   n.s.  1,380 1.6  8,044 8.3 25,000 25
Anthrax        2,166  2.5  10,266 a.&   5,097  6.5    -     -
Clotruidal                 11,619 n.-   4,48S  2.5    -     -    -
8.C.D.       274,300 78.0 194,284 a.& 311,671 n.e 191,500 34.3    -
Fowl poMi                  19,500 n.. 16,499 n.a 29,716 5.3
usmbor@,      49,000 13.9  2,700 n.e  11.900 n.a 33.308 6.0
Divyinj/Soravinz
Cattle        27,745 32.4 40,288 n.e  46,839 53.7  24,905 25.8  20,000 22
Shep          11,292  9.0  30,177 n.e  26,869 14.4  27,984 12.7 30,000 12
Goats         12,439 10.0  25,647 n.a  28,012 15.7  31,451 15.0  30.000 10
Pip              996 5.0  2,183 n.e   2,528 7.5  4.365 11.6  5,000 8
P-ultry       11,581 35.0  5,179 n.e   9,481 n.4  9,151  16.5 lL,000 17
Cattle        18,919 22.0  40,288 n.. 47,516 54.4 53,652 55.6 60,000 66
Sheep         25,510 20.8  30,177 n.   43,382 23.2 51,139 23.1 50,000 11
coats         19,974 16.6 25,647 n.e  39,521 22.2 48,757 23.3  50,000 24
pigs           1,427 6.8  2,183 n.e   4,925 14.6  5,044 13.4  7,000 11
Poultry       22,480 *6.4  5,179 n.e   2,149 n.e 32,570 59.2 33,000 50
Astivtit  in 1987 and 1988
8.  Vith the eteninon of VORADIP for one yer to end 1987, with a wirAlang-
donm perio to JiU  1988, a mnumbr of nsportant activities were plannad. in
order to faclitate the hndliAng of *aonals it was propose, In the
Livestock ConsULtanoy report, to construct a total of 17 cattle crushes
using local labour and materials. Nost of thiswork was completed during
1987  nd the progr    w  expected to be finlised by uid-1988.
9.  The  rfo         of the dippFtg progrim  was disppting during the
period 1982-86, with cattle diping only attdain,n about 25% of the pland
numbers. ThLs was a result of the shortage of dips. The planned
construction of 12 dips durlng 1987 was almost attained (10) and It is
expectod that the target ill be reached during the first half of 1988.
10. During 1987 a som1l msomt of refrigeration equiprnnt ws purebased to
ensure the continuity of the cold bhain for vaccins, espeially In the
Northern Zon. For this purpose a 4 wheel drive pick up has bee purchased.



.~~B
*       ß0ß                          z46    g  F tß'    i          '         '  
ll    i!    ,g'  ,,  44     j     ß       ,   ,    '    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



- 98 -
16. Folloving upon the Review zecomsendations im 19V84, two studies were
codinisioud an carried out In 1985 and preseu_d to 31A. The firse study
assessedthe, ecological conditions of the coastal lagoos, estuaries and
savmps to dete at  their sutabiUty for acquacltre development aud to
identify the possibl species for culling. A further cousultancy ws
reomended iL view of the findlg that so*ls In the are  were acidic.
PSHnD COPTODO
na*  n    m    ns 5
Activity                1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Pond Costuction
a)  C ria
No.                 8)    26           43         3      *3
Area (Ha)           3.44)   10.40    12.04        2.13      0.90
b)  Household
No.                 -  )               31         8         10
Area ()              - )                0.06      0.24      0.35
a)  Co_srcl (no)         5         4        24        10    8
b)  NOUSOhold (no)       2         1        17        20    15
u7. The second study exa.led the soils ad determined thAir acidity
Potential In selected Sits in the -coastal zon of Volta  selon. .It "a
receisnded that a pilot project be established to 4etemin  the feasbiity
of braci  water    a tand advise prosptive fish fammers.



-99-
AM  S - RURAL ZSFU
1.  The objective of Includg 1ma rural infrstuxal dopmo et in VORADS?
vas to faclitate the achievement of the basic proj ct &al of mproving the
welfare and standards of living of the faming population.
2.  The itrastructural components identied a necessary for attalning
Ptoject objectives  ere:
rehabLIttation and racontructon of Fam Access Ad Feeder loads.
-mpovemen: of domestic water supply through borehole/wal tdrilUg.
lprovision of housing and office buildixg facilities for Project Staff
tbrough new construction and rehabilitation of existing Ministry of
Agriculture buildlngs
-    Jassessmet of smell scale irrigation potential and plaing for setting
up pilot irrigation schems.
The CivUi & echanIcal Engineering Serices Depaxtment
3.  In order to carry out the functions lited abav4, a Civil    t-lnierln
Division Was to be created. Together vith th   bonicalng
Services Depar_ent (which wa to be improved and upgraded), the C
EngineeringDIvison mm to be responsiblo for the plannin  and eecution- of
activites amed at achieving goal st out In the 1980 SAR.
4.  The tim  required to establsh -such A deparnnt (hitherto non-existent
In the In-.stry) -w  probably unde estimted. The Expatriate Engier who
was to set the division up did not arrive untl March 1982.   e tt of
staff then statd and the staff position as at the enA of 1983 (just before
the mid-ter   view) was 39 vith 61 vacancies.
S.  Uhen the Review Mision arrived in Januay 198U therefore, no actual
constructio  worzk had started in the dLvision, aldtough some pr oV
woaf had bee carrid out. The Mision revised the origil targts st and
epared scedules to be folloed In the construction. A review of
activites (compnent by component) togther wlth           ton of planning
procedures and evaluation of           and Impact ow follows.
ROA8
Rewiew of ActivLtie
6.  Mme 1980 S*3 specified roadworlu to be cari1ed out in two pas.
Voz  to be carried out by Force Accout.



-100-
*   works to be carried out by Contract usin  M  as exeentig Agency.
7.  The Civil Engineerig Depatment was to Identify roads to be
rebablitated, arrange for contracts to be avarded for works as above,
arrange for the prour     t of construction equipmet for we on roads as
above and carry out the works.
8.  By Januazy 1984 no constrction bad started, but the followng
activties had been carried out:
-   Ldentification of links to be rehabilitated.
revi.s.ou of rod standrds expcted.
prepartion of tender documents for the purase of rod construction
equipment through ICB.
9.  The construction equipment ordered La 1984 arrived In May 1985 and work
started a mouth later. Roadwork- in the Cntral and Southern Zone were
aore convenient for the department to cary out as this simplified
supervsion and Central Workshop support. One hundred and forty *eght km of
fedor roads hav  so far been rehabilltated and another 291 km maintained by
force account.
10. Roads In the Northern zone were identified as beizg In wmu worse
conditio  than thos  In the Central and Southern Zo. In December 1986,
a Consultancy Agement wa signd vith Zocks Cault  MI to aes  the
economic feasibility of the rehabilitaton and              of some 150 In of
trunk roads and 300 kI feder roads in the  lorthernZoe.  bi ibeaslbility
reort was to be completed by the ed of January Z987 so tat contract
documents could be prepard for contracts to be mawd  by 30th April 1987.
Execution of contract works*wa scheduled frm 1.6.87. to complete not later
than 31.3.88. Thes tig*t schedule ver aimd at esring coopletIon
before VORADV closed at the end of 1987.
-x!rM PLAQX         PRNOCZDS
oad CosJtction by Iorce Accout
11. ConSidering that the Ministry "  it oeited before the Projet did not
have road construction as a function (and therfore dd not have a rod
construction unit), the Project undoubtedly set its    a diffLiclt
task. The dela  in establisbing t'. unit, lead1 ng to delays in comncement
of construction activitie, is a pointer to this fat.
12. Cnntionplannin  proceduras  for wvrdk  of this nature (viz traffic
surveys to determine priorities , enginering urveysd estimas of
quantities of work, ete.) wre not strictly adher"d to owing to the
limitation in tim  available. Instead, a visual xemintion and an inventory
of roads In the entral and southern zones werecrrd  out to fors idea
sbouescope of work. One major construction gang was fotod to tart



*                                  - 101-
coSuction. OVA Site formen was contantIly kept at lto whilst a moblle
workshop van with 3 inchaics took cars of mnor repairs and .aintence.
13. It was not posible to spUt the gag (or form a sead gag) at the
start because of problems with suerision ad co.oudlation. Hovewr. a
second (minor) gang was later formed wfhen 2 new graders axrived to cary out
re-grading anA other maintenane activities on road  that did not ned major
__ro et.
14. On-site planing for coanstction  wold    sptato     (unr the
cirmtacs) as lon  as records were kept on labou, plant (icluding FOG)
nd mterial oswt that wat Into work carrid out,    as long as
supervision by a cometent enginer wa regua. Whilst It my appear
hee to carr out work by force accot, the absen  of clely defind
limits ad tagts for carrying out the works may leA to exceses in sams
areas and iaeUaiS In otbers.
load Construction on Contract
15. Sh roadworks        n     i the feasibility sty by  o   Conut,
M  vetre award to prequalified contractors throug  locl comptitive
bidding (LCI) in five lots. A total of 218 km of feeder roads and 541 km of
truk roads ware given out on contract for a contract am of Ce" 567.94
millio plus a foreign component of US $ 4.19 million. Four of the
oa     swre due to co      ce on 12.10.87 nd be completed in April, 1988
wilst the fifth contract was to stxt on 15.12.87 and be completed in Ray
1988. In all ases, the Engineer;. relprsenative was locks Consult GM,
Cbusultig  hn     s. Apart fm the ratra sboxt tim  allwe  for
Praton of the feaibility report, all other activities and
spas veto standad'and clear. and suld not be a problm for ay
of te contractors to follow.
16. It is e3peted that the          t  of Feeder ldso   (l) i the Volta
leg*o  wLl tak  over the             of th  roads    st       y  ORA.
Mm sucess of the road project wl depend on the                           of
th  roads. *very effort mut be made to ensure that MR carries out th
function effectively.
c e        and  mpact of loaduorks
17. The achevements made in rad constrtion, In relatioa to targets set,
are shon in Table 2. When all contracts are evetally comleted, the
project would have rehablitated a total of 657 1a of feeder roads ad 541
kh of trunk roads.
18. The roads on cotract In the Northern Znw ae at variou  stages of
completi. novever,   ilst two of the coe rtors  re likly to complete
thdir coutracts oan scedule (i.e Api 1988), th  remal_ing thre  may ned
up to the end of the year to comWlet thoir assigment.



-102-
19. The effectiveness and impact of the road programm can be dtermined
better through a comparison between pre-constructton traffic survey results
and post-cOUStruction survey results. As mntioned *1rate however. no such
pre-construction traffic survys wore carrid out on the roads constructed
by force account. One post-constructLon survey has ben carried out on the
Ho-Vodz -Sokode feoder road, although no qualification of impact can be
made on the ono survey alone. Although quantified impacts cannot be quoted
for the 'Force Account' roads. the response from villagers livLng long the
roads Is a definite commndation of the program.
20. In the case of roads constructed by contract, pre-constructlon traffic
surys were carried out In the assessment of the roads. It will be
subsequently possible therefore to determine mor precisely traffic
'generated by improvemnt and hnome a measure of the bonfits of the
programm. The .mpact of increased use of the road ls, no doubt, better
communications and In particular easy access to farms and markets.
CONS$RUCTION OF BUILDINGS AND HRUSING
ReGVew of ActIvitis
21. The provision of bousimng and offlce buildlngs for Project
staff was identified * an *mportant requirement for achieving Project
objectives. This was In recognition of the acute shortage of residential
accomodation In the region (par tcularly in the outlying are). Original
targets set for Buildings and Housing are included in Tables 3, 4, 5 & 6.
22. The building and housing programm. goi off to a slow start for a nu6ar
of reaons, the principal ones beng:
tim  taken to establish the Clvil Engineeri8  d parment.
-   ^reviws in the dsign and costing of structures
scarcity of building materias.
From project yea 1 (1981/82) up to the mid-term review (1984), progrss in
the building component was unsatisfactory, the only achiev nt being
-   c commement of work on central vorkshop.
b   commencemet of work on a 9-office exteunon zo the exsting RDA
offices in Ho
-   contacti ng of housing/bulding designs (includig FSCs) to consulting
Architects      r   in Acca.
23. Mm Hid-ter Review Mission, considering the lmitations In tim  and
maney  revised the targts. Details of the revised targets are icluded in
Tables 3, 4, 5 & 6. The revision cut the original housing progr_ame by 50%
and spcified 200t capcity FSCs for village use and 800t capacity for



-103-
Distriet centres   & program. was prepared to be followed La th
construction work.
24. Threo alterative modes of construction were specified for the works:
-   constrution by forc  account (for Regional office buildi)
¢construction by local cotractors (for central workshop, zonal offices,
FASCON HQ and Ditrictl Centre ISCS).
-   construction by "Labour Only* contracts (for village FSCs, Kpvoe
Research Centre, building renoations, stff bousing).
25. Wo-k on the Regional Office buildint progressed fairly satisfactorily.
After re-costing In 1984, the first block was finished and occupied at the
end of 1983. The second 9-office blck requested at the review was how r
not constructed.
26. Part of the central workshop was continued by a local contractor whilst
some part (mainly the part occupied by the Civil Engineers) was contined by
force account. The precise cost of work carried out by force account bas
not been estimated by the Project. All work on the central workshop was
completed in 1986. No attempt was made to cae out any work on the FASCO0
HQ. Thls iem is still outstadin  but no progra_e ha been planed for
its constuction.
27. The seven-800t Distxrct cente nce have also not been constrcte.
However, following the rejotoln of the Architect's designs for FSCs
arlier, the project's        e    ut prere  depsin  for the villag
liC. in 1985. Te     e       opend in 1986 ad contracts for the
construction of 30 villag  FSCs were awarded to -nine diffrent
contractors * otl labour only' contracts.
:28. Work oan al 30 village 13Cc  as. started in May 1986 ad finished by the
end of 1986. A seond phaxe aimd at constructing 4 more village  iC
started in July 1987 ed ar all no  virtually completed. In additio  two
store  with a shed were built at two  research stations by force accout.
Three worksops wee bullt at Jasikn, Kete-rachi ad Vasbai by force
account. All thre  were built betwe Jun  ad August, 1987. Three xonl
offices sebdwuled to.be buit were not constructed.
29. After sevral reviws In deigp  for the VOWRDEP ousing project, the
Civil Enginering Deparet adapted the VIA Akus township drwing  and
requested th  lank to proceed with ICB for the construction contract. Asao
and Boekys and Partnes, consulting Engineers & Architects more appointed to
prepare contract documets for the buildingp. T   State Constuctian
Corporation (SCC) vwn te cotract and started wrk on 2.3.87. Work On the
main structue  was completed on 16.2.88. Water supply and electricity
supply to the VOIWA   townsiLp is currently being contrcted. Althugh laxw1
bas bee  acquired for buidtg in tho districts, no new housing has bee
buit.



--104-
zomntary an Ilameis Procedres for Buildings
30. Unlike components lie Toads, etenion etc. which were amd at
bonefUtting te smllholder farnrs, the buildong and hosing projects were
to facilitate iaplementation by catering for project staff. It was
therefore necssay to intesify efforts to get housing projoets complte at
the earliest possible tim. Unfortunately, sevral hanicaps (mentioned in
the introd on to this annex) were allowed to delay construction to the
extent that the houing project ha oly just been finished.
Construction by Forwe Accoet
31. iuilding rehabilitated by force accoumt included offlces ad senior and
junior staff houes located in five of the regio's nine diricts. In
addit&.on, som  major buildin  contrution  such as the nine-office block at
Ho was carried out by force account. The Identification of structures
needing the attention of the Unit ha" been through project maagemnt.
Satimtes for materials required were made nd the materal purchased from
project funds. It was not always poss1ble to put a pric  on som  jobs
carried out in this matter. An effective accounting system Is required if
such work Is to beocarried out by force account.
Constrctio  by Contract
32. Contracts for buildings were flabour only contracts. The project
purchased al materil. required and supplied to the contractor as nd when
required. Ts completIon of villag  FSCs and staff houin  withIn a
relatively short period of tlim is an indlcation of the effectiveness of tbo
procedure.
Achieemt and zmpt
33. The achive        made In building, In relation to the origial and
-revised targets, are tabulated In tables 3, 4, 5 & 6. With the exception of
the senor staff and ntrm  te4   staff housing, in which the Project
acheoved 100  and 83% success respectively, a larg  proportion of the
targets set wer not achieved. tOnly 15% of the targted 100 junior staff
bouses have been built, and neither the FASCON Regional Headquarters nor the
District centre PICs (800t capcilty) were built. The 3 Zonal offices hve
also not been built.
34. Although the Project made mlpressive achim nts in building 9 senior
staff and 20 iermediate lev  houses, thes have com  right. at the -end of
the Project. Staff cannot be "id to have beeflted from the housing
scheme to date, although it Is a useful Investment for the future. On the
other hand, the 50 achievement in bullding a reg0nal offic block bas
reduced pressure on oifice space since its completiou in 1984.



-105-
35. The failure to build a headquarters for FASO and District ceontre FSCs
does not apper to have seriously affected the operation of FASCOM. Thirty
villag FSCs completed in 1987 are already in use and have improved the
distribution of farm inputs in their area. Four more have been completed
In MSarh 1986 and re expected to be put to use shortly. Moreover, the
completion of the Central workshop at No and the three zonal workshops in
Jasikan, Sogakope ad Kate-Krachi, bve afforded the Project's *echanical
Services Department better facilities for carrying out its functions.
UAT  SUPPLY
Review of Activities
36. The original SAR suggested the Installation of 10 boreholes of
approxmately 20cm (81) diLamter and 75 metres (250') depth, each yieldLng
about 40 cubic metres/day and supplying 800-1000 persons. Each well
was to be equipped with a submersible pump, an elevated storage tank of 15
cubic metres capacity and a modest distributLon system. Installation and
maintenanc was to be the responsibility of CWSC. No suggestions were made
about the distribution of the boreholes but residential are" for Project
staff. breeding fatms and the Adidome Training Centre were to benfit from
the exercise.
37. By Janury 1984, no construction bad started though the project staff
(uSnlg existing data and satellit photography) had located suitable ares,
inly. in the north. TU  Review mission took advantag  of a well drilling
programe that hd just ended in the region (financed by German aid) to
evtIse the               originally set for the water supply programs. It
treuested Project staf to contact the German coactot, fffoug   SC,.
to costrut about 5040 borveole  in the northern area, fitted with Indian
handpumps of robust end simple costructLon..
38. Tovwrds the end of 1984 the contract for 100 band pump wells in 87
specified vilages ws signed. Sy the end of 1985, 155 boreholes had been
drilled out of ubich 107  re successful wls. There were 66 wells in the
nrth. 25 La the cetre ad 16 in the south of the region. Funds became
available for furtbor drlling and another coatract for 120 wells (later
*itt_  to 128) was signed as before. This second phas* was constructed
betwee 12th Septuer 1986 and 4th March 1987. A total of 207 boreboles
resultiag In 139 sucessful wels were drilled.
39. Th supervision NIssiou Aide- oeire of 1986 requested that every
effort be made to get tUIC to agr  to take over the minteac   of all 246
wells. Several comnsltativemeetings and discussions have taken plae
betmeen VORADEP and GISC on the handing over. A formal letter requesting.
GMac to take  ver ha bean written and a reply is yet to be received.



- 106 -
Com etay on PlSAng Procedues for Water Suly
40. The tl.=*Iy revisiou of specifiatione to take advatageof the presence
of the well drilling contractors In the regio  at h  time is commendable.
The use of robust hand pups should prove mar suitable (and cot offective)
than the origin&l Idea of using diesel engine pumps.
41. Wheres the direct               of VOAD  in the Implo  of the
&al water supply programme my have yielded quick results, this could be
at the expens of a regur        t      programme to keep the wells proporly
soezice. The org l rque            was for &.guarantee from GWSC to accept
responsibility for maintaining wells drilled by VORDP. Depite originlly
giving tis guarante, it appar GVSC my treat the VOAEP  eLls With les
urgeny -than their own drlled vells.
42. Selection of well location  was to be based on geophysical studies and
oan population dsNity. However, the drilling progamme was implameted
without geophysical studies being carried out. Insted, villag   and towns
were selectd on the following basis:
-   popultion
-   availability of alteative sources (eg rivers & strems)
GWSCs programe for extending supplies In tb  futur.
Thoe actual location of th  drilLin  operation vithin a "lcted vilg  wa
basd on the experite  of the drillng crew In site  eletion.
43. The proedre prove  quit su         ful ecpt that It resuted In a hi g
percentage of unsuccesful wells drilld In the south (the undeing
geologcal o tios in the south hav  liaited potetil for ground water
deveopment). In the north, howr, where tbs underlying geologica
formations have present a greater potental for groundwater devlopmnt, the
succe"s rate wa muvh bhihr.
Achievmen  ad Z.pact
44. In all, the project drilled 246 successful well in the rogion. This
figuni  is more than 50t of the wells drilled In th  same regon by GVSC
under German aid during the same period of tim. Out of the total 246
successful wells, 205 were In the North, 29 In the Central and 12 In the
South. Table I shows a brekdown of wells iLn the regio  by ditrict and by
agency responsible for theit impletatio. The table sows that In all
the VOSADP rural water supply prograe is re_Spoble for 34% of all
existin  hand pup wells In the region (GUSC is responsible for 44). In
the Northern section of the region, VODEP wells accout for 78% of those
currtly eisting there. It is vorth noting that the                 by
VODEP still leaves a deficit of about 1,641 wells needd In Ste region.



-107-
45. The lapct that a rural water supply progras    way haveon tho
population is varied. Som Lidicators are
-   impronemct ain health.
-   redction La populatlon drift to the urban araw.
-   btter Incentives for qualified personnel to worl La the rwal area
(e.g. techers, extension staff, health persouml. *to)
-   increase in agricultural productivity.
-   encouragemt of rural Industrie.
ased oan the contribution made to rural water supply in the region, (Table 1),
VORDEP ca claim 32% of whatevr postive impact the wells In th  region
may have an the local population.
CENTRAL tO35P AND VUICLE OPRATIONS
Revie of Activities
46. Th Central Workshop provides an essential support service not ooly to
the Civil Engineering Divisio  but also to all Divisios of the Project,
IenludIng FASCOE. Mm faixty larg  fle   of  roject vehicle  and th  hevy
costrxution equipment envisaed for road cottio  cal    for an
efficient workshop with ad"uate and well potected premses for its
operation.   m Cenral Workshop at Nb was quits well devloped La terms of
equpment at the   Ae of the reviw. The main tasks require  were:
*   transfer to nev Central Workshop bulding
tesat of xons1 workshps
- tools and eqipmet to be purchase  for onal workshp
*   Institution of managemt controls of vehcle usgep
*   institution of Methods of moitoring operating  oSts -of ehicles and
Further, the  canks Aidebleoire of October 1986 require  that 31 vehiele
purchasd In 1981 should be disoed of by Slat Deceer, 1986 folowing
government -V.



- 108 -
Achievm    and lmpact
47. The whole of the N chanloal Services Division with most
echanical spre pas moved to the completed workshop in 1986. There
ave howver. soa  apart parts stores still in the premises of the Begioal
office. A new workshop was, established In Jasikan, a smller on  in Kracht
ad the Sogpe       workshop rehailLtated for uxe as zonal workshops. All
3 shops are nov operatioml. Tools and tool boxes ordzerd Ln 1985 arrived
in 1986. These hve been issued to the various workshops and mechaics.
48. Steps have been taken to control misuse of vehicles an  also to mntor
vehicl"e operating costs for each project vehicle. Elghteen projoet vehicls
were auctioned Ln December 1986. Since then, twenty other vehicles bave been
boarded and arrangeents are being made to auction them. In addition, about
thlity-one MA vehiles and tractors have been boarded for auctionig.
49. The Central Workshop and Mechanical Services Division hav not had too
may problems in achieving objectives. Co-ordination betwoen the
division and the Civil Engineering Division has boon enhanced by their
coinn location. The Division has assisted farmers in clearing fauland
(about 160 Ha between 1984 & 1988) and constructitng dugouts (a total of 9).
Revenue from these services has been paid into Project accounts. With a
strong management, the Division could increao its oquipmet to be able to
offer machanical services to farmers and the geeral public on a comercial
basis, although in the past attempts by Coverneant institutions to provide
comerc al services have proved unsuccesful.
Reviv of Activitie
50. The 1980 LSR said thet although th poteqtla for sma11 scal Irrigated
agriculture existed In many ares of the region, thero wsJ lack of
informaion on data relating to dams, dugouts, streams and lake shores.
Facilitles were to be provided for data colection in hydrology,
agrmateorolooag  ad agronomy for preparing a along ter  irrigation
devlopment plan for the region. Ten small pilot irrigation schemes (20-
30 Ha each) were to be  etabliLse, based on the results of the
Investigations. The Project was to concetrat on pilot schmes, leving
existing schemes to th  Irrigation Dvelopment Authority. DurIng the first
three years of the project, the Itrigtion Division carited out most of the
essential responsibilLtiS  assignd to It.  HMteorologieal and surfc
crater hydrology data had been collected for Todsie and Alakpa rivor basns.
Seve pilot irrigation project site  had. been idetified and deslgn m  In
progress.
51. At  Leview (1984) the reo             adndation md  for the divisol  vere :
00to coimplete surveys and 8ngineering desi  for the sen site
identified.



- 109 -
-   to construct ad suprvise the operation of Keylm, Dausnki or y4etoe,
ad Vskpo sites aver a 3-yer period.
52. Only one site wa to be under construction at ay one tim  and only
minimal eartmoving was to be carried out using one graer from the roads
gag.  Proision hd beelm made for purchsing a mll excavatr and a fAt
truck. In general the section vas to awoid   ploying contractors to cay
out work but finance bad been includd for possible lettin  of a small
labour onlye contract, for buying materials, and for possible  ring of
*      m~achines.
53. Sins th  review, the division hs coIpleted surveys and design for the
seve  idetified sites.   ebabilitation of the feyim. dm is still
outstandig. Contract documnts for conetruction of the Vakpo pilot schem
have be  preaed but the cost of delopmt w  rather hg  and
construction has not taken place.
Coentazy on Plannsng Procedures for Irrigation
S4. The task of planning, designing, constructLng and operating an
Irrigation schum is a long and oxpensive one. To  xpect the irrigation
division to establish 10-20 Ha pilot schemes within the project's six year
progrse wa rather optimistic. *he Review mssion's target of
constucting and operating thre (20 Ha) projects La thre  years was equally
optiaistic. Alhuwgh thed divisio  did well la Its a     m nt in plonning
ad suzveys. a lot sre pogFess could bav ben  made it the relationsp
betwen  the VRUDIP and  L ws mre carefuy plan     at ithe ineption of
the project to take full advutage of the experienc  of the Irrigtion
Development Authority.
Achievement *an Impact
55. Th Irrigation divisinf ha collected relevnt data ed prepared
designs for ase   pilot sceumes in the region. Nowever, no rcl lpaet bh
resulted s  only preparatory work bhs been done.  he deigns Prepared,
shold be revieed with assistane from the ID to enable plans to be made
fdM their implementation whnn funds become available.



*I51t1ll8ltl OF  USJ II    MtA 3iOU - gmtlose.
...................   .......... ..... *....... ............ ............. .............. ............,,,.,,..................... ............... .......... ....
.sla1 *tUC                   I  aUIiOmS   UaiS (now 19")                                                                                                          0  TOTAL    4 0I IOTIL
am   btUl_c IIlt                                                              .c. c                                          W6ae L            a EOIU
* ÜÜ             in:Iin:~~~~~~ ~                                               ~~~~~~~~~~ ;1*Ut  :' '                 
19G    so "                 1105 .los 096J0
....... ... .......... ....         ..............    .... ..................   ............. ........   ... ........   .............. ...... .    ...   ........ .. ........... .......   ..............
FACII              1401,00200                 to                                 ' 14              .I.t                                            Is                   23                   36
11                lMUrA          79,647                    IGO                                                . I                                  6s                                " Is
JASIK 1A  ,4U0    21 )9 .1                                                                          .0                                69          124 50
......... ........... . ............... ................... ...... ...0......   .........   ...........   .......... ........ ............. . ........
llollMB           127,249                     255                   131            2              11                                                                                          5 13  Us  I  s
.onm              NfMAI C6.06,3                                  214                                                10t  i           6                   sO         1"                    tO                     I
1"9.04                                           114           16              la.                                               "                                          2
.          .............. ..........  . ................ . .............   . -........   .......... ........... ..  ........   ......... ..... ........ ......--
AMi               110,510                     221                                 is                .             .IS                                                    3                     1
soGAmO            115.16                      2S                       .          11               .              4                     4          1i                                          2
1   22597                  *54                      .          12                       .    .                                                                              1I
~~~~~~~................ .............. ..........  ......   ........   .........    ...........    ........                                                                  .. ........ . 0 ..............
tlau  lYTo                    1.201,095                  2,4"                     U3 1O                        .31             so                  246    n7                           20
. .............. ............ 0..........                                        ..... ........   ...                       ...........   ......... .                         ............. ..... ........:
OM satiouns to Wm" on a Cott* of M venom pw  U.I
aa oclm*  t_o* 1 oedo  a   t tlo of 5OO psiss  ps i1 .ell
.                                                 ,                                            |~~~~~~~~~~~



*~ ~~~~~ ._.,                                   -.,...  ,.    *..  _                                                                                ..                                       ..   *
1 *09(             |" .        tOt 00 A .                              OSt                Iilt) 
*       . .               .    ..                                                      . ,*                   ....    ..                                                                                                        C. nlv
*it*wvv   OK*                 X=                              .=* ****@@*-* 1%  Oi*                                                                                                     St                         (UtW eve" )*n  VW     Is
I  .               * .     .   .                                                     SeOm*  bt on......                                                                                  In   S"  *
........ .. ......... ...... ......... .............  ......... ........ ...  ........    ..... .........  ... ........ ...... ...... .........  ..... ...  .. ......I... ....... ...... ... ...... .............. ......
.4nS                          go;               .                               it           OCt              .S         .o .                      .S .                                                 St(St) U
1......... ..... :....... .......  ........ ........  ......... .  .......                                           ....... ........ .........  ........    ...... ........  ......... .... ............
1;........ .... .... ..... ..... ..... ;.........                   ...., . ..... ........ ... ...... ... ...... .....    ... .... ........ .. ......    ......  . ...... ... .....   ... .....  ........ .... .... 
.4 St       009                                               9c            Oct                                     cW .  *                                                                                       ( o.st)
...... ........ ... ...... ... .............    ........  .... *..... .........    .... ..... .....  ..... ..I ...... .... ........    ... ........ ..   .....  ...... ....  ....... .... ........  ............
.   .         .        *_ in                                                                s                                                    a.                                    .              .          (tet)
..  .........   ......... ....... ............ ..........._ ......... ............ ....... .....  ...... ....                ....    ........ ........                ... ...... ...... .......... . ..    ... . . ........  .... ........ ......
*    1u)W   tlAo3  1UUISI3O                                     I   t3OW  pS6~t  t 'i X"| 1                                  tumaw ,Mtu"  tW"qlti@                            I   Um    9                  tulip
~~~~~~~~~~~~....  .. ................. ................... ........  ....... ...  . ,....... 't' ......   .......  ......... .........   .. ..... J6.. ......  ............   .... ........ ............
sauiet n mY                         U53Y2.UNIAI:WY                                                UWUN                aMOMMoW                     anm-a                    auMuMA                     * Smwa
..................   ............... .......   ............... ..   ...... ... ,...........  .-................ .............. ........   ..............   ..... ..............* .......... -
woo   -I as -OM                            O             am  llt Irn gm             - pV  OloOlit Wm ui1u.
3Samon"am                          sUls" WmJ UUSiRU a UUIUIM    $Maq no IN aS UDIIU                                                                         .11310 . iS iMirUu
..................................... ...............   ...............................................    ............................................ .................................   ..........I
(saamtl*  )__G
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    * ._haa uW
9..                                                                                                                                                      



VOLTA RBOWN ACRICULEJL DEVELOPMENT MOJEC.
DOUSING    1M    . TAGETS AND ACHIEVIENTS
35101 STA8IN NUIM                                            I.NTWIIDAIT LIEVEL                                        tlANDE LESEL
...........                              ....   ..............   .. ...........  ....    ............. .. _......                                           .  .. ..... .... .......
uTAENT                  ACUhRVrt    TAROE                                    ACEVMe                        TAlRET                     AMMNT
......... ... ; ......... ... ..: ..... .  ........ ............  ........  .. .... * .......... ...  .....   .....  .... ...........
original  Svisd   ctual  I   Otlgil  Revisod  Actual   *                                                      Original   evised  Actual    I
..... ............   ....... ...... ......                                **  -r*----*----- *9v '**}-. ............  ...   ........  ......   ....... ...   ........   ......  .....  ...........
(1902)          15                .                                    22              .
..... ........ o...*  ........         ....  ....... . .... ... ........ ...........  ...  ........ ....... .                   F._........ ...  .........    ... ..........
(1963)                            .             .                      26                             .                        20                .
..... .....  .......... .........  ......                      ....  ...                        ..  .......   .. ;..             ......... ....... W............ .  ....._.4.
4(1965)              .               5             .                       .I 4                           .                       70               .7
..........   .....                      o...........d .........                                             ...  ......   .....                        .............. ..
!4  (1935)        .               6             .                       ..    .      .                .0                                        13 
..... ..    .......... ...  ......          .......... oo.                                .... ........  ... )...... .    .   F........ ....  ..........            - . ...........
!f (9")          .                .                                     .              6                                                       is1        
.....~~~~~.....  .................                                  .        ......         .    ....    ...... .......     ............ .  0  ........ .......... ...........
m   (1987)             .               .             .                                     14               .                                        44
........ ....... .......  ...... .........    .....        ........  .. ..... ....... .......  .........     .....    .............  ....W.-.   ....... .... 
11    (1988)            .               .             9        100%           t..            .             20        83                                .           15            15%
.....                                                                                                                     ....... ..
TOAL               t                 9             9        100%          4              24             20        63%            200             100             15           15%
TUU 3, 
~~~~  -   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~         m                     inin            inin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



VOLTA 3300WAIOSI UlI1L  MVO9U  FIIOJRCT.                                                                                                           A
LAM Wit 5I111   13 1 - mUe mm AaltC unE
...............,..............   ....... ................................. .............................................   .....................................
.  I0AL  HEAUMRS                                 DImiCT pasI SERVICII CUTRB                              VItlAGS tARM Sawi Cz MM.
..........     .                                                 .                          ..              ...... ............  ..........
TARNT                 AOItRVIII                     TAROt?                   AClIlVlUMl                  TARO"t                    ACRIEVENTt
.......... ... ......... ...    .........  ........ ..... ... ........ .... ....... ........  ... ..   . ......... ........   ... .....   ....... 
Originl   RevIsed   Actual  S                           igial.  Revised   Actual   S                      Originl   Revised   Actual   *
.......... .t..*..*.   .......... ....... .....                       .... . ....... *                    ...... ....   .......... ..    O..    . . ......  . .  ... . .
(1982)    start                     .              .                     5                                                  Is
..............  .. I......o ...... .. . .    .....                           ..... .. 0.  .. ...                   ........ a     ...   ...    ........ .......
!t2  (193)                          .              .                     .              . *                                 42
...... ....  ..,......... ....... ..   0 ....    ...... ,.... .....    .. .....   ......            .       .... ....   ,,. ......... . ........              .     .... .. ... .
(19")         coplet                .              .                     .              .                                     . 
. .. ......  ... .. .. .. .... .. .. .. . .. ..       .  ..  ... .. ... . .. .. ..  ..   . . .. .. .   .. . .. .. ..   .. .....  .  .. .. ....  .  . .. .. ... .    .......  .. .. .. .
4(1985)                             strt             .                       ..            4                                     .                9
...........~~~~~~~~-  ....o ........ ... ...... .....o... .    ..... ..... . .. ........  . ... o...... ... *,... ..........
5(1986)                                                                     .              3                                                      s.  1
.  .......... ...  ....... ....  ....o........ .....   ......... ......... ........  ....   .....  I... ......... .......o. .......
6 (197)                           Coiet               .                      .             .                                                    25            30
.._......... ...... ........ ..   ... ......:::   .    ........ ......  . ....                        ..........  .... -...... ...    ....... 00. .......
T7  (1988)                                                       .                 .         ,                                                                   4..
TOTAL                  I               1.             .         O%           5             7                       0%           S7              52            34          455
... ................ **......       . .....  .. ... .     a...         .......  .b.......                              S                        ............. ......... ...
a .... .........                         ....... ...                                   ........a.... ........................... .......
* Two ses with stotr  were also built at
2 reswa  station.
.TAS 4



a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~san
-~                                -to             -               -t            -             -             -                       - 
1n33U     j I      .:gyw                                    to  tI                                                         r                                            ,,vz.oz
........ ............ .. .......... ... ........   ... ... ......... .. ........ .. ......... ..   .. ,...... . ...... .......... .. .......... ... ..........
.......   ......... ..... ...... . ..               ......... .. ........ . ........ . ...... . ; ..... 0.......   ....... .                ........ ... ........ .  ............
.         .             .      *    .     .                                   .. .O                   9
...........  ........   ........ ...........                                                                .......  ...... .  .... ... ......... ... ...................
t133U                                                                                           .              a         .            a               .           (olol) 
.....    .......   ......                         .......           .............  ..........                                ............ ........ ... ..........
I                                           t ~~ a(sest)
........   ..........l........ ......... .................                                             .        .         ..    ..            1                      . .
<^;*.........   ...........  ...... ......... ..  ........ ..........  .........    .......   ....... ......... ........ ...  ....  ............
l~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~ .  a . ,(s1 oci6) t
.......   .. .........  ... ...... .. ........... ................ ...... .. ... .....* ........ ....... .. ..... .. .......... ............
,    .     .                            .           .       .                  (C j)  W
..    ........... .......... ..........   .......    ...                              ....... ........ ...                                       .      ..
%k  1w03v               p.wl&"           twolh1                  I  1mvw  pooP". 131                                    I 13O3  u51TAU    'IP
.......   . ........... .. .......... .... ......... ..........                       .. ...... ......... ... ...... . .....          . ..             ... .           --      ......----....---.......
* 1t _ t"Pta * tt t^ * lw^t _ t"Ptaao
........-.............  ..........   ..........   .... .............   ..................   ...............  ......O.........................
..,,,,,,,,,....                  -         --.................... ............................   ................  ...................  ...........
Imtw jmwm                                       m



VOLTA REGION ACRICULTtJRAL DEVKWLPENT PROJECT.
BUILDING KAINTEUMCE IPROGRMO  - TARGETS AND ACHIEVEKENTS.
0o1M  am  auiWING                                    ADIDOKE FIAR INSTITUTE                             KEVE RESLARCH cuErn
.. .........    ..... r-.....%................... ......   ......... ... _.......... .............   .... .............. .............
TARSGT                  ACHt!YhIENT                   TA¢RT               CNIiVBNENT                     TARGET                   CIEVEKENtl
...... ................ .........  ...... ....... ..... .... I............ .....  .............  ........... ........  ....   .. .......  ............. ..........  ..... .
Original    vwised   Actual   %                        OrLginal  Revisd   Actual    4    rlginal  Revised   Actual   *
............ ...... ........... ....... .. _. ..... ... .. * ........ ..... ........... ..   ..... ... ....... .... ........ .  ......  ... ..
Pm. (1982)    start                                                          complete                        not                     ot
started                ncluded
............  ..... ........... ..... ......... ... ..   ..... .. ...   .. ......... ... ,.4... ...; ....   ........  ........ ... ....... ... ..
Y2 (1983)
............ ........ ........... ........ .........  ...... ...... .... .... ........... ...... ........  ..... .......... .......... .............. .........
py3 (1984)    complete
............ ...7... ........... ...... ........ ....   ....... ... .... .......... ..........   ......... ..... .... ........ ... ........ ....... ...
PY4  (1985)                            Start                .band.                                                                                   start
. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . ..      . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . ..  .. .. ... . . .: . .. .. .. . .. . . .. .:.. .. ... . . . . .. .. .. . .. . . .. . . .. . ..... .. ..... .. .... .. ..
PYS  (1986)                                                                                      6                U                       a
..***....... .*....  ** *.*. ***  t-*e-*-.....................   ..........  ..    ....  .....  .... ...................   ........   .. . **.*...... .*.. . .  .*. .w.v. .*
PY6 (1987)                              ouplete                                         .                                                            coploet
............ ............ .......... ......... ...... ............  ...... .... .. ......... .....   ........  ....... .......... ....... .... ................ .........
pY7 (1988)
............   ....              .......   ....... ....    ...    .........  ........  ....  ...... ....   ........  ..........  ....... ....
TAL                  complete                         substant ally  to                                                                              c .  .  cooplot not
unspecifi                       complete                complote                                                                             couplet
.  no.
-~~~~~~~~TWd 6



Table 7
INFAMtUCUR                          CLASS                       ACUIEVENRT                          TOTAL COST                        COST/(11T 
c million                        a million
Staff houing                        9 senior                            )
20  lnternodito.                    ) 415.64
15  lovoe  level.                   )
................... ....................... ......... ................ .......
Village 8C5                         34                                  58.51                             1.72
2 Shods                              1.20                            0.60
................7..... ........ ............... ........................................
Regional Office                     I                                    2.93                             2.93
WILDIMGS                    block
...................  ............. - ...................... ................ ...
Control Workshop                    1                                   16.70                           16.70
...........  .................... .  ............. ,................ .......
Zosl Workshop                       3                                    9.13                             3.04
.................... .......... ..... ............... ....................... ....  .^
BuLlding                            Of f . senior                    . )
mairt_nance                         staff bmgaowsl                      )
0 julor staff                       )16.u.
bonse In North a                    )
Control Zones                       )
v*- r_- _ * _ ^^ * .................................................                                              .      ..............................
aods o  Contract                    218 km feeder                       )567.94 pl.s
541 trunk                           )US # 4.19 mtion
................................. I ..................... .......................... . ._............... .
Roaod by forco                      103 km                              31.42                             0.31
account
....... ;.;.......e.... .......... .-...... .....- ................ ........
RO*0 Me roads   forc                                            45                                  43.52                             0.97
................... ......................-.-. ............. ................. ....
Road strtuets                                                           38.65
by force account
. . .. .. .. ... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. ..   .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. ..  .. .. .. .. ........
Road mintenaneo                     291 km                              9.40                              0.03
........... ............. ................... ................. ,,,,,,......... ....................... ................... .......
Nanad pump w11s                    246                                 OH S.5 millin                     ON 22.646
........    ......... ;; ............... .................    * ... ................... ...............
WATSR SWL                     Sater supply to                                                       0.31
SYSTEM                      AdLdoes PigU                           I
................ ,....................... ..................    ..................... ..................... d
Water tank at                       I                                  0.96
Valkpo
......... ..........................             .......................--    ----. 0 0 ------------------
BRRlCTIOtl                 Agro.aeteorological                 5                                   0 .70
stations
................ .................. ................... ....................... ....................... .........................................  ......



- 117 -
ANNEXE 6 - MONIZTORING AND EVALUAT'ON
1.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Department Is  vell established
under VORADEP and has been functionLng since dbe inception of the
project in 1982. Tho Department has mad a major conttibution to
project administration.
2. Unusually for such a unit, the ewphasis of its work has been an the
monitoring function; consequently a relatively woll developed reporting
(quarterly, annual etc) system exists within the project, but-data (from
surveys and studies) on the Impact of the project an the tarzet population
is relatively scarce. This is particularly apparent when attempting an
evaluation of the project. Field surveys and studios undertaken (and which
thorefore constitute the data base available to project staff) comprise the
following; Pre-test survey 1982, Contact Farmer survey 1982 and 1984,
Baseline survey 1984, Msaiz Yield survey 1985, Farm Service Centre survey
19SS, Extension Impact survey 1987, Road and Traffic surveys 1985, Tractor
Demand Assessment study 1985, Market Price Surveys 1982 - 1987.
3.   Ideally, the unit should have collected a consistent data set from FY.
of the project through to PY5/7, so that changes in major variables
affecting the welfare of target farm families could be identified and
ma&suread. As can be seen from the foregoing, this is not the case. What has
been oompleted LA a set of sutveys on different topics (baseline, contact
farmar, traffic volume, maize yield surveys etc) undertaken at different
times and for different purposes than project evaluation. The overall data
set availab1; at the project suffers as a result; the gaps in the data set
have been idencified in the past.
4.   The noed for a framovork of surveys to be developed in the future with
which to collect data to evaluate the suecess or otherwise of VORADEP is as
important as ever. Although the major part of the incremental Lnvestment has
now been undertaken, benefits are assumed and expected to flow until PY25.
Consequently, there is a need for continueud montoring to measure whether
those benefits are accruing, and in what form. In particular it will be'
important to measure the following key variables:
-   yields of major crops grown by farmers who are identified as adapters,
and cowa-rison with thoe of non-adopters;
-    the characteristics of farmers who becoae adopters, su as to help
explain the nature of the adoption process;
-    the rate of adoption over time amongst all farmers (ie measuring the
speed of the diffusion process);
w - the ftnancUal consequances of adtption of new technology, and welfare,
nutritional and social consequences of this;
-   the extent of benefits from improved inftastructural facilities (roads,
FSCs, borsholes) and changes in these over time; and



- 118 -
-   the nature of benefits from the fisheries and livestock  wnvescments.
5. As VORADEP is phased out and its functions probably dispersed amongpt
line ministries it will become more, rather than less, important for a unit
to ¢ollect data about the continunag impact of the Project. The unit should
be in a position to ensure, by the provision of relevant information to
decision-makers, that necessary investments are made to ensure contirning
benefits from VOaADEP. This is the case not only with respect to the obvious
VORADEP components such as crop extension and input supply, but also the
less obvious ones such as Snfrastructural investment and hoam extension. In
this sense the unit should become a very useful tool in the process of
composite budgeting for the Region. As funds are available under the
national ASBP, a strong case exists for some of these resources to be used
to support E&  on specific VORADEP-related activities.
6.  Under the ASRP it is envisaged that M&E in the Region should prepare
information on Regional agricultural production and consumption patterns,
should collect market and other prices and provide an information base on
which to formulate agricultural policy.



- 119 -                ATTACHMENT I
Comments from the Mistry of Agriculture
M.A. Form 7
In muSe . reply h                              MINISIRY OF AGRICULTURE
,*heq d                             VR               1'.0. BOX M. 37
4ty..  / . /'& i.I                                       ACCRA
Your Ref. No                REPUSUCOFGHANA        ...........
Dear Sir.
RE:  fhANA - VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (CREDIT 1639 --GHl) DRAFT PROJECT
COWPLETION REPORT
I acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 23rd
February. 1990 together  with  its enclosure  on  the above-
mentioned subject which you forwarded to me among others.
2.        1 have studied the report and generally agree with
it as contained in the evaluation summary.  I however have   This
comment to make at  item  1I  page VII  of the report which  point is
concerns the sustainability of the Project.  The Ministry of  included
Agriculture does not support the view that in order to ensure  and
continued focus  on  overall  developments  in  the  region  amplified
"VORADEC' or the Board ot Directors of VORADEP should be  on in
maintained.  Rather,  In  line  with  the  decentralization  para. 15
programme of the Government. all agricultural activities in  of the
the Volta Region should be implemented under the Jurisdiction  Overview.
of the PNDC Deputy Secretary for Agriculture as is the
practice in the other regions of the country.   The overall
development of  the  region  including  road  construction.
boreholes and water supply and maintenance as well as the
provision of   other   forms   of   infrastructure   is   the
responsibility of the Volta Regional Administration and the
Regional Consultative Council.
Yours sincerely.
PNOC SECRETARY FOR AGRICULTURE
(COMMODORE S.G. OBIMPEM) (RTD)
MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON,
CHIEF AGRICULTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE &
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION.
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT,
WORLD BANK,
1818H STREET, N.W.
WASHINGTON D.C. 26433,
U.S.A.
cc:  PMDC Secretary.
Min. of Fin. & Econ. Plan..
Controller for Africa,
I.F.A.D. (1 FAO).
107 via del Serafico.
00142 Rome,
Italy.
PNDC Oep. Sec. for Agric..
Ministry of Agriculture.
Ho.



f ~~R E G I O N  
n - /re < i~~~~~~~~~~ Eeth D-lPo aldto
B R O N G  -A H A  F O                                                                                            A-0 f- S" b( -'    i-0sm x -1
1  < },-,  s-  -   X   S    ; zu  - BiA   0 F. &.o   5. 
_ -_  -   \                             X    \  Si J,  '    ,L,',.,. 'v"(Dt, ia- s
R   E   G    I O    N                                                                             N.- wio   FE  rp-K
.   r                .          ~~~~~E   A   S   T   E   R   N   -;                                                AII-,A-KSh-A_      _
y (9) ~~~~~~~~~~~Pwp-dutC.-ILi. ewIrrig.N bHo-D-Pbi.,
O     10    20    30    K0F                           F:)           ^>2.|o [oXo2oomcdo>v2eth  Kr ct4 Off Mhor Scher
O    0 S    O 5   20   25                                                                      )ZocrCtnrt
VOLTA URtETGION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             (!!t >e,>,,o t:;,  ''
LAND USE IN PROJECT AREA                                 0            ,                                                    T OG O
N.Sx b->-                                                                                             ,, 
v     R  *TO1=oGO                     is_so
COT                   N f LIP rAl,,         s     s                                  - - --             ''--'-      v_ 
Mm    it      (Rg0    ~       M          s     S x,,,  
g   ;   5   *   o   fl   0  <  iq  '  .2 6 : C f fii e r . n - E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



N      R T H  E R N                         
R E G  I O N
GREAT SOItS GROUP
) < fie C /  FOREST ZONE
*;   ,       y7 A >w:>2  / Ochrosol-Oxysol Inteegrades
)/  ccj.                      4 \                            2         -        1      -                     Lirhosols                t
V      1 {    ; D \  et  C                   f   t_      1\            INTERIOR SAVANNAH ZONE
>1\ e . \ Z) Jn // I- i, ............ j, ,SSannch Ochtcsols
-   -           ~~~~~Grondwate, Lote,ites and
B   R   O  N  G             A                                                                            Gr1undwte, Laterite -nOchdso
R   E  G       I O    N                                                    )- /                 ScannahBrenosols
COASTAL S          ZONE
- Sawannol, Ochio'sls
*...~  ~ "'~  Rgsowlic Genoundnarr Lateritas
Tropical Black Earths
-:-,                        *. \ ._< . C4jj j Tropical Grey Earths
im   ~~~~Acid Gleisols
iL 5 < X  r    Sodium Vleisols
X \ > ? tJ < 7 \ 11 ~~~~~~~~~~~Savo.nah Lithaosob
A      S    H   A    N    T    I                                          Jasikan                          Ls
Ni  j                              -   -  fl~~~~~~~~~~~~iorict Bec-d.ries
R   E   G    I O       N                                                                    -  Reglon Boundaries
>  9 /  -*-  'nte,naionail Boundaries
~~~~E                        A    S    T   E   R/N  . t X$ 
|   _       X   0          ,           *                *                    T          O       G       0      
<fD, lp 2
7..                                          ,,                         .                                      r     _
KILOMETERS     0
MRtES
GHANA
VOLTA REGION
AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOILS IN PROJECT AREA
N.    h...  "
(Alh.-, 
kw       I 
9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           z



B U R K I NA         F     A S O
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                   -pOR2            /  mt t 
u  p.8 p T R             REG N.r~   : T p E  A, S T.
U W   E      R T       2        . E   G   I             '         ___________________
O1-HANA
*   VOLTA REGION
AGRICULTURAL
'\z :>.>_ < zy /                                           DEVELOPMEN  PROJECT
>. \\                                                            IBRD AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
N FoiewI HerdA,nm
. g. N                                                                 O R T  H  Er Reho2i,tir n P
/oRtg b.  _ Coco Petg
Rr   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.*/\. ..... -C. A;OS.51 hI
R   E  G   I  0   N           MM _pe ieb Fi,snfo
U.',X                                     .S          )                v_
Proiect
Moegc. Road,uvtv
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
It  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
COCOAfO1-                                          <
ESTATE   ~~~~~~r I'
Kib  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w   t: b  E    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..2.,2O~4



