Document of                          r        r  "Ilk
The World Bank                     FlL:  U    X
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2527-GHl
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 20, 1980
Western Africa Project
Agricultural Projects Division 4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =       ¢ 2.75
¢ 1.00           =       US$0.36
¢1.00            =       100 pesewas
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
unless otherwise stated all weights and measures
in this report are metric
1 metric ton           =        0.98 long ton
1 long ton             =        2,240 lb = 1.016 metric ton
1 hectare (ha)         =        2.47 acres
1 acre                 =        0.405 ha
1 kilometre (km)       =        0.62 mile
1 mile                 =        1.609 km
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       Agricultural Development Bank
ARI       Animal Research Institute
BOG       Bank of Ghana
CDB       Cotton Development Board
CMB       Cocoa MIarketing Board
CFO       Chief of Field Operations
CRI       Crop Research Institute
CRIG      Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana
CSIR      Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
FASCOM    Farmers' Services Company
FRI       Food Research Institute
FSC       Farm Service Center
GHA       Ghana Highways Authority
GNPA      Ghana National Procurement Agency
GOG       Government of Ghana
GSCO      Ghana Seed Company
GWSC      Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
IA        Irrigation Development Authority
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRHO      Institute de Recherche pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
MIDAS     Managed Input Delivery and Agricultural Services
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
NIB       National Investment Bank
OPRI      Oil Palm Research Institute
RAC       Regional Agricultural Coordinator
SRI       Soil Research'Institute
STA       Senior Technical Assistant
TA        Technical Assistant
TO        Technical Officer
URADEP    Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
VORADEC   Volta Region Agricultural Development Committee
VRDECO    Volta Region Development Corporation
_ ~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.        THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..................................      1
A.   Background        ....................................  .....  1
B.  Agricultural Production  .........   ....................   2
C.  Agricultural Institutions ....... ....................      3
D.   Sector Development Objectives, Strategy
and  Key  Issues  .................................................  5
II.      PROJECT AREA .................................... ...................  6
A.   Physical Features ...................................      6
B.   Infrastructure and Social Services ..................      8
C.   Socio-Economic Features       ............................  8
D.   Land Use, Farm Structure and
Agricultural Production       .............................  9
E.  Agricultural Institutions               .    .     .       11
III.      THE PROJECT ..............................................    11
A. General ............        .       ......  11
B.   Summary Description ....       .............. . ...    12
C.  Detailed Features ............. ................    13
D.  Cost Estimates ................. .                ....    18
E.   Financing  .................... * .......... .. ...       20
F.   Procurement and Disbursement. .. . ..                     21
G.  Programming, Budgeting, Accounts and Audit ..........      23
IV.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................ . ..................    24
A.   Organization and Management             ..                24
B.  Agricultural Services ..............      . . .25
C.  Input Delivery and Credit Administration                   28
D. Monitoring and Evaluation          . . .29
V.        TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS      .......    .    29
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission consisting of
Messrs. Farruk, Drayton and Duran (Bank) and Ali, Spooner and Zeichner
(Consultants) which visited Ghana from January 13 - February 8, 1979.



Tab:Le of Contents (con't)
Page No.
VI.       MARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING AND PRICES   . ...................    32
VII.      FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................    34
VIII:.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......     .........................    36
A.   Project Benefits ....................................    36
B.   Economic Rate of Return ............. .. ..............    37
C.   Sensitivity and Risk Analysis .......................    38
IX.       RECOMMENDATIONS    ..................... .....................    40
Tables in Text
Table 1   Project Area Meteorological Data
Table 2   Summary of Incremental Project Costs
Table 3   Proposed Financing Plan
Table 4   Comparative Yield Estimates
Table 5   Net Returns to Farmers
AnneXes
Annex 1, Table 1    Proposed Crop Development (ha)
Table 2    Projected Crop Production
Annex 2             Illustrative Farm Budgets
Annex 3, Table 1    Summary of Project Costs
Table 2    Summary of Costs by Components
Table 3    External Financing Plan
Annex 4             Government Cash Flow Projection
Annex 5, Table 1    FASCOM:  Projected Profit and Loss Statement
Table 2    Projected Sources and Application of Funds
Table 3    Projected Balance Sheet
Table 4    Analysis of Financial Statements
Annea: 6            Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
Annex 7, Table 1    Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices
Table 2    Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex. 8            Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Maps and Charts
IBRD Map No. 12798R      Land Use in Project Area
IBRD Map No. 12802       Soils in Project Area
IBRD Map No. 12805       Agricultural Projects in Ghana
IBRD Chart No. 20292     Proposed Project Organization
IBRD Chart No. 20922     Proposed FASCOM Organization



GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Ghana has an area of about 238,000 km2 and a population of about
11 million, of which nearly 70% live in the rural areas. Rural population
is growing at about 1.6% per annum, urban population at 5.1% and total popula-
tion at about 3.0%. Socio-economic infrastructure and basic amenities are
generally poor in rural areas: only 14% of the rural population have access
to safe water, 2% have electric light, and only 21% of the country's health
establishments are in the rural areas.
1.02      About 22.7 million ha (97% of total area) is land surface, of which
11% (2.6 million ha) is under cultivation, 10% under reserved forests, 24%
under unreserved forests, and 55% under bush-fallow. Ecologically, Ghana can
be divided into three major zones: the forest zone (36% of land area), the
coastal savannah (7% of land area), and the interior/northern savannah (57%
of land area). The forest zone has an equatorial climate with two rainy
seasons, annual rainfall of 1,300 mm - 2,100 mm, and soils that are generally
suitable for growing a wide range of tropical crops. The coastal savannah is
characterized by very level to gentle relief, high temperatures, and moderate
rainfall averaging 600 - 1,000 mm per year. Soils vary from heavy clayed
vertisols to light textured sodic planosols and gleysols. The better soils
are widely used for growing food crops, sugar cane and tobacco, while the
grasslands support livestock grazing. The interior/northern savannah, which
lies above 7°N and covers almost two-thirds of the country, has level to
gently undulating topography with isolated iron pan, sandstone or granite
capped hills, and average rainfall of around 1,100 mm per year. The extreme
northeast part of the zone is drier, with annual rainfall around 800 mm.
Shifting cultivation with long periods of fallow is the predominant farming
system (para 1.04).
1.03      As average population density is only about 441km2, there is
no overall scarcity of cultivable land. However, land use is limited by
several ecological constraints such as (a) poor soil fertility due to
shallowness, light texture, too much sand and/or clay (70% of the total area),
(b) high erodibility arising from topographical and/or climatic conditions,
(c) poor drainage conditions, and (d) erratic rainfall. Consequently, any
substantial expansion of cultivated area is contingent upon appropriate soil
management, crop rotation and husbandry practices, development of drainage and
supplemental irrigation facilities, etc.



- 2 -
1.04      Basically three major land tenure systems are found:  family,
communal and state ownership. The existing tenurial arrangements are flexible
and practical, and individuals can easily acquire usufruct on agricultural
lands available within their respective communities. According to the 1970
agricultural census, 68% of holdings in Ghana were less than 2.5 ha, while
only about 18% were over 4 ha. The level of agricultural technology is
rudimentary, resource utilization is far below potentials, and average output
per farmer is low. Agricultural production is still smallholder based and
large commercial farmers occupy no position of importance. Use of hired labor
is quite widespread, as nearly 60% of all holdings employ some form of hired
labor. Despite significant investments in agricultural machinery, mechanized
farming is relatively unimportant and, except for the larger farmers, parti-
cularly in the northern parts of the country, use of machinery is negligible.
lHowever, demand for mechanized land preparation, particularly on the very
heavy clayed chromic and pellic vertisols, and for harvesting on the relatively
;arger northern farms, appears to be quite strong (mechanization issues are
also discussed in paras 1.13 and 3.11).
B. Agricultural Production
1.05      Sector Production and Contribution to GDP.  Agriculture, including
livestock, fisheries and forestry, contributes about 51% of GDP (constant 1975
prices) and accounts for 65% of employment. Crops (excluding cocoa) and
livestock subsector contribute about 62% of the GDP originating in the agricul-
ture sector, while cocoa, forestry and fishing contribute 24%, 11% and 3%
respectively. Cocoa is the most important single crop, accounting for 78% of
Ghana's export earnings, 12% of GDP and 48% of Government revenue. Growth of
the agricultural sector has been unsatisfactory, averaging 2% annually between
1965-72, 4% between 1972-75 and about 2.5% since 1975. The cocoa sector in
particular has lagged behind, with production in 1978-79 hitting a low of
265,000 tons, which was less than half of 1964/65 production.
1.06      Ghana produces between 700,000 - 800,000 tons of cereals annually.
Maize, constituting a little more than 50% of total production, is cultivated
in all regions, although the bulk of the production comes from the savannahs.
Other domestic food crops include sorghum (150,000 tons), millet (150,000
tons), groundnuts (100,000 tons) and rice (80,000 tons). Annual production of
starchy staples is estimated at about 5 million tons, nearly 50% of which is
cassava, 30% plantain, and 15% yams. Cocoa covers some 50% of all cultivated
land; oilpalm is grown mostly wild on about 150,000 ha; cotton, coffee, and
sugarcane are still minor crops.
1.07      Ghana's livestock industry is relatively undeveloped in all com-
ponents except poultry, which has grown rapidly over the past ten years and
now produces about 30% of total purchased meat consumption. Shortage of feed
and feed ingredients is a major impediment to pig and poultry expansion. The
national cattle herd is estimated at about 800,000 head, 80% of which are in



- 3 -
the Upper and Northern Regions; the bulk of it is maintained under relatively
less productive, traditional management regimes. Estimated domestic catch
of fish is about 200,000 tons, of which 20% comes from Lake Volta. Deep sea
fishing is relatively unimportant.
1.08      National Food Supplies and Nutrition.  A national nutrition survey
carried out in 1961/62 indicated a serious deficiency in energy foods through-
out the country, while protein foods (expressed as an average) were adequate
in all areas except the coastal plains. These findings have been more recently
cross-checked by biannual studies of specific communities conducted by the
University of Ghana, Legon, and the deficit in energy foods has been confirmed.
Average daily per capita supply of energy and protein are about 1,730 kcal and
39 grams, respectively, compared to estimated requirements of 2,100 kcal and
33 grams.  On the average, 73% of the energy is derived from carbohydrates, 9%
from protein, and 18% from fats and oils. The policy implications are as
follows: (a) regional imbalance in food supplies should be corrected through
development of marketing and distribution infrastructure; and (b) more balanced
nutrition should be achieved by ensuring adequate supplies of both energy and
protein rich foods, the need for the latter in the diet of the farming
community being emphasized through nutrition education.
C. Agricultura1 Institutions
1.09      Agricultural Services.  The Ministry of Agriculture (1IOA), with
headquarters in Accra, is responsible for agricultural development policy and
activities, excluding the cocoa sector. For cocoa there is an interim 3-member
Ghana Cocoa Council (GCC). 1/ The IIOA consists of the Departments of General
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Services, Fisheries, and Planning,
the Rice Mills Unit, and the Information Support Unit. While general extension
is carried out by MOA's various departments, so-called "specialized development
and crop specific extension" work is done by five corporations (State Farms,
Food Distribution, State Fishing, Ghana Commercial Farms, and Ghana Oil Palm
Development), three boards (Cotton Development, Grains and Legumes Development,
and Bast Fiber Development), three companies (Ghana Tobacco, Ghana Livestock
and Grains Warehousing), and the recently established Irrigation Development
Authority (IA). All the various departments of the MIOA and the above para-
statals are represented in the regions. No clear policy regarding the roles
of the parastatals and thieir operational relationship with the MOA departments
exists, and in the absence of adequate coordination, the multiplicity of
extension agencies has resulted in considerable overlapping, parallel and
sometimes conflicting operations. The situation is further aggravated by the
highly centralized M1OA bureaucracy. In order to shift operational responsi-
bilities to the regions and to improve coordination between the various MOA
departments, nationally as well as regionally, the Government has recently
created the post of a National Agricultural Coordinator and a Regional
Agricultural Coordinator (RAC) for each region. Further, a National
1/   An Act is to be presented to the Parliament shortly for the establishment
of a 10-member Cocoa Council.



-4-
Agricultural Development Committee and Regional Agricultural Development
Committees are being established with a view to decentralising agricultural
development planning, budgeting and policy functions.
1.10      Credit Services.  More than 90% of institutional credit to farmers
is provided by the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), the three major
commercial banks and the National Investment Bank (NIB). However, fewer than
10% of the Ghanaian farmers benefit from institutional credit, and only 20% of
the credit goes to farmers cultivating less than 5 ha. ADB operations are
beset with many operational, organizational and financial problems. IBRD has
provided technical assistance to ADB under the Sugar, Upper Region Agricul-
tural Development and Oil Palm Development projects, while USAID is currently
assisting through its Managed Input Delivery and Agricultural Services (MIDAS)
program. However, there has been no significant improvement in its perfor--
mance and the Government is experimenting with new credit channels. Notable
among these is the Bank of Ghana's (BOG) Rural Banking System, in which rural
banks are set up as private commercial institutions with Government support.
These banks are supposed to meet current local credit requirements using
savings mobilized in the rural areas. So far only a few of these banks have
been set up, although their results are said to be encouraging. Another new
credit channel is the Upper Region's Farmers Services Company (FASCOM-UR),
which provides seasonal credit and a range of farm supplies for farmers under
that project. Now in its second operational year, FASCOM-UR has shown good
progress and is being expanded in line with project growth.
1.11      Input Supply.  Fertilizers account for the bulk of seasonal inputs
ancl currently about 80,000 tons are consumed annually. All fertilizers are
imported through the Ghana National Procurement Agency (GNPA), a Government
body, and distributed by MOA through its regional and district agricultural
offices. While, because of management difficulties of GNPA and foreign
exchange shortages, fertilizer procurements are often delayed, and distribution
hampered by inadequate transport facilities, and insufficient distribution
outlets, a satisfactory arrangement has been worked out for the Upper Region
Prcject requirements which offsets these difficulties. Insecticides and other
chemicals are procured and distributed by private companies except for the
cocoa sector which is serviced by the interim Ghana Cocoa Council. Seed
multiplication and distribution is the responsibility of the recently esta-
blished Ghana Seed Company (GSCO) and also the Grains and Legumes Board.
1.12      Training and Research.  Graduate courses in agriculture with a
total capacity of 110 students per session and 2-year diploma courses in
special subjects with a capacity of 100 per session are offered at the
University of Ghana (Legon), the University of Science and Technology (Kumasi)
and the University of Cape Coast. Certificate courses (two-years) for exten-
sion staff are offered at Kwadaso, Nyankpala, Ohawu, and Pong Tamale Colleges,
which together have a total capacity of about 350 per session. Numerically,
the output is adequate; however, provision for refresher and upgrading training
is inadequate. There are five Farm Institutes for training young farmers and
empLoyees of state and commercial farms (details in Working Paper CIO).
Agr:icultural research is carried out by the three universities and their
outstations; five institutes under the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR), namely the Crops Research Institute (CRI), Animal Research



Institute (ARI), Soils Research Institute (SRI), Food Research Institute
(FRI) and the Oil Palm Research Institute (OPRI); the Cotton Development
Board (CDB) and the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG). In addition,
the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria has a
commitment to promote research which is relevant to Ghana. Generally, research
programs are insufficiently geared towards solving practical problems faced by
farmers; coordination is inadequate and interaction with MOA extension activi-
ties is minimal.
D. Sector Development Objectives, Strategy and Key Issues
1.13      The development strategy of the sixties and early seventies, which
emphasized creation of large-scale capital intensive industries, with agricul-
ture receiving a lower priority, is being gradually modified. Allocation to
agriculture is now about 8% of the total budget (14% of total capital expendi-
ture), compared to only 3% in 1971. The major objectives of the Government's
agricultural policy in the 1970's were: (a) self-sufficiency in food and raw
materials for agro-industries; (b) diversification of exports through promo-
tion of non-traditional exports; (c) rehabilitation and expansion of the
declining cocoa subsector; (d) development of livestock, fisheries and fores-
try; and (e) minimizing rural-urban migration, particularly by rural youth,
through creation of employment opportunities in the rural areas and by making
farming financially more attractive. However, the general strategy for the
sector emphasized development of large-scale mechanized farming and public
sector agricultural enterprises as means to rapid productivity increases.
This approach failed to stimulate major productivity growth in the sector
because (a) the parastatals have not emerged as efficient production units;
(b) the large-scale mechanization program turned out to be inappropriate under
Ghanaian conditions, as it was unable to solve some of the agronomic problems
(maintenance of soil fertility, effect on soil structure, weed control, etc.),
and suffered from management and engineering problems created by the poorly
conceived introduction of machinery. At the same time, smallholders - com-
prising a majority of the productive units - provided no noticeable response
as agricultural and other support services and incentives were lacking. If
rapid recovery of the sector (and the economy as a whole) is to be achieved,
fundamental changes in government policies with respect to sector institu-
tions, operations, and input and output pricing policies, among others, would
be required. 1/
1.14      The need for such policy changes has been recognized more recently,
and some action has already been initiated. For example, producer prices for
cocoa have been increased several times; the MOA operations are being decen-
tralized; private trading in produce marketing is being encouraged; commercial
companies have been established for input supply, and seed production; and
smallholder development is being promoted through the Upper Region and the
proposed Volta Region Projects. A program of gradual reduction of fertilizer
subsidies, which are scheduled to be completely removed by 1981, has been
introduced as a means to rationalize agricultural price and cost relationships.
1/   See IBRD Report No. 1769-GH, 1978, for major recommendations.



- 6 -
The civilian government which recently took over has announced its intention
to give priority to agricultural development through decentralized assistance
at the regional level aimed at providing support services for the small
farmer.
Bank Group's Role and Sector Lending Strategy
1.15      The main thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations in agricul-
ture is to assist the country in its objective of achieving greater self-
sufficiency in agricultural products, particularly food and raw materials for
agro-industries, and expanding cocoa production. Total sector lending over
1969-76 amounted to US$76.0 million and comprised seven projects, including a
fisheries project (1969, Credit 163-GH, US$1.3 million); two cocoa projects
(Eastern Region Cocoa Project -- 1970, Credit 205-GH, US$8.5 million and
Ashanti Cocoa Project -- 1975, Loan 1181-GH, US$14.0 million); a sugar re-
habilitation project (1972, Credit 354-GH, US$15.6 million); a livestock
project (1974, Credit 500-GH, US$2.0 million); an oil palm project (1975,
Cred.it 531-GH, US$13.6 million); and the Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project (1976, Loan 1291-T-GH, US$21.0 million), the Bank's first assistance
to EL broad-based integrated rural development project in Ghana. Earlier Bank
projects were directed towards development of specific subsectors with empha-
sis on smallholder development. The ongoing and completed projects have had
varying degrees of success, but with common afflictions that have been and
continue to be: delays in establishing management structures, procurement
difficulties due to foreign exchange scarcity and/or bureaucratic constraints,
low producer prices, high domestic inflation, inadequate local funding and
lack of basic infrastructure and services. The fisheries project has been
completed after considerable difficulties relating to the design of the boats
and engines used; implementation of the sugar project has been unsatisfactory
mainly due to inadequate provision of foreign exchange for spare parts and
chemicals, and low producer and sales prices; the two cocoa projects would
have performed better if proper cocoa prices were ensured; implementation of
the livestock project has been affected by lack of water supplies and unsuit-
able cattle purchased; after initial difficulties, the oil palm project is now
proceeding satisfactorily; progress in the Upper Region project is being
hindered by management, financial and staffing difficulties. The Bank Group
support in the next few years will be directed towards the balanced develop-
ment of subsistence as well as cash crops, including the rehabilitation
of the cocoa sector, Ghana's primary foreign exchange earner.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
2.01      General.  The project area, comprising the whole of the Volta
Region, covers about 20,500 km2, or just under 9% of Ghana's land area, and
lies between latitude 5045 and 8045N (IBRD M4AP 12805). From north to
south the distance is about 300 km, while the east-west distance ranges
between 30 to 125 km. The region is drained by six major rivers: the
Aklaba, Alabo, Adawhi and Todze in the south, the Dayi in the center, and
Asukwqakaw in the north. An important feature in the project area is Lake



- 7 -
Volta, created by construction of the Akosombo dam in 1968. It is 400 km
long, covers 8,400 km2, contains 150 billion m3 water, and is one of the
world's largest man-made reservoirs.
2.02       Ecology and Climate.  The area can be divided into three climato-
ecological zones *-ith five distinct zones: (a) the southern zone consisting
of a coastal belt characterized by sand bars and large seasonal lagoons, parts
of which are below sea level, and the southern plains having gently undulating
topography rising from 15 m to 150 m; (b) the central zone, consisting of the
southern foothills and central uplands, dominated by strongly rolling topo-
graphy with three highland ranges rising from 85 m to about 1,000 m and many
broad valleys; and (c) the northwest savannah, characterized by an almost flat
relief with slopes gently rising from 85 m to 300 m. Rainfall is bimodal,
with the main rainy season in April-July and the secondary one in October-
November. Rainfall in the southern zone is characterized by very high devia-
tions around the mean monthly, seasonal and annual rainfall. Evaporation is
high (about 1,000 mm, Piche, inland; and about 1,800 mm, open pan, along the
coast); daily sunshine averages 6.2 hours at Ho, peaking during the October-
March period, but is much lower in July/August. The project area meteoro-
logical data are summarized below:
Table 1:  Project Area Meteorological Data
Rainfall (average)                Mean           Mean
Area                       Annual  1-season  2-season          Temperature   Humidity
(mm)      (mm)       (mm)              (c)          (%)
Coastal Belt                   860      600       210              26.9          84
Southern Plains              1,080      640       340              27.4          81
Southern Foothills           1,310      780       470              26.9          81
Central Uplands              1,570      970       500               n.a.         n.a.
NW Savannah                  1,370      710       600              27.6           78
2.03       Soils (IBRD Map 12802).  The soils have been grouped under three
ecological zones:  Forest, Interior Savannah and Coastal Savannah.  The
well-drained Forest Ochrosols form the largest group in the northeast section
of the Forest Zone, which borders on Togo. These soils are used largely for
cocoa and food crops cultivation and, with about 1,600 mm rainfall per annum
in the area, are good for a wide range of crops. In the Interior Savannah
Zone, the predominant soil group is a complex of Groundwater Laterites and
Groundwater Laterite-Ochrosol intergrades, which are shallow and easily
waterlogged. Cultivation of shallow rooting crops is possible under drainage
and other soil management features. Savannah Ochrosols form the second
important group in this zone, and should be suitable for growing tree crops.
In the Coastal Savannah Zone, Regosilic Groundwater Laterites are the largest
group. Low fertility, poor drainage and low rainfall restrict the use of
these soils to groundnuts and cassava. However, the grass cover on them
provides rough grazing for cattle. Although smaller in area, the Savannah
Ochrosols group provides important agricultural soils with cultivation
possibilities for oil palm, cassava, maize, groundnuts and vegetables. Other
important soil groups are Acid Gleisols and Tropical Black Earths, both of
which require good management for reasonable crop production.



- 8 -
B.  Infrastructure and Social Services
2.04      Roads and Communications.  The project area road network consists of
about 1,400 km of primary and secondary roads and over 1,000 km of feeder
roads.  Most of the primary roads are bitumen-surfaced and suffer from poor
maintenance. The road link to Kete-Krachi in the north of the Region is
handlicapped by poor ferry facilities. The feeder roads are generally impass-
able during rains and require major repairs and improvement. Lake transport
is quite rudimentary but is likely to be improved under a proposed technical
ass:'stance program by the Federal Republic of Germany.  Telecommunication
between the Regional headquarters at Ho and Accra is good, although somewhat
unreliable, while it is virtually absent within the Region.
2.05      Power and Water Supply.  Four district headquarters (Ho, Keta,
Denu and Ho-Hoe) and two other towns, Anloga and Aflao, have electricity
supplied from local generating stations. Only 31 villages and small towns
enjciy pipe-borne water provided by Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
(GWSC). Government has a program for supplying piped water to all villages
with over 2,000 inhabitants and providing hand pumps to smaller communities
for drawing water from dug-outs or wells. Implementation has been slcw due to
lack of funds and materials.
2.06      Health Services and Education Facilities.  There are 14 hospitals
with 1,065 beds, 7 health centers, 17 health posts and 24 dressing stations in
the project area. Educational facilities include 958 primary schools, 534
middle schools and 24 secondary schools. Ratios of school age enrollment
(1970 census figures) for primary, middle and secondary schools are, respec-
tively, 75%, 47% and 4%. There are also seven teacher training colleges,
three technical institutes, one agricultural college, three polytechnics and
five vocational institutes.
C. Socio-Economic Features
2.07      Demographic Features.  Project area population is estimated at
about 1.2 million. Average population density is about 60 per km2; higher
densities are found in the southern coastal plains; while Kete-Krachi, with
20 per km2, is the most sparsely populated district. Twenty-eight percent
of the population lives in the coastal areas (66% rural), 22% in the southern
plains and foothills (93% rural), 40% in the central uplands (75% rural) and
only 10% in the northwestern plains (91% rural). With a rural population in
the project area estimated at about 950,000 persons, and an average family
size of 5.6 persons, there are about 170,000 farm families. Fifteen d7ialects
are spoken in the region, but Ewe (70%) and Twi (20%) dominate, the latter
being confined mainly to the northern areas.  Ethnically, Ewes in the Volta
Region are the same as in neighboring Togo.



2.08      Land Tenure.  In the southern and central parts, the land ownership
pattern was established by the original families who settled in the Region and
assumed the right of cultivation, with the head of the family having the right
to allocate family land to male heirs or to sell land. About 90% of existing
farms in these areas have been obtained through inheritance, 3% hav- been
purchased, and 7% are share cropped (mainly cocoa farms), or represent a
temporary gift to a landless relative. Tribal chiefs are not normally involved
in land allocation. In the north, all land is vested in the Head of State,
and allocation is carried out by the State's representative in the district.
However, once granted to a family, the land remains under the members' posses-
sion with traditional security of tenure (a common pattern of ownership in
many West African countries). Though land pressures in the best cocoa areas
are high, and large tracts of uncultivated land occur in the dry areas of the
south and the sparsely populated north, neither land tenure nor land avail-
ability is considered to be a constraint to development.
D. Land Use, Farm Structure and Agricultural Production
2.09      Land Use (IBRD Map 12798).  Existing information indicates that
around 350,000 ha (17% of project area) are cultivated annually. Of this some
100,000 - 125,000 ha are under tree crops (mostly cocoa) cultivated within a
system of shifting cultivation. In view of the varied and often differing
land statistics, the above should be treated as best estimates. The proposed
Project Resource Planning Unit (para 3.18) would use available aerial photo
along with satellite imagery and generate more detailed information on
these aspects.
2.10      Farm Structure and Operations.  The limited data from a survey of
two districts (Ho and Kpandu) indicate that an average family of 5-6 members
cultivates about 2.0-2.5 ha and that 84% of farms, cultivating 51% of the
cropped area, are below 4 ha. Average holding sizes are smaller in the south,
between 1.0-1.5 ha, compared to 2.5 ha in the center and over 3.0 ha in the
northern plains (Kete-Krachi and Nkwanta districts). The area under commercial
farms (locally defined as farms that are operated primarily with paid labor
and are partially mechanized) would be around 1% of total cultivated area.
2.11      The farming system is based on cereal, root and legume production
for subsistence, while supplemental income is derived from tree crops, and
the sale of surplus food crops and vegetables. There are, however, marked
differences in cropping patterns in the Region. Cassava and maize are the
dominant crops and are grown in most of the region. Paddy, cotton, tobacco
and groundnuts are also grown in most districts although on a small scale. In
the north, yams and sorghum are important crops and groundnuts are replaced
by beans, among which cowpeas dominate. Cocoa, covering about 100,000 ha,
is grown primarily in the central uplands of the Togo range and is an important
crop in those areas. Coconuts are grown extensively in the coastal belt while



- 10 -
oil palm grows in most parts in semi-wild groves. Cocoa suffers extensively
from capsids and blackpods, and coconut from Cape St. Paul disease (Kaincope),
while from an ecological point of view the area is not well suited for growing
oil palm.
2.12      In most of the areas outside the northern plains, cropping follows
an annual two season pattern, with areas cultivated during the minor season
(July-August to November-December) being smaller than the major one (March-
April to June-July). Rotation usually starts with maize, sometimes mixed with
vegetables, and ends with cassava. In many places, however, maize is inter-
planted with cassava. In the north, yam is grown first, mostly in pure
stands, followed by maize and/or sorghum mixed with beans. Rice and cotton
are usually planted as single crops. Cultivation is primarily done by hand
tools; ox-drawn cultivation is unknown while some larger farmers use tractors.
Use of chemical fertilizer has increased during recent years but still only
about 2,500 tons are used annually over the whole Region.  Generally, the area
is not self-sufficient in food production, and substantial deficits occur in
years with sub-normal rainfall.
2.13      Irrigation and Water Use.  Volta River discharge below the Akosombo
dam is about 37,000 million m3 per year and it is believed that nearly
25,000 ha could be brought under irrigation.  However, the potential is not
being realized due to lack of technical data on hydrology, engineering and
agronomic aspects, which is inhibiting meaningful project formulation.
Currently only about 1,500 ha are irrigated under various pilot schemes; the
Kpong irrigation project, when completed, would add another 5,200 ha. A
number of proposals for large and medium-scale projects exists, but, until the
hydrological and other data have been accumulated, detailed engineering cannot
be undertaken.
2.14      Livestock and Fisheries.  Around 10% of the national cattle, sheep
and goat herds are found in the project area.  Estimated numbers are:  cattle
77,000, sheep 85,000, goats 82,000, pigs 19,000 and poultry 240,000.  kost of
the cattle and pigs are found in the southern districts while the sheep and
goats are in the central region, where grazing conditions are generally
favorable for raising ruminants. Livestock production constitutes an important
agricultural activity for many small and medium-size farmers and its improvement
would strengthen the farm income base, besides improving nutrition. However,
litt:Le livestock development has taken place so far, the primary constraints
being inadequate livestock extension services, shortage of improved breeding
stoclk and, for poultry and pigs, non-availability of concentrate feed.  The
basic veterinary and animal husbandry services' infrastructure (e.g. MOA
staff, breeding farms, some equipment and facilities) exists in the area, and,
by improving it, some of the impediments to livestock development in the
region could be removed. Likewise, coastal and inland fishing from lagoons
and rivers is an important occupation of many people, but has been constrained
due t:o non-availability of fishing gear and lack of extension and advisory
serv:ices.  Currently about one-quarter of Ghana's marine catch comes from this
Region. IMarine fishing is usually done by small fishermen under contract to
the owners of boats and gear.  The fishermen receive a portion of the catch as
payment. Volta Lake fishing is under the Volta River Authority.



- 11 -
E. Agricultural Institutions
2.15      MOA's technical departments (para 1.09), along with its Economic
Research and Planning Division, and the Ghana Seed Company (GSCO), are
represented in thF Region.  Total MOA staff include 26 senior, 52 intermediate
level and 630 field staff. Additionally, the Irrigation Development Authority
and most of the other sector parastatals have offices in the Region. There is
an Agricultural College and a Farm Training Institute at Ohawu and Adidome,
respectively. Agricultural services are ineffective due to inadequate logis-
tic support and poor technical supervision.
2.16       The Cooperative Mtovement in the project area is not strong, par-
ticularly for agricultural activities. About 160 cooperative societies (123
registered) exist in the Region and are engaged in activities related to
agriculture, mainly in produce marketing (52%) and credit unions (21%), but
their membership and financial position are unknown. The Department of
Cooperatives, with a total staff of about 25, is largely ineffective.
2.17       As to Credit, the ADB has a Regional office in Ho-Hoe and farm
loan offices in Denu, Kete-Krachi and N'Kwanta.  ADB's operations in the
Region have been quite small and in 1976 the Ho-Hoe office approved only about
116 loans amounting to V600,000 (US$218,000). ADB's operations in the
Region suffer from the problems which afflict the institution nationally (para
1.10). In addition to ADB the Ghana Commercial Bank and the Barclays Bank,
which have 17 and 3 branches, respectively, in the Region, also provide
agricultural credit. Last year the Ghana Commercial Bank lent about ¢300,000
(US$109,000).
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01       Identification and Preparation.  The project was first identified
by an RMWA mission visiting Ghana in November 1975. Subsequently, terms
of reference were prepared by EUIWA for seven basic data collection studies
which were completed by Ghanaians at the end of 1976. A preparation mission
consisting of RNWA and headquarters staff visited Ghana during January/
February 1977, and the draft preparation report was submitted to the Govern-
ment in July 1977. Due to the deteriorating country economic situation, the
project was not appraised until January 1979.
3.02       Project Objectives.  The primary objectives of the project would
be to increase agricultural production, farm incomes, welfare and standards
of living of the farming population, particularly the smallholders, by intro-
ducing and diffusing improved farming technology, providing farm support
services, and developing rural infrastructure. To ensure sustained and
accelerated sector growth in the long run, the project would also strengthen



- 12 -
MOA's operational capabilities by providing training to extension and technical
staff and streamlining existing institutional arrangements in the project
area.
3.03      Project Design and Strategy.  The project has been designed as the
first phase of a program of agricultural development in the Volta Region and
would concentrate primarily on the development of major field crops, related
support services and agricultural infrastructure. Relatively simple crop
production technology, that would not necessitate major changes in the exist-
ing cropping pattern, farm sizes and land tenure arrangements, would be
introduced. Finally, the project would be implemented mostly through existing
institutions, and only farm inputs distribution would be undertaken by a
specially created entity.
B. Summary Description
3.04      The project would be implemented over a period of five years.
An estimated 60,000 farm families (35% of total), each cultivating about 2.1
ha on1 average, would directly benefit from the proposed project. Its main
components would be:
(a) Crop Development: increasing production of major food crops
through improved farming practices, effective extension advice
and provision of farm inputs and credit facilities; establishing
on-farm trials and research; and initiating activities leading to
the development of low cost small scale cropping under irrigation;
(b) Livestock and Fisheries Development: strengthening MOA's
veterinary and fisheries extension services and support-
ing project area livestock farms and fish ponds;
(c) Infrastructure: constructing project offices, workshop,
staff quarters and farm service centers; renovating and expanding
the Adidome Farm Training Institute and other MIOA buildings and
structures; constructing or improving about 500 km low-cost earth
roads; improving 148 km of existing feeder roads;
(d)  Institutional Support:  strengthening the MOA's regional
office with technical and management staff and logistic
support; expanding and improving staff training facilities
in the Region; creating institutional capabilities for
providing farm input and other services; and
(e) Consultant Services: assisting MOA in specific areas (monitoring
and evaluation, Training and Visit extension system, etc.) where
local expertise is not available, or where short-term supplementation
is required.



- 13 -
C. Detailed Features
Crop Development
3.05      The project would improve cultivation on about 29,000 ha (8.5%
of total cultivated area) of foodcrops including maize (11,000 ha), cassava
(12,000 ha), yams (2,400 ha), rice and groundnuts (1,100 ha each), sorghum
(600 ha) and vegetables (700 ha) by Year 5. However, accelerated acceptance
by farmers is expected by full development at Year 7, at which time some
51,000 ha would be under improved crop production. The project would be
fully responsible for the development of these crops in the Region. The
following crops would not be covered under the project: (a) cocoa (primarily
grown in the central districts), because current GOG policy is to develop it
as a special crop rather than as part of an integrated sector development
project; (b) cotton, because it is a relatively minor crop, the Region's
ecological suitability for its cultivation is not yet established, and it is
being promoted by CDB with heavily subsidized input prices; (c) sugar cane,
because of unfavorable economic and financial returns due to inadequate prices
for cane, sugar and sugar by-products; and (d) tobacco, because the required
extension and development services are being satisfactorily provided by the
Ghana Tobacco Company. The improved technology for the project crops would be
extended through a basic agricultural services package consisting of the
following:
3.06      Extension Services.  MOA general extension services in the Region
would be intensified and its scope, methods and quality would be improved by:
(i) introducing the Training and Visit (T & V) system as a means of systema-
tizing agricultural extension; (ii) improving the field staff to farmer ratio
from 1:900 to 1:500; (iii) enhancing staff morale, motivation and effective-
ness by providing adequate logistic support, improved service conditions (e.g.
better emoluments, housing, merit recognition, etc.) and appropriate refresher
courses and training (para 3.19), and (iv) ensuring flexible operational
procedures in the field while providing strong technical support and supervi-
sion from senior technical and management staff (para 4.04).
3.07      Input Supply and Credit.  The project would ensure timely and
adequate supplies of farm inputs to the farmers. By Year 5, project farmers
would annually use nearly 6,000 tons of chemical fertilizers, 450 tons of
improved seeds, and about ¢ 1.1 million (in 1979 terms) worth of various
chemicals for insect control and storage protection. In addition, improved
farm tools and implements and some tractors with related equipment (para 3.11)
would be provided under the project. The project would sell seasonal farm
inputs on a cash basis, but when necessary, deferred payment would be employed.
MIedium term credit, when required, is expected to be provided by ADB and/or
other commercial banks (para 4.15).
3.08      Seed Multiplication.  Project requirements of improved seeds of
maize, rice, sorghum, groundnuts and vegetables would be obtained through the
Regional branch of GSCO. The GSCO multiplies breeder seeds on four farms



- 14 -
totalling 54 ha; one farm on which rice and vegetable seeds are produced is
irr:igated. Foundation seeds are presently multiplied under a small contract
grower scheme comprising about 150 ha. Seed production has been hampered by a
lack; of field equipment. However, GSCO's farms with an expanded grower scheme
would be adequate for seed supplies for the project. Under the project, funds
would be provided for some additional staff, equipment and machinery for the
necessary improvements under the Volta Region branch of GSCO. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Volta Region branch of GSCO would supply
project seed requirements. The existing MOA oil palm nurseries at Jasikan and
Kparndu, the fruit tree nursery at Kpandu, the yam nursery at Nkwanta and the
plantain nursery at Jasikan would be taken over by and improved under the
project in order to supply seed material to farmers in the project area.
3.09      Applied Research.  While there is considerable research activity
in Ghana, the situation in the Volta Region is not satisfactory. Contact
between researchers, on the one hand, and the extension workers and farmers on
the other, is minimal. Many research findings remain untested and problems
which require investigation are left unattended. Staff and facilities for
locational and on-farm trials are inadequate; only a few substations are
operated by the Crop Research Institute (CRI) in the Region, mainly for
specific crops such as oil palm and cocoa. To overcome these constraints, the
project would provide a network of location oriented adaptive field trials.
These would emphasize the following:  (a) management of the Region's soils, to
avoid their depletion; (b) cropping systems - testing intercropping practices
such as maize with cassava, maize with beans, etc; (c) on-farm varietal and
fertilizer testing; (d) testing new crops for introduction into the farming
system, especially with a view to improving nutrition; (e) assessing relevant
appropriate technology such as is being developed at IITA for West African
crops, including cultivation equipment and methods (such as no-tillage prac-
tices), crop protection (low-volume sprayers), harvesting, transport, on-farm
storage and processing of produce.
3.10      Irrigation Development.  The potential for small scale irrigated
cropping exists in many areas of the region; however, detailed information is
lackilng. Staff, equipment, vehicles and other associated facilities would be
proviided for collecting hydrological, agrometeorological and agronomic data
related to project area dams, dugouts, streams and lake shores, and for
preparing a long-term irrigation development plan for the Region.  Provision
woulcd also be made for establishing 10 small pilot low-lift pump irrigation
schenmes (each irrigating about 20-30 ha), based on the results of the investi-
gaticmns, which would be implemented over three years. In conjunction with the
project's research section, the pilot schemes would investigate the growing
of vegetables and other crops, particularly in the off-season, and determine
financing and operational systems suitable to small scale irrigation by
individuals or groups. Except for the pilot schemes, the physical development
of irrigation facilities or maintenance of existing irrigation projects would
continue to be the responsibility of the Regional office of the Irrigation
Development Authority.



- 15 -
3.11      Agricultura:L Ilachinery Services.  There is a growing demand by small
and medium-size farmers in the project area for mechanization services,
particularly when seasonal labor shortages impede tinely operations. As no
institution, private or public, exists to provide these services effec-
tively, the project would finance the importation of up to 50 agricultural
tractors with relsited equipment for sale to smallholder groups or individuals
having farms not exceeding 10 ha, for use exclusively within the project area.
Maintenance assistance would be provided by the project's mobile maintenance
units. Initially, 10 tractors would be sold. Their use would be closely
monitored, and further importation would be subject to satisfactory evidence
that the above conditions relating to their use were fulfilled. Assurances
covering the above conditions were obtained at negotiations. Equipment
rental service by the project is not recommended because a centrally operated
rental service for smallholders cultivating small parcels of land scattered
over a wide geographic area would face difficult logistic and management
problems.
Livestock and Fisheries Development
3.12      Veterinary Services would be improved by providing sufficient
vehicles, equipment, vaccines, drugs, and other facilities. Laboratory
facilities for disease diagnosis would be improved at the Regional center
in Ho and supporting laboratory facilities would be established in dis-
tricts. Innoculations and treatment would be provided against rinderpest,
anthrax and blackleg, and treatment for contagious bovine pleuropneumonia,
haemorrhagic septicemia, and brucellosis. Five dipping tanks would be con-
structed to augment the existing network of tanks, acaricides would be pro-
vided for control of ectoparasites, and regular dosing would be done for
control of internal parasites. All vaccines and drugs would be provided at
cost.
3.13      Animal Husbandry.  The project would provide assistance to Govern-
ment to maintain its livestock program. The cattle breeding farm at Amelor-
kope supplies farmers in the Region with selected trypanosomiasis resistant
bulls and heifers (crosses of N'dama, West African Shorthorn, Fulani, and
Sanga). The breeding farm carries a total of some 260 head of cattle, which
are raised on natural and improved pastures. The pig breeding farm at Adidome
has presently 22 sows and 3 boars of Landrace and Large WJhite breeding stock
whose offsprings are generally sold to farmers who can provide housing and
feed for this type of animal. Since feed for these breeds is both expensive
and difficult to obtain, it is likely that only a small number of smallholders
would benefit from this farm. It would however also be used for demonstration
and training purposes by the adjacent Adidome Training Institute. The sheep
and goat farms at Vakpo and Nkwanta have been set up to promote the rearing
of small ruminants. The project would provide improved technical supervision
and overall management, equipment, vehicles, fencing, watering and stock-
handling facilities, and staff training for improving the operations of
these farms. Adidome piggery would receive a small mill for producing pig
feed. Since MOA's existing communal paddocks are underutilized, the scheme
would be reviewed under the project to determine its relevance under local
circumstances.



- 16 -
3.14      Fisheries extension activities would be strengthened by providing
additional vehicles, equipment and other supporting facilities. The project
would primarily concentrate on improving traditional fishing methods in the
inland lagoons and streams. Small fishing nets and other gear would be
provided in addition to some outboard motors for marine fishing by small
fishermen groups.  Government is promoting inland fish farming, through the
use of ponds, dugouts and dams, some 70 of which exist in the region. Tilapia
and other fast growing species would be bred in the breeding ponds at Avedakpa
and Adidome, from which fingerlings would be supplied to project area ponds,
dams and dugouts. Extension staff would provide advice on fish rearing
techniques, stocking and restocking, better curing and storage, and identify
fisheries development projects for future development.
3.15      Houses and Buildings.  In view of the acute shortage of residential
accommodation, particularly in the outlying areas, the project would provide
for a substantial construction program of wooden houses for 18 senior, 48
intermediate, and 200 lower level staff. The Regional agricultural office at
Ho would be expanded to provide an additional 1,000 m2 of office space, the
partly erected central workshop at Ho would be completed and equipped, and
three zonal offices would be constructed. Funds would also be provided for
construction of a headquarters (400 m2) for the Farmers' Services Company
(FASCOM) and for renovation of other MOA buildings and structures in the
project area. The buildings and structures at the Adidome Farm Institute,
particularly the dormitories, classrooms and stores, would be renovated,
refurnished and expanded. Finally, 65 farm service centers (FSCs), with
offices, stores, and other appurtenances, would be constructed and equipped.
3.16      Rural Roads.  The project would construct about 250 km of new
and improve another 250 km of existing access roads and tracks (40 km in
PYI, 160 km in PY2, 160 km in PY3 and 140 km in PY4). These would be of
formed width varying between 6.1 m (cleared width 9.8 m) and 5.4 m (cleared
width 8.4 m) and would have 15 cm compacted surface of gravel/laterite or any
suitable local material. Nearly 75% of the rural roads program would be in
the northern parts of the region, where roads are particularly bad. During
the project development period, maintenance would be done by the project's
Engineering Unit. The project would also improve 148 km of identified exist-
ing fEeeder roads, for which GHA specifications and standards would be used.
GHA would therefore prepare tender documents and award contracts, while the
project would supervise the construction. GHA would maintain these roads
during the project period with funds under the project. In addition, GHA
would (i) effect essential repairs and routine maintenance of all primary/
secondary and feeder roads in the area and (ii) maintain, after the project
period, all access roads/tracks constructed/improved under the project.
Assurances on these points were obtained at negotiations.
3.17      Water Supply.  To improve the supply of water for domestic use, the
project would install 10 boreholes of approximately 20 cm (8") in diameter and
75 meters (250') deep, each yielding about 40 m3/day and supplying between
800-1,000 persons. Each well would be equipped with a submersible pump, an



- 17 -
elevated storage tank of 15 m3 capacity, and a modest distribution system.
Installation and maintenance would be the responsibility of Ghana Water and
Sewerage Corporation (para 4.03). This component would also benefit residential
areas for project staff, breeding farms and the Adidome Training Institute.
Institutional Support
3.18      The project would assist MOA in appropriately staffing and equipping
its Volta Region offices for providing management, technical and operational
support for project implementation. The region's capabilities for land
and water resource planning; collection, analysis and interpretation of
agroeconomic data; planning, evaluation and monitoring of agricultural
development programs, and maintenance of vehicles and equipment would be
improved. Additional staff houses, offices and farm service centers would
be constructed and FASCOIM would be established for organizing commercial
services to project area farmers (Details in Chapter IV).
3.19      Training.  The Adidome Farm Institute would be rehabilitated to
cater for 150 residential trainees. Its current ineffective program of
training young farmers would be changed in favor of a systematic program
of in-service training for agricultural field staff, which would be based
on the T & V system of agricultural extension. As a part of the project's
start-up activities, six-week courses would be developed for existing subtech-
nical staff (STA and TA) to equip them for promotion into the technical grade.
In addition to training of field staff, senior staff would receive short
training in subjects ranging from project management and rural development
planning and policies to specialized subjects like irrigation agronomy,
extension methods, project evaluation, human nutrition, crop husbandry and
resource planning. Funds have been provided under the project for overseas
training and short visits to other projects, totalling about 30 man months.
3.20      Nutrition Extension and the Role of Women.  In view of the importance
of nutrition and health education, the project would upgrade home extension to
a separate section headed by a graduate nutritionist. In-service training for
eight district home extension officers and the 51 field aides, and a full
complement of vehicles, equipment and audiovisual aids would be provided.
Work programs would emphasize improvement of nutrition of farm families
through increasing home garden production of leafy vegetables and staples,
improving conservation and preparation of local foods, reducing food waste,
and increasing intake of fats and oils by creating a general awareness among
the population about dietary improvement needs. The section would work in
close liaison with the general agricultural extension staff, who would, if
desirable, develop special extension programs for women farmers, and with the
health services operated in the project area by other agencies.
Consultant Services
3.21      The project would provide up to 27 man-months of short-term consul-
tant services, at an estimated cost of US$8,000 per man-month individually or
through consulting firms, to assist MOA in the following areas:



- 18 -
(a) hold two seminars for project staff, one in PY1, as soon as
key staff are in post, to set out project objectives, identi-
fy strengths and constraints for attaining them, such as
staff motivation and other management systems, and the other to be
held a year later to review and assess progress (4 man-months);
(b) provide experienced guidance in the introduction of the T & V
extension system to the Extension and Training and Communication
Sections, with provision for renewal (3 man-months);
(c)  review of MOA's recently created operational structure (para 1.09)
to evaluate its effectiveness in decentralizing operational respon-
sibilities as well as in coordinating the operations of the various
MOA departments in the headquarters and regions (3 man-months),
to be completed by June 30, 1981;
(d) planning and designing the project's evaluation and monitoring
program, by December 31, 1980, and periodic supervision of its
implementation (4 man-months);
(e) assisting the Animal Research Institute in reviewing the nutrition
and feed situation for all forms of livestock (3 man-months); and
(f) preparation of a second phase of the project (10 man-months).
In addition to the above, funds would be provided to cover the costs of
emplDying IRHO experts, and vehicles, equipment and operating costs for
conducting research and trials on Cape St. Paul disease in coconuts.
3.22      Most of the consultants are likely to be recruited internationally
but efforts would be made to encourage participation by local universities
and other qualified institutions, where possible. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that, prior to engaging any consultant, the detailed terms
of reference for their employment would be reviewed by and agreed with IDA;
consultants appointed would have qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of appointment satisfactory to IDA, and consultants' reports would
be promptly reviewed with IDA for examining possible implementation implica-
tions.
D. Cost Estimates
3.23      Total project costs over the 5 year development period 1980/81-
1984/85 are estimated at 0137.1 million (US$49.8 million), of which 072.7
million (US$26.4 million) or 53% would be foreign exchange costs. Project
costs include an estimated 03.1 million (about US$1.1 million) of identi-
fiable taxes and duties on fuel, lubricants and other locally purchaseable
items but exclude all other taxes and duties on items specifically imported
for the project, including those by FASCOM, since GOG would exempt from duties
and taxes all goods imported for project use. Base costs are estimated using



- 19 -
prices for goods and services obtained during appraisal updated to reflect
prices at end-1979. Farm inputs are costed on an incremental basis and valued
at their full landed price in Ho. Project costs include: (a) physical
contingencies equal to 5% of base costs for all items except for civil works
which have 15%; (b) price contingencies for local salaries of 15% for 1980/81,
and thereafter compounded annually at 7%; (c) price contingencies for all
other local costs at 30%, compounded annually; and (d) price contingen-
cies for foreign costs of vehicles, equipment and civil works at 10.5% for
1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% thereafter, and 10% for seasonal farm
inputs, consultants, salaries, research material, training and recurrent
costs, all compounded annually. Total physical and price contingencies
calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent to 41% of total costs and 71%
of base costs. Local price contingencies account for about 68% of total price
contingencies. This reflects the expected rate of domestic inflation.
Details of project costs are available in Working Paper C15 and presented in
Annex 3 Tables 1 and 2, and summarized below.
Table 2: Summary of Project Cost
% of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Base    Project
(¢ million)             (US$ million)            Cost       Cost
1.  Crop Development             5.0      8.5    13.5    1.8        3.1    4.9       16.8        9.8
2.  Livestock Development        0.8     1.8      2.6    0.3        0.7    1.0        3.4        2.0
3.  Fisheries Development        0.3     0.5      0.8    0.1        0.2    0.3        1.0        0.6
4.  Irrigation Development    1.2         3.3     4.5    0.4        1.2    1.6        5.5        3.2
5.  Rural Water Supply           0.8      1.2     2.0    0.3        0.4    0.7        2.4        1.4
6.  Access and Feeder Roads   2.7        4.8      7.5    1.0        1.7    2.7        9.3        5.5
7.  Houses and Buildings         9.4    11.6    21.0    3.4         4.2    7.6       26.0       15.3
8.  Commercial Services          1.0     6.4      7.4    0.4        2.3    2.7        9.2        5.4
9. Training and Coconut
Research                    2.2      3.1      5.3    0.8        1.1    1.9       6.5        3.8
10.  Consultants                    -      1.5      1.5       -      0.6    0.6        2.1        1.2
11.  Nutrition Extension          0.3      0.5      0.8    0.1       0.2    0.3        1.0        0.6
12. Management and Support
Services                    4.0      9.4    13.4    1.5         3.4    4.9      16.8        9.8
Total Base Cost                  27.7    52.6    80.3   10.1        19.1   29.2    100.0         58.6
Physical Contingencies            2.4      4.0      6.4    0.8       1.5    2.3        7.9        4.7
Price Contingencies              34.3    16.1    50.4   12.5         5.8   18.3       62.7       36.7
Total Project Cost               64.4a/  72.7   137.la/ 23.4a/   26.4   49.8a/           -      100.0
Percentage                       47.0    53.0   100.0   47.0        53.0  100.0          -          -
a/   Includes an estimated 43.1 million (about US$1.1 million) in taxes and
duties.



- 20 -
E. Proposed Financing
3.24      External financing for the proposed project would be provided by
IDA and IFAD on a joint financing basis with IDA contributing 70% and IFAD 30%.
Of the total project costs of ¢134.0 million (US$48.7 million), net of taxes
and duties, IDA would finance 081.2 million (US$29.5 million) or 60% and
IFAID ¢34.4 million (US$12.5 million) or 26%.  GOG would finance incremental
costs of 017.4 million (US$6.3 million), net of taxes and duties, and would
also provide an estimated 017.8 million (US$6.5 million) to cover the
present level of MOA expenditures on existing services in the Region during
the project period. IDA credit would cover 70% of foreign and 49% of local
costs, net of taxes and duties; IFAD loan would cover 30% of foreign and 21%
of local costs. Incremental GOG contributions would cover 28% of incremental
local costs, net of taxes and duties. In addition, about 01.0 million
(US$0.4 million) or 2% of local costs would be provided by banking institutions.
A summary of the proposed financing plan is shown in Table 3. Details of IDA
and IFAD financing plan are shown in Annex 3 Table 3.
3.25      IDA funds would carry standard terms and conditions for such credit.
IFAD loan would be on terms and conditions to be determined by their Executive
Board at loan approval but it is likely to be on concessionary terms, i.e., 1%
service charge p.a. and repayment over 50 years with 10 years' grace. A
condition of IDA credit effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the proposed IFAD loan of US$12.5 million had been
fulfilled.
Table 3. Proposed Financing Plan a/
(US$ million)
Items                 IDA    IFAD    GOG   Banking Institutions          TOTAL
Local                11.0      4.6    6.3             0.4                 22.3
Foreign              18.5      7.9       -              -                 26.4
Tota:L               29.5    12.5    6.3              0.4                 48.7
Tota:L (0 million)   81.2    34.4   17.4              1.0                134.0
% of Total Cost      60%      26%    13%             1%                  100%
% of Local Cost      49%      21%    28%             2%                  100%
% of Foreign Cost   70%       30%       -               -                100%
a!   Excluding taxes and duties.



- 21 -
3.26      IDA and IFAI) funds would be lent to GOG for onward transmission
to the MOA and FASCOM, as the case may be; funds given to MOA would constitute
normal Government subventions while those given to FASCOM would be in the
form of both equity and long-term loans. The total GOG equity contribution
to FASCOM for fixed assets and working capital would be about ¢8.5 million
(US$3.1 million); of this amount about 06.7 million (US$2.4 million; would
be IDA/IFAD funds and the rest ¢1.8 million (US$0.7 million) would be made
available from Government's own resources. The GOG equity contribution
includes about ¢1.7 million (US$0.6 million) as the estimated cost of annual
pre-project sale of fertilizers of 2,500 tons in Volta Region which would be
handed over to FASCOM in Year 1. In addition, IDA/IFAD funds for incremental
farm inputs totalling 016.1 million (US$5.9 million) would be onlent by GOG
to FASCOM at 12% interest and with principal repayable over 30 years with
7 years' grace period. A consortium of banking institutions would provide
¢1.0 million (US$0.4 million) as equity to FASCOM for working capital (para
4.13). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOG would make both
equity and long-term loans available to FASCOM and in the event of equity
participation failure by one or all of the banking institutions, GOG would
increase its own equity correspondingly. The establishment of FASCOM4 in a
form satisfactory to IDA (para 4.13) and the execution of a subsidiary financing
agreement between GOG and FASCOM covering equity and loan arrangements specified
above would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.27      Procurement.  All goods and services financed under IDA credit
and IFAD loan would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines and proce-
dures. Contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles, tractors, equipment
and machinery, construction materials for access roads and steel frame build-
ings for farmers service centers valued at US$50,000 or more with an aggregate
value of about 032.4 million (US$11.8 million), including contingencies,
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). Local
competitive bidding for the above-mentioned goods would be employed for
contracts between US$25,000 and US$50,000 up to an aggregate value of ¢2.7
million (US$1.0 million). For contracts of less than US$25,000 for the
above-mentioned goods, competitive shopping would be employed; the aggregate
cost of procurement of these goods through competitive shopping would not
exceed 01.4 million (US$0.5 million). Items for procurement would be bulked
to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed 15% preference or the applicable duty, whichever is lower,
when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Contracts for



- 22 -
buildings, except steel frame buildings for farmers' service centers, housing
and improvement of feeder roads, valued at about 035.6 million (US$12.9
million) including contingencies, would not be attractive to foreign contrac-
tors due to dispersed location and small size of contracts; such contracts
wouLd therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Local competitive bidding
wou:Ld also be employed for procurement of items such as fishing nets and gear,
animal feeds and small farm tools and equipment amounting to about 04.5
mil'Lion (US$1.6 million). A large part of the project cost would be local
salaries and operating expenses, valued at about 045.6 million (US$16.6
million), which are unsuitable for competitive bidding.  Finally, the services
of consultants and internationally recruited staff and overseas training
of staff valued at 014.9 million (US$5.4 million) would be obtained in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.28      To ensure prompt procurement, assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that GNPA would schedule procurement for project fertilizer requirements
in accordance with timetables established by project authorities, and, in
close liaison with FASCOM staff, ensure the timely importation of fertilizer.
Further, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project would
contract the services of an internationally recognized finance house (on a
competitive rate of commission) which would not only act as a procurement
agency but would also provide short term financing for procurement other than
fertilizer. The URADEP has been following this practice with satisfactory
results.
3.29      Disbursement.  The IDA credit of US$29.5 million and IFAD loan
of US$12.5 million would be disbursed pari passu on a 70:30 basis in accord-
ance with the following schedule and procedures. An estimated schedule of
disbursement is shown at Annex 6.
gategory 1.    (A)  90% of civil works cost other than materials,
totalling US$6.5 million; and
(B)  100% of CIF cost of directly imported construction
materials including prefabricated structures or 80%
of cost if locally procured, totalling US$6.0 million.
Category 2.    (A)  100% of cost of directly imported vehicles, tractors,
machinery, equipment and materials for livestock farms, or
75% of total cost if locally procured, totalling US$7.5
million; and
(B)  100% of CIF cost of directly imported spare parts for
vehicles and equipment totalling US$0.5 million.
Category 3.    100% of cost of fertilizers, chemicals, insecticides, drugs and
minerals, seeds, fishing nets and gear, animal feeds, small
farm tools and equipment and research materials, totalling
US$4.7 million.



- 23 -
Category 4.    100% of salaries and allowances of internationally recruited
staff, fees and expenses for consultants, IRHO contract
expenses for coconut research and overseas training of local
staff, totalling US$5.0 million.
Category 5.    85Z of operating and maintenance costs excluding salaries of
local staff and operation and maintenance costs of FASCOM,
totalling US$8.5 million.
Category 6.    Unallocated amount of US$3.3 million.
3.30      Disbursement for all off-shore procurements under Categories l(B),
2 and 3, and for civil works by contract would be fully documented. For local
procurements, civil works on force account, and operating and maintenance
costs of vehicles and equipment, and general office expenses, disbursement
will be made against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation for which
will not be submitted for review, but will be retained by the Borrower and
made available for inspection by IDA and IFAD during the course of Project
supervision missions.
3.31      To avoid delays in project implementation, retroactive financing of
up to US$350,000 is proposed for eligible project expenditures on expatriate
staff salaries, construction materials including prefabricated structures,
vehicles, machinery, equipment and spare parts incurred after January 1,
1980.
G. Programming, Budgeting, Accounts and Audits
3.32      Annual budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements would
be prepared by the Volta Region MIOA and FASCOM based on appraisal estimates,
but amended, where necessary, to reflect changes in costs and project develop-
ment policies, and would be submitted to the Volta Region Agricultural Develop-
ment Conmittee (VORADEC, para 4.01-02) and the FASCOM Board (para 4.13),
respectively, for approval. On the basis of the approved annual budget, the
GOG would (a) make appropriate allocations in MOA budget and, thereafter,
would release to Volta Region MOA and FASCOII all necessary funds quarterly in
advance as per cash-flow statements; and (b) allocate necessary foreign
exchange for importation of recurrent farm inputs by FASCOM. Assurances on
the above were obtained at negotiations. Further, Volta Region MOA would open
a separate bank account with a commercial bank in Ho with an initial deposit
of 03.0 million (US$1.1 million) and Government-guaranteed overdraft faci-
lities of up to 03.0 million; this would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.
3.33      GOG would cause 140A, FASCOM, GSCO, GWSC, GHA and any other agencies
participating in the project to (a) establish and maintain separate project-
related accounts in accordance with sound and recognized accounting practices
to reflect the project's financial and operational position; (b) have the
accounts audited annually by independent auditors approved by the Auditor
General of Ghana, acceptable to IDA; and (c) send to the Bank, within four



- 24 -
months of the financial year-ending, certified copies of the audited accounts
and the Auditor's report, which would include inter alia a statement that
funds provided under the IDA credit and IFAD loan had been used for their
intended purposes. Assurances ensuring adoption of the above accounting and
auditing procedures were obtained at negotiations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture, through its office in Ho in the Volta
Region, would have overall responsibility for project implementation. However,
in :Line with current government policies of decentralization (para. 1.09), all
operational responsibilities, and financial, administrative and policy matters
relating to project implementation would be delegated to the Regional level.
Nevertheless, liaison with MOA in Accra on matters of national agricultural
policies and priorities and central technical and management support services
would be fully maintained. The Regional MOA would divest itself of all farm
support services of a commercial nature (e.g. input suply, farm machinery
services, etc.) in favor of commercially oriented entities. Within the above
framework, the project organization would consist of the Volta Region Agricul-
turaL Development Committee (VORADEC), replacing the present consultative body
known as the Regional Agricultural Advisory Council, a restructured regional
MOA (paras 4.04-4.07), and the Farmers' Services Company (FASCOM) (paras
4.13-4.14).
4.02      VORADEC would be headed by the Volta Region Minister and its member-
ship would include: the Regional Administrator, the Regional Agricultural
Coordinator, and the National Agricultural Coordinator; Regional representa-
tives of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Ghana Cocoa Council,
GHA, GSCO, GWSC and the ADB; Managing Director of FASCOM; one representative
from the Regional House of Chiefs; and four project participants including a
food crop farmer, a poultry farmer, a livestock farmer and a fisherman. The
VORADEC would, under the overall control and guidance of the Minister of
Agriculture in Accra, determine project policy, exercise budgetary and
financial control, approve annual work programs, appoint senior technical and
management staff and determine their conditions of service, award contracts
and ensure coordination with various national and regional sector institutions.
On matters affecting national policies and priorities for agriculture, the
VORADEC would closely liaise with the MOA in Accra, a function that would be
faci:Litated by the inclusion of the National Agricultural Coordinator in
their body. Establishment of VORADEC with powers, functions and composition
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness. (Details
of VORADEC powers and functions which would be broadly similar to those
exercised by URADEP (Loan 1291-T-GH) Executive Committee are in Working
Paper C9).



- 25 -
4.03      The Regional Agricultural Coordinator (RAC) would be the Regional
head of the Ministry of Agriculture, and would have principal responsibility
for coordinating all project activities. His immediate responsibilities
would be with respect to project proposals regarding crops, livestock and
fisheries extension services, and technical and management support -ervices
including, inter alia, training, research and data collection, economic
evaluation and project monitoring, engineering services and nutrition exten-
sion (para 4.05). The water supply component of the project would be imple-
mented by the GWSC (para 3.17), while feeder roads component (para 3.16) and
civil works (para 3.15) would be implemented in collaboration with and advisory
and supervisory assistance from GHA and PWD respectively. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that VORADEC would enter into an agreement with these
agencies, and that they would carry out these works in accordance with a
schedule agreed to with IDA.
B. Agricultural Services
4.04      The existing structure of the Regional MOA would be adapted and
streamlined to ensure sufficient operational flexibility and initiative in the
field while maintaining close integration and effective supervision of develop-
ment activities within the Region (IBRD Chart 20275 and Working Paper C9
provide details of the changes).
Central Support Services
4.05      At the Regional headquarters, three units -- Administration and
Personnel; Finance and Procurement; Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation --
would provide the necessary administrative and planning support to the
Regional Agricultural Coordinator (RAC). Technical support would be provided
by the following six divisions or sections: (a) Resource Planning: collec-
tion, analysis, interpretation and dissemination of information on land and
water resources; (b) Research and Farm Trials: liaison with agricultural
research institutes; collection and dissemination of crop research information
of Regional interest; on-farm trials to test research recommendations for new
technology under local conditions and other intermediate level technology
(including use of agricultural machinery); (c) Irrigation: collection of
hydrological data and irrigation advisory service; (d) Training and Communi-
cation: training of MOA extension and FASCOM commercial service staff;
dissemination of information on agricultural technology and farmers' training:
(e) Engineering Services: execution of project building programs, construc-
tion and improvement of farm access and feeder roads, and repairs of vehicles
and equipment; (f) Animal Husbandry: management of livestock farms, planning
livestock development programs and liaison with livestock research activities.
Four other divisions or sections -- agricultural extension, nutrition extension,
fisheries and veterinary services -- would provide the central operational
support for the extension and development activities in the respective fields.



- 26 -
Field Operations
4.06      Zonal Operations.  To enable adequate supervision and guidance of
field activities, the eight districts would be grouped into the following
three zones: Northern Zone (Kete Krachi, Kwanta and Jasikan), Central Zone
(Kpa.ndu, Ho and Ho-Hoe), and Southern Zone (Sogakofe and Denu/Keta). These
coincide with the three broad ecological zones of the project area. Each zone
would be headed by a senior staff designated as Zone Coordinator. He would
have technical, supervisory and coordinatory functions and would be assisted
by two professional grade officers whose skills (crops/animal husbandry/
veterinary/fisheries) would be best suited to the technical needs and develop-
ment objectives of the zone. Some common services, such as mobile training
and vehicle and equipment maintenance facilities, would be provided from the
zonal centers.
4.07      District Operations.  Each district would be headed by a District
Coordinator, supported by officers and field staff with duties in extension
and input supply. For farmer contact, the structure is designed to (a)
provide a Senior Technical Officer to supervise 10 Technical Officers, with
one Technical Officer for every 500 farming families; and (b) combine live-
stock and crop extension functions under one Technical Officer for reasons of
operational logic and simplicity.
StafEing
4.08      With the exception of a few senior and intermediate level posts
(largely consequential to the proposed restructuring of Regional MOA), the
MOA's current Regional establishment is large enough (para 2.15) to meet
overall project manpower needs. However, there would be a considerable change
in the disposition of staff so that a larger number of staff in the technical
and sub-technical grades would be working in direct contact with the farmer.
There would also be a substantial number of semi- and un-skilled workers who
would be surplus to project requirements and for whom redeployment outside the
Regional structure and/or attrition would have to be considered. For all
project staff, a careful assessment of their qualifications including motiva-
tion would be made at an early date under the direction of the RAC, and where
necessary, orientation training towards new responsibilities would be given by
the Training Section. Additionally, a program of refresher courses and
promotional training (para 3.19) would also be offered for all field staff.
4.09      The RAC would be the equivalent of at least a Deputy Director.  The
person appointed must have proven abilities in administration, leadership, and
personnel management and should be familiar with the Region's agricultural
development problems. In the event such a person is not available among the
senior staff of the MOA, direct recruitment from outside the MOA (or the civil
service) would be necessary. Further, to ensure timely implementation,
substantive appointment to this post (currently an Assistant Director is
acting) should be made as soon as possible. Therefore, appointment as RAC of
a person with qualifications and powers satisfactory to the Association would
be a condition of credit effectiveness. For the project implementation
period, the post of Chief of Field Operations (CFO) would be created who, as
deputy to the RAC, would supervise the six technical and four operational



- 27 -
support sections (para 4.05) in the Regional headquarters. This would allow
the RAC to concentrate more on organizing and administrating, and liaising
with other related agencies including sectoral parastatals and the MOA. The
post of CFO would correspond to an Assistant Director in the highest grade and
his appointment would also be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
different HQ secdions/departments and the three zonal offices would be headed
by Senior or Principal Professional Grade officers, as appropriate (para 4.11).
4.10      Within the structure as a whole, either in the direct line of
management or in its support, several other key posts have been proposed.
These include, apart from the CFO, the Financial Controller, Senior Research
Agronomist, Senior Hydrologist, Senior Training Officer, Senior Resource
Planner, and the Workshop Superintendent. Well trained people are available
in Ghana, but many of them lack practical experience in the implementation of
intensive development projects of the kind proposed, and demand on the avail-
able manpower is high. Therefore, it is judged that these posts (in addition
to FASCOM Managing Director, para 4.13) would need to be filled interna-
tionally. Funds have been provided to cover the costs of such recruitments.
All efforts, however, would be made to identify suitably qualified Ghanaians
for appointment to these positions. Recruitment for most of these key posi-
tions should be undertaken at an early date so that the appointed persons
could be in post during the third quarter of 1980. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that persons with qualifications and experience and on terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association would be appointed
to these posts.
4.11      The structure and staffing pattern outlined above would be reviewed
with the Government before the end of the project period. The objective would
be to determine whether the criteria set out in para 4.01 had been achieved,
and what adaptations were required to provide a more effective institutional
framework for agricultural services in the Region.
Training and Applied Research
4.12      The Training and Communication Section, headed by a Senior Training
Officer would be responsible for all staff and farmer training activities.
The expanded and rehabilitated Adidome Farm Training Institute (para 3.19),
which would be the nucleus of most training programs, would primarily cater
to project training needs during the first two years. The Institute would
not be taken over by the Regional MOA; however, its overall policy and train-
ing program, e.g. curriculum, scheduling, etc., would be determined in consul-
tation with a committee to be set up by December 31, 1980, comprising the
National Training Coordinator, Project's Training and Communication section
head, and the principal of the Ohawu Agricultural College. Assurances
covering these provisions were obtained at negotiations. The Head of the
Research Section would assess existing data in the research institutions which
may be relevant to the project area, identify in cooperation with extension
staff other research needs and then prepare a program of actitivies for the
Section. The objective would be to facilitate and assist the execution of
site related trials (para 3.09). This program would be prepared within a
three month period as a part of the start-up activities of the project, and



- 28 -
would be based at a 20 ha experiment farm to be established near Ho, but the
various seed farms in the project area and farmers' plots would also be used.
The RAC would set up a research committee by December 31, 1980, which would
incLude representatives of research institutes, for providing guidance in and
review of research activities.
C. Input Delivery and Credit Administration
4.13      Input Supply.  A Farmers' Services Company (FASCOM) headed by a
Managing Director with a full complement of staff and logistic support, would
be created with the primary responsibility of procuring, bulking and dis-
tributing farm inputs, small implements, and farm machinery (paras 3.07 and
3.11). The company would be established with regulations acceptable to IDA,
to ensure proper commercial servicing of the Region's farmers. FASCOM (Orga-
nization Chart 20922) would be owned by Government (shares held by Ministry of
Finance), farmers, and a consortium of banking institutions, with farmers
eventually acquiring majority ownership. The company would have an initial
authorized share capital of ¢ 25 million (US$9.1 million) and initial
subscribers would include GOG and the banking institutions. Farmers would
obtain equity through a compulsory 2-1/2% mark up on the ex-FSC cost of inputs
which would be credited to their share accounts. The company's Board of
Directors would comprise the RAC as Chairman, FASCOM Managing Director as
Secretary, two representatives of the Ministry of Finance, three representa-
tivesa of banking institutions and three farmers. The company would distribute
farm inputs through 65 farm service centers (FSCs) to be constructed through-
out the project area. Whenever possible, farmers would be grouped together as
associations or cooperatives for channelling physical inputs as well as
advisory and other services. The FSCs would be owned and maintained by the
MOA, as they would also be used for experimentation, demonstration, nurseries
and training. Appropriate arrangements would be made for their use by FASCOM.
Inclusion of FASCOM's Managing Director in the VORADEC would ensure the
required operational coordination.
4.14      FASCOM would operate along sound commercial lines.  As a general
principle, farm inputs and supplies would be sold at prices that reflect at
least a 20% mark-up over ex-FSC cost to cover FASCOM's overhead and provide a
profit. For all farm inputs and services involving a Government subsidy (e.g.
fertilizers), MOA would fully reimburse FASCOM for the subsidy with the amount
being calculated on the basis of ex-FSC selling price. Based on the sales
budget, an advance payment of the subsidy amount would be made before the end
of Jaauary each year. At the same time, a final adjustment would be made for
the previous year. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) FASCOM
would be allowed to operate along sound commercial lines, and (b) MOA would
reimburse FASCOM fully for the subsidy element on inputs handled by FASCOM
(para 7.04).
4.15      Farm Credit.  Most of the cash expenditure for on-farm improvements
would be on account of seasonal input purchases and, in some cases, hired
labor., At present subsidy levels, cash requirements for such investments



- 29 -
would be between ¢ 60 (US$22) and ¢ 150 (US$54) per ha, which is about
2-6% of gross returns per ha, depending on the crop grown. Therefore seasonal
inputs are likely to be purchased by farmers on cash payment. However, when
required, the project would sell seasonal farm inputs on a deferred payment
basis, charging 15% of the delivery price as a service charge. The need for
medium term credit would be modest and would primarily be required for the
purchase of sprayers (for vegetable farms), fishing gear, ploughs and tractors
by individuals or smallholder groups. Total requirements would be about
0 3.5 million (US$1.3 million) during the five year project period and are
expected to be provided by ADB and/or the commercial banks out of their own
funds (para 2.17) and under their terms and conditions. The current rate of
interest charged by ADB on medium term credit is 16%. The project would work
closely with ADB in developing a system under which ADB mobile units would be
able to use the facilities at the FSCs, and ADB credit vouchers would be used
for purchases at FSC stores.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      A baseline survey would be carried out by the Economic Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit between June and December 1980 for collect-
ing socio- and agro-economic data on project area households. This would be
followed by detailed farm management surveys, carried out by the same unit.
Additionally, special surveys would be devoted to specific matters and/or
elaboration of the basic data. These surveys would include periodic evalua-
tions of program effects on consumption levels and behavior. The Unit would
closely collaborate, as required, with the project's other units and divisions.
Consultants would also be employed to assist in designing and implementing the
program (para 3.21).
4.17      Reporting Requirements.  In addition to the financial reporting
requirements outlined in para 3.28, the RAC would be responsible for preparing
quarterly and annual reports on the status of project implementation and
other operational matters. These would be submitted to IDA and IFAD no later
than one month after each quarter (year). Additionally, the Government would
prepare and furnish to IDA, promptly after completion of the project, a
project completion report in accordance with a format and contents acceptable
to IDA, and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
V. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS FOR CROP DEVELOPMENT
5.01      Maize, cassava, yams, rice, groundnuts, sorghum and vegetables are
the main crops under the project. Development proposals for these crops are
based on an assessment: of the ecological variations within the project area,
the traditional cropping system, labor availability, and available research



- 30 -
data in Ghana and IITA in Nigeria.  These proposals do not involve any dras-
tic changes in technology, nor any upheaval in the life of farming communities
of the project area.  Considerable emphasis is placed on improving producti-
vity through (i) the use of improved seed, (ii) timely planting, (iii) fer-
tilizer and pesticide use, (iv) proper plant spacing and population especially
in miLxed cropping, (v) crop rotation, (vi) proper storage, processing and mar-
keting of crops, and (vii) research based on Regional and on-farm trials.
5.02      The use of herbicides on traditional crops is not an established
pract:ice in the Region, and, since water is usually in short supply in most
areas except near the Volta Lake and natural streams, weed control by herbi-
cide application is not proposed for the project. Ultra low volume (ULV)
sprayers (which would require low quantities of water) would be experimented
with, and, if found practicable, could be introduced to project farmers for
weed, disease, and pest control.
5.03      The Crop Research Institute (CRI) has developed high yielding
composite maize varieties, of which La Posta, Composite 4, Composite 2 and
Golden Crystal (a yellow grained variety developed for livestock feed) are
known to yield over 3 tons/ha with good cultural practices. These varieties
are already grown by some farmers, and would be produced by the GSCO and dis-
tributed in sufficient quantities under the project. All seed would be treat-
ed with Aldrex, the seeding rate would be increased by 66%, and a combination
of compound (20-20-20) and straight (Sulphate of Ammonia) fertilizer would be
used (Working Paper C2). Cassava mosaic and bacterial blight are known
cassava diseases which can reduce yields up to 50%. Improved varieties with
combined tolerance to these diseases, developed at IITA, will be introduced
in the project area; in trials at IITA, these improved varieties out-yielded
local varieties by a factor of 2 to 18. Ankra and Black Ankra, two recom-
mended local varieties which have yielded 25,000 kg/ha in trials with ferti-
lizer in Ghana, would be used early in the project while setts of the IITA
material are being built up. Mixed cropping of maize and cassava is widely
practiced in the project area, and recommendations on this traditional system,
based on experience in other West African countries, include (a) relative
planting times and distances, (b) spatial arrangements, and (c) fertilizer
requirements. Yields of 3 tons/ha maize and 18 tons/ha cassava have been
obtained in mixed cropping trials in Nigeria. Further developments in mixed
croppLng systems, especially with cassava and legumes, would be explored by
the Rtesearch Section of the project.
5.04      Yam setts, rice, groundnuts and sorghum seed would be treated
before planting against soil pest damage. Farmers would be encouraged to
plant yam setts or seed tubers of 0.5 kg in order to obtain sturdy plants,
and to increase seeding rate by 50%. The vine cutting techniques developed
by IITA would be introduced for rapid multiplication and reduction of nema-
tode damage. With high fertilizer applications, yam yields could reach 40
tons/ha. However, since a higher fertilizer regime would affect taste and
keeping qualities the project would recommend ony 100/ kg/ha of 15-15-15
fertilizer. Selected local varieties of known good performance would be used,
and st:aking would be recommended. Rice would be grown mainly under dryland
(upland) conditions, and proven upland varieties would be introduced (0S6 and
LAC 23) in addition to the MOA recommended varieties IR442 and IR20. The
latter two varieties are better suited to irrigated conditions, and



- 31 -
would continue to be used under irrigation in the region. OS6 and LAC 23 have
both yielded in excess' of 2,000 kg/ha in Nigeria and Liberia. Imported
varieties of groundnuts, including She To Ci and Tirik, would be promoted; oil
and eating varieties would be imported from Gambia and Senegal especially high
oil varieties resistant to rosette disease) to encourage small scale groundnut
development. An early maturing Naga White sorghum variety which has produced
up to 2,800 kg on farmers' plots, would be recommended, along with short to
medium duration synthetic varieties bred from crossing of local dwarfs.
Groundnuts and sorghum are expected to have an average yield increase of 75%,
which reflects the low level of technology currently being used. Under
project supervision, farmers would establish nurseries for tomatoes and other
vegetables (okra, egg plant, etc.) and would be required to transplant healthy
seedlings rather than seed at stake, as is the common practice. The project
would assist farmers in identifying good areas for vegetable growing and in
laying out the plots. Vegetable plots would be rotated to reduce infestation
from nematodes and soil borne diseases. With irrigation and improved cultural
practices, yields of vegetables can be as high as 25 tons/ha.
5.05      Post-harvest handling of crops, e.g. storage protection, processing,
etc., would be given more attention than at present and farmers would be
advised on improved methods. Groundnut processing techniques would take into
account the known fungal organism Aspergillus flavus. The project would
encourage farmers to improve their on-farm storage facilities, and would
provide guidance in the construction of simple improved grain storage silos to
reduce moisture damage and pest infestation. Local materials such as clay
blocks would be produced by farmers for constructing the silos, 1/ and when
required other materials (e.g. roofing materials, cement, etc.) would be
supplied by the project through the FSC on a cash payment basis.
5.06      Since land is not a constraint to agricultural development in the
Region, in general, the crop rotation cycle is not expected to be shortened to
bring about increased production. However, the overall cultivated area is ex-
pected to grow at a slower rate than the annual rate of population increase
(1.7%). Cultivated areas of maize, rice, cassava and groundnuts are estimated
to increase about 1% per annum, yams and miscellaneous crops at about 1.6%,
while sorghum and vegetables would increase at about 0.7%. Yields of crops
under the project are likely to be affected as outlined in the table below:
1/    A simple storage silo has already been designed for the Upper Region
Project using only local materials.



- 32 -
Table 4: Comparative Yield Estimates
With
Area with       Pre-Project       Project 1/        Research/Trial
Crops             Project           Yield             Yield                 Yield
'000 ha           tons/ha          tons/ha             tons/ha
Maizie              11.0             0.75             2.25                  3.3  2/
Cassava             12.0             5.00             9.00                 15.0  3/
Yams                 2.4             4.00             7.20                 15.0  4/
Rice (Upland)        1.1             0.50             1.30                  2.0  5/
Groundnuts           1.1             0.40             0.70                  1.2  6/
Sorghum              0.6             0.50             0.80                  2.8  7/
Vegetables           0.7             8.00            14.00                   -   8/
Total               28.9
1/  Average yield in each project year.
2/  Ghana:  Grains Development Board Volta Region demonstration plots;
Composite 4 variety average yield for 93 farmers' plots.
3/  Ghana:  Farmers fields under FAO fertilizer program; 25 tons/ha
obtained at experimental stations.
4/  Nigeria:  IITA reported 40 tons/ha under high fertilizer application;
15 tons under moderate fertilizer application.
5/  Liberia and Nigeria:  Over 2 tons/ha obtained on farmers' fields with
fertilizer; Lofa project average 1.7 tons/ha.
6/  Ghana:  Average of 5 years varietal selection.
7/  Ghana:  Trials on farmers' plots.  Hybrids yield over 7 tons/ha in
trials.
8/  No reliable research data available, but potential estimated for irri-
gated vegetable production at 25 tons/ha.
5.07      The average yield increases which have been estimated for this project
will depend largely on developing an effective inputs distribution system, and
a tra:ined, motivated, and fully staffed and equipped extension service. Based
on experience in the Upper Region project, the anticipated farmers' response
and the adoption rate of technology are expected to be attained. However, the
research and farm trials program is expected to result in a more advanced tech-
nology, e.g. use of pre-planting herbicides, fungicides, advanced soil manage-
ment and husbandry methods, mechanization, etc., which some better farmers would
be able to adopt by the end of this phase of the project and could be more wide-
ly diffused during a second phase.
VI. MARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING AND PRICES
Market Prospects for Project Crops
6.01      Cereal production in Ghana during 1973-77 averaged about 0.7 million
tons but with wide year to year variation due to weather factors. Over the



- 33 -
same period, cereal imports more than doubled, to about 370,000 tons in
1977, or almost 60% of gross domestic production. According to avail-
able projections, the annual demand for food grains in Ghana is likely to
be 1.1 - 1.2 million tons during the mid-eighties. Assuming an optimistic
annual national production increase of 3.5% between 1980 and 1985, the
domestic production of cereals would still be less than 850,000 tons, there-
by creating a gross deficit of about 300,000-350,000 tons. Project incre-
mental production (over a five year period) of about 20,000 tons of cereals
per year would constitute no more than 10-12% of the expected deficit, and,
therefore, would have a ready domestic market.
6.02      Since 1970, the overall production of starchy staples (cassava, yam,
cocoyam and plantain) has remained nearly constant, while prices of all these
crops have increased manifold; the evidence thus suggests they enjoy a rela-
tively strong and stable demand. In the medium term, demand for these crops
is expected to increase at least at a rate equivalent to population growth
because (a) starchy staples constitute over 47% of national diet and no major
changes in tastes and preferences resulting in a shift away from their con-
sumption is likely, (b) in a situation of chronic cereal deficit, lower cereal
intake is likely to be compensated by increased consumption of starchy
staples, and (c) cassava is increasingly being used as animal feed, especially
for pigs. In view of the above, project net incremental production (over a
five year period) of 56,000 tons of root crops (48,000 tons cassava), which is
equivalent to about 15,000 tons of grains, should be readily absorbed by the
domestic market.
6.03      Over 1970-75, vegetable production increased by over 32%; neverthe-
less, market demand is not being satisfied and prices have been rising rapidly.
With rapid urbanization, projected income growth and improvement in dietary
habits in the rural areas, demand for vegetables is expected to grow substan-
tially in the medium and long term. Project incremental production at full
development would be around 3% of national demand and therefore would face no
disposal problem. The small incremental production of groundnuts would be
consumed in the producing areas and would improve the protein fats and oils
content of the diet.
Marketing
6.04      In Ghana, food crops are almost exclusively traded through the
private sector, and Government participation is restricted to nominal purchases
by the Food Distribution Corporation, the Rice Mills Unit and the Grain Ware-
housing Company. None of these operations have any measure of influence on
market supplies and/or prices. Private sector operations involve a large
number of buyers and sellers functioning in a complex system of arbitrage and
distribution. In general, market conduct and performance are constrained by
inadequate transport and storage facilities, lack of finances of market inter-
mediaries, poor physical communication, and market information. Despite these
shortcomings, traditional food crop marketing performs reasonably efficiently,
particularly when the market mechanism is not excessively inhibited by in-
frastructural and institutional rigidities.



- 34 -
6.05      The Volta Region is generally a food deficit area, and shortages be-
come acute during years with adverse weather. A considerable portion of the
incremental production would, therefore, be consumed within the Region, prob-
ably by the producing smallholders themselves. The existing market system,
without any major institutional and/or functional rearrangement, is expected
to clear the incremental marketed surplus.  The Region is also well-connected
with and is in close proximity to Accra-Tema (population over one million)
and other smaller concentrations of urban population; thus any surplus produc-
tion would have an easily accessible market. Disposal of produce from the
southern and central parts of the Region would be relatively easier than from
the Nrorth due to the latter's present relatively poor infrastructure.  However,
lake transport is likely to be improved with the provision of additional
facilities under the proposed assistance program of the Federal Republic of.
Germany.
Prices
6.06      Food crop prices in Ghana are largely determined by the relevant
domestic supply and demand conditions and official price regulations are con-
fined to producer prices for cocoa, cotton and sugarcane. However, the Govern-
ment maintains a minimum guaranteed price policy for all agricultural crops.
A seven-member Agricultural Produce Pricing Committee advises the Government
on the level of floor prices which is then implemented by the relevant sector
parastatals (para 6.04). In recent years, unusually high domestic free market
prices have completely superceded the Government's guaranteed floor price.
Given the predicted food deficits and increasing fiscal constraints on impor-
tation, high domestic food prices are expected to prevail for quite some time.
Incremental production from the project is unlikely to have any overall effect
on domestic market prices and, in general, the price outlook for project crops
is favorable.
6.07      Economic prices for maize, rice, groundnuts and sorghum were based on
IBRD world price forecasts while those for cassava, yam and vegetables were
based on local market trends. Financial crop prices for constructing farm bud-
gets were based on average post-harvest wholesale prices in selected markets.
The estimated economic and financial farmgate prices are shown at Annex 7
Table 1.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
7.01      Direct benefits to farmers (returns per ha and per manday) are evalu-
ated from single crop budgets and are summarized in Table 5.



- 35 -
Table 5: Net Return to Farmers
(¢)
Without Project 1/         With Project 1/           Incremental
Net Return  Net Return    Net Return    Net Return    per         per
Crop              per ha 2/ per manday       per ha 2/   per manday    ha        manday
Maize                  951      11.2          2,789          22.3      1,838    11.1
Cassava              1,300      23.6          2,320          25.8      1,020      2.2
Yams                 2,160      11.1          3,688          16.0      1,528      4.9
Rice                 1,127       9.8          2,980          19.9      1,853    10.1
Groundnuts             892       8.5          1,558           9.7        666      1.2
Sorghum              1,190      17.0          1,874          18.7        684      1.7
Vegetables          17,534      43.8        30,325           55.0     12,791    11.2
Maize/Cassava        2,240      26.4          3,897          31.3      1,657      4.8
1/ At subsidized prices.
2/ Net of non-labor costs.
7.02      Incremental farm incomes would depend on the crop combinations that
individual farmers adopt. Although farm size, crop combination and land
ownership patterns are diverse in the Region, and the data base is poor, two
hypothetical farm models have been prepared to represent the average farm in
the North and the South (Annex 2). For a participating farmer in the South,
net farm family income would rise from about 03,200 (US$1,160) to 06,700
(US$2,400) with subsidy and about ¢6,500 (US$2,300) without subsidy by the
fifth year of the project. By the same time, the net farm family income of a
participating northern farmer would have risen to e10,900 (US$3,900) with
subsidy and 010,600 (US$3,800) without subsidy from a pre-project level of
05,900 (US$2,100).
B. Financial Implications for Government and FASCOM
7.03      As there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce, the project
would not directly generate revenue to the Government. However, evidence from
similar projects elsewhere suggests that considerable secondary economic
activities usually develop in and around the project area with the development
of commercial servicing agencies and minor industries, together with a marked
increase in spending by beneficiaries on consumer goods and services from the
private sector. Revenues from indirect taxation would, therefore, increase,
although precise quantification is not possible at this time.
7.04      The Government cash flow (Annex 4) is negative, which is typical
of such a project. The annual incremental Government financing averages
0 3.7 million (US$1.3 million) and the annual total financing, including
present expenditure, averages ¢ 7.2 million (US$2.6 million) during the five
year investment period. The annual incremental Government financing is
calculated on the assumption that subsidies on fertilizer to be paid to FASCOM



- 36 -
would be required only in year 1. MOA is expected to remove all subsidies on
fertilizer, now amounting to about 75% of the farmgate price, as per timetable
agreed under the URADEP, that is, by June 30, 1981 (para 1.14). At the end of
the project period, GOG will face an increase in recurrent costs of about
015.C) million (US$5.5 million) per year. This is equivalent to about 0.6%
of COG recurrent budget in 1978/79 and is not expected to be a major burden on
GOG f'inances. The GOG cash outlfow has been prepared on the assumption that
banking institutions would provide 01.0 million (US$0.4 million) as equity
to FASCOM. In the event of equity non-participation by banking institutions,
the GOG equity contribution to FASCOM would increase correspondingly (para
3.26).  The GOG cash inflow does not take into account the corporate taxes and
dividends which would be paid by FASCOM after the project period.
7.05      FASCOM's projected profit and loss statement, cash flow and balance
sheet (Annex 5), have been prepared under assumptions discussed in paras
3.26 and 4.13-4.15. The analysis of financial statements is shown at Annex 5
Table 4. The profit and loss statement (Annex 5 Table 1) assumes that
90% of seasonal inputs sales in year 1 and 75% in later years would be on a
cash 'basis, the balance being deferred payment sales with 15.0% service
charge. The company would be profitable from Year 6 onwards but the cash flow
would be positive from Year 5 onwards (Annex 5 Table 2). Farmers' equity is
projected to grow to about ¢1.2 million (US$0.4 million) by Year 5 and
06.5 million (US$2.4 million) by Year 10 (Annex 5 Table 3). Farmers would
eventually acquire majority shares in the company. The company's debt/equity
ratio increases from 0.46 in Year I to 2.56 in Year 5, but declines to 0.57 by
Year ]0; the interest coverage and profitability ratios are satisfactory from
Years 6 and 7 onwards respectively (Annex 5 Table 4).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
8.01      Though the project investment period is 5 years, the improvement
in agricultural support services brought about by the proposed project,
including establishment of FASCOM for efficient input distribution and
strengthening of extension system, is expected to bring additional farm area
under improved practices in Years 6 and 7. The project is estimated to reach
full development in Year 7, resulting in increased production from about
51,000 ha annually compared to about 29,000 ha in Year 5 (Annex 1 Table 1).
The project would meet the Government's objective of increasing food crop
production, rural employment opportunities and rural incomes. The principal
direct benefit from the project would be the additional annual production of
about 30,000 tons of maize, 84,000 tons of cassava, 12,800 tons of yams, 1,700
tons of rice, 500 tons of groundnuts, 300 tons of sorghum and 6,600 tons of
vegetables at full development from Year 7 onwards (Annex 1 Table 2). At
projected world market prices, net foreign exchange savings from this addi-
tional production would be about US$6 million per year after deducting the
incremental cost of imported fertilizers, agro-chemicals, fuels, lubricants,
etc.



- 37 -
8.02      The project would directly benefit 60,000 of the 170,000 farm fami-
lies in the project area, or approximately 360,000 people. Farm incomes would
be significantly increased (paras 7.01 and 7.02); consequently, better stan-
dards of living and improved nutrition can be expected. Incremental on-farm
employment at full development would be about 2.6 million mandays per year.
8.03      Important benefits would accrue from the project services and
studies. Improved veterinary services would increase the value of smallholder
livestock holdings as well as the profitabilities of commercial operations;
there would be a general qualitative improvement of livestock in the Region.
Investigations on irrigation potential should assist in the development of
technically viable irrigation schemes in the Region and thereby expand agri-
cultural production in future. Project conducted farm trials and research
would assist the introduction of more advanced technologies during later
phases of development in the Region and elsewhere in Ghana.
8.04      MOA's capability in the field of agricultural development planning,
programming and implementation would be improved through training of technical
and managerial staff in conjunction with the use of the T & V Extension
system. Through restructuring of the Regional MOA, the Project would demon-
strate the scope for and usefulness of decentralizing public sector operations
in agriculture. This could have a far-reaching and profound impact on Govern-
ment's agricultural development policies, programs and administration. Among
some of the other non-quantifiable benefits are (a) improvement of rural
health due to improved water supply, although on a limited scale; and (b) gen-
eration of non-farm employment in other sectors such as, construction, trade,
transportation and processing, due to project-induced increase in the level
of economic activity in the region. The latter is expected to give rise to
substantial increases in indirect revenue to Government which cannot be quan-
tified at this stage.
B. Economic Rate of Return
8.05      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project is estimated to
be 16% (Annex 7 Table 2). At a discount rate of 10%, the estimated opportunity
cost of capital (OCC) in Ghana, the economic net present value (NPV) of the
project is 065.8 million (US$23.9 million). Assumptions underlying the ERR
calculations are as follows:
(a) Project Life: assumed to be 25 years, including a 5-year
investment period; however, the project is assumed to reach
full development in Year 7 and farm inputs and production
benefits have accordingly been phased over 7 Years;
(b) Project Costs: (i) only incremental costs net of all identi-
fiable taxes, duties and subsidies were included; (ii) phy-
sical contingencies of 15% of base costs for civil works and 5%
for all other items were included; (iii) costs of all compo-
nents were included; (iv) costs of access and feeder roads
maintenance after Year 5 were assumed to be offset by non-
project road user savings and not included in the analysis; (v)
all farm labor was costed at the estimated shadow wage rate of



- 38 -
04.0 per manday; (vi) all foreign exchange costs were
adjusted by the currently estimated shadow exchange rate of
US$1.00 = 05.9; (vii) replacement costs for vehicles and
equipment have been provided for all years after Year 5;
and (viii) post-project operating costs (in Years 6 and 7)
are assumed to be at the same level as that in Year 5, less
the cost of international staff; however, vehicle and
equipment operating costs from Year 8 onwards are assumed
to be half of those in Year 7.
(c)  Project benefits:  (i) benefits were assumed to accrue ex-
clusively from increased crop production; (ii) for inter-
nationally traded crops, production was valued at economic
farmgate prices based on IBRD forecasts for 1980 in con-
stant 1979 dollars and using a shadow exchange rate of
US$1.00=¢5.9 and, for domestically traded crops, local
wholesale prices were used as the basis; (iii) no residual
value was added at the end of the project economic life, (iv)
no additional non-agricultural benefits from improved roads and
rural infrastructure were calculated, and (v) benefits from
livestock and fisheries development were not quantified.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
8.06      Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the potential
impact of various unpredictable factors on the ERR and to determine which
variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. As a measure,
crossover values 1/, using an OCC of 10%, were computed. The numerical
results, discussed below, show that overall the project is fairly resilient
and remains viable under various adverse situations. The success of the
project is, however, most sensitive to future yield development, especially
for maize which constitutes more than one-third of project-induced production.
The other variables and the probability of critical variations is discussed
below.
8.07      Project Development.  The most important test undertaken was on
the assumption that there would be no project development after Year 5.
This implies farmer adoption of improved practices on 29,000 ha, which is only
57% of the expected 51,000 ha at full development. In terms of value of
incremental annual production in 1979 constant terms, this implies about 039.9
million (US$14.5 million) which is only 58% of the expected annual incremental
value of 068.2 million (US$24.8 million) at full development. The ERR in this
case is 10%. Though the project remains viable, the possibility of a lower
than predicted farmer adoption rate has to be considered seriously, given the
1/   The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which the
NPV discounted at the OCC is zero; it is a measure of how far the
variable can differ from its most likely value before the project be-
comes economically unacceptable. The crossover value may therefore also
be interpreted as the value of the variable tested beyond which the ERR
wqould be below the estimated OCC.



- 39 -
nature of smallholder farming and the difficulty in predicting the exact level
of farmer response. Every effort would, therefore, have to be made by project
management to achieve the targeted adoption rate up to Year 7.
8.08      Yields.  The crossover value of aggregate output is about 18% below
the expected incremental production. Assuming that this lower than expected
total output would be entirely due to lower than projected maize yields, the
crossover maize yield is 1.6 tons/ha which is 29% lower than the appraisal
yield estimate of 2.25 tons/ha. The present without project yield is estimated
to be 0.75 tons/ha. The research/trial average yield at the Volta Region dem-
onstration plots of the Grains Development Board has been 3.3 tons/ha. Con-
sidering that the proposed technology for maize production is well-tested,
it is most unlikely that incremental yields over the life of the project would
be lower than 1.6 tons/ha so as to make the project unviable. Nevertheless,
to minimize this possibility the attainment of maize target yields would be a
prime objective for project management and a major focus of attention for super-
vision missions; close monitoring and evaluation would be an additional safe-
guard. The project is relatively insensitive to lower cassava and vegetable
yields, which would have to fall by 36% and 34%, respectively, from their
appraisal yield estimates before the project becomes economically unacceptable.
The crossover yields are 5.8 tons/ha and 9.3 tons/ha compared to the present
without project yields of 5.0 tons/ha and 8.0 tons/ha respectively. The tech-
nology for both of these crops is well tested and farmers in the project area
are already well accustomed to cultivating these crops. The probability
of cassava and vegetable yields being lower than 5.8 tons/ha and 9.3 tons/ha
respectively is, therefore, very low.
8.09      Costs.  The project is relatively insensitive to increases in
costs. Overall costs would have to increase by more than 21%, civil works
costs by 178%, investment costs other than civil works by 183%, operating
costs by 84%, or farm inputs costs by 42% before the project becomes econo-
mically unviable. A 20% increase in costs of both civil works and farm
inputs would still result in an ERR of over 12%. However, a 20% increase in
cost of civil works with a 20% decrease in overall benefits would reduce the
ERR to a little above 8%. A 10% increase in overall costs with a 10% decrease
in overall benefits would result in an ERR of about 10%. However, the pro-
bability of large variations in economic costs is extremely low.
8.10      Development Period.   The project is relatively sensitive to possi-
ble delays in implementation. Assuming a one year delay in project benefits,
the ERR would be 12%; however, if there is a parallel one-year lag in costs,
the ERR would remain at about 16%; a one year lag in project costs and two
year lag in benefits would result in an ERR of 12%.
8.11      Exchange Rate.  The ERR at the official exchange rate of US$1.00
02.75 is estimated to be about 28%.
8.12      Risks.  There are no unusual technical project risks.  Project or-
ganization has been structured within the Regional administrative framework;
operational problems constraining implementation of the Upper Region and other
ongoing projects have been fully taken into account, and therefore, implemen-
tation problems are expected to be minimal. The technical and adoption risks



- 40 -
are considered modest because the proposed technology is simple, reasonably
well tested under local conditions, and would not require any major changes in
the traditional farming system and institutions. The agronomic recommendations
are based on careful evaluation of experimental results, field trials, and
experiences in other similar projects and would be further improved by the
project's farm trials and research unit. Also, sufficient technical advice,
supervision, monitoring and complementary support services would be provided
under the project to ensure systematic diffusion of the recommended technology.
However, the project faces risks related to (a) the high inflation rate,
which, if it continues, could lead to economic distortions, cost overruns,
and difficulties on the part of the Government in meeting its financial
contribution, and (b) the availability of foreign exchange to meet recurrent
costs for imported farm inputs.   The Government now demonstrates a greater
awareness of the need to improve productivity of the agricultural sector, and
it is anticipated, that, while the Government continues its efforts to reduce
the inflation rate, it would provide full financial support to the project.
IX. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.0].     The following assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations:
(a) GOG would cause satisfactory operational arrangements to be
made concerning seed multiplication (para 3.08), importation
and distribution of tractors under the project (para 3.11),
and implementation of the rural roads (para 3.16), water
supply (para 4.03), and civil work project components (para
4.03) and training (para 4.12);
(b) consultants would be employed in a manner satisfactory to
IDA and consultants' reports would be promptly reviewed
with IDA for examining possible implementation implications
(para 3.22);
(c) GOG would (i) provide equity contribution to FASCOM
totalling 08.5 million; (ii) increase its equity
participation correspondingly in the event of equity
participation failure by one or all of the banking
institutions; (iii) provide a long-term loan to FASCOM
for incremental farm inputs totalling 016.1 million
at 12% interest with the principal repayable over
30 years with 7 years' grace period (para 3.26); and
(iv) reimburse FASCOM fully through MOA for the subsidy
amount for all farm inputs and services for which
government subsidies may be in effect (para. 4.14);



- 41 -
(d) GNPA would make satisfactory arrangements to meet project
fertilizer importation needs on schedule (para 3.28);
(e) COG would contract the services of an internationally
recognized finance house (on a competitive rate of
commission) which would not only act as a procurement
agency but would also provide short term financing for
procurement (para 3.28);
(f) on the basis of the VORADEC and FASCOM approved budget,
the GOG would (a) make appropriate allocations in MOA
budget and thereafter release to the Volta Region MOA and
FASCOM, as the case may be, all necessary funds quar-
terly in advance as per cash flow statements and (b)
allocate necessary foreign exchange for importation
of recurrent farm inputs by FASCOM (para 3.32);
(g) all budgets, audited financial statements, and progress
reports would be submitted as specified by IDA (para 3.33);
(h) key project staff would be appointed with qualifications
and experience and on terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.09 and 4.10); and
(i) GOG would prepare and furnish to the Bank, promptly
after project completion, a project completion report
in accordance with a format and contents acceptable to
IDA (para 4.17).
9.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed
IFAD loan of US$12.5 million had been fulfilled (para 3.25);
(b) FASCOM had been established in a form satisfactory to
IDA and a subsidiary financing agreement had been
executed between GOG and FASCOM (para 3.26);
(c) a separate bank account, with an initial deposit of
03.0 million and Government-guaranteed overdraft
facilities of up to 03.0 million, had been opened by the
Volta Region MOA with a commercial bank in Ho (para 3.32);
(d)  VORADEC had been established with powers, functions and
composition satisfactory to IDA (para 4.02);
(e) the RAC had been appointed with qualifications and powers
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.09); and
(f) the Chief of Field Operations had been appointed (para 4.09).



- 42 -
9.03      It is proposed that retroactive financing of up to US$350,000
be made available to finance expatriate staff salaries, construction materials
inc:Luding prefabricated structures, vehicles, machinery, equipment and spare
parts (para 3.31).
9.04      With the above assurances, conditions and recommendations, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$29.5 million.



- 43 -
Annex I
Table 1
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULLTURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Crop DeveloPment
('000 hectaresa
CROP                          PRE-PROJECT    YEAR-I    YEAR-2    YEAR-3    YEAR-4    YEAR-5    INCREMENT    YEAR-6    YEAR-7    INCREMENT
Maize
Traditional                  65.0          64.5      63.0       61.5       59.0       57.0       (8.0)        54.0       50.0        (15.0)
Improved                      0.0           1.0       3.0        5.0        8.0      11.0        11.0         15.0       20.0        20.0
Subtotal!                65.0          65.5       66.0       66.5      67.0       68.0         3.0         69.0       70.0         5.0
Cassava
Traditional                  75.0          75.0      74.5       72.5       70.0       67.0       (8.0)        65.0       62.0        (13.0)
Improved                      0.0           1.0       2.0        5.0        8.0      12.0        12.0         16.0       21.0         21.0
Subtotal:                75.0          76.0       76.5       77.5      78.0       79.0         4.0         81.0      83.0          8.0
Yam
Traditional                  15.0          15.0      15.0       15.0       14.5       14.0       (1.0)        13.5       13.0         (2.01
Improved                      0.0          0.2        0.5        0.8        1.6       2.4         2.4          3.2       4.0          4.0
Subtotal:                15.0          15.2       15.5       15.8       16.1      16.4         1.4         16.7       17.0         2.0
Rice
Traditional                   7.0           7.0       6.9        6.8        6.6       6.2        (0.8)         5.8        5.4         (1.6)
Improved                     0.0           0.1        0.2        0.4        0.8       1.1         1.1          1.6        2.1         2.1
Suhtotal:                 7.0           7.1        7.1        7:2       7.2        7.3         0.3          7.4       7.5          0.5
Groundnuts
Traditional                   6.0           6.0       5.9        5.8        5.5        5.2       (0.8)         4.9        4.6         (1.4)
Improved                     0.0           O.1        0.2        0.4        0.7       1.1         1.1          1.5        1.9         1.9
Subtotal:                  6.0          6.1        6.1        6.2        6.2       6.3         0.3          6.4        6.5         0.5
Sorghum
Traditional                  3.0            2.9       2.8        2.7        2.6        2.5       (0.5)         2.3        2.1         (0.9)
Improved                    0.0            0.1        0.2        0.3        0.4       0.6         0.6          0.8        1.0          1.0
Subtotal:                3.0            3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0       3.0         0.1          3.1        3.1         0.1
Vegetables
Traditional                  3.0            2.9        2.8       2.7        2.6        2.4       (0.6)         2.3        2.1         (0.9)
Improved                    0.0            0.1        0.2        o,4        0.5       0.7         0.7          0.9        1.1          1.1
Subtotal:                3.0            3.0        3.0        3.1        3.1       3.1         0.1          3.2        3.2         0.2
Miscellaneous Crops   1/
Traditional                17.0           17.2      17.4       17.6       17.9       18.3        1.3         18.8       19.2          2.2
TOTAL FOOD CROPS              191.0          193.1      194.6     196.9      198.5      201.5       10.5        205.6      209.5         18.5
1/ Plantains, Cocoyams, Oil Palm, other grains and root crops.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Table 2
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPME!NT PROJECT
Target Crop Incremental Production Under Project  l-
('000 m.tons)
CROP                             Tons/Ha    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Maize
With Project                   2.25          2.2        6.8       11.2        18.0       24.8       33.8       45.0
Without P!rejeet               0.75          0.8        2.2        3.8        6.0         8.2       11.2       15.0
Increment                                    1.4        2.6        7.4       12.0       16.6        22.6       30.0
Cassava
With Project                   9.0           9.0       18.0       45.0        72.0      108.0      144.0      189.0
Without Project                5.0           5.0       10.0       25.0       40.0        60.0       80.0      105.0
Increment                                   4.0         8.0       20.0       32.0        48.0       64.0       84.0
Yams
With Project                   7.2           1.4        3.6        5.8       11.5        17.3       23.0       28.8
Without Project                4.0           0.8        2.0        3.2        6.4         9.6       12.8       16.0
Increment                                    0.6        1.6        2.6        5.1        7.7        10.2       12.8
Rice
With Project                   1.3           0.1        0.2        0.5         1.0        1.4        2.1        2.7
Without Project                0.5           0.1        0.1        0.2        0.4         0.6        0.8        1.0
Increment                                   0.0         0.1        0.3        0.6        0.8         1.3        1.7
Groundnuts
With Project                   0.7          .0.1        0.1        0.3        0.5         0.8        1.0        1.3
Without Project                0.4           0.0        0.1        0.2        0.3         0.4        0.6        0.8
Increment                                    0.1        0.0        0.1        0.2        0.4         0,4        0.5
Sorghum
With Project                   0.8           0.1        0.2        0.2        0.3         0.5        0.6        0.8
Without Project                0.5           0.0        0.1        0.2        0.2         0.3        0.4        0.5
Increment                                   0.1         0.1        0.0        0.1        0.2         0,2        0.3
Vegetables
With Project                  14.0.          1.4        2.8        5.6        7.0         9.8       12.6       15.4
Without Project                8.0           0.8        1.6        3.2        4.0         5.6        7.2        8.8
Increment                                   0.6         1.2        2.4        3.0        4.2         5.4        6.6
1' Based on total hectares for each crop receiving proJect's improved technological package



- 45 -
Annex 2
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fvarm Budget for a Representative 1.5 ha South Farm
WITHOUT PROJECT                           WITH PROJECT
Area    Labor         Yield    Value        Area    Labor          Yield    Value
(ha)    (Mandaya>      (kg)    (e)          (ha)    (Mandeys)       (kg)    (0)
INCOME
1.  Maize          .9       77          675        864          .9       113        2,025    2,592
2.  Cassava        .4       22        2,000        520          .4        46        3,600       936
3.  Yams           1       20          400        216          .1        23          720       389
4.  Vegetables    .1        40          800      1,760          .1        55        1,400    3,080
TOTAL INCOME                               3,360                                        6,997
TOTAL LABOR REQUIREMENT   159                                            237
of which Hired Labor        16                                           24
EXPENDITURE (C)
With            Without                    With                 Without
Subsidy           Subsidy                  Subsidy                Subsidy
1.  Labor                  80                80                       120                   120
2. Other Expenditure
Maize                8                27                        82                   276
Cassava             --                --                         8                    34
Yams                --                --                        20                    26
Vegetables           7                17                        48                    81
TOTAL EXPENDITURE (C)      95               124                       278                   537
NET INCOME (C)           3,265            3,236                     6,719                 6,460
Farm Budeet for a Representative 2.8 ha North Farm
WITHOUT PROJECT                           WITH PROJECT
Area    Labor        Y;eld    Value         Area    Labor         Yield.  Value
(ha)    (Mandays)   (kg)       (e)          (ha)    (Mandays)   (kg)       (e)
INCOME
1.   Yams         1.4       273        5,600    3,024           1.4      322       10,080     5,443
2.   Rice          .6        69          300       720           .6       90          780      1,872
3.   Sorghum       .4        28          200       480           .4       40          320        768
4.   Groundnuts   .3         32          120       288           .3       48          210        504
5.   Vegetables   .1         40          800    1,760            .1       55        1,400     3,080
TOTAL INCOME                           6,272                                        11,667
TOTAL LABOR REQUIREMENT    442                                           555
1/
of which Hired Labor         44                                           56
EXPENDITURE (t)
With            Without                    With                Without
Subsidy          Subsidy                     Subsidy              Subsidy
1.  Labor                  220             220                          280                280
2.  Other Expenditure
Yams                 --              --                         280                 357
Rice                 44              50                          132                170
Sorghum               4               4                           19                 51
Groundnuts           20              33                           36                 79
Vegetables            7              17                           48                 80
TOTAL EXPENDITURE (t)      295             324                          795              1,017
NET INCOME (o)           5,977           5,948                       10,872             10,650
1/   Labor is hired at the peak of the crop season for an assumed 10% of total
labor requirements.



- 46 -
G H A ?1 A                                                                                    Table 1
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DE51E72O1M0 I7 PROJECT
2122445Y SF COSTS 'O '2YO0
Year-        Y Year-                      Year-4-         Y-5          Total          6 elgr.   t         -ocal  oot
A.  rEIJOS2.3 T
bvsi1.bI' gs                                         2,575.0       4,360.0        650.0          --                          7,585.0      64      4,3w55.          73S
:souobnd                                             2,595.0       5,915.0       4,900.D         --            --           13,410.5D     50      6,05.0         6,705.0
t-r-ibols fcr Access Roads                              15.0          60.0          60.2         47.0          --              182.0      91        16'.0           17.3
Onprovenenn  of Feeder Roads                           __          2,000.0         960.o         .-            --           2,960.0      55       1,c68.0        1,33b.5
S'-ITOT'AL                                           5,185.0      12,335.0       6,570.0         47.5          __          24,137.0       55     1'             15,-'7!.
_ 1311                                               2,877.4       1,357.0       1,103.3       2,241.I         977.4        8,556.2      94       o,97,            4   3
?- ot-roY 4_Y  1   AIDSlE'.:2....               2,473.2        1,371.0       1,360.0          20.0          20.0        5,744.2      7, 4,503.4             1,240.3
333 . 03603.40, :",R3ITURE7, ETC.                      176.2          84.o          10.0         __            __             270.2      57         15 _.
S CO2Y 32-00I0015 FAIN' PsstAre DevelofPent)             4.2           6.o           6.o          6.0            2.0           24.0      50          i                .2
6. HC  322RS?;?  7ASMH                                         68.o         --            --            --            --              68.0      --        --               68.0
7.  :3IOUITAI'0r                                              246.0         507.2         439.5         197.5      5    5.5        1,455.7     100      1,455.7    __
73241 27.7102223 z^sr                               .  11,029.8      16,160.2       9,488.8       2,511.6       1,064.9       40,255.3       68     27,536.7       !2,718.6
_.    ;rY3s024  37A232..G                                          __            100.0          50.          --                           150.0    100          150.2         --
.310A-I.i7: CSTS
1. 2A.ar7S A25 WAGES                                       1,897.5         ,897 5       1,893.5       1,787.5       1,677.5        9,157.5     100      9,157.5       23
7ntersnbto-aRZ  tadf                                 4,113.1       4,J501        4,788.&       4,792.9       4,795.        22,939.4       -                    22,939.4
L.ocal Staff
SUB-TOTAL SAIA4s S                                   6,010.6       6,347.6       6,685.6       6,580.4       6,472.7       32,096.9       Zs      9.1S7 S       2.St9t4
2. VE7HIC12 OEPATI0G & 5A9rE252CE                             636.3       1,187.6       1,345.4       1,351.4       1,351.4        5,872.1    ' 60      3,523.3        2,348.3
3. P -2NT2 . MACHINERY & Eq2UIP22TT                          262.8         670.8         802.5         803.5         804.5        3,344.1      60      2,006.5         1,337.6
UPEPATNG1 RAITTENhSICE
4.  OADS w.Ani cpxoA                                         --              3.2          96.0         147.2         158.4          404.8      55        222.6           182.2
5.  -'Z.A1 CSFFI03 COSS                                      467.7         903.6       1,283.8       1,442.9       1,443.3        5,341.3      42      2,342.6        3,198.7
6. ?£SEARC--: !t'AEIAi (SEED, etc.-                            40.0         100.0          80.o         --            --             220.0      95        209.0            11.0
01LS-TOTAL                                            7,417.4      9,212.8      10,293.3      10,325.4      10,170.3        47.479.2     __    17.461.5        30.017.7
LESS PRSEZST =IMITUs RE                               3,115.6      3,421.1       3,756.4       3,760.8       3,760.a       17,814,7      __        __          17,814.7
INCFfLSSA1 oPnnrET 2E?4flAtlE                         4,~i30.8     5,791.7       6,536.9       6.564.6 6     6.469.5       29.,j         59     17.461.5 
D.  INCF1NWT?A FARI =MS
!. C,2=                                                  342.2         540.3         739.1         963.1       1,073.5        3,658.2    75       2,743.7            914.5
2.  C0SM4CAL2/I NSECTZCIDES/DRUGS AND M1SN.                   126.5         166.0         234.0         284.5         343.0        1,158.0    95        1,100.1            57.9
3.  3EEFFS79.0                                                              129.0         156.0         240.0         245.0          849.0       7        57.7           791.3
4.  FISHING I22T3 AT3D 5E5                                    100.0         100.0         __ -          __            __             200.0    95         190.0            10.0
?.   Al40LAL E73D                  .                           47.4          67.0          67.0          67.2          67.0          315.4     50        157.7           157.7
6.  S.MALL FAR"00.  2 ASS EQ52RNET                             72.0         144.0         144.0         180.0         180.0          720.0    95         684.o             36.0
7.  'AR.1 EQUIP19T                                            500.0         500.0         500.0         500.0         500.0        2,500.0    95       2,375.0           125.0
TOTAL FARM :T22TS                                     1.266.6       1,646.3       1.840i,       S,234.1       2,413.5        9,400.6     78      7.308.2         2,092.4
E.  02r'  '020PKiHG CAPFS FOR 0FASCOM  I/                                       _229_          7SEa            9.4           9.4          820.3    18         149.5           670.8
3A.3E COSTS                                                17,027.5      23,998.0      17,988.2     11,319.7        9,957.3       80,290.7    65    52,605.9          27,684.R
FE0fSIChL 052rlG252CIES                                     1,369.8       2,433.5       1,556.4        570.6          497.9        6,428.2     62     3,965.5          2,462.7
7Fi^E2 33-TI2:GE2C5.S                                       3,366.5      10,238.0      L2,958.4    10,380.9        13,430,8       50,374.6    32    16,106.2          34,268.4
T^rAL0 PROjlCT c3ST                                            21,763.3      36,669.5      32,503.0     22,271.2       23,986,o      137,093.5    53   72,677.6            64,41S.9
$ Equova_nt 1'5000                                              7,914.i      13,334.4      11,819.3      6,o98.6         8,685.8      49,852.2/  53   26,428.2            23,424.0
g  Isclcdes all local staff -osts  vehicle 0 & M costs and general office costs in Y, half of inorment.1 rosts of
these  t-s=  InD Y2ad Y3 and sni7 estimated coats of apare Parts for vehioles in YA and Y 5
b/  --Lcd.es an en,ibated p3.1 _Llion (US$1.1 nilllon) in tazes and duties.



-47 -
Annex 3
Table 2
Page 1
GHANA                               Pg 
VOLTA .RE8a1   AGRICU3LTURAL DEVELOfMZT PROJECT
StLfLMARY OF COSTS BY CCPCr.CTS
'000)
Local     Foreign        Istal
A.  Crop Development
1. Farm Inputs
(i)  Fertil-zer                                                               914        2,744        3,658
(ii)  Cbemicals, etc. (Less Drugs & Minerals)                                   57        1,J75        1,132
'iii)  Seeds                                                                    791            58         349
2.  Vehicles (Research & Extension)                                                 93        1,858        1,951
3.  Plant, Machinery & Equipment (Research Section)                                 10          186          196
4.  Incremental Staff Salaries & Allowances (Research &  Extension)             2,095         _,10        3,195
Plant & Equipment 0 & M(Research)                                               73          1og          132
6.  Vehicle Operating & Maintenance                                                891        1,336        2,227
7.  Ho Research Farm                                                                68          -             68
TOTAL CROP DEVELOIMNT                                                       4,992        3,466       13,458
3,  Livestock Development
1. Inputs
Drugs and Minerals                                                               1           25           26
Pasture Development                                                            12            12           24
Animal Feed                                                                   158           157          315
2.  Vehicles                                                                        34          676          710
3.  Equipment                                                                       60          323          383
4.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                              105           -           105
5.  Vehicle Operating Cost                                                         265          397          662
6.  Machinery & Equipment Operating Cost                                            52           78          130
7.  General Office Costs                                                           125          126          251
TOTAL LrVESTOCE                                                               812        1,794        2,606
C.  Fisheries Development
. Inputs
Fishing Nets & Gear                                                            10          190          200
2.  Vehicles                                                                        14          272          286
3.  Equipment                                                                       10           10           20
4.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                              165           -           165
5.  Vehicle Operating Cost                                                          69          103          172
o.  Equipment Operating Cost                                                         2            3            5
TOTAL FISHEIES                                                                270          578           848
D.  Irrigation Development
1.  Vehicles                                                                        22          430          452
2.  Plant, Machinery & Equipment including 10 irrigation schemes                   405        1,495        1,900
3.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                              370          770        1,14C
4.  Vehicles Operating & Maintenance Cost                                          119          179          298
5.  Plant & Machinery Operating & Maintenance Cost                                 295          442          737
TOTAL IRRIQATION                                                            1,211        3,316        4,527
E.  Rural 'Water Supply
1.  Capital Cost (Boreholes)                                                       600          900        1,500
2.  Equipment Operating & Maintenance Cost                                         204          306          511
TOTAL WATER SUPPLY                                                            804        1,206        2,010
F.  Access & Feeder Roads
1.  Materials & Other Construction Costs                                        1,349         1,793        3,142
2.  Vehicles (Engineering Services - Civil)                                          6          124          131
3.  Plant, Machinery & Equipment Cost                                               37          712          719
4.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                              426          962        1,388
5.  Vehicle Maintenance & Operating Cost                                            45           67          112
6.  Plant & Machinery Maintenance & Operating Cost                                 620          929        1,549
7.  Roads Maintenance Cost                                                         132          223          4o5
TOTAL ACCESS & FEEDER ROADS                                                 2,665        4,810        7,4,75



48 -                                                          Annex 3
Table 2
Page 2
)2 '0oo)
Local     Foreign        Total
G.  Houses and Buildings                                                         9,435        _;,560         20,99
H.  Commercial Services - FASCOM
1.  Vehicles                                                                   102         2,c42         2,144
2.  Office Equipmen-                                                            41            55             96
3.  Farm Tools & Farm Eouipment                                                161         3,359         3,220
L.  Expatriate Staff Salary                                                     -          1,100         l,r00
5. Other Working Capital
A.  Local Staff Cost                                                       559                         559
B.  Vehicle Operating & Maintenance Cost                                    28            66            94
C.  Office Administration Cost                                              84            84           168
TCTAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES                                                  975         6,4o6         7,3c1
I. Training & Coconut Research
(a) Training Section
L.  Vehicles                                                                16           324           340
2. Audio-Visual Equipment                                                    -           100           100
3.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                      446          963          1,409
4.  Vehicles 0 & M                                                         147          221            368
5.  Plant & Equipment 0 & M                                                  6             9            15
(b) Overseas Training                                                            -          150            150
(c) I.R.H.O.
1.  Vehicles                                                                 8           169           177
2.  Equipment                                                                -            61            61
3. Vehicles 0 & M                                                           52            79           131
4.  Equipment 0 & M                                                         22            32            54
5.  Research Material                                                       11          209            220
6.  Annual IRHO Contract                                                    -             46            46
(d) Adidome Farm Institute
1.  Vehicles                                                               108          240            348
2.  Equipment (including Farm Tractor)                                      85            89           174
3.  Vehicles 0 & M                                                          67           100           167
4.  Equipment 0 & M                                                         26            40            66
5.  General Office Costs                                                 1,189          286          1,475
TOTAL TRAINING & COCONUT RESEARCH                                   2,183         3,118          5,301
J. Consultants
1.  Consultants for I.R.H.O.                                                    -            862           862
2.  Consultants General (27 man-months)                                         -            594           594
TOTAL CONSULTANTS                                                           -         1,456          1,456
K.  Nutrition Extension
1.  Vehicles                                                                    14          280            294
2.  Plant, Machinery & Equipment Cost                                            5            95           i00
3.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                          187            -            187
4.  Vehicle 0 & M                                                               96           143           239
5.  Equipment 0 & M                                                              9            14            23
TOTAL DUTRITION EXTENSION                                                  311           532           843
L.  Management and Support Services
1.  Vehicles                                                                    82         1,642         1,724
2.  Plant, Machinery & Equipment                                                27           513           540
3.  Office Machines, Equipment, Furniture etc.                                  75           120           195
4.  Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                        1,331         4,263         5,594
5.  Vehicle 0 & M                                                              598           898         1,496
6.  Plant & Machinery 0 & M                                                     29            44            73
7.  General Office Costs                                                     1.885        1,884          3,769
TOTAL MANAC5=T sERvIcEs                                                  4,027         9,364        13,391
GRAND TOTAL - BASE COST                                                 27,685       52,606         80,291



Annex 3
-  49  _                                 Table 3
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT
EXTERNAL FINANCING
%           LOCAL        FOREIGN        TOTAL
US$ Millions
1) INVESTMENT COSTS
Foreign Exchange Cost of
Housing, Buildings,
Construction Materials
for Access Roads and
Improvement of Feeder Roads        100            -            6.73           6.73
Local Cost of above items             90           7.12           --            7.12
Cost of Vehicles                     100           0.42          3.89           4.31
Cost of Machinery and Equipment      100           0.78          2.04           2.82
Cost of Office Equipment except
Furniture                          100            --           0.07           0.07
Cost of Furniture                     75           0.05           --            0.05
Cost of Livestock Farms              100           0.01          0.01           0.02
Cost of Consultants                  100            --           0.71           0.71
2)  OVERSEAS TRAINING COSTS              100            --           0.07           0.07
3)  OPERATING COSTS
Cost of International Staff          100            --           4.66           4.66
Foreign Exchange Cost of
operating costs (excluding
research material)                 100            --           4.31           4.31
Foreign Exchange Cost of Spare
parts for FASCOM Vehicles          100            --           0.02           0.02
Local operating cost
(excluding local salaries)          75          5.20            --            5.20
4)  INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS AND
RESEARCH MATERIAL COST               100           2.10          3.88           5.98
TOTAL EXTERNAL FINANCING                          15.68         26.39          42.07
TOTAL IDA FINANCING (70%)                         11.00         18.50          29.50
TOTAL IFAD FINANCING (30%)                         4.68          7.89          12.57



GHANA                                                                              Annex 4
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Covernment Cash Flow        (a'OOOi
y             y                                                                                                                                    Y V  V  V  V  V  V  V  I  V
1             2             3              4              5             6              7             8              9              10              it              12
CASH INFLWN
1.   IDA Credit   1/                                              13.200.0       22,800.0       19,600.0       32,500.0       13,100.0          --           --            --              --            --               --
2.   IFAD Loan      I                                               5,700.0       9,700.0        8,300.0         5,300.0       5,400.0                                                    --                      --              -
3.   Interest paid by FASCOM for
Farm Input Loan   3/                                          --             181.6          451.9          802.7        1,304.3       1,937.9       1,937.9      1,91 .9         1,833.0        1,7419.0        1,60.0           i,581.u
4.   Repayment of Ferm Input
Loan by FASCOM    3/                                          --                                                        --                                          700.0         700.0                                            700.0
TOTAL  INFLOW                                                      18,900.0       32,681.6      ?83,51.9        18,602.7      19.804.3        1,937.9      1,937.9       2,616.9         2,533.0          2,369.0                       2,281.0
CASN OUTPLLOU
1.   Loan to FASCOM for Farm Inputn   2/                           1,513.3       2,252.9        2,922.7         4,180.1        5,280.4          --            --                           --             --              --              --
2.   Equity for FASCON
a. for fined asesa                                        1,104.3       1,829,1        1,149.4            577.1          54. 0         -             --             --             --            __              _      
b. for working capital  /                                   258.7         283.7          320.7            352.3          388.8
3.   Pertilizer subsidies to FASCOM  5/                              294.7            --            --               _              _-
4.   Project Costs (excluding FASCQM, farx
inputo   cost and taxes and duties)                       18,307.8       31,436.8      27,372.3        16,735.1       17,078.0       15,953.7 y  17,549.1    19,304.0           21,234.4       23,357.9        2 ,(693.7        2 ,263.0
5.   IDA Credit Service Charge   1/                                   49.5          184.5         343.5           463.9         559.9           609.o        609.o0        609.0           6o09 . o) 9.                   607.5            601.4
6.   IDA Principal Repayment    1/ --                                                --           -_ --                          -- _- -_ __                                                                              8L  O .0         812.0
7.   IFAV Loan Service Charge   2/                                    28.5         105.5          195.5          263.5          317.0           344.0         344.0        344.0           344.0          344.o        1,047.7           1,047.7
8.   IFAD Principal Repayment  r                                      --
TOTAL OUYEFLOW                                                    91,556.8      36,092.5       32,304.1       22,572.0       24,198.1        16,906.7    18,502.1    20,257.0           22,187.4      .'4,310. 3      28,1(.1I          30,724.1
Net Cash Flow  (Deficit)                                          (2,656.8)    (3,410.9)    (3,952.2)         (3,969.3)    (4,393.8)    (14,968.8)  (16,564.2)  (17,640.1)    (19,654.4)   (21i,ia .9)               (2 ,wo.o)        (o844i.i)
Present Expenditure                                               (3,115.6)     (3,421.1)    (3,756.4)        (3,760.8)    (3,760.8)         (3,760.8)   (3,760.8)   (30,70.8)          (3,760.8)    (3,7(0.1))       (3,I700 i)       (1,760.8)
Annuel Government Financing                                        5,772.4       6,832.o        7,708.6        7,730.1        8,154.6        18,729.6    20,325.0    21,400.9          213,415.2      25,6<22.7       23,( .7          32,P0ti.9
I!   With 3/4 of 1% service charge and the principal repaymble over 50 years with 10 years' grace period.  The repayment terms are IX per annum for the first 10 years and 3% per anno for the
next 30 years.
2/   With 1/. service charge and the principal repayable in eqoal amounts over 50 yeara with 10 years' grace period.
2/   30 year loan at 12% interest with 7 years' grace period for principal repayment.
4/   Excludes pre-project fertilizer amount expected to be handed over to FASCON as equity in Y-1.
5/   Coaptited on the assumption that per ton subse dies will decrease in YI comspared to the present level and will be phased out entirely in 19111/82/Yo)
The,,subsidy figure shown here excludes subsidy on pIre-project fertlli.er which will be handled by FASCOM apart f ror nroject fe rtllizer.
j    Excuding cost of consultats, training and exptriate staff incurred in Y-5 and  increasing the residual cost i*y 101..
Costs in Y-7 and later assuined to increase by 10% compound rate per annum.



- ,1 -
GhAiiA                                                          Annex '
Table 1
VOLTA kLGION A:kilCULTUJRAL DEVEUiO-ENTl PROJ,!ECT
F'AhMERS SERVICES COMIANY
PROJECTED PROF'IT AND IOSS STATRSENT  (_'ooo
Y              Y              Y               Y              Y            Y              Y               Y              Y               Y
1             2              3               4              5            6              7               8              9 
Cash Sales                                      2,379.2       4,929.2        7,369.3        11,546.1       17,446.8    24,497.1          37,132.2       40,845.4       44,93V. )       49,4'
,4.8  6,i~~~4.9  9.365.5  i4,l.94630.0                                9,422.
Deferred Payment Sales                            180.0       1,436.4        2,391.4        .3,94.8         6,114.9      9,36S.5        14,19t.         15,615.7       17,17'. f1ILICrp       .
Total Sales                                     2,559.2       6,365.6        9,760.7        15,470.9       23,581.7    33,862.6          51,328.1       56,461.1       62,10. 3        D8,317.9
Less:  l'amsers' Equity                      79.8        126.2           192.9           305.5          465.3        666.6         1,010.4        1,111.4         1,222.t,        1,344 8
Net Sales                                       2,479.4       6,239.4        9,567.8        15,165.4       23,116.4    33,196.0         50,317.9        55,349.7       60,884.7        66,973.1
Add:   Oovernment Subsidy                1,374.6           --            --              --             --           -              --              --
Total Revenue                                   3,854.o       6,239.4        9,567.8        15,165.4       23,116.4    33,196.0         50,317.9        55,349.7       60,884.7        66,973. 1
Cost of Sales
Purchases                                3,512.1       5,231.4        7,985.0         12,669.0       19,247.7    27,469.0         41,791.2       44,8t,1.8      49,347.9         54,:112.8
Add:   Beginning Inventory                  -_            319.3          504.6           771.8        1,221.9      1,860.9         2,666.4        4,041.6        4,445.          4l,89. 3
Total                                    3,512.1       5,550.7        8,489.6         13,440.8       20,469.6    29,329.9         44,457.6       48, 903.4      53,793.7         59,173. L
Less:  End Inventory                        319.3        504.6           771.8         1,221.9        1,860.9      2,666.4         4,041. ,       4 445.8        4,890.3          5,379 4
Total Cost of Sales J                           3,192.8       5,046.1        7,717.8        12,218.9       18,608.7    26,663.5         40,416.0        44,457.6       48,903.4        53,793.7
Gross Profit                                      661.2       1,193.3        1,850.0         2,946.5        4,507.7      6,532.5          9,901.9       10,892.1       11,981.3        13,179.4
Operating Expenses
Staff Costs                                 642.8      1,197.8         1,411.8         1,517.2        1,635.5      1,355.6 2/      1,447.7        1,592.S         1,751.7         1,9 6.9
Vehicle Operating Costs                      45.6         137.7          164.8          198.4           240.6        294.1           361.7           397.9 j        437.7           481.4
General Administration Costs                 89.0         341.8          490.2          593.6           731.0        906.8         1,130.8         1,243.9        1,368.3         1,5V5. 1
Bad Debts |/                                 --             9.0           71.8          119.6           196.2        306.7           468.3           709.8          780.8           858.9
Total Operating Expenses                          777.4        1,686.3        2,138.6        2,428.8        2,803.3      2,863.2          3,408.5        3,944.1        4,338.5          4,772.3
Operating ProfiL (Loss)                          (116.2)        (493.0)        (288.6)         517.7        1,704.4       3,669.3         6,493.4        6,948.o        7,64?.8          8,407.1
Depreciation                                      213.1          454.9          749.0         765.8           790.2        8'76.6           956.6        1,037.2          94.7            l.Ob107.9
Profit (Loss) Before Interest                    (329.3)        (947.9)      (1,037.6)       (248.1)          914.2      2,792.7          5,536.8        5,910.8        b,658.1         1,339.2
Long-Term Interest Costs                          -_             181.6          451.9         802.7          1,304.3      1,937.9         1,937.9        1,916.9        1,B3 1.0         1,'749.0
Profit (Loss) Before Income Taxes                (329.3)      (1,129.5)      (1,489.5)      (1,050.8)        (390.1)       854.8          3,598.9        3,993.9        4,825.1         5,9.92 -
Incorme Taxes                                      -- __          __             __             __             __            __                          1,597.6        1,93(,.(1       2,236.1
Net Profit (Loss)                                (329.3)      (1,129.5)      (1,489.5)      (1,050.8)         (390.1)      894.8          3,598.9        2,396.3        2,89S.l          3,354.1
/     10% compound increase per annurn assumed up to year 10
2     I Includeni estimated pre-project sales of about 2,5(10 tons of fertilicers
&     5% of previous year's deferred paysserlt sales
At 12% on outstanding balance
5     Without expatriate staff
4::(s of net inicme after profits offset losses ou' prior years



- 52 -
Thb3e .
GhANA
VOLTA 11RY:ON AGR!CULTU3JRAL 1R.  , rec.al
FARM4ERS SE3fVICES COMPANY
PROJECTED SOURCES ANU APPLICATIONS OF FlNfDS AND CASH FLOW STATINEIff  (C 'oo)
y               y               Y                y               y                y               r                y                y               y
1               2               3                4               5                6               7                8               9                10
Sources of Funds
Net Profit                                                                    --             --               --                      --               8g4.8         3,598-9          2,396.3         2,39 .1
Depreciation                                                         213.1           454.9            749.0           765.8           790.2            876.6           956.6          1,037.2           9t4.'          1,067.9
Long Term Borrowings
frmo Government                                              1,513.3          2,252.9         2,922.7          4,180.1         5,280.4 4-                                          --                               --
Equity Capital
(A) FrSs Goverment  (i)  IDA/IFAD foods
for fixed assets                   1,072.5         1,745.9          i1,24.6           577.1            574.0            __              __               __
(iA) Additional Government Equity
for fixed assets                      31.8            83.2             24.8             --            -_
(iii) IDA/IFAD funds for
operating expensaes /                258.7            283.7           320.7            352.3           3838.1          __               __               _
(iv) Government Equity for Working
Capital   3]                       1,679.9             _-            -_ *_                             __              __               __
(B) from B4nkign Tn.titutions  for woikngs oapita.l           -00 0              '00.0            --              -_               --              _      
(C) F         2rrer,' S.S% Equlty                                  79.8           126.2            192.9           305.5            465.3           666.6          1,010.4         1,j11.4          1,d2i.h          1,314.8
Total Sxlters                                                     5.349.1         2,1.16.8         9.334.7         6,180.3          7,498.7         2.398.0         5,565.9          4,544.9          Y Iff6'II        B,7BG.8
Uses Of Funds
Net Los.                                                             329.3         1 129.5          1,489.5         1,050.8            390.1           __               __              __
FRwchase of Fixed Assets                                           1.104 3         iE9              11149.4           577 1           574.0          1,151.3           916.4            829.8            112.8          1,9.1
Veh,icles52f;.6                                                          500.9                            577.1                          1,070.5           754.4            02.0 o   /      912.'           1,0041.1
Eqtipment                                                   .2            5623.1                          _                                 80 8            162.0                                            --
Buildings                                               51  5          1,271.3            302.1                                               *                                              -_               _
Long-Tern Uebt Repayment                                             __--                             -- __           _                __                                               700.0            700.0            700.0
Dividend Payments                                                    __              __               __              __              __
Total Uses                                                         1,433.6         2,958.6          2,638.9         1,627.9            964.1         1,151.3            916.4         1,529.8          1,632.8          1,704.1
Increase (Decrease)  in Working Capital                            3,915.5         2,488.2          2,695.8         4,552.9         6,534.6          1,246.7          4,649.5         3,015.1          3,43'9.6         4,o62.7
CasR. Flow
tepreciation                                                         213.1           454.9            749.0           765.8            790.2           876.6            9.36.6        1,037.2            9d4.7          1,057.9
Net Profit (LoSs)                                                   (329.3)        (1,129.5)       (1,489.5)       (1,050.8)          (390-1)          854.8          3,N98.9         2,396.3          2,895.1          3,354.1
Total                                                               (116.2)          (674.6)         (740.5)          (285.0)          400.1        (1,731.4)         4,222.5          3,433.P          ,84,4e.
iFu  inc,e--ta    - fon Iinputs
2    Includes coat of expatriate staff anld directly imported
spare parts for vehile,'
Represents the cost of estimated pre-project sale of
2,500 tnon of fertiller to be handed over to FARCOM in TI
Cost of replacesonts assmed to increase at 10% cosspound
rate per ran,m uppto YbO
*             



- 53 -
Annex 5
Table 3
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVEtOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS SERVICES COMPANY
PROJECTED BALANCE SHbEET  (W000)
Y-1            Y-2            Y-3            Y-4             Y-5            Y-6             Y-7            Y-8             y-9            Y-10
Assets
Current Assets
Cash + Short Term Inveatments              3,452.2         4,750.0         6,414.6      9,290.7         13,418.2       11,274.9         10,684.7      12,159.9         13,955.8    16,155.2
Accounts Receivable    I/                    144.0         1,149.1         1,913.1      3,139.8          4,907.9        7,492.4         11,356.9      12,492.6         13,741.8    15,116.0
Inventory                                    319.3          504.6            771.8      1.221.9          1,860.9        2.666.4         4-o41.6        4,445, A        4 A,9  3      s; .q  4
Total Current Aaseta                       3,915.5         6,403.7         9,099.5       13,652.4       20,187.0       21,433.7         26,083.2      29,098.3         32,557.9     36,65o.6
Fixed Assets
Vehiclea                                     526.6         1,027.5         1,851.7       2,428.8         3,002.8        4,073.3         4,827.7        5,657.5         6,570.3       7,574.4
Equipment                                     5i.2           116.1           139.2         139.2           139.2          220.0            382.0         382.0            382.0        382.0
Buildings                                    510453       1,789.8          2,091.9       2.091.9        2;041 9         2091 .9         2;091 9        2091 9          I (2.  I        nI l gi
Sub-Total                       1,104.3        2,933.4          T ,082.8     42,6-5'9.9      5,2'3399        6,38.2          7,301.6      82,131.4'         9,0-4.2   -10,048.3I
Less: Ac-umulated DeprecgItion               213.1           668.o         1,417.0      2.182.8         2,973.0         3.849.6          4.806.2      5.843.4          f,_8y8 1      7 ,86 n
Net Fixed Aseets                            891.2         2,265.4          2,665.8      2,477.1         2,260.9         2,535.6         2,495.4       2,288.0         ?,P16.1        P,152.3
Total Assets                                 4,806.7         8,669.1          11,765.3    16,129.5        22.447.9 _      23.96'.3        28,578.6      31.V6.R         34,8Ao4o       VR,Poi2 9
Liabilities and Capital
Long-Term Borrowings 2                        1,513.3        3,766.2           6,688.9     10,869.0       16,149.4        16,149.4        16,149,4    16*o 4             11     4      16__830t)
Total Long-Tel. Debt                       1,513.3        3,766.2           6,688.9    10,869.0        16,149.4        16,149.4        16,149.4      15,449.4        14,749.4       14,049.4
Equity (A) Government                         3,042.9        5,155.7          6,625.8       7,555.2        8,518.0         8,518.0         8,518.0      8,518.0          8,518.0       8,518.0
(B) Bankin  Inr titution7 5009.0                       1O00                0.       1,000.0         1,000.0        1,000 0          1,000.0      1,000.0          1,000.0       1,000.0
Acumulat.d Profitorm(LoesCa            (32993)      (I(28                          (3991              8)          (R 4        *   y,86.7         3,1 8   _  
Total Equ.ity                                 3,293.4        4,902.9           5,o76.4      5,260.5        6,298.5         7,819.9        12,429.2      15,936.9        2o,o094.6      24,758.5
Total Liabilities aod Capitai                 4,806.7        8,669.1          11,765.3     16,129.5       22,447.9        23,969.3        28,578.6    32,386.3          yt,&*4K0       38,802.9
I/  dol of deferred payment salee.
2/   30 year loan for incre-iental fare inputa at 12% intereat with 7 year'a grace for Principal repayment.



Annex 5
Table 4
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS SERVICES COMPANY
Analysis of Financial Statements
Y1        Y2        y3         y4          y5         Y 6        Y7          Y8        y 9      Y 1
Financial Structure & Coverage
(at end of year)
Debt/Equity ratio                         0.46      0.77      1.32        2.07       2.56        2.07       1.30       0.97      0.74       0.57
Liquid assets for each C debt             2.59       1.70      1.36       1.26        1.25       1.33       1.62        1.88      2.21      2.61
Interest Coveruaje
Before depreciation (times)              -          -         -        0.64       1.3i       1.89        3.35       3.62      4.17       4.81
After  depreciation (times)               -         -         -         -         0.70        1.44       2.86       3.08       3.63      4.20
Profitability
Gross Profit Margin  (X)              17.2      19.1      19.3        19.4       19.5       19.7        19.7       19.7      19.7       19.7
Operating Mirgin        (Z)              -         -          -        3.4        7.4       11.1        12.9       12.6      12.6      12.6
Pre-tax Margin          (X)              -         -                    -          -         2.6         7.2        7.2        7.9       8.3
Net Profit Margin       (%)              -         -         -          -          -         2.6         7.2        4.3       4.8       5.0
Return on Equity        (%)              -         -         -         -           -        13.6       46.0        19.3      18.2      16.7



- 55 -
Annex 6
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPM'ENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(in US $ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                        IDA                                      IFAD
and Quarter                Disbursement    Cumulative              Disbursement      Cumulative
Disbursement                            Disbursement
FY 81  1st Quarter              0.5              0.5                   0.1               0.1
2nd    "                0.7              1.2                    0.3               0.4
3rd    "                1.5              2.7                    0.7               1.1
4th    "                2.1              4.8                    1.0               2.1
FY 82  1st Quarter              2.0              6.8                   0.8                2.9
2nd    it               2.0              8.8                    0.8               3.7
3rd    "                2.0             10.8                    0.9               4.6
4th    "                2.3             13.1                    1.0               5.6
FY 83  1st Quarter              2.0             15.1                   0.8               6.4
2nd    "                2.0             17.1                    0.8               7.2
3rd    "                1.6             18.7                    0.7               7.9
4th    "                1.5             20.2                    0.7               8.6
FY 84  1st Quarter              1.0             21.2                   0.4               9.0
2nd    "                1.0             22.2                    0.4               9.4
3rd    "                1.0             23.2                    0.4               9.8
4th    "                1.5             24.7                    0.7              10.5
FY 85  1st Quarter              1.0             25.7                   0.4              10.9
2nd    "                1.0             26.7                    0.4              11.3
3rd    "                1.3             28.0                    0.5              11.8
4th    "                1.5             29.5                    0.7              12.5



- 56 -
Annex 7
Table 1
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices
per metric ton) in 1979 constant terms
Financial              Economic
Maize                              1,283                  896
Cas sava                             163                  181
Yams                                  537                 608
Rice                               2,400                1,177
Sorghum                            1,520                  770
Groundnuts                         2,400                3,015
Tomatoes                           2,200                2,217
1/   The shadow exchange rate used is US$ 1 = ¢ 5.9



- 57 -
GHANA                                                                                       Annex 7
Table 2
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DELWP  PROJECT
Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits   (¢'COO)
Y              V              Y              Y           Y                 Y                Y               Y
1              2              3              4           5                 6                7              8-2
A.   Investment Cost
1.- ~Civil Wor-ks   I/                                   8,313         20,366          10,266            96            --               --               --              __
2. Veillers                                               5,967         2,830          2,266           4,674       2,004             1,962            4,226          1,300
3.  Plant, Machinery & Equipment                         4,684          3,543          2,575              38          38                --              -_              100
4.  Office Equipment & Furniture                            303           134              10             --         -_                200              100             53
5.  Livestock Breeding Farm                                   6              9              9              9            3               --               -_
6.  io Research Farm                                         68             --             --             --           --               --
7.  Consultants                                            526          1,085             942            424         140                --               --              --
Total Investment Costs                                        19,867        27,2L9          16,06B          5,241        2,185            2,162            4,326           1,650
2.   Overseas  raining                                                          214            107             --           --               _-               --              __
C.   Operating Costs
1.  Salaries and Wages
a.  International Staff                                  4,o6i          4,061          4,061          3,925        3,590                --               --              --
b.  Local Staff                                          4,435          5,161          5,585          5,590        3,592            5,5 2             5,592           5,592
C.  Vehicle Operating & Maintenance  g                   1,066          2,029          2,280          2,200        2 ,288           2,2n             2,220            1,144
3.  Plant & Machinery 0 & M  9/                            417          1,063          1,271          1,273        1,275            1,275            1,275              637
4.  General Office Costs                                    755          1,608         2,246          2,485        2,485            2,485             2,485
5.  Roads Maintenance                                        --              5            156           239          258                --               --              --
6.  Research Material                                        83           208             167             --          --                --
Total Operating Costs                                         10,817         14,135         15,766         15,700       15,488           11,640           11,640           9,858
L.ess Preent EIxpendit-re                                      3,116          3,421          3,756          3,761        3,761            3,761            3,761           3,761
Incremental Operating Costa                                    7,701         10,714         12,010         11,939       11,727            7,879            7,879           6,097
D.   Incremental Inpto   Cost
Fertiliser  2    s                                      _             597          1,550          2,843        4,562            6,460            8,754          11,521
Cheaicals/sIsecticides                                  --            188            433            780        1,203            1,726            2,283           2,871
Seeds   |J                                              --             78            206            360          599              845            1,161           1,528
Fishing Nets and Gear                                  208            208              --             -           --                --              _-              -_
Animal Feed                                             74            105            105            105          105              105               105             105
Small Farm Tools                                       150            300            300            375          375               --               --             100
Farm Equipment                                       1,042          1,042          1,042          1,042        1,042               __               __              __
Labor                                                   --            536          1,246          2,532        4,038             5,864            7,878          10,292
Total Inputs Cost                                              1,474          3,054          4,882          8.037       11,924           15,000                           26,417
Total Cost                                                    29,062         41.949         35,067         25,217       25,336           25,041           32,386          34,164
Add: 15$ R.hysicsl Contingency   for Civil Works               1,247          3,055          i,540             i4           --               --               --              --
Add:  5%  Physical Contingency for others                      1,036          1,079          1,140          1,256        1,292            1,252            1,619           1,708
TOTAL  INCREflIPIAL  C02TS                                    31,325         46,083         35,747         26,187       27,128           26,293           34,005          35,872
Incremental Benefits
Maies                                                        --         1,254          2,330          6,630       10,752           14,874           20,250          26,880
Cassava                                                     __            724          1,448          3,620        5,792            8,688           11,584           15,204
Yams                                                                       365            973         1,581        3,101            4,682             6,202           7,782
Rice                                                                        --           l1             353          706              942            1,530           2,001
Groandnuts                                                   __            302             --            302          603            1,206            1,206           1,508
Sorghum                                                      __             77             77             --           77              154              154             231
Vegetables                                                   __          1,330          2,6bO           5,321       6,651            9,311           11,972          14,632
TOTALT  INCREMENTAL  BElEFITS                                     ._          4,052          7,606         17,807       27,682           39,857             ,898          68,238
Net Benefits                                                 (31,325)       (42,031)       (28,141)        (8,680)         554           13,564           18,893          32,366
Internal Rate of Retin:  166
EJ kxcludes identifiable taces and duties
|   Casts shown in the year in which the jnputs will be actually used.



- 58 -
Annex 8
Page 1
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGIRUCLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.        General Reports and Studies on Sector
Al        Integrated Crop Improvement Project for Maize in Five Zones,
MOA, November 1978
A2        Soils Research Institute Annual Reports, 1972-73/1973-74 (2 Vols)
A3        Annual Reports of the Animal Research Institute, 1974-75/1976-77.
(3 Vols)
A4        Research Programme of the Animal
Research Institute, December 1978
A5        Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Annual Report
1972-73
A6        Report of the Joint USA/GHANA Committee on Agricultural Ex-
tension and Research, October 1971
A7        A Policy and Action Plan for Strengthening National Food
Security in Ghana (in draft), FAO, March 1978
A8        Food Crop Marketing for Atebubu District (In draft),
Pearson, Jones and Southworth, January 1978
A9        River Basins of Ghana, Water Year Book, 1968-69
AIO       The Ghana Farmer:  Focus on Small Farming, MOA
All       Soils Research Institute Miscellaneous Paper No. 231
A12       Maize Demonstration Programme for Major Season 1975,
Grain Development Board Report
A13       National Reconstruction Crop:  A Review
A14       Project Statement (MIDAS)
B.        Reports and Studies Relating to Sector
B1        IBRD Preparation Report, July 1977, 4 vols.
B2        Coconut Research Trials, Proposal by IRHO, November 1977
B3        Maps
C.        Selected Working Papers, Drawings, etc.
Cl        Agriculture:  Background
C2        Crop Development:  Agronomy and Proposed Technology
C3        Irrigation Development:  Potential and Constraints
C4        Irrigation Development:  Project Proposals
C5        Road Development
C6        Housing and Buildings



- 59 -
Annex 8
Page 2
C7        Water Supply for Domestic Use
C8        Nutrition Extension
C9        Project Organization
CIO       Training
Cll       Agricultural Credit
C12       Market Prospects, Marketing and Prices
C13       Summary of IBRD Sector Report Recommendations
C14       Research
C15       Financial and Economic Tables
C16       Financial Tables for FASCOM



GHANA: VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Organization for Project Period
|   REGIONAL  2                 ; FARMERS SERVICE COMPANY
AGRICULTUEAL                         IRRIGATION AUTHORITY
COMMITTEE  ~ ~    ~     ICOTTON DEVELOPMENT R.AED'
. ROOD PRODUCTION CORPORATION'
IFOOD DISTRERUTION CORPORATION'
STATE FARMS COHPORATION'
REGIONAL                          CATTLE DEVELOPMENT HOARD
AGRICULYURAIL                        VOLTA REGION DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
COORDINATOR                         GHANA NATIONAL RECONSTRUCTION CORPORATION
GHANA COCOA COONCIL
TEMA FGOD COMPLED CORPORATION
GANA TORATED COMPANY
FIEID EEHATI-NB           I  ARICOLTORAL DEVELOPMENT aANA
_  _   i    FITELD OPERATIONS      I RELATES MINISTRIES
ANO   AN0        PLANNING   |                           t                _                      | GHANA NATIONAL PROCURERMENT AGENCY
A   LD    AND        MOITORN
PERSONNEL    PROCUREMFET    EVALUATION |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
G. PSAN.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIHRESAIA
PLANNING      RESERH| IRGTO                  RP  N           XESO                                                          CIVIL ANDD               VETEERVItNCARY   COMNIA    H[RADR
KWANTA         MORILE       MOBL  NI                                                          OLFL
__EH  EENP TRAININE
'A.CODIATO                                                                              CORINTO IN                                                                                    COOPOINATIONj
KTE  -RACR-H                  AT
|   ISTRfCTC ODRDINATD |'O          COO  C                                                                 l   
EXT N E.T                      N  F..C.  NE VET FSC   EXT N E VET FS C.   EXT NE VET    C.  EXT N.E. VET F SC.  EXT, N.E VET. FSC.                                         ET. N.E VET FSC.   EXT. N.E. VET FSC
'O,ndR rEh aotEERiTY Vd IDe               ETR   = SRIRIRRII.Clops aRd LAteRRcE
MOATStr RE AS,,itUlT.                      N.E.  - NIIEEEIRI, ERe,lAR,
VET.    V-EmrED, Ai-
FSDT. = PIRIerh seiE CEn,0teIs                                                                                                                                                                     20275



GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS SERVICES COMPANY
ORGANIZATION CHART
| BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
COMMERCIAL               FINANCE             ADMINISTRATION            PROCUREMENT            INTERNAL AUDIT
SERVICES
CHIEF             SENIOR EXECUTIVE             SENIOR              SENIOR INTERNAL
MAhlAGER              ACCOUNTANT                OFFICER            EXECUTIVE OFFICER            AUDITOR
SALES                              ACCOUNTS                  PERSONNEL            PROCUREMENT                 AUDIT
TEAM
FARMERS                      BUDGET              REGISTRY               TRANSPORT
DISTRICT_                                                              _
OFFICES     SERVICE                       COST               SECURITY               DISTRIBUTION
CENTERS                                        OFFICE SUPPLIES.
(651                      PAYROLL            ADMINISTRATION             ACCRA
AND                  OFFICE
MAINTENANCE
PUBLIC                                      World Bank - 20922
RELATIONS



I



N 0 R T H E R N
T 0 G 0
R E G I 0 N
Y
Ad..1 P,,t-tml
7                                                                   0    E.0, D.-
F,r D.- F-idmg
Pol-I C...W-
F.- 5- 0-3 H.0-s
A-q F.-        Z540HII.-
A-w F- 5- b- 2 0
B R 0 N G   A H A F 0
R  E  G    1 C  N                                                                                  Dio;iv B--d-
8-d.H.,
r
CD
SW- Rg 8-k
WP,,g 56- Wt B-k
A   S   H  A   N   T   I
Pli. 5h-
R   E  G   I  0   N                                                                          P.-        F.- f., Ni,p-K..
A- 1e- R--i, f., A -Fe. Sh-
IA- - K.I. Sd- CF-.Ip. . Ph- 2
A-K.t. kh...         Ph- I
(D A-- Kf Sh- D-ip_f Ph- 3
E  A   S   T   E   R  N
4"                      Atf-W. A-K.I. S&.- Al..
R   E  G   I  0   N                                                       AhF.     5,fi-
PI P.-i C-i L..    H-D.- -1.-
P,,P.,.d C-1
16 Kp-f T.4.0-g
0     1   20   30    40                                                                          W. Y-,h, Off $1, ... Sd-
KI-ONIE
D    5   io   1,         25
MILE
GHANA                                                               'A  L
VOLTA REGION
AGRICULTURAL                                                                    0
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T 0 G 0
LAND USE IN PROJECT AREA
0
A
0                       Oo            A-"
0                     0    0               AO
A o   A)  0                       0
0 A A-, 6 A #   A
nA
R                                             (D                              ilAA
'H  -A                                                                             A 0
A h
R
J
r 11 I
E






- f _ ~N             O R    T    H   E   R    N t\i0=05L0  :=:     
j ~~~~~R    E  G    I O    N ptwa,,.i::: =i  
-<   .  ,  . m  :)            - ::v-                      /      /./:t ;0~~~~GREATE SOICLS GROUP    :  
,   /                                              /        I >; 0; 35 it 00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~FOREST :LONH  :    
]- L   -  l   \  ;   I               f   f       l\  f D         :D4~~~~TilEgOR SAVANuNAH- ZOe E
R  E  G   I  O    N    .         - St.Van-ch                '(         /       g        g                 t Rgrudlos.f,-:0:;
~~~~~ \                     Av   .  IrW          X i    1>             S-107  1 D = i'f ~~~~OASTAL SAVANNlfAHiZONE
-- v - * S \ -- --- ! X ,4 i ii =, 070~~~~Rghc Gro-ndafr7 Lsterites
A    S    H    A   N    T    I                         -r       -                            i   - -ufiri=irrL5 -=-                    -
R    E  G        I  O   N                   ,     ''ie                        \       1 ,=f'nL onogs~                         =
E  A    S; T   E       G / V         it                                      8     taw          X 
K L .METERS                    \                              q                                                 ;'   
GHANA                                                                  Ho :100..1  -.sX;:    ==E 
V   ego n      QLTA iRE,s,,;,,;a,    /.0Bg h=t=.efS**F~ION
AGRICULTURAL= 






r~~-~~ , X X- <~~~ ).
^ ' U  P tt    R     <  .      tj .:  tn, iX > -V    91i d    34      ;st  ;\-1;2 C,
y A < .: f :3R~~~c   D AGR! k';1TIJRA! Ofi*
i   \- rA   A   _     g           !               '%   /   /'  '           \.OlFti i9- Gl.AgrlC *  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vlt IC -
4  \   ;  T  H  E  X  <   SD^.1SuE    ~~ o   %   Jr~  r--o     krceclm -rduatr
/                 *   *               < L ~~~~~~~~~~<   /  ~~~~~    Krd ;eS ~~~~~~P't..   
t >,     >   ,1/                    { y,                  S  r  /     z  ji     L-3  - . nr<L, 0 - 
-   <3   \           /    4 S S       R   ;,  E   ,,   I  (   X  gt  /  -1  .   <   u . v .l h e t  f:r B r q f G r S rl d r a  c  f   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
| >   1  ~~~~~,    BRANAM-        8                 X    e        J   A                         R-OIw-vs  
/ '11   rh  ;Z    i  4 C- - 0XX  --Rscrcrrn 8vnsrG 8--
:' l,\l ,,      S          ;    0 0    ;  W                              ;   X             ;t 0"nNUC=4S  C
9\_-   aNPI    EStTe~~~~~~ESAT
.  '.L,+  "'  '"''  "                               j~~~~E



