Document of                            k -70
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2762-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO GHANA
FOR A
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 2, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =        Cedis
US$ 1                 =        2.75 Cedis
1 Cedi               =         US$0.36
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ghana July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       Agricultural Development Bank
FASCOM    Farmers' Services Company
FSCs      Farm Service Centers
GHA       Ghana Highways Authority
GNPA      Ghana National Procurement Agency
GWSC      Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
ifOA      Ministry of Agriculture
NIB       National Investment Bank
PWD       Public Works Department
RAC       Regional Agricultural Coordinator
CSCO      Ghana Seed Company
VORADEC   Volta Region Agricultural Development Committee
VORADEP   Volta Region Agricultural Development Project
SDR       Special Drawing Rights



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Ghana
Amount:         IDA Credit of US$29.5 million equivalent
Terms:          Standard
Relending
Terms:         US$4.1 million of the proceeds of the credit would be relent
to the Farmers' Services Company (FASCOM) for 30 years,
including 7 years grace, at 12 percent per annum. US$1.7
million would be invested by Government in FASCOM as equity.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
ProJect
Description:   The project seeks to raise agricultural production and
farm incomes in the Volta Region through the provision of a
basic agricultural services package. To ensure sustained
sector growth in the long run the project would also strengthen
the Ministry of Agriculture's operational capabilities by
providing training to field and technical staff and stream-
lining existing institutional arrangements in the project
area. An estimated 60,000 farm families each cultivating
about 2.1 ha farm on the average would directly benefit from
the project. The project would include: improved extension
services, credit and training for farmers; the construction
of 65 farm service centers for the distribution of farm
inputs, staff housing and project offices; expanding the
Adidome Farm Institute, construction and improvement of
access and feeder roads, strengthening of the Ministry of
Agriculture's Regional office; and consultant services. The
project faces no special risks since the proposed technology
would not require major changes in the traditional farming
system. The project faces some risks related to local cost
overruns and the availability of foreign exchange to meet
the recurrent costs of imported farm inputs.  However,
provided Government continues with its economic stabilization
program, these risks will be minimized.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Crop Development                                         1.8         3.1         4.9
Livestock and Fisheries Development                      0.4         0.9         1.3
Irrigation Development and Rural
Water Supply                                           0.7         1.6        2.3
Access and Feeder Roads                                  1.0         1.7         2.7
Houses and Buildings                                     3.4         4.2         7.6
Nutrition Extension                                      0.1         0.2         0.3
Commercial Services                                      0.4         2.3         2.7
Training, Coconut Research, Consultants,
Management Support Services                            2.3         5.1         7.4
Total Baseline Cost                                     10.1        19.1       29.2
Physical Contingencies                                   0.8         1.5        2.3
Price Contingencies                                     12.5         5.8        18.3
Total Project Costs                                     23.4        26.4       49.8
Taxes and Duties                                         1.1                     1.1
Total Net of Taxes and Duties                     22.3        26.4        48.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                                               11.0        18.5        29.5
IFAD                                               4.6         7.9        12.5
Government                                         6.3          -          6.3
Banking Institutions                               0.4          -          0.4
TOTAL                                        22.3        26.4        48.7
Estimated Disbursement:
Year       Annual      Cumulative
----(US$ million)-
FY81          4.8           4.8
FY82          8.3          13.1
FY83          7.1          20.2
-FY84         4.5          24.7
FY85          4.8          29.5
Rate of Return: 16 percent.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2527-GH of MIarch 20, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHA!IA
FOR THE VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$29.5 million equivalent on standard IDA terms to
the Republic of Ghana to help finance the Volta Region Agricultural Develop-
ment Project.  US$4.1 million of the proceeds of the credit would be relent
to the Farmers' Services Company (FASCOM) for 30 years including 7 years
grace at 12 percent per annum; US$1.7 nillion would be invested by Govern-
ment in FASCOII as equity. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) is expected to help finance this project on a joint basis with IDA
with a loan of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) of 9.55 million equivalent on
terms to be determined by their Board, but most likely repayable over 50
years including 10 years of grace with a service charge of 1 percent annually.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Economic MIemorandum" was
distributed to the Executive Directors in UIay 1979 (2345-GH).  An economic
mission visited Ghana in October, 1979, and its principal findings are
incorporated in the following paragraphs. Basic economic data and selected
social indicators are summarized in Annex 1.
Basic Structural Characteristics of the Economy
3.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy accounting for
51.1 percent of GDP in 1978. Industrial production and services account for
17.2 and 31.7 percent respectively. Although Ghana had traditionally enjoyed
a fairly high standard of living compared with most other West African nations,
the growth performance of the economy in recent years has been uneven and
poor. In the period 1973-78 real GDP declined at an average annual rate of
0.4 percent, implying a decline in per capita income of 3.1 percent annually,
as population was growing at 2.7 percent. The per capita GNP is estimated at
US$390 in 1978.
4.        The most significant factor underlying Ghana's poor economic
performance in recent years has been the decline in the volume of exports,
which depend almost entirely on a few traditional export commodities--cocoa
(of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer), timber, manganese,
gold and diamonds, which together constitute 94 percent of exports. In
addition to contributing about 80 percent of the country's export earnings,
cocoa provides around 48 percent of government revenues and employs more than
20 percent of the labor force. Cocoa exports have declined substantially in
recent years due principally to low producer prices, inadequate rehabilitation



-2-
efforts, and shortages of labor, imported inputs andl transport equipment.
Aggravated by adverse weather conditions in 1975-77, cocoa output in 1977-78
fell to 271,000 tons, compared with well over 400,000 tons in the early 1970s;
in 1978/79 output fell further to 265,000 tons. Cocoa export earnings,
however, remained firm because of the high world market price for the crop.
Production of most of the minerals is stagnating, because of depletion of the
mineral ore reserves, poor transport facilities and run-down equipment.
5.        Near self-sufficiency had been reached in basic cereal production
with the "Operation Feed Yourself" program launched in 1972. But food pro-
duction declined due to the prolonged drought in 1975-77, and because of
inadequate support services and lack of fertilizers and inputs requiring
foreign exchange. Rising food prices have been an important component of
the high inflation rate. With improved rains,food production recovered to
some extent in 1978, and the indications are that this recovery has been
sustained in 1979.
6.        Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily deplendent on imported inputs.
Manufacturing contributed 14 percent of GDP in 1971 but this figure has
declined progressively to 10 percent in 1978 due to lack of raw materials
and spare parts caused by continuing foreign exchange shortages. MIost plants
are estimated currently to be operating at around 2CI-30 percent of installed
capacity. This sector provides full and part-time employment to about 12
percent of the labor force.
7.        Traditionally, Ghana has imported its entire petroleum requirements,
mostly in the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chief-
ly as a source of fuel for the transport sector. Rising oil import prices
have resulted in crude oil imports absorbing an increasingly large percentage
of Ghana's export earnings, from 12.5 percent in 1978 to 25 percent in 1979.
Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and commercial exploitation
has commenced. Production in 1979 has reached 7,000 barrels a day, equivalent
to about one-fifth of Ghana's oil requirements. Hydroelectric power meets
most of Ghana's non-transport energy requirements in the modern sector.
8.        Despite its economic problems, Ghana has in the past devoted con-
siderable efforts to development of its human resources. The education system
is well established, elementary education has been free and universal since
1962, and there has been considerable investment in public health facilities.
However, social infrastructure and basic amenities in the rural areas remain
poor: for example, only 14 percent of the rural population have access to safe
water and only 21 percent of the country's health establishments are in rural
areas.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the last decade the country's econoimic performance has been
characterized by a high rate of inflation, widening budget deficits and a
persistent foreign exchange shortage. This deterioration took place notwith-
standing a relatively good natural and resource endolwment and a significant
improvement in the country's terms of trade and has to be ascribed essentially
to poor economic management. There was a growing imbalance in public finances



-3-
due to rapid growth of budget current expenditures and slow growth in budget
revenues reflecting in part a sharp decline in cocoa production.  Also, the
uneconomic operations of a large number of government enterprises has been an
additional factor contributing to the budgetary imbalance. Tax revenues
declined as a proportion of GDP from 15 percent in 1974 to 8 percent in 1977,
and with lack of control over Government expenditures, the overall budget
deficit increased from about 6 percent of GDP to nearly 11 percent over the
same period. With virtually negligible external capital inflows, the growing
a          overall deficit was financed through an excessive reliance on inflationary
borrowing, mainly from the Central Bank. During the period 1971-77, money
supply increased on average by about 35 percent per annum. In 1977/78 alone
the money supply increased by 60 percent.  With no significant increase in
production in the economy, the rate of inflation accelerated, reaching about
116 percent in 1977. In the management of the external sector, too, Ghana has
been afflicted by the adverse effects of continuing domestic price increases.
With the official rate of exchange fixed at 01.15=US$1 since February 1973,
the cedi came to be increasingly overvalued, providing a strong disincentive
to exports and encouragement to smuggling with consequential losses to the
country's official reserves.
10.       In June 1978, in face of an increasingly critical economic
situation, the authorities commenced a program of stabilization. A managed
downward "float" of the cedi was introduced, and in August 1978, a 58 percent
devaluation was implemented which changed the rate to 02.75 to one US
dollar. The devaluation was quickly followed with a tough budget for 1978/79
which aimed at drastically reducing the overall budget deficit. Other measures
included: a doubling of cocoa producer price from 040 to 080 a headload
(30 kg) to stimulate production; a 25 percent limit on the increase in money
supply in 1978/79; and tightening of credit.
11.       The outcome for the year 1978/79 shows that in the management of
its budget, the Government did make serious efforts to limit government
expenditures on both capital and current accounts which were kept at about
the same nominal levels recorded in the preceding year--representing,
therefore, almost a one-third reduction in government spending in real
terms. In revenue collection, however, the shortfall in FY78/79 was 0645
million, from an estimated total collection of 03,206 million. The
overall budget deficit for FY78/79 is estimated at 0981 million, compared
with the targeted deficit of 0738 million and with the FY77/78 deficit of
02,156 million. It is noteworthy that this is the first occasion in recent
years that Ghana's budget deficit has actually been reduced. Following the
reduction in the budget deficit, growth in money supply has also been
sharply curtailed--money supply increased by only 29 percent in FY78/79 as
against a 60 percent increase in the preceding year. The demonetization in
March 1979 which cancelled 0631 million from circulation also contributed
tc limiting monetary growth.
12.       Curtailment of monetary growth, improved local food supplies and
the rolling back of prices between June and September 1979 under coercion by
the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, which took power in June 1979, have
all contributed to moderating Ghana's inflation. After registering a 116
percent increase in 1977, the consumer price index rose by only 73 percent



-4-
in 1978 and by about 54 percent in 1979. Although this is a significant
achievement, the Ghanaian rate of inflation still far exceeds international
levels and the beneficial effects of the 58 percent devaluation of August
1978 have now been negated. The overall balance of payments in 1978 regis-
tered a deficit of US$72 million as against a small positive balance in
1977. The financing of the deficit as well as an increase in the reserve
position was made possible by allowing payments arrears to rise. In terms
of growth in GDP the recovery initiated in 1977 continued into 1978 and the
indications are that it has been sustained during 1979. The cocoa crop in
particular is expected to improve with good rains and a further price boost
to 0120 a headload in July 1979.
13.       In late 1978 the IMF approved a one-year standby arrangement
of SDR 53 million and Trust Loan Fund of SDR 25 million (totalling US$102
million) in support of the Government's stabilization program introduced in
June 1978. As a mid-term review of progress under the standby arrangement
could not be completed by the IMF as scheduled in May 1979 because of
the military intervention at that time, Ghana is not eligible to draw the
last two installments of SDR 10 million each under the standby.
Prospects
14.       Ghana is relatively well endowed in terms of natural resources
and has the potential to achieve a rate of growth considerably in excess of
its performance so far this decade. The country's slow growth in revenues
and export earnings and the acute inflation have severely hampered economic
development; the restoration of economic stability is an essential pre-
requisite for Ghana to resume effective development. The measures on the
balance of payments and the budget initiated in June 1978 reflect an awareness
of needed policy directions. The indications are that the new civilian Govern-
ment which assumed office in September 1979 will continue to pursue the
program of stabilization and policy reforms initiated by the previous Govern-
ment. The Government has also indicated that its development strategy will
emphasize increased food production through assistance to small farmers,
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, including mines and transport, and
support for manufacturing enterprises giving priority to those using locally
produced raw materials. However, the present acute shortage of foreign
exchange constitutes a severe constraint upon the Government's efforts to move
as quickly as the situation demands to increase production and generally
rehabilitate the country's existing assets.
15.       Ghana's growth prospects over the next few years will depend to
a considerable extent on constant reassessment and follow-up actions in
support of the objectives of the recent stabilization program. Key policy
measures should continue to aim at: (a) correcting the imbalance on external
account through a more realistic structure of prices and costs and the
maintenance of a viable exchange rate; (b) restraining growth in consumption
and reducing the strong inflationary tendencies associated with large public
sector deficits; and (c) promoting an expansion of domestic production (of
cocoa, food crops and industrial goods) through more appropriate price
incentives, support services and more assured supplies of necessary inputs.
Stabilization is clearly a formidable task and is likely to take time. On



- 5 -.
the basis of the policy advances effected so far, and with improvements in
performance over the recent past, growth in GDP of 3 percent per annum
should be feasible. With sustained improvement in economic manage-
ment the economy is capable of even higher rates of growth. However, the
attainment of even a modest rate of growth will require that Ghana's own
efforts be supported by an augmented flow of external assistance to overcome
the present external resource constraint.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.       An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974.  Under this agreement, all
payments due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obliga-
tions, will be paid over a period of 28 years, including a grace period of
10 years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium- and long-term exter-
nal public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1978 is estimated at US$877
million representing 20 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of public
and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt was about 4 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly in
the late 1980s after the grace period on the rescheduled debt expires in
1982. Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt increased from US$245 million in
1977 to US$489 million by end-1978. By January 1980 these arrears had
declined to US$453 million.
17.       Ghana is relying on official sources for the bulk of the external
capital required to support its development program, and relatively little
of its medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. As at end-
1979, a total of US$314.8 million had been committed by the Bank Group to
Ghana of which US$106 million was yet to be disbursed. As of the same date
Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed each represented 10 percent of the
estimated country's total public external debt. Service payments on Bank
loans and IDA credits in 1978 accounted for 26 percent and 3 percent respect-
ively of the country's external debt service.
18.       The country's difficult economic situation and its vulnerability
to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings, make it desirable that future
debt service obligations should be kept as low as possible. Therefore,
IDA credits will have to constitute the bulk of Bank Group assistance to
Ghana over the next few years. This is also consistent with Ghana's rela-
tively low per capita income. At the same time, to ensure an adequate flow of
foreign exchange resources to the country it would, be appropriate to finance a
portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
19.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 14 credits
totalling US$124.3 million. Bank Group lending has covered power generation
and distribution, highways, agricultural development (including oil palm,
cocoa, sugar, livestock, fisheries and regional agriculture), water supply,



-6-
telecommunications and two DFC operations. Ghana is also a beneficiary of
a Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three nations (Togo,
Ivory Coast and Ghana). The recent high inflation in Ghana and the shortage
of foreign exchange have adversely affected the implementation of several
ongoing projects. There are no IFC investments. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of February 29, 1980 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Ghana are:
(a) to support the adoption of economic policies designed to strengthen the
balance of payments and improve domestic demand management, (b) to help reha-
bilitate and improve capacity utilization of the country's existing assets,
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion e.g., cocoa, and efficient import substitution, and (d) to
improve the country's essential infrastructure so as to relieve constraints
upon economic growth. The Bank Group is also supporting projects which would
raise the living standard of the poorer groups of the population.
21.       In line with the country's development priorities, future Bank
Group lending will place increasing emphasis on the agricultural and manu-
facturing sectors. In agriculture, the proposed credit is designed to
improve farm incomes and the standard of living of about 60,000 smallholder
farming families in the Volta Region. This would be the second Bank-financed
integrated agricultural project in Ghana, following a similar ongoing
smallholder project in the Upper Region. Following the two ongoing cocoa
projects--one in the Eastern Region and the other in the Ashanti Region--
further assistance is contemplated for increased cocoa output to strengthen
Ghana's foreign exchange earnings. As a prelude to a third project, a cocoa
sector study is underway to analyze the present constraints to increased
production and to make future policy recommendations for the sector.
Further Bank Group assistance to the sector being considered includes a
forestry project, currently under preparation, which would rehabilitate four
state-owned wood industries, improve port facilities at Takoradi, strengthen
forestry institutions and prepare a forestry and forest industries development
planning study.
22.       In infrastructure, a railway rehabilitation project aiming at
strengthening the finances and operations of the Ghana Railways Corporation
and improving the capacity of the railways for the movement of Ghanaian
exports is being considered.  Also proposed is a highway project designed to
remove the immediate bottlenecks in the transport sector through injection
of urgently needed foreign exchange working capital to import spare parts,
lubricants and materials needed to reactivate the road maintenance program
started under the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project and to assist the
domestic trucking industry. A technical assistance project designed to



7-
strengthen the Ghana Water and Sewerage Coriporation (GWSC), which has been
assisted under previous Bank Group projects, has been recently negotiated
with the Government and is planned for Board consideration in April. Also
under preparation is an urban development project which would seek low-cost
solutions to Ghana's urban problems and provide sites and services, infra-
structural and social services as well as urban employment in lou-income
areas.
a-       23.        In industry, a second line of credit to NIB was approved by the
Executive Directors in May 1979. The project aims at stimulating increased
production and improved capacity utilization in priority manufacturing and
agro-industrial enterprises so as to expand the industry's contribution
to foreign exchange earnings and savings and strengthen linkages with other
sectors. This would be followed by a small-scale industries project, cur-
rently under preparation, which would provide financial and technical assist-
ance to small entrepreneurs utilizing local raw materials.
24.       As noted in Part I of this Report, Ghana has experienced severe
economic difficulties during the last few years and, as a consequence, there
has been a low level of Bank Group lending during the last two years. Con-
tinued improvement in the Government's management of the economy will be im-
portant in determining the level of future Bank Group lending.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry, contrib-
utes about 51 percent of GDP. About 70 percent of the population live in
rural areas and derive an income from agriculture and related activities.
The sector satisfies the bulk of Ghana's food requirements, the major crops
being cassava, maize, plantain, sorghum, millet and groundnuts. Cocoa is
Ghana's most important single crop covering some 50 percent of all cultivated
land and presently accounting for nearly 80 percent of Ghana's export earnings.
26.       Having been for many years the largest producer of cocoa in the
world, Ghana has recently been overtaken by Ivory Coast and Brazil. Cocoa
production has been constantly declining since 1972/73 and in 1978/79 it
reached only 265,000 tons, less than half the 1964/65 production of 549,000
tons. As noted above the Government has ,recently increased the producer
price substantially, although there are other problems affecting the subsector
e.g., availability of insecticides, sprayers, and pruners, inadequate
disease control, inadequate marketing capacity, etc., all of which will be
examined in the cocoa study which is in progress.
Recent Sectoral Performance
27.       Growth of the agricultural sector has been unsatisfactory averaging
2 percent annually between 1965-72, 4 percent between 1972-75 and about 2.5
percent from 1975 to 1978. This poor performance was not due to decline
in cocoa production alone, since food output also fell to the point that
Ghana experienced in 1977/78 its worst fcod crisis since independence. With



-8-
the good rains in 1978/79 food crop production has recovered to some extent,
and is expected to improve further in 1979/80. The general economic deterio-
ration has contributed to the sector's difficulties; for example, import
restrictions, causing severe shortage of vehicles and spare parts, have
undermined the country's transport capacity and affected the timely delivery
of produce and discouraged production; the over-valuation of the cedi has
also affected the allocation of resources, distorting demand levels, and
relative attractiveness of various crops.  Whilst three consecutive years of
drought (from 1975 to 1977) undoubtedly aggravated the situation, inadequate
policies and weak institutions also constitute important causes of the
sector's poor performance.
Agricultural Institutions
28.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for agricultural
development activities and national policy, excluding the cocoa sector.
The MOA consists of the Departments of General Agriculture, Animal Husbandry,
Veterinary Services, Fisheries and Planning, the Rice Mills Unit, and the
Information Support Unit. While general extension is carried out by MOA's
various departments, specialized development and crop specific extension
work is carried out by five corporations (State Farms, Food Distribution,
State Fishing, Ghana Commercial Farms, and Ghana Oil Palm Development),
three boards (Cotton Development, Grains and Legumes Development and Bast
Fiber Development), three companies (Ghana Tobacco, Ghana Livestock and
Grains Warehousing) and the recently established Irrigation Authority. All
the various departments of MOA and the above parastatals are represented in
the regions.
29.       For cocoa a separate Ministry of Cocoa Affairs had been set up in
1975 to take over responsibilities for the industry previously shared by
various organizations. Cocoa purchase and marketing remained the responsi-
bility of the already exLsting Cocoa Marketing Board. In September 1979
both organizations were dissolved and an interim 3--member Cocoa Council was
established to be responsible for all of the cocoa industry.
Government Policy
30.      -During the 1960s the Government invested in capital intensive
industries, with agriculture receiving lower priority. This strategy
is gradually being modified. Agriculture now accounts for about 8 percent
of the total budget, compared to only 3 percent in 1971. The agricultural
development strategy set out in Ghana's Five-Year Development Plan (1975/76
- 1979/80) aimed at: (a) attaining self-sufficiency in food and raw materials
for agro-based industries; (b) diversifying exports through promotion of
non-traditional exports; (c) rehabilitation and expansion of the declining
cocoa subsector, and (d) developing non-crop subsectors such as livestock,
fisheries, and forestry. The Five-Year Plan also recognized the key role
played by smallholders in the development of agriculture. In practice,
however, Government strategy for the sector has emphasized mechanization of
large scale farms and has given the public sector a large role to play in
agricultural operations. The objective of this approach was to achieve a
rapid increase in agricultural production. The results, however, have been



- 9 -
disappointing since the parastatals have not emerged as efficient production
units and mechanized farming poses difficult technical problems under Ghanaian
conditions. At the same time the smallholders, who comprise abort 80 percent
of the farming community, were unable to respond adequately since adequate
support services and appropriate incentives were lacking.
31.       Ghana's extensive system of input subsidies, covering seeds,
fertilizers, sprayers, pesticides, mechanization services and credit has
A'       resulted in a substantial burden for the budget without significantly
improving national production. In the absence of an effective distribution
system, it has benefitted mainly a small number of large farmers, and has
not encouraged the small traditional farmers to adopt improved technologies.
32.       The Government now recognizes the need for policy changes and
some action has already been initiated. Government has already started
reducing fertilizer subsidies and has undertaken to remove them completely
by 1981. Producer prices for cocoa have been tripled (from 040 to ¢120
per headload) since August 1978. In order to shift operational responsibi-
lities to the regions and improve coordination between its various departments,
nationally as well as regionally, MIOA has recently created the posts of
Director General and also of Regional Agricultural Coordinator (RAC) for each
region. Further, the Government plans to establish a National Agricultural
Development Committee and Regional Agricultural Development Committees with a
view to decentralizing agricultural development planning, budgeting and policy
functions. The new Government has reaffirmed its support for smallholder
agricultural development.
Bank Group's Involvement in the Sector
33.       The proposed credit for the Volta Region Agricultural Development
Project would be the Bank Group's eighth lending operation for the devel-
opment of Ghana's agricultural sector. Total sector lending over 1969-76
amounted to US$76.0 million, including a fisheries project (1969, US$1.3
million); two cocoa projects (1970 and 1975) for a total amount of US$22.5
million; a sugar rehabilitation project (1972, US$15.6 million); a livestock
project (1974, US$2.0 million); an oil palm project (1975, US$13.6 million);
and the Upper Region agricultural development project (1976, US$21.0 million).
The latter represents the Bank's first assistance to a broad-based integrated
agricultural development project. The ongoing and completed projects have
had varying degrees of success and have suffered from a variety of problems
including shortage of foreign exchange for procuring recurrent items, low
producer prices, and domestic inflation. However, implementation of the
oil palm project, after initial difficulties, is progressing satisfactorily;
progress in the Upper Region project is being hindered by management, finan-
cial and staffing difficulties.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project is described in the report entitled "Ghana,
Volta Region Agricultural Development Project" (Staff Appraisal Report No.



- 10 -
2527-GH) which is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The project was identified by the Bank's Regional, Mission in West Africa
(RMWA) in November 1975 and a preparation report submitted to Government in
July 1977. Because of the subsequent deterioration in the economic situation,
the project was appraised only in January 1979. Credit negotiations took
place in Washington from February 4 to 5, 1980. The Ghanaian Delegation was
headed by Mr. Isaac Bissue, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning. Two representatives of IFAD also attended the negotia-
tions.
The Project Area
35.       The project area, comprising the whole of the Volta Region,
covers nearly 9 percent: of Ghana's land area. An. important feature of the
project area is Lake Volta, the world's largest man-made reservoir; created
by the Akosombo dam, which was completed in 1968, it covers 8,400 km2,
and is about 400 km long. Population of the Region is estimated at about
1.2 million (or about 10 percent of Ghana's total population) of which
950,000 (170,000 farm families) live in the rural areas. Eighty-four
percent of the area's farm families have farms below 4 ha. The farming
system is based on cereals, roots and legumes production for subsistence,
while supplemental income is derived from tree crops, fruits and vegetables.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The objectives of the proposed project would be to increase
agricultural production, farm income, welfare, and standard of living of the
Region's farming population, particularly the smallholders. The project has
been designed as the first phase of a continuous program of agricultural
development in the Region and would concentrate primarily on the development
of major field crops, related support services and rural infrastructure and
on the establishment of an efficient agricultural service in the Region.
Relatively simple crop production technology that would not necessitate
major changes in the existing cropping patterns, farm size or land tenure
arrangement would be introduced. The project would be implemented over a
period of five years.
37.       An estimated 60,000 farm families (35 percent of total), each
cultivating 2.1 ha farm on the average would directly benefit from the
project. The project would comprise the following components:
(a) Crop Development. Provision of extension services, farm inputs
and credit facilities; on-farm trials and adaptive research;
collection of data on hydrology and irrigation agronomy;
establishing ten 20-30 ha pilot schemes for low-lift pump
irrigation; provision of agricultural machinery.
(b) Livestock and Fisheries Development. Strengthening MOA's
veterinary and fisheries extension services and supporting
project area livestock farms and fish ponds.
(c) Infrastructure. Constructing and equipping 65 farm service
centers, workshop and staff quarters; renovating and expanding



- 11 -
the Adidome Farm Institute, and MOA's buildings and structures
in the Region; constructing 250 km of new access roads and
improving another 250 km of existing acccess roads; improving
148 km of existing feeder roads in the area.
(d) Institutional Support. Strengthening MOA's Regional Office
with technical and managerial staff and logistic support;
expanding and improving staff and farmers trainTng facilities;
establishing the Farmers' Services Company (FASCOM) which will
be responsible for farm input distribution; upgrading MOA's
home extension program to a separate section headed by a
graduate nutritionist.
(e) Consultant Services. Provision of up to 27-man months of
short-term consultant services to assist MOA in various areas.
Project Cost and Financing
38.       Total project costs are estimated at US$49.8 million (including
duties and taxes of about US$1.1 million) with a foreign exchange component
of US$26.4 million, about 53 percent of total project costs. The estimated
total project cost includes: (a) 5 percent physical contingencies on all
costs except for civil works which have 15 percent; (b) price contingencies
for local salaries at 15 percent for 1980/81, and thereafter compounded
annually at 7 percent; (c) price contingencies for all other local costs at
30 percent compounded annually; and (d) price contingencies for foreign
costs of vehicles, equipment and civil works at 10.5 percent for 1980, 9
percent for 1981, 8 percent for 1982, and 7 percent thereafter and 10
percent for seasonal farm inputs, consultants, training, salaries, research
materials and recurrent costs, all compounded annually. Total physical and
price contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent to 41
percent of total costs and 71 percent of base costs; local cost contingencies
reflect the expectation that the rate of inflation will continue to abate
from its present high level (paras. 12 and 45) and that certain costs e.g.,
labor will not increase as rapidly as the increase in the consumer price
index.   A summary breakdown of costs is given at the beginning of this
report.
39.       IFAD has agreed to finance this project on a joint basis with
IDA with a loan of SDR9.55 million. 1/ The proposed IDA Credit of US$29.5
million and the IFAD loan of SDR9.55 million would together finance about 86
percent of the estimated project cost, net of taxes and duties (100 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of US$26.4 million as well as US$15.6 million
equivalent or 70 percent of local costs). IDA would finance about US$11
million and IFAD about US$4.6 million of local costs. The Government contri-
bution of US$6.3 million would cover 28 percent of local costs. In addition
US$0.4 million, or about 2 percent of local costs would be provided by banking
institutions. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan had been fulfilled (Section
7.01 of the Draft Credit Agreement). IDA and IFAD financing would be in the
ratio of 70 percent IDA and 30 percent IFAD.
1/   Equivalent to about US$12.5 million at the rate prevailing in
February 1980.



- 12 -
40.       IDA and IFAD funds would be lent to Government which would dispose
of the funds as follows:  US$5.9 million (IDA US$4.1 million) would be
re-lent to FASCOM at 12 percent per annum for 30 years, with 7 years grace
for the procurement of farm inputs (the foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the Government); US$ 2.4 million (IDA US$1.7 million) would be Government
equity in FASCOM for fixed assets and working capital; US$30-4 million (IDA
US$21.3 million) would be for the operations of the RAC office, including land
development and technical assistance; and US$3.3 million (IDA US$ 2.4 million)
would be unallocated. The opening of a bank accournt in the name of the Volta
Region Agticultural Development Project at a commercial bank in Ho; an initial
deposit of 03 million with overdraft facilities of up to 03 million; the
establishment of FASCOM; and the execution of a subsidiary financing agreement
between the Government of Ghana and FASCOM covering the Government's equity
and loan to FASCOM would all be conditions of credit effectiveness (Section
7.01 of Draft Credit Agreement). Retroactive financing of up to a maximum of
US$350,000 is proposed to cover project expenditures on expatriate staff
salaries, construction materials, vehicles, equipment and spare parts incurred
after January 1, 1980 (Schedule I of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
41.       The Regional Agricultural Coordinator (RAC) of the HOA for the
Volta Region would have overall responsibility for implementing the project.
Implementation would take place within the agricultural and development
policy laid down by the proposed Volta Region Agricultural Development
Committee (VORADEC) which would replace the present Regional Agricultural
Advisory Council. VORADEC would be headed by the Minister for the Volta
Region and its membership would include: the Regional Administrator, the
Regional Agricultural Coordinator, the MOA's Director General, the Managing
Director of FASCOM, Regional representatives of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, Cocoa Council, ADB, Ghana Seed Company, Ghana Highways
Authority (GHA) and Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC), one
representative from the Regional House of Chiefs and four project participants.
VORADEC would be ultimately responsible to the Minister of Agriculture, and
besides determining project policy, it would exercisie budgetary and financial
control, appoint senior staff, award contracts, and 'be responsible for
coordination and project activities. The establishment of VORADEC with powers,
functions and composition satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01 of Draft Credit Agreement). The staff under the
RAC would consist primarily of existing MOA personnel in the Region supple-
mented by other staff recruited locally and internationally. The MOA Regional
headquarters at Ho would be reorganized on functionaL lines to implement the
project; there will also be three zonal and eight district coordinators,
with supporting technical and administrative staff reporting to the RAC.
Project proposals relating to rural water supply wou:Ld be implemented by
GWSC; construction and improvement of access roads would be the responsi-
bility of the engineering services unit at the Regional headquarters; and
the feeder roads component and civil works would be implemented in col-
laboration with and advisory and supervisory assistance from GHA and the
Public Works Department (PWD) of the Ministry of Works and Housing.



- 13 -
Project Budget
42.       Annual budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements would
be prepared by the Volta Region Office of MOA and FASCOM and would be submitted
to the VARADEC and the FASCOM Board. On the basis of these annual budgets,
the Government would (a) make appropriate allocations in MOA's budget and,
thereafter, would release to the Volta Region MIOA and FASCOM all necessary
funds quarterly in advance as per cash flow statements, and (b) allocate
necessary foreign exchange for importation of recurrent farm inputs by
FASCOM (Section 4.01(e) of Draft Credit Agreement).
The Farmers' Services Company, Ltd. (FASCOM)
43.       FASCOM would be established along the lines of the company formed
for the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project with primary responsi-
bility to procure, bulk, and distribute farm inputs, small implements and
farm machinery to the Region's farmers through the MOA's 65 Farm Service
Centers (FSCs). For channelling physical inputs as well as advisory and
other services, the farmers, whenever possible, would be grouped together
as associations or cooperatives. The company would operate along sound
commercial lines. Farm inputs and supplies, except fertilizers, for which
Government subsidies are likely to continue until 1981 (para 32), would be
sold at prices that would reflect at least a 20 percent mark-up over ex-FSC
cost to cover FASCOM's overhead and provide a profit. For all farm inputs and
services for which Government subsidized prices would be in effect, MOA
would reimburse FASCOM the full subsidy amount (Section 5.02 of Draft Credit
Agreement).
44.       FASCOM would be owned by Government, farmers and a consortium of
banking institutions, with farmers eventually acquiring majority ownership.
The company would have an initial authorized share capital of ¢25 million
and initial subscribers would include Government and banking institutions.
Farmers would obtain equity through a compulsory two and one-half percent
mark-up (this is in addition to the 20 percent mark-up referred to in para
43) on the ex-FSC cost of inputs which would be credited to their share
accounts. In the event the banking institutions decide not to take up
equity participation, Government would increase its own equity accordingly.
Farm Credit
45.       Most of the seasonal inputs to be provided by FASCOM are expected to be
purchased on cash payment. However, when required, FASCOM would sell seasonal
farm inputs on a deferred payment basis charging 15.0 percent of the delivery
price as a service charge. Since most of this seasonal credit is paid off
between six and nine months, the effective annual charge would be considerably
higher. Although the general structure of interest rates was increased sharply
in late 1978 (commercial bank rates were increased from 12-1/2 percent to
18-1/2 percent per annum), the general level of interest rates is still below
the rate 6f inflation, currently around 54 percent. However, present Govern-
ment policy is to continue with the economic stabilization program initiated
in 1978/79 which aims at reducing the rate of inflation to 30 percent and 20



- 14 -
percent in 1980 and 1981 respectively. Total requirements of medium-term
credit would be modest (about ¢3.5 million or US$1.3 million during the
five-year--project period) and are expected to be provided by Agricultural
Devleopment Bank (ADB) and/or the commercial banks from their own resources,
and on their existing terms and conditions.
Crop Development
46.       The 65 Farm Service Centers (FSCs) throughout the Region would be
the focal point for agricultural extension, the supply of inputs, farmer
groups and associations, nutrition services, marketing, and maintenance of
farm equipment. MOA extension services would be reorganized and intensified to
increase the time spent by the extension staff with the farmers and to
improve their effectiveness. Field staff would receive adequate logistic
support, improved service conditions and appropriate refresher courses and
training. The extension method to be adopted would be based on the Training
and Visit System. Field staff to farmer ratio would be improved from 1:900
to 1:500. Applied agricultural research and experimentation would be aimed
at the development of new improved practices for existing crops and crop
diversification, particularly with respect to legumes, vegetables and other
nutritious food and cash crops, apart from cocoa, and at obtaining appropriate
technology for on-farm storage and processing. The research program
would be implemented on a 20 ha experimental farm to be established near
Ho, at various seed farms in the project area, and on farmers' plots through-
out the project area. An in-service training facility for agricultural
field staff would be introduced at Adidome Farm Institute. Senior profes-
sional staff would also receive short training in various subjects such as
project management, irrigation agronomy, advanced extension methods, human
nutrition, etc. Funds would be provided for overseas training. The project
would also provide three mobile audio-visual units ifor farmer training.
The Government has agreed that the Adidome Farm Institute would give priority
to project training needs (Section 4.08 of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Houses and Buildings
47.       In view of the acute shortage of residential accommodation in the
project area, the project would provide for a wooden house construction
program for project staff. Funds would be provided for constructing three
zonal offices, completing and equipping the central workshop at Ho, expanding
the Regional agricultural office at Ho, constructing the headquarters of
FASCOM and renovating other MOA buildings and structures in the project
area. The buildings and structures of the Adidome Farm Institute would also
be renovated, refurnished and expanded. Additionally, 65 FSCs would be
constructed and equipped.
Staffing
48.       With the exception of a few senior and intermediate level posts,
MOA's current Regional establishment is numerically large enough to meet
overall project manpower needs. However, there would be a substantial surplus
to project requirement of semi- and unskilled workers, for whom redeployment
outside the Regional structure and attrition would have to be considered.



- 15 -
Several key posts proposed for the project (Chief of Field Operations,
FASCOM Managing Director, Financial Controller, Senior Research Agronomist,
Hydrologist, Training Officer, Resource Planner and Workshop Superintendent),
would need to be filled. Well trained people are available in Ghana, but
many of them lack practical experience in the implementation of intensive
development projects of the kind proposed and demand for the available
manpower is high. Therefore, these posts might need to be filled inter-
nationally. Persons with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions of emiployment acceptable to the Association would be appointed to
these posts (Section 4.06 of Draft Credit Agreement). An Acting Regional
Agricultural Coordinator (RAC) is in post pending the recruitment of a
permanent RAC.  The appointments of a permanent RAC to the Volta Region and
of the Chief of Field Operations would be conditions of credit effectiveness
(Section 7.01 of Draft Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Machinery Services
49.       There is a growing demand by small and medium size farmers in the
area for mechanization services, particularly during the peak season when
available local labor is in short supply. As no institution, private or public,
exists to provide these services effectively, the credit would finance the
import of 50 agricultural tractors to be sold to project area smallholder
groups or individuals having farms not exceeding 10 ha in size (Section 4.07
of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Rural Roads
50.       The engineering services unit at Regional headquarters would
construct about 250 km of new and improve another 250 km of existing access
roads and tracks and maintain them during the project period. An additional
148 km of feeder roads would be improved under the project; GRA would be
responsible for tender preparation and awards while the unit would super-
vise the works and pay the contractors. GHA would also be responsible for
carrying out the subsequent maintenance of feeder roads. After project
completion GHA would be responsible for maintaining all access roads,
tracks and feeder roads improved or constructed under the project (Section
4.01(f) of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Consultant Services
51.       The project would provide up to 27 man-months of short-term
consultancy services to assist MOA in the following areas: (a) providing
experienced guidance in specifying and achieving project objectives, and
in the introduction of the "training and visit"t extension system; (b) reviewing
effectiveness of MOA's recently decentralized operating structure; (c) planning
and designing the project's evaluation and monitoring program; (d) assisting
the Animal Research Institute in reviewing the nutrition and feed situation
for all kinds of livestock; and (e) preparation of a second phase of the
project.
52.       Funds have also been provided to cover costs of employing experts,
vehicles, equipment and operating costs for conducting research and trials on
Cape St. Paul disease which threatens the entire coconut growing area of Ghana.



- 16 -
Most of the consultants are likely to be recruited iLnternationally, but
efforts would be made to encourage participation by local universities and
other qualified institutions. Consultants appointed would have qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.02
of Draft Credit Agreement).
Nutrition Extension and Role of Women
53.       MOA's Home Extension Unit would be upgraded to a separate section
headed by a nutritionist. The work program would emphasize improvement of the
nutritional status of farm families through increasing home garden production
of vegetables and staples, and improving in-home preparation and conservation of
local foods. The nutrition program would be addressed mainly to the women of
the Region. Women who are actively involved in farming in the Region would
also be a target group of the agricultural extension support provided by the
proposed project.
Procurement
54.       All goods and services jointly financed by IDA and IFAD would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement of fertilizers,
chemicals, insecticides, drugs, vehicles, tractors, equipment and machinery,
construction materials for access roads and steel frame buildings for FSCs,
under contracts with an estimated value of US$50,000 or more, would be under-
taken through international competitive bidding (ICB). Such procurement is
estimated to have an aggregate value of US$11.8 million equivalent. For
contracts over US$25,000 but less than US$50,000 for the above goods up to
an aggregate value of US$1 million equivalent, competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association would be
employed. The same items purchased through contracts of less than US$25,000
and not exceeding an aggregate value of US$0.5 million would be procured
through competitive shopping. In bid evaluation domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed 15 percent preference or the applicable duty, which-
ever is less. Civil works contracts for buildings (except steel frame
buildings for FSCs), housing and improvement of feeder roads with a total
value of about US$12.9 million would not be attractive to foreign contractors
due to dispersed location and small size of contracts; such contracts would
therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding.  Local
competitive bidding would also be employed for procurement of items such as,
fishing nets and gear, animal feeds, and small farm tools and equipment
amounting to about US$1.6 million. The services of consultants and inter-
nationally recruited staff and overseas training of staff, valued at US$5.4
million, would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
A large part of the project cost would be local salaries and operating
expenses, valued at about US$16.6 million equivalent which are unsuitable
for competitive bidding.



- 17 -
Disbursement
55.       The proceeds of the IDA credit of US$29.5 million and IFAD loan of
SDR 9.55 million would be disbursed over five years in accordance with
the following procedures: 100 percent of CIF costs of directly imported
construction materials including prefabricated structures or 80 percent of
cost if locally procured, totalling US$6.0 million; 90 percent of civil works
costs, other than materials cost, totalling US$6.5 million; 100 percent of
cost of directly imported vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment, and
materials for livestock farms, or 75 percent of total cost if locally procured,
totalling US$7.5 million; 100 percent of the CIF cost of directly imported
spare parts for vehicles and equipment, totalling US$500,000; 100 percent of
the cost of farm inputs and research materials, totalling US$4.7 million; 100
percent of salaries and allowances of internationally recruited staff, fees
and expenses for consultants, contract expenses for coconut research and
overseas training of local staff, totalling US$5.0 million; 85 percent of
operating and maintenance costs (excluding salaries and wages for local staff
and operation of FASCOMI), totalling US$8.5 million; and an unallocated amount
of US$3.3 million.
Financial Implications for Government
56.       The project would not directly generate revenue to Government as
there are no taxes on farmers' produce. However, considerable secondary
economic activity is expected to develop around the project area; revenue
from indirect taxation would, therefore, increase. Under present government
policy, farm inputs are highly subsidized; fertilizers, for instance, are
presently subsidized at about 75 percent although it is Government's inten-
tion that subsidies should be phased out by 1981; however, seeds, chemicals
and farm tools and equipment would be supplied to smallholders at prices which
would reflect a mark-up of at least 20 percent over ex-FSC cost. Annual
government financing, including present expenditure, would average the equi-
valent of US$2.6 million (07.2 million) during the five year development
period. At the end of the project period, Government will have to assume an
increase in recurrent costs of about US$5.5 million equivalent (015.0
million) a year. This is equivalent to about 0.6 percent of the Government
recurrent budget in 1978/79 and is manageable.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The project would result at full development in significant
increase in food production mainly for consumption and processing in the
project area. The income of 60,000 of the 170,000 farm families in the
project area, or approximately 360,000 people, would be significantly
increased by the fifth year of the project, from 03,200 or US$1,160, to
06,500 or US$2,300, net farm family income in the South and from 05,900
or US$2,100 to 010,600 or US$3,800 in the North; consequently a better
standard of living and improved nutrition can be expected. Incremental
on-farm employment at full development would be about 2.6 million man-days
per year. As Ghana is a net importer of food, the incremental production
would directly reduce imports; at projected world market prices net



- 18 -
foreign exchange savings from this additional production would be around
US$6 million per year after deducting the incremental cost of imported
fertilizers, agro-chemicals, fuels, lubricants, etc. Improved veterinary
services would improve the quality of livestock in ithe Region and increase
the value of smallholder livestock holdings.  Farm tirials and research
would assist the introduction of more advanced techniologies during later
phases of development in the Region and elsewhere in Ghana. The estimated
economic rate of return of the project is about 16 percent.                                 .
58.       There are no unusual technical project risks.  Project organization
has been structured within the Regional administratijve framework; operational
problems constraining implementation of the on-going projects have been
taken into full account and therefore, implementation problems are expected
to be minimal. The technical and adoption risks are considered modest
because the proposed technology is simple, reasonably well tested under
local conditions, and wou:Ld not require major changes in the traditional
farming system and institutions. However, the project faces risks related
to the inflation rate which, if not reduced, could lead to cost overruns,
and to shortage of foreign exchange to meet recurrent costs for imported
farm inputs. The Government has recently demonstrated a greater awareness
of the need to improve productivity of the agricultural sector and, therefore,
it is anticipated that it would provide full financial support to the
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
60.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) fulfillment of conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement; (b) the opening of
a bank account in the name of the VORADEP at a commercial bank in Ho with an
initial deposit of 03.0 million and Government-guaranteed overdraft facilities
of up to 03.0 million; (c) the establishment of Farmers' Services Company
(FASCOM) in a form satisfactory to IDA and the excution of a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement between Government and FASCOM covering loan and equity
arrangements; (d) the establishment of Volta Region Agricultural Development
Committee ; (e) the appointment of Chief of Field Operations; and (f) the
appointment of a permanent Regional Agricultural Coordinator for the Volta
Region.



- 19 -
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
Al         62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 2, 1980



-20-                                           ANNEX I
TAaLE 3A                                        Page  1  of  5  pages
G_ ANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROULPS (ADJUSTED AyERAJES
GHADNA                         - h.OST RECE'dT ESITIhATE) -
SAME        SkLE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        n4CO11E
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Je
EDUCATION
ADJTUSTED ENROLLMEN  RAUIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 59.0         61.0       44.0             59.0       a2.7        102.5
MLALE                 80.0        69.0       50.0             64.2        87.3       108.6
FEMALE                39.0        53.0       38.0             44.2        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         11.0       50.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                   4.0         16.0      59.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
PEKALE                 1.0          6.0      39.0              4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  13.0          23.0       17.0              7.0        9.8         11.5
PUPTL-TEACHNER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0         30.0       30.0            42.2        34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                             ..        L7.0       23.0             22.9       23.4         22.9
AWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         27.0/i       30.0       30.0             20.8       54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          5.0        6.2              4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0         78.0      107.0            44.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          0.1/J        1.8        6.0              2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  30.0         34.0       51.0              5.6        18.3        40.0
CThEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA *2.0           2.0        0.1              0.4        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LUAOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2700.0       3300.0    3700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2         41.8       41.6             31.9       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.8         58.4       54.0             77.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCE.NT)                14.1         16.7       19.0              7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.3        38.8       37.6             40.8       37.1         33.5
KALE                                  4U.9        45.6       44.3             53.9       48.8         48. 0
FEMALE                               33.5         32.2       31.0             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.4              1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOM. DISTRIBUTION
:RCENT OF PRIVATE IICOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGNEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..        15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSMEOLDS    ..            ..         ..              ..        48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..         6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSE}HOLDS      ..          ..         ..              ..        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROaPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     265.0            187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      137.0             96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      152.0           138.4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      127.0            71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL. (PERCENT)
UR3AN                                ..           ..         ..            34.5        24.8         20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            48.7        37.5         35.3
Noc available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric meaas, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each grouip. Coverage of councries among the
indicators depends on availability-of daca and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent EJtizate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lover Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1966-68;  Ia  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/h  1962;   /i  The rate is for ages 6 and over;   /j  1964.
Most Racent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 21 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
C&4A - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SLEET
C&tA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ACAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KL.                                              - - MOST KECEN ESTIMATE  -
TOTAL           238.5                                                 SAME        SaE     NENX 61
AGRICULTURAL    134.0                               MOST aECENT     G0GRAPHIC   INCOME       LNCOHE
1960 /b   1970 /b JSTIATE L         R5EION 0   GCROUP /    GROUP I*
GCN PER CAPITA (t5S                 200.0       280.0    390.0           306.1      467.5      1097.7
ZIqEEGY CONSUMTON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EtaIVALET)     106.0      173.0    157.0             80.6     262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
1POPULATION, MID-YEA  (MILLIONS)                          6.8         8.6      10.6
URBAN POPIJlAZIOK (PERCET OF TOAL) 23.1        29.2     32.0            17.1       24.6       49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POYULATION I# YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLI.ONS)                     57.0
YELA  STATIONARY POPULATION IS  EACIMZO             2130.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PU SQ. K3.                       29.0       36.0      44.0            18.4      45.3        44.6
PER SQ. IX. AGUCULTUIRL LAMU    46.0        63.0      79.0            50.8     149.0       140.7
POPULATION AwG STRUCTURE (PZCEN'T)
0-14 YU.                         46.9       46.9      47.5            44.1      45.2        41.3
15-64 Ys.                        51.5        49.5      49.$           52.9       51.9        55.3
65 YIS. AND ABOVE                  1.6        3.6       3.0             2.8       2.8         3.5
POPULATION GRItO¶R RATE (PUCUNT 
TOTAL                             4.4        2.4       3.0             2.7        2.7        2.4
URBAN                             8.2        4.6       5.1             5.7       4.3         4.5
CREDE SIRT RATE (PE THOUSAXD)    49.0        49.0      48.0            46.3      39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE TBOUSAN)    24.0          20.0     17.0            17.2       11.7        9.2
GIRSS REPRODUCTION LATE              ..        3.2       3.3             3.1       2.7         2.2
FAMILY YLANNING
ACCEPTORS. A±4AL (THOUSADS)        ..        8.3      32.0
USERS (PERCEIT OF MARRIED W) *)              2.0       2.1             ,.        13.2       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
7XDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PE CAPITA (1969-71.100)         105.2       101.0     79.0            94.3      99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIRE!MD4S)                 89.0       9.0    101.0              89.5      94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DA)          45.0       46.0      53.4            35.8      54.3        64.4
OF W91CR ANIMAL AND PULSZ       ..         10.0a    16.3            17.9       17.4       23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MITALITY RAT?    36.0        29.0      23.0            22.3       11.4        8.6
RFALTU
LIFE ExPeTCANCY AT 3I1 (ERS)   40.0          45.0      48.0            47.0      54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TUOUSAID)                         155.0       115.0                       ..      68.1        46.7
ACCESS 10 SAFE WATE (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       35.0      35.0            20.3      34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..       86.0      86.0            53.9      57.9        75.7
RURAL                                       14.0      14.0            10.1      21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EYCBETA DISPOSAL (P2UGNT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       55.0      56.0            22.5      40.8        46.0
URBAN                              .,       92.0      95.0            62.5      71.3        46.0
ICBAL                              *-       40.0      40.0            13.9      27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PYSICIAN         21000.0    12950.L0 10Z00.0          17424.7    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NMRSING PERSON    2740.O0h   1070.0jL  860.0           206.6    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1370.0      760.0    600.Q            502.3     726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..      770.0    440.0            201.4     272.7       253.1
RURAL                             .,       790.0    720.0           1403.6    1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BED         ..          ..        o.            23.4      27.5        22.1
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOaSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..        4.7        ..             4.9       5.4         5.3
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..             4.9       5.1         5.2
&RCA.L                            ...                    .5.5                    5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NU9ER OF PEPSONS PER R00O
TOTAL                              .,         ..        ..              ..        ..         1.9
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         1.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..              ..        ..         2.
ACCESS TO ELECTEICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..       28.1        50.0
URSAN                             ..          ..        ..             ..       45.1        71.7
RURACL                             ..         ..        ..             ..        9.9        17.3



-99-                                                  ~~~~~~ANNEX I
22                                               ~~~~~~~Page 3 of 5 pages
Notes   Althuago the data ar  d-a  from souce  gnealY Judged the mast scthoritatI   and reliable,' it shouLd also be acted that they May mat he inter.-
tieal -c.prble because of the laA of stasdsrdlavd defisitioa and conepts used by differeot rottries in coliectiog the data. Theo data are, noetheleas,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, iodicate treads, and charseatesis  certain major diffe-eone  hete-e  roettries.
Ttte adjuotod grop  -orages for each iniator ar  po1latoua-eitghted geometric mean, rooluding the extremae  Iaue   f the iodicator and the moot popuLated
countey to eah, group.  Die to lack of data, grop averges of all adiost-r  for Capital Surpl-s Ol   oportora cod If iodicator, of Access to Water and Pivoreta
Dipoal, Housig, Leo-a  Di atributios and Povety for other cuohtey groups are ypc.pu.tif-oeightod geometric s-n  sitbut excLsio  of the eotreae va-Ia and
the moa`t populated ocuatry.  Obetec        'og   f       tcooe teawa   the iodioators depeods 00 a_allahtlity of dta  and Is sot uniform, oautioo nit be eaceolsd
treatlog av'Eve     onfocciT-teat    to avottr.  tice averages- aeo,tly usefu  as app -iatl    o              7"stotd;' value  sh.. acuathe  -aluc  of one
baicaotor at a also  wog the o-uty and rofereece g vope.
EAJl AOREA (thouand sq.hn.)                                                             Access to Eroeta Dioposal             of        tia    total, urbs, sad  -srl 
Total -Total sufce ara-cpriatg land area and 1land eater,.tr.o.epa(ttl   f 7aduaT                                                       enveby -creta dioponalIa.
Agric,oltu...  -  Mast ero   estimt  of agi-ultursl area used teprarsyly                pereectages of their respective ppulatloas. Placrta disposal esy iaolsde
or permaneatly for orops, pasture, market ted ditohei gardeas or to                   the coLlctioo and disposa,  iab or eithout treatast, of huma  -oreta
lie fallow,                                                    sad cas~~~~~~~.te-eter by eater-hn   ysts or the. ue of pit privies and  -aimlar
MP PER CAPITA (US$) - GIMP per capita estimates at current market prices,               Fhisoltic-per Pycia- Pphatioo dieldod by cober of proaticia  pkWsict1m
calculated by sam  ooov-rion method as World Bsok Atlas (1976-78 hbaio(;                qorte   reaomdical acolat uniot-ity Ic-I.
i950, 197, and 1978 data.                                                             Popolatia pe  Por-io  P-rac  - Ppolatios dicided by miter of praotoicig male
RFYCC5iit4fO  PER CAPITA - Annual  -onsuPtios of  -oreal enearg                       Wad fe egoaduste aucao, practic-l ou a,ad  -gistantaus.
caanlItIte, petrolen  oatural gao and hydro-, coolear d. Son-                                 rFpteal hod -  totl 'I rbhoo  and rural -Pojoolatica (tota, urban,
therm   al-eetriolty) in Ailograsm, of co1al quialeat pe  capita; 190                          a    d,ddb  te-l-vepeatev- a-he  of boopita1 beds avilable In
1970, sad 1976 data.                                                                    poblic sod privategorl cod epcielioed hotpital and vehabilitatico ...oters
Hospitals are eatebliashnete  permaeotly otoffed by at least  -o  p&cyeiclan.
POPtqIATTOF ANDO Vr7AL STdTISTICS                                                         tstabliah-eta p-oidlg pr~i.eipal.ly cutodial  -a  are not Iooluded. Rura
To ftal .pltica. Mtid-Y-a  (-lIlioh.) - Au of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                   hoapitale, howvr, italucde health and medical ceoteos act pereototi  staffed
197  dt,by a physiolan (but by o a,edlosl aasiataat,  -uru, aldeife, etc. ( ouch offer
flcanPaltlo- (coreat of total( - Ratlo of urban to total popaltio;                    i-aenao dtica and proide a lialted rage of sedi-1l facilitia..
dfeetdef ialtiosa of urban ara  sa  affect oamparability of dat         t       dsioaprRoptlePd - Total auher of adissi..s to or discharges fro
amn   cnrv;1960, 197, and 1975 data.                                         haaa  iie  by the somber of bod-.
Paosoltiaa iayesr 2001 - Curent popuLtico p-ojettoa  are h-ad oa                  HrllStiG
i975 Otal. popolatioc by age and  -e  and their motality and fertility            A-erge lic oS  f Houehold (p-r-a  per huueho2ld( - total, urban, sod rura  -
ratee. tr-jeotioa par ter- Cfor mortality rates oasprise of three                   A houotbcld  -oaiets of a ovoup of indloldual  cho shae liot00 quaters and
level  aasumlg life -pect-ny at birth  tcrai           i tto ounhteys               their  aia mealu. A boarder or lodger may or say act he ioludrd io the
Pero caPita inom  level, and fesale life  ope-t-ny stabillalag at                   b-.ashld for statletlcal 11rea
77.5 ye-eo   The paramter  for fertility rote  1als  have three level            Average auMe.f ..r.... per room-  total, urban, and rura  - Aveage cober
fassumiag dtolioe Is fertility acoordog to lo-m  le..el ad past                     of Pers... c  rom1  all uran  ad rural occupIed c--etiosal ielaa
fmill  1olunolg performanoe. dadh coutry Is thso asoig.e  one of' these            repooel . N i'agse`olud   so-preemanat atruotures and   -opted parts.
ais.e obination  of eortality and fertility treads for projectica                A.cess to Eletricity (pero't of delag)-ttal, urban, and rura  - Co--
PurpSose.                                                                            -etional  deollgs slith electricity In li;iag quarers as per-otage If
ittosyp'platica - I .  a stattoasy papulatic  cherm  is a  g-oeh                total, urban, and rurl delfliags  -epectlvely.
alae te  bi rth rate is e'oa to the death rato, and also toe age
atutre  eala t-atan. This Ia nnhievcd only after fertility oatss          Els5ATIOtt
deoli.e to the repiaceme-t level of unit set reproduction rate, che               Adjusted Ehroliot Patios
each genecaio  of ca_e plateo its'oelf -atip.  Tha atati"a'   pp-  rry                    y shoo  -totl,  al  and foe-le -ioatotal, male and T.e-I. e-ro1-
lation sioe as  estimated c  the basso  the projeted oharsoeiso                        sto   l   gsa  h. ;riasry levl u  perentagma of repective primary
of thcc po~platt  inteyar 0,ad the rats of deolia   otf aitlity                       schoal-age polnuatiss  os....lll Occlude, obildoos aged 6-11 years Rut
rate to reiceet level,                                                                adjusted for d-iffercat lengths of primary education; for  -cutrioe sith
Year sttonaypplto Is reached - The yeark. te satisoac7 p4nslatio,                       univeral edu..attas soraim-t as  sard 100 perart siot som  pspils
aloe has heea reached,                                        are helom or a.~Z.bove the official school age.
ftscato  loity                                                                          Des_dr   cho     total,  ale and f esle - Competed as ab-c; secodary
- Mid-ear poplatioa per squar  hilmter (101 hoestarea  of                   ducatcon requires at leat four year  of approved pri ..vy iautructic;
total area                                                                            p-oodes geoeral e-cti-Ia, to trarher traioing iousroti-o  for pupils
Pe ks. . ugri-lt-ra  land - Compted -  above far agrotolt-a  land                   usually of 12 to 17 year  of age; -or-cpoodeooe c-aues ar  genrall
"aLy.                                                                                  daladed.
Pselatioho Age itructure (peroent) - Child-e  (0-14 yesra,  -oking-age                  VoostloasI -nrolmet (perorat of  -rotadry) - Vecatiasal itatitutioss itolde
(1~yearo) ( ad retired,(i 0Year  and ove) as p.eretagsa of mid-year                 tebhnical, induotrial, ur other progrn  shich operate independeotly or a
posol.atiho; 1960, 1970, and 19ff data.                                                 dep.rmetat of acoods-y unotitutloos.
Porolattonioth Rt (ocot(   otal - A-auL 9-oth rates of total mid-                       Pupil-teacher eatia - corlne. and soutadary - Total stdsoto esrlod ia
Year pupultic.a  for 190-i 190-0,   sd17-                                                rimay ad sooodss' 1oct1  divided by naubers of teachers ic the ore
PoplaIon tisuhhae(preo    - uran   - onua gr-.th rates of urban                           apseadiag le-elu.
ppliosfor15-.        1507,cd17-75.                                             Adl                  literc   at   p-o(-I tert  adults (able to read and -rise)a
C-d  ldth  .t.(Lvthtussd  - Annua floe birtha per thouaasd of aid-                   aIesaoo  total adult papIltica aged 15 ytara end oIo
yea Ppaplati"a; 1960, 1970, ead 1977 data.
Cr-de heath Pate  ope  thnuoani( - bA-ea deaths per th-unad of mid-year             CONUMPTION1
9uslaio;10, 1970, and 1977 data                                              Pasen-ger Cur  (p r th-uand ouai    Pas gaegr car  o-poise motor cars
ib'easPepoadotios  ate - Ao-rago a"he  af daughters a  m      1n will hear         seting Iesa than eight p-.a..s; eaoldes amblanoes, he-s-  and  ilitsry
Ia her sor_al r-prd-tice period if she euperioso-   resent age-veols
speeific fertility ratto; usually five-year averges ending is 1960,                eadlo Pecei-ors (per thouand ppvslatio) - AllI types of receiv-r  for radio
1970, sad 1975.                                                                       hrcadoata to geotral public per thouand of population; e-cidra unlionsod
Family PIiunig -Atoopt-ra  A-nal (th-.ssds) - Annual amber of                           recivers to oootrios and to years she. regitrmtirn sf radio seto -m  in
-ceptoos of blrth-cootra1 dot-ina under aupice, of sational fmily                    effect; data fur r-eet ye-ar  ma ant he oceparble ot1ce azt coutries
planning progra.                                                                      abelished li-ening.
Family Planning - Oser  (pre-t of maried ome    Pevoestag  of married                 iT PReivers (per tho-aund  upoixation) - ft -ecive-  for braadoact to geneal
_s  of ahild-beartag ago (15"14 years)  hu oar hirtih-aotrol d-i-t                    publta pnr thousand popuLali.a; ecoludestoni-eeed TVreei-oroiaountrie
is all maried woe  is sam  aE group.                                                  mod in year ohe  -egistraulia of CTVrt  os io effet,
Nesppe Ciclatio  (per thouan  pultos   h-ihs the averae ciro tio
FWD2 AND0 JTOTTIOi                                                                        af'daily genera  ioterest asopa per -defi-ed a    periodioal pbhitootios
"Indfrtof iTWdoPcs.ios per Capita (1969-71-100) - todno, of per sapiti                   devoted primarily to ce-rdire gorlas.I  a  aadrdt   edaily"
= .nuL prod-etice of all food  -oditles. Prwodution  -eludes sed sad                  if it  ppearsatIleat fourtime,t oeed
fed  a  i       aendar yo-  basis.  Comeditie. cove  primary goods          CInem  knsual Attead-no  per Capita aer Year - ha-d an the number of tirheta
(eg.-ga-ant  Ieta   f sugar) hbio  are edible and Oceta..c cur Yct                sol  during the year  i-clodiag adniasiou  to drive-ia Iiema  and mobile
(eg  ofe  and tea are eooioded(. Aggoegate productios ofen   any                 ait..
Per capita supl o f calorie  (porcoa of evuree'nts) - Coapsted from              I,kKi  FORCE
enr    quivalet of a-t food aupplies avalable is coutry pee capita            Iatl abo  Pro   (iou and) -  naM-ioaliy active pera"'m  looluding armd
energdy.  Asible supplies coprise dometic prod-tcoin, imports less                  foce  and unmlydhteruighueivs   tdas   t.ieitia
sprta, and nbsge. I0 stock. Not supplies  -calde animal feed, soeds,                Is v-i-u  aurisare sot -oprbe
qoahtities used in food proceasiag, and los..es in distribotica. Pequir-                   soes11t) -femal  labor forea  p-eoetage of total labor foro.
Aeta sere eebtmated by PAO hbad on physiological ceedo for enma) - labor forc  is farming, foretry, bootieg and
acsitiy and health  -ooideriug e-vi-smetaiOsprtue*body seights,                     fisciag as percestage of octa~l Iacor forc.
age and ... distrihuticas of popultica, andaloij  10 perceat for                  Industry (pe-tsi  -Labor foroce is miolog,  cetric,aofwctoriag and
emte at household Il.vel.                                                           elcriiy  soerad gas as percettge of totallabor force.
Per capita supply of Protol.iot.    -It                                                                              't (gr-am  per day) - Prostaean-teat oF per  PNrt"cpto  ae(eoo)-ttl sale  and inlo - Parsicipatiun or
capita set supply of food per day. Net supply of fool is defined as                  otilaly cste  are coputed - total, mule , and fesale labor foTe  - per-
abov Re.Pqolremets for all coutries established by USDAt psoehdc for a              -cetages of total, sale and foale popua.tion of all ages repectively;
mlalmom allasance of0 gram  of total proteio pro dAy and 20 grat  af           1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  These. are  ila. partiipatioa rates -eflectiag
a"t"a  and poise p-teia, of ahich 10 gram  should hr animal prateta.                ag.-sem  .truoture of the population, sad long time trsnd,  A_ few teaiatea
Thee standards are IIce  thai those of 75 gram  of total protsth and                are fro  astio.... .ooroes
29 gram  of animal Protein an an average for the world, proposed by nAo           Icoaslo  eeadacy Patio - Ratio of popolatios undse 15 and 65 and ovr to
in ,rthe Third World rood Ourr1ey.                                                  th  Iao  for  in age gr  ouef 15-64 fers.
Percait pete    up -y ro   _can  andpos- Prtula supply of fee
derived fran aarl  and pulses  10-ras  e   day                                 015  DISTRIBUTIONIP.    dkn)-  -idb   ih.
ChilId (age  i-i    fotltyhte  p'eeratous-d) - Annual dsaths Par thou-Ae               P-eotasne of Private lec-  (bothisehanhid-Ccevdbrcet
taaegouphipa,  ocildr-es in this age group; for most deve1-                        5 p-rant, eldes.t 20 psrcsot, poorest S0 pmrstt, and poorest hO prosnt
opng"  outrisdt  delrived froot hf. tabie..                                           ofhusol.
P92179                                                                                POtVERTY 70TAR=  GROUPS
Lllf  Toetaoy a   it  (yas)-Avrg  amber sf years of life                             Estimated Absolute Povety  a...i Level (USi nor caia)-uba  ad rrl-
radIng at brh  l9S   97,ad'19ff. data.                                            Aslt   o yio               ee  .a that isc_m  leve   elosIch a  inma
lefant   oraliy Rate (per th-eand) - duoAoal deaths of i:sfasts sader sos               sutrtic...lly adeqoata dust :PI .ea .. tsooial os-rood oqteet  isst
yer tfag   ero -ead live brhrb.                                              afrdbe
Aoes t  SfeWaee(prcatofpooltia     tta   uba   ad  url          ltianted Peati-e Po-sty loiaee   t)  e   ats  - urban sit rura  -
Fumiereof peoplte(ttal   ra,    adrrls          ea ..ai  aces  to                  Rural relati-eoost o--t       o level iS!oe-hrd ofa'a.Tr    pt
a  -ste- supply (isotedas t-tcad surface  --ec   or untreated bat                  proavea  ico-m  of the coutryl ichn loca  is de-hoe  frm  Ptie rura  level
smcotamlnted sater  -ue  as that fom po-tsted hureholes, sprigs,                      etch adjustmeot foe higher ...t of llivig 1. -rhan areas
and aanitary walls) as percetags.  oc their  -cps-tiva populai-a  Is                Zetiscted P-platice DelveA dicls         ."Yro  le-m  Le-ci (     "trrc     - urba  and
enuba   rea. a pblic fountalo or etandpoat lcratsd not sara than                      rua       I ret. o   pouain(ra   n   rura) sh. ac            rhi:t,    po"
20. metersfrm       - hos   ay be...eidered as belag aithin  -ess bahi
acesof that ho.-..  Is rural arsa.s.... bsoais   -.es  would isPly
that ths h-u-af. or asmhss of tos household do act have to spad a                                                           ge.... c and Social Data Diolalca
dicpropocioo..e par5t of the daj . is ftching tha family's cater hamds                                                 tosomi Analysis and P-ojectioss Dapartmea
Augut 197'9



-23 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
GHANA: ECONOMIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$390
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                            (%, consait prices) 1/
Cedis Mln.     %                   1970-76
GNP at market prices            6575         100.0                  0.3
Gross domestic investment        641           9.7                  0.8
Gross national saving            484           7.4
Current account balance          -39           0.6
Export of goods, NFS             896          13.6                 -6.6
Import of goods, NFS             794          12.1                 -2.8
OUTPUT AND LABOUR FORCE
Output in 1976            Labour Force, 1970
Cedis Mln.        %             Man.        %
Agriculture                     3300            50.3         1.787       57.2
Industry                        1254            19.1           .485      15.3
Services                        2003            30.6           .861      27.5
Total                           6557           100.0         3.133      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
---------Central Government-------------
Cedis Mln. % of GDP      Cedis Mln. % of GDP
1976/77                  1977/78
Total revenue and grants              1106.3        10.4       1382.          7.0
Total expenditure and net lending    2228.0          1.0        3538.6       17.8
Overall deficit (-)                  -1121.7        10.6      -2155.7        10.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
(Million Cedis Outstanding End Period)
Money and quasi money                  563   686   853  1138  1582  2286  4910
Bank credit to public sector           555   515   670  1245  2006  3227  5659
Bank credit to private sector          186   178   222   312   395   572   751
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and quasi money as % of GDP        20    20  18.3  19.7  16.9  13.9  19.6
General price index (1977 = 100)      16.4  19.3  22.8  29.6  46.2 100.0 171.5
1/ 1976 is the last year for which constant price data are available



-24-                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-78)
1976   1977   1978
(Million US$)                         US$ Mln.    %
Current balance             -34.3  -79.8  -53.9  Cocoa beans            498.8    61.7
Trade balance              88.8   29.4  112.7  Cocoa products          77.2      9.5
Exports                   799.0  889.6  894.6  Timber logs             47.2      5.8
Imports                  -690.2 -860.2 -781.9  Timber sawn             23.1      2.9
Timber products        4.4      0.6
Invisibles (net)           -123.1 -109.2 -166.6  Gold                    69.6      8.6
Services                   -149.8 -167.8 -221.1  Diamonds                11.1      1.4
Transfers                    26.7   58.6   54.5  Manganese               14.0      1.7
All other goods       63.3      7.8
Capital accounts            -84.5   83.7  -18.3
Official, long-term         7.6   64.3   52.6  Total                  808.7   100.0
Private, long-term          91.9   33.4    5.5
Private, short-term 1/  -102.0  -14.0  -76.4  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31,  1978 (EST.)
Overall balance            -118.8    3.9  -72.2                                 US$Mln.
Public debt, incl.
Gross international                                  guaranteed
reserves (end of period)  103.5   89.3  153.3  Total outstanding
and disbursed M&LT           877.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
February 1973 - June 18, 1978
US$ = 01.15                              Public debt,  incl.
guaranteed
Since August 26, 1978                             Total outstanding
US$ = 02.75                                and disbursed                3.4
IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Dec.31, 1979)(US$M1.)
IBRD   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed  92.8  90.6
Undisbursed               74.1  31.9
Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed            166.9 122.5
1/ Includes errors and omissions but not current payments arrears.



- 25 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of February 29, 1980)
Loan or                                                        US$  million: Amount (less
Credit     Fiscal                                                     cancellation)l/
Number      Year   Borrower                Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and seven credits fully disbursed                  56.5   42.2
205-GH      1970  Republic of Ghana   Cocoa Rehabilitation             8.5          0.4
354-GH      1972  Republic of Ghana   Sugar Rehabilitation            15.6          1.1
438-GH      1973  Republic of Ghana   First Highway                   13.0          0.2
499-GH      1974  Republic of Ghana   Second Water Supply             10.4          0.5
500-GH      1974  Republic of Ghana   Livestock Development             2.0         0.7
531-GH      1975  Republic of Ghana   Oil Palm                        13.6          9.6
901-GH3/    1979  Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                      19.0         19.0
1122-GH     1975  Post & Telecom-       Telecommunications    23.0                 16.0
munications
1180-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   National Investment
Bank                   10.0                 1.8
1181-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   Ashanti Cocoa            14.0                 7.2
1182-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   Second Highway           18.0                 7.1
1291T-GH2/  1976  Republic of Ghana   Agricultural Devel-
opment                 21.0                12.7
1380-GH     1977  Volta River           Kpong Hydroelectric
Authority                                   39.0                24.2
1381-GH     1977  Electricity Cor-    Third Power
poration of Ghana                            9.0   -             2.2
Total                                      190.5  124.3        102.7
of which has been repaid                    24.8    1.8
Total now outstanding                      165.7  122.5
Amount sold                  0.4
of which has been repaid    0.2              0.2
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                                      165.5  122.5
Total undisbursed                           71.2   31.5        102.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
3/   Not yet effective.



-26-                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 500       Livestock Development Project; US$2.0 million
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date:
May 4, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Because of unanticipated difficulties in acquiring necessary land
and cost overruns resulting from high local inflation, the Executive Directors
approved a revised project description in August 1976. The project now
includes: (i) development of two commercial ranches for 4,000 head of cattle,
(ii) credit for 20 pri-vate livestock producers, (iii) the preparation of a
follow-up project and training for ranch managers. Revised project foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$2.3 million. Improvements in management
performance and some physical development were noted until early 1979.
Uncertainties during the last year however have delayed action on completion
of much needed water supplies and GLC has purchased unsuitable cattle for
one of its ranches.  Management is again a problem.  Together these factors
are affecting the viability of GLC and these issues are being discussed with
GLC to find a satisfactory solution.
Credit No. 499   Second Water Supply (Accra/Tema) Project; US$10.4 million:
Credit: of July 26, 1974; Effective Date: January 7, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This Project is being cofinanced with CIDA and ADB. Although
execution of the Bank-financed component is substantially complete, overall
implementation is expected in mid-1981, about 2-1/2 years later than originally
envisaged. While foreign cost component is within original estimates, the
local cost component has more than doubled. Due to prevailing high inflation,
the effect of the 100% tariff increase of July 1977 has been eroded. In order
to ease GWSC's finances, Government approved a 125% tariff increase in the
Accra-Tema metropolitan area and a 75-100% increase in other areas effective
from April 1, 1980, as well as public bond issues of ¢26 million.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
-27                          Page 3 of 6 pages
Credit No. 531   Oil Palm Project:  US$13.6 million Credit of March 5, 1975;
Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Planting program was behind schedule in December 1979 by about
600 ha (from 2,000 targeted) due to considerable downtime of land clearing
equipment because of late arrival of spare parts and delays in delivery of
new equipment.  However, the situation has since improved and management
is confident it can catch up within the next six months. The small-holder
program is proving to be quite successful; however, the outgrower program
is not as encouraging.  All appraisal targets are expected to be met
(subject to no further problems emerging in funding) by project completion
date. Tenders for mill have been evaluated and the contract awarded.
Loan No. 1122    Telecommunications Prolect:  US$23 million Loan of
June 10, 1975; Effective Date: January 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project has experienced a slippage of about three years;
project execution is still in procurement stage. There is an increase of
about US$6.5 million in the foreign cost of the project which has resulted
from a change in the type of switching equipment, the depreciation of the
US dollar and increased physical quantities. After having unsuccessfully
attempted to obtain financing of this cost overrun from other donors, the
Government has now decided to make foreign exchange available from its own
resources. This should expedite progress of various procurement contracts and
the project is now expected to be completed in 1982. The Closing Date of the
Loan has been extended to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1180 National Investment Bank Project: US$10 million
Loan of December 23, 1975; Effective Date: March 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank to help finance industrial, tourism and agro-industrial
development projects and to support small and medium scale private enter-
prises. The loan has progressed satisfactorily with less than US$0.1 million
remaining uncommitted and approximately US$8.2 million disbursed. The institu-
tional and procedural improvements introduced under the project have withstood
strenuous tests over the past two years and NIB's operational performance
has been noteworthy given continued economic difficulties in the country.
Partially due to low production levels resulting from insufficient foreign
exchange for spare parts and raw materials, arrears have built-up. However,
this has been controlled through a more intensive follow-up actions and
collection efforts, although rescheduling of subloans has been required in
some cases.



ANNEX II
-28-                              Page 4 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1181  Ashanti Region Cocoa Project:  USS14 million Loan of
December 23, 1975; Effective Date:  February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project consists of replanting and maintaining 42,500 acres of
hybrid cocoa in the Ashanti Region. As of September 30, 1979, close to the end
of the planting season, cumulative planting was 29,425 acres (excluding aban-
doned farms), leaving about 13,000 acres to be replanted out of the combined
Bank and BADEA appraisal target of 42,500 acres. The major difficulty met by
the project's efficient management is insufficient farmer response due to an
unattractive producer price for cocoa. The project's planting program was
also severely affected by the 1977 drought which caused heavy losses in
newly replanted areas, and made a second replanting in 1978 necessary. To
allow the achievement of physical targets, the loan closing date was
extended by two years to December 31, 1980. Howe-ver, the project is having
difficulty in obtaining polythene bags for raising seedlings. Moreover, the
requirements for maintenance of replanted farms are growing steadily. It is,
therefore, considered unlikely that the project would achieve its targets by
end 1980 and the project closing date may have to be extended to December 31,
1981.
Loan No. 1291-T      Upper Region Agricultural Development Project:
US$21 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Effective Date: April 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project, the first Bank operation for integrated smallholder
agricultural development in Ghana, would provide most of the 125,000 farm
families living in the Upper Region with improved support services, farm
input and physical infrastructure. The project is being cofinanced by
the ODM. Two principal objectives are to increase farm incomes via increase
in agricultural production and to establish permanent farm support services.
The loan became effective on April 11, 1977, and most key staff have been
appointed. M4inistry of Agriculture personnel have been integrated satisfac-
torily. Suitability of some senior staff has been questioned and replacements
are being sought. Cost overruns are envisaged due to high rates of inflation.
Whilst some project components are being implemented satisfactorily (e.g.
extension and commercial services, training, broadcasting), overall progress
is being hindered by management and funding problems. A Bank review mission
scheduled for April will pay special attention to these matters.



-29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1380-GH    Kpong Hydroelectric Project:  US$39 million
Loan of March 24, 1977; Effective Date:
August 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
All major contracts have been awarded including civil works,
generating equipment, spillway and power-house gates and the transformers
at Kpong.  Construction is progressing satisfactorily for the main civil
works. Under the present schedule, the Kpong hydroplant is expected to be
commissioned in July 1981. Heavy local cost overruns are being experienced as
a result of high inflation.  The Government has recently approved a tariff
increase which should substantially improve VRA's finances although probably
not sufficient to achieve the agreed rate of return objectives. VRA has also
recently raised about ¢80 million through public bond issues.
Loan No. 1381-GH    Third Power Project, US$9 million Loan and
Credit No. 689-GH   US$9 million Credit, of March 24, 1977;
Effective Date: June 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Slippage has been experienced during the past year because of
delays in civil works design and execution. Due to these delays and high
inflation, local cost overruns are rapidly building up; staffing of the
power company (ECG) and system maintenance have also suffered from the poor
financial situation. A tariff increase of 30% for domestic consumers and 80%
for commercial consumers was introduced with effect from April 1, 1979.
Consultants are presently studying improvements required in staffing and
maintenance.
Credit No. 438-GH   First Highway Project:  US$13.0 million
Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: January 28, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project includes the rehabilitation of about 150 miles of
paved roads; preparation of a road maintenance program; acquisition of
traffic control and pavement survey equipment; and preinvestment studies. The
rehabilitation works are about 70% complete, but recently work has come to a
virtual standstill due to a severe shortage of spare parts, bitumen and other
imported materials. The contractor for the Yamoransa-Takoradi road declared
bankruptcy in January 1979, while at the same time the contract experienced
significant excess quantities in earth works and drainage works. The
project is expected to have a cost overrun of the order of US$9.0 million of
which US$6.0 million is in foreign exchange; of this US$2.7 million is due
to dollar depreciation. The Government has decided to finance out of
its own resources, the completion of one 13-mile section where work had
already begun; the remaining 18-mile section, where work has not yet
started might be considered for inclusion in a later project. Only about
US$200,000 of the credit remain undisbursed.



-30-                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1182-GH    Second Highway Project:  US$18 million Loan
Credit No. 594-GH   and US$10 million Credit, both of
December 23, 1975;
Effective Date:  March 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project includes assistance to (i) Ghana Highway Authority to
strengthen maintenance management and planning, execute a four-year mainte-
nance program including comprehensive training, reconstruct 16 miles of road,
and study feeder road needs; and (ii) the Bank for Housing and Construction,
with related technical assistance, to enable them to onlend to domestic
contractors. Less than 25% of the programmed equipment-intensive road mainte-
nance was completed during 1978. This was due primarily to country-wide
shortages of lubricants, spare parts, fuel, and other imported inputs caused
by the severe shortage of foreign exchange which the country is facing.
An emergency road maintenance project is under consideration which, through
injection of urgently needed foreign exchange working capital to import
spare parts, lubricants and materials would permit reactivation of the
road maintenance program under the Second Highway Project.
Credit No. 901       Second National Investment Bank Project:  US$19
million Credit of October 26, 1979; Not Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project, which is a second line of credit to the National
Investment Bank, would provide foreign exchange to support high priority
manufacturing and agro-industrial enterprises. The project includes a working
capital component (spare parts, raw materials, etc.) to help increase capacity
utilization of existing industries. The credit is not yet effective pending
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement.



-31-                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
GHANA
VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  One year and a
half (December 1975 - July 1977)
(b) The agency which has prepared the project:
Government/RMWA
(c)  RMWA Preparation Mission:  January/February 1977
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: January 1979
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations: February 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  July 31, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action:  None
Section III:   Special Conditions
The following special conditions are included in the draft
Credit Agreement:
(a) Employment of consultants with qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA (para 52).
(b)  Government to:  (i) provide equity contribution to FASCOM
totalling US$1.7 million equivalent; (ii) provide
a long-term loan to FASCOM for incremental farm inputs
totalling US$4.1 million; (iii) reimburse FASCOM fully
for the subsidy amount for all farm inputs and services
(paras 40 and 43).
(c) On the basis of MOA and FASCOM approved budget, Government
to: (i) make appropriate allocations in MOA's budget
and provide all necessary funds quarterly in advance
as per cash flow statement; and (ii) allocate necessary
foreign exchange for importation of recurrent farm inputs
by FASCOM (para 42).
(d) Appointment by Government of key project staff with
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to IDA (para 48).



ANNEX III
- 32                             Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) Tractors and related equipment financedL under the project to
be sold to simallholder groups or to inclividuals having farms not
exceeding 10 hectares in size for use exclusively within the
project area (para 49);
(f)  Ghana Highway Authority to:  (i) prepare tender and award
contracts for the improvement of feeder roads included
in the project; (ii) undertake the maintenance of feeder roads,
access roads and tracks (para 50);
(g)  Government to establish the Volta Region Agricultural
Development Committee (condition of effectiveness)
(para 41);
(h)  Government to open a bank account in the name of VORADEP in a
commercial bank in Ho with an initial deposit of 03.0 million with
Government guaranteed overdraft facilities (condition of effective-
ness) (para 40);
(i) Establishment: of the Farmers Services Company (FASCOM) in a form
satisfactory to IDA and the execution of a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement between Government and FASCONM covering equity and loan
arrangements (condition of effectiveness) (para 40);
(j) Conditions precedent to the effectiveness of IFAD agreement
to be fulfilled (condition of effectiveness) (para 39); and
(k) Appointment of Chief of Field Operations and a permanent Regional
Agricultural Coordinator (condition of effectiveness) (para 48).



NO0R T HE RN                                    T. TOGO
R  E G  I 0  N_
N-.~~~-C-P,d   ,
>77~~~~~~
B  R  0    N   G  A   H  A   F  0                                                                               b&..., 2 0-2 )5 H0.,,.,.,oo
ADU  -i~go R  -h.-K-
K  ooIgCLomo Pr c- roto
R   E   G0      0   N                                                                                        g~/-    p.rr  f.- do.eo
,z                                                              (DO~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5, Ro-ooD-,- o -o
--  ~ ~ ~ ~          EG              (0                          /                                       ~ h
(r ,.-/dorrRoac C-U-t.Sag.kforM
L.      Kp-rrgScorroLp--gr
VO     E GREION                                                                AAtooodgrd,Propo~'i
LAN     US    INPRO ECTA     ST          RNEAllrTroAo rlaGBoao
N                                                                 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - "    
10                                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~0A
G,IhANA'A                                                                                                         A
A      k  AA
OA.
0                0   ~~~0)
A0   ~0                o~0A
z z                                                                           ic              A     /                           C     
F ~ ~        ~       ~ ~                 ~-r00                 ~          AO              ®A
R H          IAN~                                                            a--    & 0 
T~~~~~~~~~~0



-L



N    R THE R N .      '
R E G  I O  N
- X          '              S              X(-      .v                  /     l        
<  -   4  /     /./=; GREAT SOILS GROUP
FOREST ZONE
--(::        ] sl  | Fores' Ochrosols
0                      . - -> .___-        j   (       jN;  ;           41TER,OR SAVANNAH ZONE
B  R  0  N  G   -A  H  A   F  O                                                                                      Lo,tent -Ochrso;
R  E  G   I (D  N                                                                                         r-/.ee-i0ch  grodes
COASTAL SAVANNAHi ZONE
\   /    -    >       ---    _ _           j X  .       l,l      i f    |    1 Savannan arun~~~~~~~~~ohsols 
. . . ,- 1 . , -/I.J'   g  liii   ]  Sovorosoh OCGnE-SOIh
p *--~~~~~~~~~-                              .- t  '     E.. ,   Regosoli C &oondwoter Loter,tos
- - ,  .... _   *\  "'                                                                                 7    V  ;0XT ropo   4 &e   3   Eortr
Acid Gleisolg,
'J  k             Rg~~~~~sooooclisol
A    S  H  A   N   T   I                          '                )                           -rititSudre
R   E          G   I  O    N                                  j                                 Ds
;  7 . .  (2  )      / ;>         /5  ; --    EJIsirt-rottnd Bouo d-ries
REGIO                               ,9,--i                    .              94    --i)eg co== E,rrf dor
0   j; _     / 0    ~~~~E  A    5   T   E   R' Irl               :                     :     i''          -      ;;0    
N  K LOMETERS                       'ter'=                                                            ; e   0      :
DEVELOPMENT  PRE0ECT T   
:SO8ILS IN PROJECT R E                                                                                       (
"O ly, -                 B.      Er ti                          0          k         0      9 4i        5        ;         *
W ,R e,                                                                         g         y1.1. ...:1   h  t    of   t;e ntXt=
r    .    __._.   _    ,__________4_..';                                                                                                 r
K LOIAETER0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~
0  3  0  5  20 25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1



H A N
V(J q A4 PEON
)V                                                                  3, c kJ u U R i'n
J) V'E L,  "A E N - T P R C). E
,Gi JL JRAi PROjE__i,
\0
v- 1, .q ,, A-A_-
D-I.p-, Pq-
q,.
P    T                                        'T -E
K.J. 'dIF--:,: '--
F,:- S- Fi,F f,
-7
N,
?
vz-
V- R-d,
P. -y-
BRANAM
71
N
21
.0     o     60
ASZNT R'                                                                                P
ccc(A".0i
/IIIIJITI 1.11
--NJCLEJS                                       I
ESTATE
A RE
UT
SESTSA E
W                                                                                     A.
R    E    C,
CAIE 1.
KOMENDA
E5TATE
M         5hll



