Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7508-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION AND THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 101 MILLION (US$125 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
A LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$125 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR
THE ANDHRA PRADESH ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
February 15, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. It's contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency units: Rupees (Rs.) as of February 14, 2002
US$1 = Rs. 48.34
Units
1 lakh = 100 thousand
1 crore = 10 million
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -      Asian Development Bank
AP             -      Andhra Pradesh
APL            -      Adaptable Program Loan
APDMS          -      Andhra Pradesh Development Monitoring System
APERP          -      Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project
APFRSHP        -      Andhra Pradesh First Referral State Health Project
APERL          -      Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan/Credit
APSWAN         -      Andhra Pradesh State Wide Area Network
BOT            -      Build-Operate-Transfer
BRO            -      Budget Release Order
CARD           -      Computer-aided Administration Registration Department
CAS            -      Country Assistance Strategy
CDCC           -      Centralized Documentation and Clearances Center
CDF            -      Comprehensive Development Framework
CDT            -      Commercial Tax Department
CGG            -      Centre for Good Govemance
CSCAR          -      Cabinet Sub-Committee on Administrative Reforms
CST            -      Central Sales Tax
CY             -      Calendar Year
DFID           -      Department of International Development
DPEP           -      District Primary Education Program
DPIP           -      District Poverty Initiatives Project
DVD                   Digital Video Disk
ERC            -      Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC)
FD             -      Finance Department
FRA            -      Fiscal Responsibility Act
FRF            -      Fiscal Reform Facility
FY             -      Fiscal Year
GAD            -      General Administration Department
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
GIS            -      Geographic Information System
GoAP           -      Government of Andhra Pradesh
GPM            -      Governance and Public Management
Gol            -      Govemment of India
GSDP           -      Gross State Domestic Product
HRD            -      Human Resource Development
HRM            -      Human Resource Management
IBRD           -      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA            -      International Development Association
I&CADD         -      Irrigation and Command Area Development Department
IT             -      Information Technology
JFM            -      Joint Forest Management
LDs            -      Line Departments
M&E            -      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs           -      Millennium Development Goals
MPHS           -      Multi-Purpose Household Survey
MTFF           -      Medium-term Fiscal Framework
NCAER          -      National Council for Applied Economic Research
NFHS           -      National Family Health Survey
NGOs           -      Non-Govenumental Organizations
NSS            -      National Sample Survey
OED            -      Operations Evaluation Department
O&M            -      Operation and Maintenance
PAC            -      Public Accounts Conmlittee of Legislative Assembly
PEs            -      Public Enterprizes
PEM            -      Public Expenditure Management
PSAMU          -      Poverty and Social Assessment Monitoring Unit
PSUs           -      Public Sector Units
SC             -      Scheduled Caste
SKIMS          -      Secretariat Knowledge Information Management System
SMART          -      Simple, Moral, Accountable, Responsive and Transparent
SPEM           -      State Poverty Eradication Mission
ST             -      Scheduled Tribe
TA             -      Technical Assistance
TOR            -      Terms of Reference
TWINs/eSeva    -      Twin Cities Network Services
UP             -      Uttar Pradesh
VAT            -      Value Added Tax
VRS            -      Voluntary Retirement Scheme
WUAs           -      Water Users' Associations
Vice President                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director                   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director                    Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager                     Sanjay Pradhan
Task Leader                        Mark Sundberg
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH ECONOMIC REFORM LOAN/CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
I.      THE ECONOMIC SETTING AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN INDIA
A. Introduction ..............................................1
B.  The National Context for State Reform  ..............................................1
II.     ANDHRA PRADESH: DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REFORM PROGRAM
A. Development Challenges .................................2
B. Andra Pradesh Vision 2020 ................................4
C. The Reform Program .................................5
D. The Bank's Assistance to Andhra Pradesh ................................            8
III.    ANDHRA PRADESH'S FISCAL AND GOVERNANCE REFORMS
A. Fiscal Reform ................................... 
B. Public Expenditure Management Reform ..................................            15
C. Govemance and Public Management Reform ..................................          17
IV.     THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT
A. The Borrower and Amount .............................................              23
B. Actions to Activate APERL .............................................            24
C. Subsequent APERL Operations .............................................          25
D. Implementation Arrangements and Performance Monitoring .............................................  26
E. Loan/Credit Adrninistration .............................................          27
V.      LESSONS LEARNED, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Lessons Learned .............                                                      28
B. Benefits .............                                                             28
C. Risks .............                                                                30
ANNEXES
Annex A:      Andhra Pradesh Letter of Development Policy with Policy Matrix
Annex B:      Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Reform Program
Annex C:      Poverty and Social Development in Andhra Pradesh
Annex D:      Improving Public Financial Accountability in Andhra Pradesh
Annex E:      Statistical Annex
Map



Task Team
Task Manager               Mark Sundberg (Senior Economist)
Peer Reviewers             Helen Sutch (Sector Manager, PRMPS); Jeffrey Hammer (Lead Economist,
DECRG); Luis Serven (Sector Lead Specialist, PREM)
Fiscal/Public Expenditure  Trichur K. Balakrishnan (Senior Financial Analyst); Arindham Das Gupta
Management                 (Consultant); Priya Mathur (Research Analyst); A. Premchand (Consultant);
V.J. Ravishankar (Senior Economist); Salvatore Schiavo-Campo (Lead
Specialist); Mark Sundberg (Senior Economist)
Administrative Reform      Robert Beschel (Senior Public Sector Specialist); Vikrarn Chand (Senior Public
Sector Specialist); Edward Mountfield (Economist); Pachampet Sundaram
(Consultant)
Legal and Judicial Reform  Syed I. Ahmed (Senior Counsel); Richard Messick (Senior Public Sector
Specialist)
Public Enterprise Reform   Paramita Dasgupta (Economist); Rajni Khanna (Research Analyst); Sunita
And Deregulation           Kikeri (Lead Private Sector Development Specialist)
Poverty Monitoring &       Valerie Kozel (Senior Economist); Reidar Kvam (Senior Social Scientist); Peter
Social Analyisis           Lanjouw (Senior Economist); Salman Zaidi (Economist)
Sectoral Inputs            Bhavna Bhatia (Senior Energy Economist); Mohinder Gulati (Senior Financial
Analyst), Rajesh Sinha (Financial Analyst), Sajitha Bashir (Senior Education
Economist, education); Sumir Lal (Advisor, External Affairs)
Legal Counsel              Syed I. Ahmed (Senior Counsel)
FMS/Disbursement Officer   Hyacinth Brown (Senior Financial Management Specialist)
Team Assistants            Shunalini Sarkar; Jillian Tullet



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH ECONOMIC REFORM LOAN/CREDIT
Loan and Credit Summary
Borrower:             Government of India.
Implementing Agency: Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Beneficiary:          State of Andhra Pradesh.
Amount:               Credit: SDR 101 million (US$125 million equivalent).
Loan: US$125 million.
Terms:               IDA: Standard with 35 years maturity and 10 years grace period.
Loan: Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace and annuity
principal repayment; at six-month LIBOR for USD plus variable spread
for Variable-Rate Single Currency Loans.
Onlending Terms:      Standard terms of central resource transfers for state developmental
budgets.
Description:         The Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan/Credit (APERL) supports
the State of Andhra Pradesh's fiscal and governance reform program.
The fiscal reform program aims at fiscal stabilization to reduce the debt
burden and restore sustainability to public finances, improve public
resource mobilization, and restructure public spending toward priority
development areas.  This is accompanied by public expenditure
management reform to strengthen financial management capacity and
institutions, improve the realism and credibility of the budget, enhance
fiscal transparency and accountability, and introduce greater efficiency
to operational management. The program of governance reform
includes strengthening anti-corruption efforts, civil service reform,
electronic governance, public enterprise reform, and a program of
poverty monitoring and analysis. There are fourteen specific "triggers"
as upfront actions for completion of the APERL, as detailed in the
President's Report (MOP), all of which have been completed.
Benefits:            Implementation of the APERL program of reforms to date represents
substantial progress in Andhra Pradesh's efforts to achieve its AP
Vision 2020 program and is consistent with efforts by the Government
of India to stimulate reform in the states. The main development goals
include creating an environment in the state conducive to accelerating
growth, reducing poverty, and making government simple, transparent,
accountable and responsive.  The expected benefits are : (i)
strengthening of the government's fiscal and financial health; (ii) a
more conducive investment climate for private sector growth; (iii) more
efficient and effective public service delivery; and (iv) improved social
outcomes and reduced poverty.
I



Risks:                The major risks arise from: (i) difficulty in adhering to the fiscal
framework and budget constraints, including the reduction of power
sector subsidies; (ii) slippage in implementation of the power sector
reform program; (iii) possible change in leadership and/or opposition to
reform by vested interests; and (iv) shocks external to AP, such as a
global/India slowdown. Andhra Pradesh's stable political outlook and
strong track record of commitment to reform have contained these risks
to date.
Disbursement:         The loan/credit would be disbursed in one tranche in an amount
equivalent to US$250 million upon effectiveness.
Project ID Number:    IN-P073 113



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION AND
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 101 MILLION (US$125 MILLION
EQUIVALENT) AND A LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$125 MILLION TO INDLA
FOR THE ANDHRA PRADESH ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
I.     THE ECONOMIC SETTING AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN INDIA
A.     Introduction
I .    The state of Andhra Pradesh (AP) is one of India's leading reforming states and an
important state for the World Bank Group under its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
commits the Bank to support state-level reforms, seen as critical to the acceleration of growth and
reduction of poverty. The proposed Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan/Credit (APERL)
supports fiscal and governance reforms in Andhra Pradesh. This operation is being prepared
jointly by the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), and supported
financially by the DFID, for which Andhra Pradesh is a key focus state as well.
B.     The National Context for State Reform
2.     India is expected to register growth of about 5% in the fiscal year 2001/02, good by
global standards, but below the average annual growth rate of 6% achieved over the last decade.
Causes for the slowdown in growth include the global slowdown, negative investor sentiment due
to the slow pace of reforms at the national level, weak agricultural demand on the back of
successive poor agricultural seasons, and the oil price rises last year. The slowdown in growth has
hit the fiscal position hard. Central government's tax revenues for the first eight months of
2001/02 were 3% below the figure for the first eight months of last fiscal year, resulting in likely
fiscal slippage in the current fiscal year. Overall, at about 10% of GDP, the size of the combined
central and state government deficit is a matter of substantial concern. However, India's
macroeconomic vulnerability continues to be contained by a strong external position, and low
inflation. The current account balance is only about -0.5% of GDP. Reserves are US$49 billion
or 9 months of imports (January 2002). The largely closed capital account and low and declining
external debt as a percentage of GDP continue to contain India's vulnerability to shocks. The
inflation rate is low at around 5% p.a. or below, and has been declining in recent years.
3.     There is an increasing recognition of the importance of state reforms to solve India's
national economic problems, including the large national fiscal deficit (where the states' share is
now close to one-half). Significant progress is being made in a number of important areas to
strengthen the incentives facing states to undertake fiscal reforms:
* The Government of India (Gol)' s Fiscal Reform Facility (FRF) has taken off. Eleven
states have so far received additional funding from Gol on the basis of improved fiscal
performance.
*  An effort is being made in the power sector to harden budget constraints, improve
governance and instill discipline, and prevent states from avoiding power reforms
through running arrears with central utilities and suppliers (such arrears now constitute
over 2% of GDP). Gol has proposed a plan for securitization of overdue payables of the
SEBs to the central government owned power and coal companies and an incentive-based
program to achieve performance targets, to which states, including Andhra Pradesh, have
begun to sign up.



4.     IMF perspective. The May 2001 staff report for the 2001 Article IV consultation noted
that, notwithstanding India's relatively strong growth performance in 2000/01, there remain
important impediments to achieving the authorities' objectives of higher growth and faster
poverty reduction. The staff report cited fiscal consolidation and implementation of the Central
Government's agenda for structural reform as two critical prerequisites for achieving these
objectives. On the fiscal front, the staff stressed the need for a clear and time-bound program of
fiscal deficit reduction, and supported the authorities' stated objective of eliminating the revenue
deficits of the central and state governments. Expenditure and tax reforms to reduce subsidies
and enhance revenue mobilization were recommended. A broad range of structural reforms was
also seen as necessary to support fiscal consolidation and to enable India to benefit from the
globalization of trade and investment flows. Key measures identified included deregulation of
power, industrial, and labor markets, liberalization and reform of agriculture, trade liberalization,
and continued financial sector reforms. The importance of these key messages has been
reinforced recently, with signs of a further weakening of economic activity and a weaker growth
outlook, difficulty in following through on the structural commitments in the last Budget,
evidence that 2001/02 fiscal targets will be missed, and the increasingly uncertain global
environment.
H.     ANDHRA PRADESH: DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REFORM PROGRAM
A.     Development Challenges
5.     Andhra Pradesh is the fifth largest state in India with a population of 76 million people.
Per capita income at $380 in 1999, is about 90% of the All-India average. Around 19 million
people (one-quarter of the population) live in poverty, depend largely on agriculture, and are
often outside the reach of public services.
6.     Poverty and Human Development. Official poverty estimates for AP show significantly
lower levels than the national average, with head count rate at 16% in AP compared with 26%
nationally in 1999/00 (Table 1). However, there is a great deal of debate around Gol's official
poverty estimates (Annex C), and other estimates for AP suggest a higher poverty rate, and
slower progress in poverty reduction in the 1990s.1 Moreover, evidence suggests that while urban
poverty appears to have fallen dramatically in AP, there has been less rapid progress in reducing
rural poverty. Casual labor in agriculture is the main occupation for more than 40% of the
population, many of them poor, and the average size of land holdings in the state is considerably
smaller than in the rest of the country. While the rural economy accounts for over 70% of
employment, it contributes less than one-third of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The low
rate of agricultural growth over the 1990s, combined with high volatility of output has
undoubtedly slowed the rate of poverty reduction in rural areas. Hence accelerating agricultural
growth as well as growth in the rural non-farm sector will be essential for reducing rural poverty
in the future.
' Alternative estimates using the official poverty line indicate overall poverty of around 19% in 1999/00, with rural
poverty down by just 1 percentage point since 1993/94, and urban poverty down by 11%. With a re-estimated AP
poverty line, which is also being challenged, poverty incidence is even higher.
2



Table 1: Andhra Pradesh: Poverty Per Capita Income and Selected Human Development Indicators
Year
State                            Indicators                        1980             1990             2000
All India                  Per Capita incoame (1993194 Rs.)                  5,891             8,266            11,799
Infant Mbrtality Rate (per '000 live births)       114                80              71
Literacy Rate                                       44                52              65
Female Literacy Rate                                 -                39              54
Povery Headcount Rate (HCR)                        44.8               36              26.1
Andhra Pradesh             Per Capita Incormee(1993194 Rs.)                  5,142             7,591            10,886
PCI as %AII India                                  87%               92%              92%
Infant Mortality Rate (per '000 live births)        92                70              63
Literacy Rate                                       36                44              61
Ferale Literacy Rate                                 -                33              51
Poverty Headcount Rate (%/o)                       29.9              22.2             15.8
Notes.The date pertains to the years 1980,1990 and 1999 for IMR, 1981,1991 and 2001 for Literacy Rate and Female Literacy Rate, and 1983,1993-94, and
1999-00 for poverty headcount rates.
Sources: Infant Mortality Rate - Registrar General of India, Sample Registration System; Literacy Rate and Female Literacy Rate - Census of India; Per Capita
Income - GOP form CSO, and Popula6on from Census of India; Poverty Head Count Rates - Planning Commrission, Gol, based on poverty lines dErived
using the methodology recomnmended by the Expert Group.Note that on account of differences in survey methodology, estimates of poverty for 1999100 are not
stidcy conparable with those for eaier years.
7.        AP's human development indicators show                a mixed picture, with above-average
performance on health and fertility indicators, and below-average performance with respect to
literacy. The poor health and education status of AP's population is explained by several factors:
large income disparities across regions and population groups, weak public service delivery,
particularly in rural areas, and insufficient expenditure on basic services, particularly in poor
communities with large minority populations. However, progress is being made. There have
been improvements in all indicators through the 1990s, especially literacy. The 2001 Census
shows AP among India's top performing states in terms of improving literacy through the 1 990s.
The gap between literacy in AP and all-India has fallen from 8 percentage points in 1991 to only
4 percentage points in 2000 (with literacy in AP at 61%, and nationwide at 65%). Despite this
strong progress, AP still lags behind several states in terms of schooling achievements.
8.        Economic Growth. Real growth in AP has averaged 5.3% over the 1990s, a full
percentage point below the all-India average of 6.2% (Table 2). Per capita growth averaged 3.7%
p.a over the same period. Weak agricultural performance, upon which most rural poor depend,
has been a significant constraint on growth. Agricultural growth, which has been highly volatile
and affected by repeated drought and flooding, has averaged 2.1-2.7% p.a. in the eighties and
nineties respectively, below the all-India average of 3. 1 % p.a. Total investment in agriculture fell
by 2% p.a. during the 1990s due to adverse incentives and distortions in agricultural markets
(production and marketing controls). In the industrial sector, AP's burdensome regulatory
environment and weak infrastructure are seen as constraints to greater private investment:.
2 Andhra Pradesh: Imrproving Business Environment for Sustained Growth, World Bank, draft Jan. 2001.
3



Table 2: Growth in Andhra Pradesh and All India, 1980181 - 2001101 (%)
Agriculture        Industry           Services          Real GSDP
1980s    1990s     1980s    1990s    1980s     1990s    1980s    1990s
Growth*
Andhra Pradesh          2.1       2.7      7.2      6.3       8.8      6.5      5.7       5.3
All India               3.1       3.1      6.9      6.4       7.0      8.1       5.5      6.2
Share in GSDP
Andhra Pradesh          41.2     30.7      21.3     25.2     37.4      44.0     100.0    100.0
All India               36.3     28.7      25.1     27.0     38.6      44.2     100.0    100.0
*Logarithmic growth rates
Note: 1980s refers to the perod covenng 1980181; 1990s refers to the period coverng 1990191 to 2000101
Source: GoAP, Bureau of Economics & Statisics for date on AP; CSO for data on All India
B.      Andhra Pradesh: Vision 2020
9.      Andhra Pradesh, under the strong leadership of its Chief Minister, Mr. Chandrababu
Naidu, was the first Indian state to articulate a comprehensive vision for human and economic
development when it released its Vision 2020 on Republic Day 1999. Vision 2020 is an
ambitious statement of intent to pursue economic growth, social development and poverty
reduction. The Vision is remarkable in that it places equitable human development at its center.
The aim is to eradicate poverty, promote human capital development, focus on the welfare of
children, particularly girls, women, the old and infirm, and build an equitable society in which
people participate in making decisions which affect their lives and livelihoods. Vibrant economic
growth, a transparent, accountable and responsive government, and safeguarding the
environment, are seen as the tools to achieve the state's vision of a "healthy and wealthy society".
10.     Vision 2020 has an ambitious scope. On the human development front, the state expects
to achieve full literacy by 2010, infant and child mortality rates of 10 and 20 per 1000
respectively, and life expectancy of 68 and 70 years for men and women respectively. To achieve
these goals, the state's economy has to grow by an average of 9-10% a year in real terms for 20
years, starting at around 7% p.a. and then accelerating to well over 10% p.a. Agriculture would
need to grow at 6% annually, industry at 11%, and services, seen as the main engine of growth
for the future, at 13 % annually. The state's growth strategy emphasizes: (i) public sector reforms
to enhance economic performance; (ii) privatization to reduce direct government involvement in
the economy; (iii) enhancing the environment for private sector investment through improving
public services; (iv) deregulation and improved govemance to reduce red tape and strengthen
markets; (v) public-private partnerships for major infrastructure development; and (vi) improved
agricultural extension and support for crop diversification.
11.     To complement the comprehensive statement of Vision 2020 and in recognition of the
fact that poverty eradication is its top development priority, the Government of Andhra Pradesh
(GoAP) established in 2000 the State Poverty Eradication Mission (SPEM), and recently issued a
poverty reduction strategy paper. The strategy emphasizes the need to: (i) generate more rapid
economic growth; (ii) promote primary health and education services; (iii) enhance social capital
through fostering self-help groups; (iv) promote sustainable livelihoods of the poor; (v) focus
greater attention on backward regions and poorer segments of society; and (vi) design the
administrative machinery to improve delivery of services to the poor and promote convergence of
social development and other poverty-focused programs in the state. The state's overall
development strategy is consistent with these efforts. Fiscal policy aims to increase resource
allocation to the provision of primary health and education services, and other services of
importance to the poor. Govemance measures to reduce corruption, broaden access to services,
4



improve accountability, and establish grievance procedures, are also important in the state's anti-
poverty agenda.
C.      The Reform Program
12.     A transparent, accountable and responsive government, with the financial means to
deploy sufficient resources for social and infrastructure development, is one of the tools
envisaged to achieve the ambitious targets of Vision 2020. AP has thus embarked on a major
program of fiscal and governance reforms. These are described in detail in the following sections
(III A to III C), and are sunmmarized below:
*   Majorfiscal reform has been launched, with significant increases in own-tax revenue, a
sharp reduction in food subsidies, and a freeze on civil service hiring. However, a rising
power sector subsidy burden and, related, a large increase in the interest burden, have
prevented the achievement of fiscal stabilization to date. Power sector finances are
showing an improvement, reducing the earlier trend of deterioration, and revenues are
expected to meet operating costs this year. The budget deficit is targeted to decline from
5.4% in 2000/01 to 5.0% in 2001/02, and the primary deficit to fall more sharply, by
0.9% of GSDP, due to measures aimed at containing budget expenditures.
Box 1: AP's Reform Track Record
Nationally, AP is seen as a pace setter for reform. Under strong leadership, and with a manifest commitment to
economic and social development, GoAP has initiated some of the most far-reaching reforms in India in the
areas of govemance, power sector, and expenditure management:
*   In governance, AP is the first state with a major "vision" paper; a pioneer in the use of information
technology for streamlining and re-engineering service delivery; first to connect all districts with fiber optic
cable for videoconference and long-distance learning; first to set up "one stop shops" for multiple public
services; first to set up an integrated state-wide database using GIS technology; first to computerize paper
flow in the Secretariat; and first to facilitate public access to the Internet through information kiosks.
*   In power sector reforms, the state has taken strong measures to halt theft, regularize connections, stiffen
penalties with the establishment of special tribunals, monitor and effectively enforce supply regulation
policy for agriculture consumers, improve customer service, undertake full census of agriculture pump sets
and in implementing tariff rulings of the independent state regulatory agency. Discussions on
implementing multi-year tariff regulation are underway and the license awarded to the distribution
companies enables direct bulk purchase of power from generators, thereby setting the stage for establishing
a multi-buyer-multi-seller market.
*   In other sectors, AP is recognized for its strong emphasis on rural development, community empowerment,
and support for women's' groups. The state's joint forestry management program has been among the most
successful community-based forest conservation efforts in India, water user associations have been
established to assess and collect water fees, and organize irrigation system maintenance. In education nearly
100,000 school education committees have been established to make schools more accountable to
communities, with half of all committee chairs reserved for women.
*   In expenditure management, AP has extended budget flexibility under hard budget constraint through
bundling heads of account, authorizing six-month advance budget releases, and granting greater
responsibility along with accountability to line departments.
*   In revenue mobilization, AP is the most advanced state in preparation for implementation of the sub-
national VAT.
*   Overall budgel management is improving, reflected in the reduction of the budget deficit, excluding power
sector subsidies and costs of past debt financing of the power deficit. Power sector subsidies are now
transparent and directly incorporated in the budget. Use of supplementary budgets has stopped. A
medium-term fiscal framework, which incorporates power sector resource requirements, has been prepared.
* AP faced a budget management crisis in 1999/00, when resource constraints led to a
steep build-up of payment arrears. This in turn led to a recognition that much deeper
5



fiscal and governance reforms were necessary, and that these would have to be supported
by institutional changes that would transform the government's way of doing business.
In light of this, the Government extended its program to incorporatepublic expenditure
management reform, to improve budget preparation, budget execution and financial
management. This aims to restore the realism and credibility of the budget, improve
fiscal transparency, and introduce greater flexibility and efficiency in operational
management.
* GoAP has made governance and public management reform a central plank of its reform
agenda. Over the last six years, it has built an impressive record of achievement. AP
initially pursued significant gains in areas such as e-governance and human resource
development. It has subsequently expanded its reform agenda to tackle more systemic
issues, such as anticorruption, civil service reform, and a broad program of public
enterprise privatization. Furthermore, it has undertaken several pioneering steps to
improve governance in the power sector, as discussed in greater detail below. With
strong support from senior leadership, a culture of reform is being nurtured and
institutionalized within the bureaucracy.
13.   Power Sector. Reforming the power sector is a key complement to fiscal reform because
of the sector's major demand on budget resources. The state's power sector reforms are
summarized in Annex B and in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex A).
Major milestones achieved to date include the following:
* The Government unbundled the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board into six new
corporatized companies during the period 1999/2000.
*  The AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) was established in 1999 to provide
independent oversight of the power sector reform process and its development. APERC
has built up a good track record - two tariff orders of APERC have been implemented,
customer service quality standards have been set, and a transparent process of regulation,
with the participation of stakeholders, has been established. In 2000, the APERC order
raised average electricity tariffs by 15%, and reduced cross-subsidies. The sharp increase
for residential consumers (a doubling of bills in some cases) provoked riots and paralyzed
the state legislature, but the Government stood by the increase.
* To check widespread theft and improve governance, GoAP launched a far-reaching drive
to register illegal connections in 2000 (two million residential customers were regularized
in one month), increased penalties/punishment for theft, and cracked down on offenders
using specially constituted tribunals. AP is the first state to enact a new law providing
stiff penalties, including mandatory imprisonment, for theft of electricity.
*  As a result of the tariff increase, and billing/collections drive, AP's power sector
operating results have started to improve, reversing the earlier trend of sharp
deterioration. AP's power sector is close to meeting its operating costs (before interest
and depreciation) from own revenues this fiscal year, and would have broken even this
fiscal year, but for the drought (Figure 1). The path of projected power sector
performance is based on the multi-year business plan finalized by GoAP for the power
sector, and consistent with the Government's policy decisions and medium-term fiscal
framework.
*  The Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) and the tariff filing, as statutorily required
under AP's independent regulatory regime, have been completed for 2002/03. These
have been based on the business plan, and aim to reduce the subsidy burden on the
Government.
6



Figure 1: Power Sector Financial Performance
30 ;
20__                                ___               _ _
10_
0
0-
Z         1998   _   _        2000      2001      2002      2003      2Q04
-30                                                   ___                -
-40      -     -                  -              --- -- -
Financial year ending March 31
-- rof it after tax (without subsidy)  +  Earning before interest, depreciation, tax and appropriation(EBIDTA)
14.    The state utilities have just completed filing the 2002/03 tariff with the APERC in
January 2002, and the final ruling on the application will be made by end-March 2002. The
average tariff increase filed for is 7.3%. The proposed tanrff schedule includes a new incentive
scheme to increase demand by large industry consumers, with a sliding scale of tariff increase
depending on the level of demand, and the largest consumers facing a tariff reduction by 11.4% at
the margin aimed at winning self-generation consumers back to the grid and encouraging demand
growth. The tariff filing conforms with the state's multi-year business plan for the power sector.
15.    With operational cash break-even largely achieved, the state is well positioned to move
towards privatization of distribution. The medium-term agenda for power sector reform leading
to privatization in 2003/04 revolves around five main issues:
* The predictability of tariff adjustment needs to be enhanced. This is being addressed
through the development of multi-year incentive-based tariff determination principles.
* To shift agricultural subsidies directly onto the budget to foster commercial operation of
the distribution companies, and to improve effective subsidy targeting, GoAP has set up a
Task Force to design, implement in select areas, and monitor pilot projects of a package
of measures, including alternative subsidy delivery mechanisms for agriculture
consumers and end-use (pump) efficiency improvement. Based on the lessons learned,
the Task Force will prepare an action plan for scaling up the pilot projects to the state
level.
* As stated in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government is committed to universal
metering in accordance with the directives of the APERC. Based on the interim findings
of the Task Force on alternative subsidy delivery mechanisms, the Government will
prepare an action plan by October 2002 for compliance with the APERC directive on
universal metering. In its tariff order for 2001/02, APERC has also directed the power
distribution companies to meter, with immediate effect, all new agriculture consumers,
including unauthorized agriculture connections which have been regularized. The utility
companies have requested the APERC to allow extension, up to June 30, 2002, of the
period for regularization of agriculture connections, and to reconsider the time frame for
metering. GoAP and the utilities will ensure compliance with the ensuing directives of
the APERC.
7



* Financial incentives as well as improvements in quality of supply are needed to win
industrial consumers back from captive generation to grid supply and spur growth in
demand from new industrial consumers.
* The Government plans to address the accumulated debt overhang in the sector resulting
from past losses which causes continued, though declining, financial losses in the power
sector as shown in Figure 1. For the Government to successfully privatize the
distribution business, it must carry out a financial workout to address the outstanding debt
stock. Such a workout needs to entail effective burden sharing among all stake-holders,
including the lenders and creditors owned by the Government of India.
* The Government also aims to ensure the independent functioning of the four power
distribution companies from their parent transmission company in order to improve
sector governance, and has initiated steps to provide separate and independent Boards for
all of the four distribution companies.
16.   Other Sectoral Reforms. GoAP has taken a comprehensive approach to sectoral reforms
through the public dissemination of strategy papers that aim to provide implementation plans
built around Vision 2020. Sixteen sector strategy papers were prepared and disseminated in the
Legislative Assembly in March 2001 after consultation and feedback from district officials and
community groups. A major 'performance orientation' system has also been launched, aimed at
improving accountability and service delivery (para. 74). Generic features of AP's sectoral
reforms include increased community participation, outsourcing, and greater resource availability
for priority sectors:
* Irrigation: AP is promoting beneficiary involvement through water user associations to
enhance the efficiency and accountability of the surface irrigation system. A graduated
program is in place to revise water charges, raise collection efficiency, and achieve full
cost recovery to cover O&M needs.
* Forestry: AP is recognized as a leader in India in shifting towards community-based
resource management in forest fringe communities to enhance incomes, improve
environmental outcomes, develop community skills, and assist the rural poor,
particularly in tribal communities.
* Road infrastructure: GoAP has introduced modern commercial and project management
practices into the execution of road works resulting in more efficient use of public
resources as well as speedy execution and higher quality of works. The state is extending
the network of rural roads, developing a performance-based maintenance contract
system, and implementing Build-Operate-Transfer road projects.
* Primary health: Greater resource allocation to primary health care and health referral
centers is helping to enhance service delivery. A performance monitoring system for
first referral hospitals and primary health centers has been put in place, and secondary
hospitals and primary health care centers are being ranked by their performance levels,
to help target needed improvements in health service delivery.
D.     The Bank's Assistance to Andhra Pradesh
17.   India Country Assistance Strategy. The India CAS (discussed by the Board on April 5,
2001) aligns the Bank Group's assistance program with India's Ninth Five-Year Plan, which
focuses on strengthening the enabling environment for growth and poverty reduction, and
supporting pro-poor interventions. The CAS highlights three strategic principles, namely,
selectivity, adoption of a programmatic approach, and reliance on partnerships. The proposed
operation builds on all three principles.
8



18.    Based on the selectivity principle, the strategy focuses on reforming states. That started
with the previous CAS and was endorsed by the recent Country Assistance Evaluation for India.
Andhra Pradesh is one of India's earliest reforming states to receive Bank Group support; it now
has the largest assistance program among states.
19.    The CAS reflects an increased emphasis on fiscal and governance reforms, the former
following from India's fiscal deterioration in the second half of the nineties, and the latter from an
emerging consensus in India that without better performance, governments will have neither the
credibility to persuade their citizens to pay taxes, nor the capability to convert public resources
into growth. The second aspect of the CAS relevant to this operation is an increased reliance on
programmatic lending. Programmatic budgetary support combines the flexibility necessary in the
Indian political environment with a medium-term approach required to implement India's deep
and difficult structural reform agenda. It allows for a tighter focus on policies, a better link
between Bank support and the budget, and provides important financial backing to state-level
reform programs.
20.    The CAS also emphasizes the importance of building partnerships. The Bank Group is
working closely with the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID) in
Andhra Pradesh, in support of fiscal and governance reform efforts included under this operation
as well as sectoral programs (e.g., power sector reforms, urban development, and environment).
In 1997 the UK Government published its Intemational Development White Paper, committing
DFID to work in partnership with governments to deliver improved development outcomes.
DFID has a long history of involvement in AP across a number of sectors. In recent years, it has
adopted a more integrated approach to achieve greater impact on poverty and development,
backing action with increased resource flows in areas where there is strong Government
ownership. DFID's assistance strategy identifies five mutually reinforcing priorities: (i)
improved human development outcomes, with particular emphasis on the millennium
development goals and HIV/AIDS; (ii) enhancing livelihood security; (iii) governance reforms
and fiscal stabilization; (iv) empowerment of poor women and disadvantaged groups; and (v)
strengthening impact assessment for decision-making. Building on complementanties and
developing greater convergence in the Bank and DFID's support for AP's reform efforts is
expected to enhance the overall impact of development assistance in the state.
21.    Bank Group Assistance to Andhra Pradesh. The Bank's program of assistance to
Andhra Pradesh aims to help the Government to reduce poverty by supporting its reform
program. As outlined in the CAS, power and fiscal/governance reforms are critical to any state
government's poverty reduction efforts. Progress with respect to these twin pillars of reform has
determined, and will continue to determine, the size and scope of Bank assistance to AP (as in
other Bank partner states), including not only adjustment, but also investment operations. In
other words, adequate progress with power sector reforms as well as broader fiscal reforms is a
pre-requisite for the Bank's entire financial assistance to the state. Therefore, during preparation
of this operation, an assessment was made that satisfactory progress in power sector reforms
warranted further assistance to the state.
22.    The Bank's assistance strategy in AP combines both non-lending services and lending.
Beginning with a comprehensive report in 1997 (Andhra Pradesh. Agenda for Economic
Reforms), an extensive program of analytic work and technical assistance has informed our state
dialogue and helped build consensus for reform. Policy notes have since been prepared on rural
poverty, rural decentralization, and the state business environment, along with a state poverty
profile and a preliminary financial accountability assessment. In addition, a formal report on
fiscal policy was prepared last year, as well as a comprehensive study of the impact of power
supply on the agriculture sector. Analytic work has been complemented by an intensive program
of seminars, training sessions, and technical assistance carried out over the last eighteen months
9



as part of the Bank-DFID partnership. This has provided the basis for a more in-depth dialogue
on key issues such as power sector restructuring, public expenditure and financial management,
including public expenditure analysis in selected sectors, anti-corruption strategy, introduction of
the VAT, and public enterprise privatization.
23.    At the request of the Government, the Bank recently launched a comprehensive program
of analytic and advisory support to aid in operationalizing Vision 2020. The aim is to assist
GoAP in prioritizing the vision's key goals and targets, formulating realistic strategies and
actions, and assessing financing and capacity building needs. The approach taken is to primarily
assess the impact of ongoing interventions and develop a medium-term framework for realizing
the ambitious outcomes set out in Vision 2020. To maximize the impact of such advisory work,
the Bank is starting with a few key sectors, namely, education, health, and water resources
management, but will eventually broaden its advice to cross-cutting issues linked to economic
growth and poverty reduction.
24.    The Bank's lending portfolio in Andhra Pradesh is its largest among India's states.
Earlier investments in the rural and infrastructure sectors supported the introduction of improved
business practices, cost recovery policies, and better management of natural resources. In
addition, mainly through centrally-sponsored schemes, IDA supported improvements in the
delivery of public health services and primary education, in both rural and urban areas. In 1998,
the AP Economic Restructuring Project (APERP), followed a few months later by the first
installment in a long-term program of investment support to power sector reforms, marked a new
phase in our relationship with AP, in that it targeted the root causes of AP's structural imbalances.
APERP was an innovative instrument at the time (prior to the availability of sub-national
adjustment lending instruments). It financed a multi-sectoral investment program in priority
areas, including primary education, health, child nutrition, irrigation and rural roads, to be
implemented within an agreed multi-year fiscal framework. The lessons learned from APERP
(para. 92) have been incorporated in the proposed operation. In recent years, in line with GoAP's
growing concern with rural poverty, the Bank has increased its support for community-driven
projects, such as the District Poverty Initiatives Project (AP DPLP) now under implementation. A
second forestry project and a new rural poverty project are now under preparation.
25.   In the power sector, the Bank provides direct support through investment financing,
within an APL framework. The Bank's financial assistance to the power sector needs also to help
GoAP address the key challenges it will face during the privatization process, e.g., the need to
deal with the significant stock of accumulated liabilities which no private investor will be willing
to take on, and the need to project a minimum degree of certainty in the regulatory process and
the general conduct of business. The Bank is therefore carefully examining how best to provide
future support and in particular what instruments to use, such as further investment loans, partial
risk guarantees in support of privatization, a sector adjustment loan, or, most likely, a
combination thereof.
III.   ANDHRA PRADESH'S FISCAL AND GOVERNANCE REFORMS
26.    The proposed AP Economic Reform Loan/Credit (APERL) supports the Government's
multi-year fiscal and govemance reform program articulated in Vision 2020 and related policy
strategy papers. Vision 2020 defines a new course for the state, grounded in private initiative and
combined with much greater discipline and efficiency in the public sector. Presenting the Budget
for 2001/02, the Finance Minister also emphasized the need to operationalize Vision 2020 goals
through medium-term and annual performance targets, with clear accountability for each
department. He announced the plan of the Government to place the annual budget preparation
within a medium-term and annually updated fiscal framework.
10



27.    The program of reform supported by the proposed APERL rests on three key pillars -
fiscal reform, public expenditure management reform, and governance reform - each of which is
detailed in the three following sub-sections. The associated policy matrix and medium-term
fiscal framework are appended to the GoAP Letter of Development Policy (Annex A).
A.     Fiscal Reform
28.    Fiscal Trends. Reducing the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level, while restructuring
expenditure allocation towards priority development outlays, is critical to the success of the
program. GoAP has finalized its updated Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF) extending
from 2001/02 through 2005/06. The MTFF is laid out in the Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper, which
was published and disseminated in January 2002 (on the GoAP website, andhrapradesh.com).
This was published along with, and consistent with, the Annual Fiscal Framework, which
contains revised estimates for 2001/02 and advance estimates for 2002/03. Table 3 shows the
path of fiscal deficits in recent years. There has been in AP, as in the rest of India, a sharp fiscal
deterioration during the second half of the 1990s when consolidated state deficits roughly
doubled as a share of GSDP. In the early 1990s, the deficit in AP averaged around 3% of GSDP,
but by the end of the decade the average was around 6% of GSDP, and reflected both through
budget and off-budget public spending.
29.    Power Sector Financial Deterioration. The main cause underlying the fiscal
deterioration has been the rapidly expanding power sector financing requirement and the
expensive off-budget financing of that deficit by GoAP in the past. The financing requirement of
the power sector expanded rapidly between 1997/98 and 1999/00, causing major fiscal stress. To
capture the fiscal impact of the power sector, a key monitoring variable is the consolidated
deficit, which combines the budgetary fiscal deficit with the financing requirement of the power
sector. This reached a high of 6.8% of GSDP in 1998/99. The estimate for the current year is
5.6%.
30.    The Government initially met most of the power sector financing requirement off-budget
through borrowing from a special purpose vehicle. It has gradually brought most of its support to
the power sector directly on budget, increasing the transparency of subsidies to the sector.
Having nearly reached operating cash-flow break-even (para. 13), the power sector's financing
requirement has started to fall, and is down to 2.2% of GSDP in 2001/02 from close to 2.8% in
the three previous years. The financing requirement is expected to fall further to 1.6% of GSDP
in 2002/03.
31.    Rising Interest Burden. The other significant cause of the fiscal deterioration has been
the rising interest burden on account of unsustainably high historical deficits, servicing of power
sector liabilities that have been assumed by the Government, and off-budget bond financing
('power bonds') of a large portion of power sector financing needs, the debt-servicing of which
reverts to the budget. AP's primary deficit (i.e., deficit before interest payments) declined after
1998/99, especially if the underestimation of the deficit in 1999/00 due to a large build up of
arrears - paid off in 2000/01- is taken into account. Moreover, the state's "non-power primary
deficit", i.e., the deficit before interest payments and support to the power sector, has fallen by 1.9
percentage points of GSDP since 1998/99, and is now in surplus (Table 3).
32.    This improvement in the non-power primary deficit, while not sufficient to bring about
fiscal stabilization, is based on some real achievements in fiscal management. One of these is the
rice subsidy, which, through better targeting and reduction in unit subsidies, has fallen from over
1% of GSDP in the mid-nineties to only 0.3% of GSDP in 2001/02. Another achievement is on
the tax revenue front - own-tax revenues have increased from around 6% of GSDP in the mid-
1990s to 7.8% in 2000/01. Primary social service expenditures (primary health and primary
11



education) have increased by nearlyl% of GSDP, and public investment plus non-wage
operations and maintenance (O&M) have risen by 0.4% of GSDP, since 1997/98.
33.     Performance in 2001/02. The consolidated fiscal deficit estimate for 2001/02 is 5.6%         of
GSDP, marginally lower than 6.2% achieved last fiscal year, but representing a significant
reduction in the primary budget deficit, from 2.2% to 1.3% of GSDP. AP has experienced a
serious drought this year which has raised power generation costs, due to a fall in low-cost hydro-
electric production, and thus increased the power sector financing requirement above what was
anticipated at the time of the budget. In addition, the industrial slowdown is expected to lead to
shortfalls of revenue, both devolved from Gol and from AP 's own tax sources - AP's tax
performance is at 7.8% of GSDP this year, good given the recessionary context, but below
forecast. In the short run, the options for enhancing revenues are limited, and expenditure will
bear the brunt of adjustment. GoAP aims to meet the 2001/02 deficit target primarily through
reduced expenditures on net lending (to public enterprises) and lower subsidies and transfers.
34.      Expected Performance in 2002/03. As per its recently released Annual Fiscal
Framework, the Government is anticipating a major improvement in the fiscal position of the
state in 2002/03, with a targeted reduction in the consolidated deficit from 5.6% of GSDP in
2001/2002 to 4.6% next year. The budget deficit is targeted to fall from 5.0% to 4.5% of GSDP,
and the primary deficit from 1.3% to 0.6% of GSDP. This overall improvement reflects a planned
sharp reduction in the power sector financing requirement (from 2.2% to 1.6% in GSDP) in line
with continued improvement in the financial performance of the sector (Annex B). There are
downside risks to the Government's targets, particularly arising from the power sector (paras.102-
104). In the event that these risks materialize in power sector performance, the target range for
the overall deficit in 2002/03 would be 4.6% to 4.9% of GSDP (Rs. 74.6 billion to Rs. 79.6
billion).
35.      Fiscal performance is also expected to improve with a compression of the non-power
non-interest deficit (by 0.6 percentage points) on the back of a recovery in own-revenue growth
and continued wage bill restraint. The interest burden continues to rise, but only by 0.2
percentage points, due to the much lower primary deficit. GoAP debt stock (including off-budget
borrowing) is forecast to rise from 33.5% in 2001/02 to 35.1% of GSDP in 2003/04, and fall
thereafter (Figure 2), helping to stem the rise in interest payments.
Table 3: Andhra Pradesh: Fiscal Deficits 1998-2002 (/. of GSDP)
1998199   1999100    2000101   2001/02    2002103
(AFF)'    (AFF)'
(1) Budgetary Fiscal Deficit                           5.0%      4.0%b      5.4%       5.0%      4.5%
Of Which:
(a)BudgetarySupportforPowerSector                     1.1%      1.2%       1.7%      1.6%       1.5%
(b) Interest Payments                                 2.3%      2.5%       3.2%      3.7%       3.9%
(c) Non-Power Deficit (1-1a)                         3.9%       2.8%       3.7%      3.4%       3.0%
(d) Primary Deficit(1-lb)                             2.7%      1.5%       2.2%      1.3%       0.6%
(e) Non-Power Primary Deficit (1-1a-1 b)              1.6%      0.3%       0.5%      -0.3%     -0.9%
(2) Power Sector Financing Requirement (2a+2b)         2.9%       3.0%      2.5%       2.2%      1.6%
(a) Net LosslProfit excl. Depreciation                1.7%      1.9%       1.6%      1.1%       0.5%
(b) Capital Outlay                                    1.2%      1.2%       0.9%      1.1%       1.1%
(3) Consolidated Fiscal Deficit (Budget & Power) (1+2-1a)  6.8%   5.8%      6.2%       5.6%      4.6%
a AFF is the GoAP 2002/03 Annual Fiscal Framework (Annex B)
b Extraordinary accrued liabilities (over 1% GSDP) this year shifted the cash deficit to the next year. Budget Support to power understated due to ar
govemment servicing of power liabilities in this year.
c Defined as power sector revenues (excluding govemment support) minus current and capital expenditures (excluding depreciabon).
d Consolidates the Budgetary Fiscal Defict and Power Sector Financing Requirement, netting out Govemment-sector interactions.
12



36.       Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF). The goal of the MTFF, summarized in the
Government's Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper (para. 28), is to reduce the budget deficit to 2.5% of
GSDP, and generate a primary surplus of 1.3% of GSDP by 2005/06 (Figure 2 and a Summary
Table in Annex A). The consolidated and budget deficits are approximately equal from 2002/03
onwards (reflecting GoAP's extensive budgetary support for the power sector fully reflected on
budget) and fall in tandem.
Andhra Pradesh: Evolution of Deficit (GSDP)              Andhra Pradesh: Evolution of Stock of Debt and Off.
kBudget Borrowing (% GSDP)
8.0h 
7.0%                                                        40.0%
6.0%                                                        35.0%
5.0%                                                        30.0% 
4.0%
3.0%                                                  nd    25.0%
2.0% -                                                      20.0%
1 0%                                                        15.0%   _                 _         ,
0.0%                                        o,                               0 Co  o    N    o    O    O
-1.0%  0    0    o     o    o    o     o                            r N  o    0C  O     o    N    o )
-2.0% 1        0     0 o 8        N          g                                        N      N    N    N    N
-    -     N    N    N     N    N    N
-ur- GoAP Fiscal Defict  +  Consolidated Defica-                   D-- ebt Stock of GoAP          1
-    GoAP Primary Deficit                                         D Debt incl. Off-Budget Borrowving
37.       The MTFF also aims to protect key development expenditures and in fact, to increase
allocations to primary social services (education and health), operations and maintenance, and
public investment in essential infrastructure (Table 4). Primary social service expenditures
increase significantly from      2.1%   of GSDP in 2000/01 to 2.9%         2005/06, and public investment
plus non-wage O&M increase from 3.7% of GSDP to 4.6% in over the same period.
Table 4: Andhra Pradesh: Trend in Priority Development Expenditures, 1998199 - 2005106
1998199    1999100    2000101        2001102    2002103   2003104  2004105           2005106
Est       Proj     Proj       Proj             Proj
Rs Billion
Non-Wage 0 & M             20.6       19.1       23.1           25.8       29.8     35.7      42.1              49.5
Capital Outlay             13.9       19.9       27.2           30.5       35.6     40.7      48.1              56.4
Primary Education          15.9       18.2       20.3           23.6       27.4     32.4      38.2              45.3
Primary Health              6.1        6.8        7.7            8.2       10.8     14.1      17.8              22.2
% GSDP
Non-Wage O & M            1.8%       1.6%       1.7%            1.7%      1.8%      1.9%      2.0%              2.1%
Capital Outlay            1.2%       1.6%       2.0%            2.0%      2.1%      2.2%      2.3%              2.4%
Primary Education         1.4%       1.5%        1.5%           1.6%      1.6%      1.7%      1.9%              2.0%
Primary Health            0.5%       0.6%       0.6%            0.6%      0.7%      0.8%      0.9%              1.0%
Memo:
GSDP                     1130.9     1217.0     1351.1          1489.5    1657.8    1848.7    2065.3            2311.7
Source: GoAP
13



38.   It is noteworthy that these improvements are expected to occur while fulfilling the targets
laid out in the GoI's Fiscal Reform Facility (FRF) guidelines for states to access resources set
aside for the facility. Based on forecasts in the MTFF, the consolidated revenue deficit to
revenue receipts (as targeted by the FRF) improves from 26.9% in 1999/00 to -2.7% in 2004/05,
falling by more than the 25 percentage point decline that is targeted over five years, and fully
qualifying for facility support.
39.    The MTFF, and its targets, reflect the Government's commitment to several key policy
measures:
Implementation of the power sector business plan to reduce the fiscal burden of the power
sector. Key policy measures include, inter alia, continued efficiency improvement through
sustained governance improvement; regulation of power supply to subsidized categories at
affordable levels; a program of tariff adjustment progressively reducing cross subsidies,
incentives in tariffs to industrial consumers along with imposition of wheeling charges and
a special tax on self generation to attract industrial consumers back to the grid; and
privatization of the distribution business to sustain the efficient functioning of the utilities
over the long term (paras. 14 and 15).
Maintenance of a de facto freeze on civil service hiring to gradually reduce the salary bill.
Continued cost containment of rice subsidies through the current system of coupons
(whereby households must register, thereby removing illicit coverage), and by adjusting
prices in line with national rice subsidy levels.
Reduction in other subsidies and net lending to public enterprises.
Continued budget support to public enterprise closure/privatization for voluntary retirement
schemes and social safety net programs consistent with the Phase 11 comprehensive
privatization program.
40.    AP's MTFF incorporates the important lesson from earlier experience in AP as well as in
other states and countries, that the strength and relevance of an MTFF is in direct proportion to
the extent of its institutionalization. Making the MTFF a public document is a major step
forward. The Government is also considering measures to strengthen the commitment to, and
credibility of, the MTFF, including through possible fiscal responsibility legislation. In addition,
the Government is also committed to annual updating and release of the MTFF, along with semi-
annual reporting on performance against targets to help build accountability and to institutionalize
the MTFF. Starting this year, the MTFF has begun to be closely linked to the preparation of next
year's budget. Next year, GoAP intends to start developing departmental MTFFs to integrate
sectoral strategies more closely with the aggregate fiscal framework, focusing initially on health
and education expenditures.
41.    The AP MTFF is comprehensive as it covers off-budget liabilities as well as budget debt,
fully incorporates the power sector into the consolidated accounts, and is consistent with the
Government's business plan for the power sector. As reflected in the LDP and program policy
matrix, the Government is committed to stopping all off-budget borrowing starting 2002/03, with
the exception of unforeseen financing requirements arising from the end-of-year ruling of the
APERC, which cannot otherwise be accommodated.
42.    Revenue Mobilization. Revenue reform has focused on improving the performance of
tax and non-tax instruments within the confines of India's complex fiscal federalism. The most
important and ambitious tax reform in India for the past two decades is the transition to a sub-
national Value Added Tax (VAT) to replace the complex and inefficient current sales tax system.
The VAT rates are being set in order to be revenue neutral after its introduction, and not to
14



enhance revenues in the first instance. VAT introduction aims to bring major improvements in
tax administration, including the introduction of self-assessment and risk-based audit.
43.    The introduction of a nation-wide transition to the VAT, first scheduled to take place in
April 2002, has been delayed by one year due to the difficulty of finalizing implementation
arrangements pending resolution of some key design decisions which need to be taken at the
national level. AP is a leading state in preparing for the VAT transition-it has already designed
the necessary software, drafted the VAT legislation and will shortly be submitting it to the
Cabinet, initiated major staff training and pilot programs, and has engaged in public awareness
campaigns. GoAP has already initiated measures to form and staff Large Tax Payer units to
minimize any risk of revenue loss during VAT transition.
44.    The scope for further broadening of the state's tax base is limited at present to
agricultural income tax, and some possible environmental levies. Any broadening beyond this
requires discussion with Gol on the framework for center-state fiscal relations, where several
issues need to be resolved (e.g., sub-national authority to tax services, adjustment of mining
royalty rights, capping of the professions tax, declared goods restrictions). The main scope for
revenue mobilization lies in improving compliance and reducing the very high levels of evasion
found across India. Reforms of the other taxes are also in the direction of improving enforcement
and compliance.
45.    Beyond introduction of the VAT, the Government intends to undertake a broad review of
the tax system, and has constituted a Revenue Reform Committee (RRC) to prepare
recommendations for consideration by GoAP. The RRC is expected to complete its review of tax
policies in AP during the first six months of 2002/03. Further tax reforms are planned or under
consideration to revise tax rates, reduce corruption, improve tax administration efficiency, and
explore options for broadening the tax base. Details are provided in the GoAP policy matrix
(Annex A).
B.     Public Expenditure Management Reform
46.    The second program pillar consists of a package of measures to improve public
expenditure management (PEM) including budget preparation and budget execution (to restore
credibility to the budget) and financial management (to introduce greater efficiency and financial
accountability). Weak practices in budget preparation had led to inefficient budget execution. In
the past, unrealistic budgets, derived without sufficient respect to resource availability, have made
achievement of the Government fiscal targets difficult, with expenditure outcomes consistently
deviating from the budgeted amounts, the emergence of significant payments arrears, few
incentives for operational efficiency, and weak accountability all along the line. The major
improvements that have been enacted by GoAP in budget preparation have thus opened the door
to better budget execution and cash management. Moreover, specific measures have been taken
to strengthen financial management directly and increase operational flexibility of budget
managers.
47.    Reforms in public expenditure management in AP began last fiscal year with a thorough
review of expenditure programs for the 2000/01 Budget. This was done with a view to
generating savings and containing expenditure, which permitted clearing the substantial arrears
incurred in the previous year. Subsequently, the Government published its strategy for public
expenditure management in the Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper (para. 28). In the context of that
strategy, GoAP has taken several steps. It has begun the practice of setting hard expenditure
ceilings for each Line Department (LD) at the start of the budget preparation cycle, consistent
with realistic resource estimates; and it has introduced a system of mid-year reviews of budgetary
performance of LDs, in part to establish a broad qualitative link to the next budget.
15



48.    To give managers greater flexibility in budget execution and operational management,
GoAP has initiated several measures. It has begun a rationalization of heads of account and,
more importantly, it has initiated the practice of quarterly or half-yearly advance releases of
spending authority to LDs. AP is the first state in India to do this, and it has had very positive
feedback from the LDs themselves. It has computerized pensions and is proceeding to
computerize payroll along the same lines; it has improved the realism of cash planning, based on
seasonality; and to spur stronger performance orientation, it has established an efficiency cell in
the Finance Department (FD) to assist LDs to improve their budgetary operations.
49.   In the area of govemment guarantees, GoAP has made a significant initial aggregate
provision against potential govemment guarantee defaults, fully provisioned for selected
guarantees, and intends to elaborate a comprehensive approach to the budgetary treatment of
government guarantees. Non-power government guarantees have been capped by GoAP at 9% of
GSDP, and this cap has been adhered to since its introduction in 1998/99 (non-power guarantees
have fallen to below 6% of GSDP). GoAP plans to go beyond this, and to implement in the
coming year a comprehensive policy on public guarantees, including, inter alia, setting an
aggregate cap on all debt guarantees, loss-sharing provisions, methodology for assessing merit
and risk of individual guarantees, including performance guarantees, norms for budgetary
provisioning for govemment guarantees, and the establishment of guarantee fees. Another type
of contingent liability for GoAP is the pension burden, which is increasing rapidly. GoAP plans
to develop next year a pension forecasting model, under the newly constituted Fiscal Reform
Implementation Committee, as the first step in the direction of pension reform.
50.    Looking to the future, the Government has identified an agenda for further strengthening
expenditure programming and financial management (Annex A). Strengthening the policy -
budget link is central to the govemment's ability to ensure that new policy initiatives are
affordable and adequately budgeted while maintaining budget discipline. Formulating rigorous
sectoral inputs to the annual MTFF process is a key step which GoAP intends to initiate next
fiscal year. Future measures to institutionalize fiscal discipline include formalizing cabinet
approval of hard expenditure ceilings, consistent with policy priorities, before the budget cycle.
Building capacity for tracking of budget performance and managing mid-term corrections is a key
objective of the new Fiscal Reforms Implementation Committee, which was set up to oversee the
fiscal and public expenditure management reform process, including careful tracking of revenue
performance. The Government also intends to reclassify and group investments of both plan and
non-plan budgets, and integrate public investment programming with the MTFF process, in order
to improve project quality at entry and ensure greater consistency between investment planning
and budget resources. This is a major reform over current practices. To strengthen operational
management, additional flexibility and financial power are to be given to managers, but with
commensurate accountability, while formulating relevant and monitorable indicators of budget
management performance. On the financial management side, initial implementation of a cash
management system is planned for 2002/03, reducing reliance on personal deposit/ledger
accounts, and computerization of the payments system is slated to be extended.
51.    Public Financial Accountability and Management. A preliminary public financial
accountability assessment was carried out for AP, including review of the state's latest accounts
and external audit reports. The results of this assessment are summarized in Annex D, and
indicate that although there are weaknesses, the foundations of AP's public financial
accountability system are satisfactory. Major strengths of the system include: (i) the well-
established oversight role of the legislature over public finances provided in the Constitution,
including legislative approval of annual budgets, and placing of annual accounts and audit report
before the Legislature; (ii) regular preparation and compilation of accounting information, and
presentation of annual State Accounts which provide comprehensive information on expenditures
16



and revenues; information on public debts, guarantees, loans and advances, and investments are
also presented, albeit with varying quality; (iii) existence of detailed guidelines for budgeting and
monitoring of the use of public funds, and good procedural controls over expenditures; (iv) the
well established independence of the public auditor (C&AG) from the executive and its broad
mandate; and (v) the initiation of a computerization program of key accounting and payment
functions, which when completed will help to improve the system. However, there is also a need
to strengthen and modernize the system to improve transparency; enable better financial and
operating performance measurement and reporting; have more effective legislative oversight,
timely responses and follow-up on audit observations; address identified internal
control/accounting weaknesses; clear backlog of accounts and audit (in local bodies, public
enterprises, and other government entities); and improve public financial accountability
arrangements in local governments.
52.    Actions have been agreed to initiate the process of strengthening and modernizing the
public financial accountability system (Annex D). A State Financial Accountability Assessment
(SFAA), covering the State Government (which accounts for the bulk of public funds) will be
carried out by GoAP in 2002/03, leading to the adoption of a medium-term action program by the
Government. To improve budget and accounts transparency, in 2002/03, GoAP plans to provide
information on major government guarantees and off-budget borrowings in its budget
summary/overview document, and plans to also publish its half-yearly budget/accounts
information on the Internet. GoAP has also prepared an action plan to reduce the backlog in
accounts and audits for urban/rural bodies and other institutions in 2002/03. It will develop
measures to address some key identified internal control issues; and improve its responsiveness to
the CAG's Audit Report, focusing on the latest audit report. To streamline and improve
procedures, GoAP is also setting in motion a comprehensive review of financial regulations and
record-keeping procedures.
C.     Governance and Public Management Reform
53.    The third pillar of the Government's reform program is governance and public
management. AP has enacted a variety of measures under the rubric of "SMART" governance
(Simple, Moral, Accountable, Responsive and Transparent) to enhance service delivery and
transform the public sector into an enabling agent for private sector growth. The Governance and
Public Management Reform agenda consists of five components, detailed in turn below: (i)
establishing a framework for the reform process; (ii) simplifying, redefining and rationalizing
government; (iii) improving integrity; (iv) enhancing accountability, responsiveness and
transparency; and (v) strengthening poverty analysis and monitoring.
54.   Impact of Governance Reforms. Overall, GoAP's governance and public management
reform agenda is expected to achieve the twin goals of reforming core systems and realigning
incentives, while gaining some 'quick wins' to sustain political support needed to carry the
reforms forward. Efforts to use technology to enhance transparency and re-engineer business
processes, as well as to provide managers with greater discretion over inputs while holding them
accountable for results, should help improve service delivery. Greater emphasis on outcomes and
poverty impact should, over time, push policies and services in a pro-poor direction. Efforts to
eliminate red tape, and reduce the number of cases going before the courts should create a more
favorable environment for private sector growth.
Establishing a Frameworkfor the Reform Process
55.    GoAP produced and submitted a draft Strategy Paper on Governance and Public
Management to the Legislative Assembly in March 2001, which was targeted at filling the gap
between the ambitious goals of Vision 2020 and the detailed recommendations of the various task
forces and cabinet sub-committees on public sector reform. The Strategy Paper builds upon
17



many themes articulated in these earlier documents, such as e-govemance and human resource
development. It also proposes new systemic initiatives such as right to information, performance
monitoring, deregulation, anticorruption and decentralization. In collaboration with DFID, GoAP
has recently taken a major step through the creation of its Centre for Good Governance (CGG),
which has been tasked with conducting the requisite analytic work in support of reforms and
facilitating their implementation (Box 2). In addition, GoAP has created a high profile unit under
the Chief Secretary to monitor progress on the reforms and resolve implementation problems as
they arise.
Box 2: Establishing The Centre for Good Governance (CGG)
The CGG was inaugurated by British Prime Minister Tony Blair in Hyderabad in January 2002. GoAP has set up the
Center to provide analytic assistance in facilitating its govemance and public management reform effort with the
assistance of a three-year grant from DFID. The Center's key priorities are to work with GoAP officials and the general
public along six major dimensions: (I) improving the delivery of services to the citizen by simplifying govemment; (2)
improving human resource management within the public service; (3) developing systems for accountability, including
performance indicators; (4) making govemment more responsive to citizens, and particularly to the poor, through
greater decentralization and the development of participatory processes; (5) increasing transparency and improving
financial management; and (6) improving the performance, the focus on core functions, and the development of policy
capacity of government departments. The CGG's location at the MCR-HRD Institute (the apex training institute for the
state) will also allow it to play an important role in training AP civil servants.
Simplifying, Redefining, and Rationalizing Government
56.     Both Vision 2020 and the Governance Strategy Paper emphasize the need to refocus
government priorities and spending towards "doing fewer things better." This task will involve
moving from being a direct provider in many sectors of the economy to a prudent facilitator of
private sector activity; it will also involve reorienting the civil service to focus on improving its
delivery of core goods and services. The realization of this agenda will require progress along
several dimensions - public enterprise reform, civil service reform, e-governance and
deregulation.
57.     Public Enterprise Reform. GoAP launched a Public Enterprise (PE) reform program
three years ago which is among the most advanced in India. It aims to reduce the direct role of
government in the economy, increase enterprise efficiency, and reduce the administrative and
financial burden of the sector through a combination of closure, privatization and restructuring.
The first phase of the program consists of 19 small to medium PEs, covering 14,380 employees.
Phase 1 implementation is supported by APERP through financing of severance pay, and
provision of a social safety net for redundant employees, with technical assistance funded by
DFID. hnplementation of the PE reform program has been proceeding satisfactorily. Of the
Phase 1 PEs, so far 11 have been closed or privatized, with 6 more expected to be closed by end-
March.
58.     GoAP has also developed a Phase 2 PE reform program, to be implemented from
2002/03 to 2005/06. Phase 2 will consist of the privatization, restructuring, or closure of over 60
remaining commercially oriented enterprises, and preparatory measures for the two largest PEs,
the State Road Transport Corporation and Singareni Mining Corporation.
59.     Civil Service Reform. In response to the growth in civil service numbers and upward
pressure on the wage bill, GoAP has put in place a de facto ban on recruitment since 1993. Since
1997, GoAP has met the targeted annual net reduction of 1.9% in the total number of civil
servants (excluding priority areas of primary education and primary health care). During the next
five years, attrition rates are likely to significantly exceed this rate, allowing the Government to
bring its employment down without resorting to redundancy schemes.
18



60.    GoAP has also already undertaken a number of innovative initiatives to improve the
efficiency and productivity of the civil service. The Chief Minister has used training as a tool for
both capacity building and change management. He and his Cabinet regularly attend training
sessions, along with the higher civil service. GoAP has developed a series of individual training
modules for policymakers, senior managers, administrators and secretarial/support staff. It now
plans to provide annual training to every senior state employee (approximately 10,000 officers)
through a series of programs and distance learning techniques utilizing Digital Video Disk (DVD)
lessons and training of trainers.
61.    GoAP is pursuing a number of other initiatives to improve personnel management. Its
human resource management effort is currently fragmented, so it intends to consolidate these
functions and create a modern Human Resource Management (HRM) function with the General
Administration Department. GoAP will also expand its counseling program for teachers (which
provides incentives to serve in undesirable posts) to other departments. This program has
produced promising initial results, improved transparency and reduced political interference in
transfers and postings. It will collect, analyze and disseminate regular data on staff transfers,
premature transfers, and the average tenure in office for key personnel. GoAP has also
substantially completed a civil service census and is establishing a computerized database that
will facilitate improved human resource management for both core and line departments.
62.    Consistent with Vision 2020, GoAP is beginning to systematically review the role of
government and withdraw from peripheral activities in order to better address core concerns. It
has launched a number of initiatives in this area, such as the recent impact and expenditure
reviews supported by DFID for reviewing the efficiency and effectiveness of selected
departmental programs.
63.    GoAP has recently completed an initial review of over 100 departments with the goal of
eliminating redundancies and functional overlaps between departments identifying performance
measures, and clarifying reporting relationships. It is also involved in efforts such as the
Secretariat Knowledge Information Management System (SKIMS) to streamline information
flows. It is working to reduce administrative layers and to push routine decisions lower in the
departments, as well as to improve the coordination and utilization of staff and assets at the local
level. In addition, GoAP is initiating measures for improving policy analysis within the
Secretariat.
64.    As part of its broader reform agenda, GoAP will continue this effort to rationalize the
mission, organizational goals and functions, and staffing of key departments. A state-wide
reserve pool already exists for shifting staff to higher value-added activities, and the GoAP
recently issued a government order allowing District Collectors to create reserve pools for
redeploying surplus staff at the district level. To simplify human resource management and
facilitate redeployment, the terms and conditions of various service cadres will be carefully
reviewed and revised. To improve its HRM practices and reduce its legal caseload, GoAP will
analyze its cases going before the Administrative Tribunal and develop a system for the timely
reporting by department of the number of cases fielded, won and lost (including the reasons for
losing).
65.    E-Governance. GoAP has already undertaken a number of measures to improve the
efficiency and productivity of the civil service (Box 3). GoAP will continue to roll out programs,
such as Twin Cities Network Services (TWINS/e-Seva), which creates a "one stop shop" for
citizens to take care of 20 different services, to over 50 municipalities within the state. GoAP
will also give its highly successful Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department
(CARD) program greater publicity to improve public knowledge and awareness regarding this
facility. The Government will establish a blueprint for electronic governance by June 2002
19



through a survey of 50 major departments. Among other items, the blueprint will cover financial
information, procurement, social benefits management, and HRM.
Box 3: Selected E-Governance Initiatives in Andhra Pradesh
Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department (CARD) - Introduced to speed up the process of registering
deeds from a few weeks to less than one hour. The CARD process has registered around 2.4 million documents, 2.1
million valuations and 1.1 million title searches in its first 3 years of operation. There are 239 computerized centers in AP,
and the project has been acclaimed by independent examiners as one of the most effective examples of e-govemance in
India.
Andhra Pradesh State Wide Area Network (APSWA N) - The APWSAN is a dedicated fiber optic network for voice, data
and video communication that connects the Government Secretariat in Hyderabad with 23 district headquarters and the
cities of Vijayawada and Tirupati.
Twin Cities Network Services (TWINSIe-Seva) - The TWINS/e-Seva project provides integrated, single window service
for 20 separate govemment services, ranging from utility payments to the issuance of birth certificates to driver's licenses.
It has been expanded to 16 locations throughout the Hyderabad-Secunderabad area, and plans are underway to expand it to
over 50 other municipalities by 2005.
Andhra Pradesh Development Monitoring System (APDMS) - APDMS is a geographic based information system that has
created base maps of all of the 1 ,122 mandals and constituent revenue villages and habitations. Apart from this basic data,
a suite of applications is capable of superimposing thematic data on the road network, community infrastructure, basic
demographic data, soil and geomorphologic data. This data is available on the internet and provides support to research,
analysis, project design and monitoring.
Multi-Purpose Household Survey (MPHS) - The MPHS has created a computerized database of socio-economic
information on all citizens. It is comprised of over 100 different fields of information in areas ranging from basic social
and demographic data to legal records and access to the public distribution. It covers all 1,122 mandals in the state.
Secretariat Knowledge Information Management System (SKIMS) - This project was initiated with the objective of
improving the management of information and knowledge within the Secretariat. The goal is to increase ernployee
productivity and satisfaction, streamline and speed up the circulation of files and other documents, and facilitate the
Dlacement of uovernment information on the Internet for oublic access.
66.     Deregulation is an important agenda that has seen less concerted reform effort. Many
departments have yet to initiate a major review that will reduce the regulatory burden of
government and streamline internal procedures. Even in areas where progress has been made,
such as the creation of a one-stop window for facilitating investment, significant problems still
exist. Efforts are currently underway to strengthen the legal basis for the single window
clearance process, streamline business inspection procedures, and overhaul the grievance
redressal systems for licensing and inspections. The Government will also provide single
window services to businesses through the APonline portal.
Improving Integrity
67.     GoAP's strategy for combating corruption is evolving rapidly. Cabinet passed a policy
paper on anticorruption in August 2001, which focuses on three key elements - the enforcement
of laws regarding corruption, the prevention of opportunities for corruption, and the strengthening
of community education and awareness in the struggle against corruption. The centerpiece of this
effort will involve enhancing the independence and professionalism of the anticorruption function
by the radical reform and/or rationalization of a number of small, under-resourced bodies
currently dealing with corruption and mal-administration. GoAP has formed a high-level
working group chaired by the Minister for Heavy Industry to develop a strategic implementation
plan for the policy paper, which will be approved by Cabinet in early 2002/03. The
implementation plan is being developed in consultation with the public, and GoAP is making
extensive use of survey data for benchmarking progress and identifying priority interventions.
20



68.    At the sectoral level, GoAP has already completed significant reforms to improve the
integrity and accountability of the public sector. Noteworthy initiatives include a drive to clean
up the power sector through regularizing 2 million domestic consumers; improving collection
efficiency to over 98 percent; and enacting a law to control the theft and pilferage of electricity,
along with special courts and police stations for dealing with power theft.
69.    GoAP has initiated a review of public procurement processes to: (i) increase the
transparency and accountability of its procedures; (ii) reduce corruption and misuse of funds; (iii)
standardize procurement documents; and (iv) streamline decision making and complaint
mechanisms. In 2002, it will also initiate a pilot program in e-procurement. Ultimately, all of
these initiatives aim to achieve better long-term value for money in public procurement.
Enhancing Accountability, Responsiveness and Transparency
70.    Right to Information. To achieve responsive and transparent governance, GoAP has
drafted a Right to Information Bill that is among the best in India. It is implementing citizen's
charters and grievances procedures for govemment departments with a major public interface
(completed already for seven departments). The Right to Information draft Bill was submitted to
the Cabinet in January 2002.
71.    Management of the Government's Legal Caseload. India has a huge backlog of cases
pending in the courts, and in many states the government can be responsible for a substantial
portion of the cases that come before the courts. The prolonged pursuit of government litigation
through different levels of the judiciary, irrespective of merit, not only has an adverse fiscal
impact (through delayed resolution of tax liability cases, for example), but it also contributes
significantly to judicial delays and congestion in the courts.
72.   In recognition of this problem, GoAP has already pursued a number of actions, including
creation of a legal cell to manage litigation and monthly reviews of advocate performance. GoAP
also plans to conduct a thorough review of revenue and service related cases, with an eye towards
improving collection and simplifying its personnel policies and procedures to reduce such cases.
GoAP also plans to create an inventory of outstanding litigation, institute a reporting system that
will allow all new cases to be tracked. It will also analyze the caseload of selected departments to
identify costs incurred from the imposition of interim orders and delays. In addition, discussions
are underway with the State High Court to conduct a study of the dockets of selected courts to
determine the nature of cases being brought, median time to disposition, and reasons for delays.
These discussions are the first of their type in India.
Poverty Analysis and Monitoring
73.    The ultimate test of the state's reform efforts - and the Bank's and DFID's support for
these efforts - is whether AP achieves major progress in accelerating growth, reducing poverty
and improving people's lives. While AP's reforms provide benefits and opportunities for the
poor, they also carry risks. Vigilance on the part of the government is essential to anticipate
adverse impacts on the poor and socially-disadvantaged, mitigate these impacts, and promote
potential positive impacts through growth-enhancing reforms. With this end, GoAP is building
capacity to better monitor key poverty and development outcomes; strengthen and expand its
program of analytic work on poverty and social issues; and is taking steps to ensure that a broad
range of stakeholders in the state, within the government as well as outside, are better informed
about the performance of the public sector and the impact of programs and policies on the poor.
74.    Developing Data Resources. Good information is the cornerstone for effective poverty
monitoring and impact assessment, and AP is a leader among states in terms of collecting
statistical information. In 1995 and again in 2000, the State Government conducted a Multi-
Purpose Household Survey (MPHS), which included a number of welfare and human
21



development indicators and covered some 16 million households currently residing in the state.
In addition, the Government has developed an extensive GIS system - the AP Development
Monitoring System - that integrates village and habitation development indicators from various
sources (sanitation, land use, access to schools, primary health clinics, etc.) for state-wide
development planning and monitoring purposes. Building on this early work and lessons from
international experience, the state also launched, in 2001, an initiative to implement a system of
performance indicators. The system is designed to monitor the delivery of public services and
improve the client orientation of public servants and government offices by focusing greater
attention on core development outcomes (literacy, agricultural extension, immunizations, infant
mortality rates, etc.), involving over 100 GoAP departments, with 32 core indicators that have
been agreed to and are being monitored. Evaluation of the first 6 months of the program is
currently underway. These data are being used to implement a monitoring system down to the
village level, that looks at core development outcomes (literacy, immunization, infant mortality).
However, they have yet to be used for policy analysis or to look at development outcomes
specifically for the poor or socially-disadvantaged groups, nor have the development objectives
of tnis work been widely disseminated outside of government.
75.    Future Challenges: Monitoring, Analysis, and Public Information. The challenge now
facing GoAP is to develop capacity for poverty and social monitoring that builds on existing
initiatives, is coordinated across key government departments, makes better use of the extensive
data base that has been created by various departments (particularly the Directorate of Statistics in
the Planning Department), and responds to the needs and interests of stakeholders, both outside
the govemment as well as within. Recognizing that its capacity in this area was limited, the
Government established the AP State Poverty Eradication Mission (SPEM) in 2000, with a broad
mandate to address poverty concerns across sectors and across administrative boundaries. SPEM
membership includes govemment Ministers and Secretaries, as well as staff from research
institutes and civil society organizations. It has been chosen to lead the state's work on poverty
strategy formulation and analysis. With support from the World Bank, the mission brought out a
rural poverty strategy paper last year, and work on urban poverty is currently underway.
76.    The Government recently established a Poverty and Social Assessment Monitoring Unit
(PSAMU) to function as a technical secretariat servicing the SPEM. The new unit has a broad
mandate to: (i) take overall responsibility for work on poverty measurement, monitoring, and
impact assessment (in coordination with relevant line departments); (ii) play a coordinating role
in developing poverty reduction strategies and pro-poor growth policies; (iii) undertake specific
analyses of policy issues linked to poverty reduction and reforms (e.g., the impact of user fees on
the poor); (iv) more generally, seek to identify adverse impacts of the reform process on the poor
and socially disadvantaged and suggest mitigation measures; (v) provide informed policy
guidance and inputs to key planning and budget processes in the Government; (vi) keep the
public better informed about the impact of state reform efforts on the lives of the poor and
socially disadvantaged. The SPEM has been set up outside the Government, albeit with the
ongoing involvement of senior policy makers. It is the Govemment's intention to develop
effective institutional arrangements to ensure that the work of the Unit informs decision making
in the Government.
77.    A key task of the PSAMU is to develop a baseline of the core poverty and development
indicators and to formulate methods to assess where the state stands in achieving its development
goals. Poverty has multiple dimensions, requires a range of indicators, and is addressed through
multiple interventions. Gol has identified a core set development targets for the 10th Plan, similar
in many respects to the Millennium Development Goals (MlDGs). These include poverty
outcomes, employment, literacy and enrolments, gender equity, morbidity and mortality, access
to potable water, and the environment. State-level targets will be agreed to as a part of the 1 0t
22



Plan preparation. Appealing to these state-level targets, the PSAMU will define a set of core
indicators, develop baseline measures of these indicators, and then set in place a system to
monitor AP's progress in terms of achieving these development targets. It is expected that the
core indicators will be closely aligned with the indicators already included under AP's
performance monitoring system, and disaggregated, e.g., for poor versus non-poor households, by
gender, for backward regions and socially vulnerable groups.
78.    Another important task of the Unit is to provide technical assistance in the development
of a comprehensive framework for poverty reduction that can be used to identify priority areas for
future interventions and pro-poor policy reforms. The framework would involve inputs from
policy makers across various sectors and departments, as well as from the research community
and non-governmental organizations.
79.    GoAP has requested technical assistance from the Bank and DFID in order to build the
requisite capacity in the AP Poverty Eradication Mission to take this work forward.
IV.    THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT
A.     The Borrower and Amount
80.    The Bank proposes to support GoAP governance and fiscal reform program through a
single tranche loan/credit to the Gol of US$250 million (50% IBRD, 50% IDA) to be on-lent to
GoAP. In addition, the United Kingdom DFID intends to co-finance the loan with a grant of 65
million Pounds Sterling (about US$100 million). The size of Bank and DFID support to AP has
been set through reference to both the strength and government ownership of the reform program,
and the state's financing needs. With respect to the latter, there are three primary reform-related
expenditures:
*  The first derives from the need to protect priority development expenditures through this
period of intensive reform. Already, there has been significant fiscal compression caused
by the increased power sector and debt burden. While AP has been able to protect
priority expenditures to date (Table 4), these expenditures would likely face substantial
forced cuts without additional financing.
*  While the power sector financing requirement is declining on account of the state's
power sector reforms, there is a limit to the rate at which tariffs can be increased without
provoking a backlash, and efficiency improved. Significant budgetary support for the
power sector will continue to be needed over the coming years. If it is not provided, the
experience of other Indian states has shown that power utilities are forced to run large
arrears and enter into expensive short-term borrowing arrangements, leading to a
deterioration in both the physical and financial health of the sector.
*  Third, voluntary retirement payments related to the privatization, closure, or restructuring
of public enterprises also place a demand on the budget.
The first of these items is difficult to quantify, but the second and third are together estimated at
Rs. 32 billion (US$670 million) in 2001/02, compared to the combined DFID-Bank financing of
about Rs. 17 billion (US$350 million), or approximately half.
81.    Table 5 shows AP's borrowing requirement for 2001/02 and 2002/03, consolidating both
the budgetary and power sectors, on the assumption of Bank financing for the state's reform
program in each year. The overall GoAP borrowing requirement declines sharply in 2002/03 in
accordance with the reduced fiscal deficit and power sector financing requirement in that year.
23



Table 5: Andhra Pradesh: Gross Borrowing Requirement and Financing, 1998199 to 2002103
1998199   1999100    2000101    2001/02    2002i03
Est   Forecast
Gross Borrowing Requirement la                       85.9       78.9      91.6       95.0       90.4
Sources of Financing                                 85.9       78.9      91.6       95.0       90.4
On-Budget Borrowing                                  66.5       57.1      81.3       86.3       88.6
Loans from the Center                              23.7       29.9      36.0       41.0       46.6
o/w Small Savings                                 9.9       11.4      17.9       15.2       21.0
o/w State Plan Loans (excl. WB Adj Loan)         13.6       18.3      17.7       25.1       24.7
Loans from the MarkeVFIs                           19.6       22.2      32.8       22.9       20.4
Provident Fund (Net)                                3.3        4.9       4.3        4.5        4.8
WMA, Reserves, Deposits & Cash Balances (Net)      19.9        0.0       8.2       -2.9       -0.8
Extraordinary Financing (incl. WB Adj Loan)         0.0        0.0       0.0       20.8       17.6
o/w IBRD/IDA Adjustment Loan                       0.0       0.0       0.0       12.0       12.0
Net Financing by Power/b                             19.4       21.9      10.3        8.7        1.9
o/w Commercial Loans Serviced by GoAP              10.1       26.0      10.5        8.8        0.0
la Gross Borrowing requirement is the sum of Consolidated Fiscal Deficit (incl. Power) and Repayments by GoAP
/b Net Financing by Power is the difference between Power Sector Financing Requirement and Gross Support from
GoAP by way of subsidy, capital outlay, and net lending (see Annex 2 for definitions)
B.       Actions to Activate APERL
82.      There are fourteen key up front actions for the APERL loan/credit. These are listed in
Table 6, and include fiscal, public expenditure management, and governance and public
management reforms completed by early 2002.
C.       Subsequent APERL Operations
83.      This proposed loan/credit is intended as one in a series of loans/credits, to be adjusted to
the strength of the reform program and pace of implementation, with an expectation of annual
spacing over a period of 3 to 4 years. Future financial support for the program will be determined
by the Government of India, GoAP, the Bank and DFID on a year-to-year basis. The main
institutional and fiscal objectives supported by the APERL operations are expected to have been
completed by the end of 2005/06.
24



Table 6: Key Triggers and Actions for APERL
Reform Area          Objective                   First Year Program Key Actions/Triggers
Fiscal Policy Reform  To stabilize    *  Budget execution in 2001/02 consistent with the corrective
government          measures needed to reach the Medium-Term Fiscal Framework
finances and        (MTFF) targets (1.3% primary deficit, 5.0% fiscal deficit and less
improve             than 5.6% consolidated fiscal deficit) (para.33).
resource         *  Annual Fiscal Framework targets significant deficit reduction for
mobilization/       2002/03 (para.34).
allocation.      *  GoAP's Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper (including the MTFF)
finalized and published (para.28).
* Tax reforms and cost recovery: sales tax floor rates unified, major
progress in preparation for VAT implementation (para.42-43).
Public Expenditure   To strengthen    *  Set hard expenditure ceilings for each line department at the start of
Management Reform    fiscal discipline   the budget preparation cycle, beginning in 2002/03 (para. 47).
while improving  *  Make initial aggregate provision against government guarantees,
resource            including full provisioning for selected guarantees (para. 49).
allocation and   a  Initial rationalization of heads of account and periodic advance
enabling better     releases of spending authority to line departments (para. 48).
operational      *  Computerize pension payments and initiate computerization of
management          salary payments (para. 48).
Governance and       'SMART'          *  Continue de facto civil service hiring freeze in place and conduct
Public Management    govemance           comprehensive civil service census (para.59, 61).
Reform               (Simple, Moral,  *  Cabinet approval of anticorruption policy paper (para. 67).
Accountable,     *  Implement anti-corruption drive in the power sector, including:
Responsive and      carry out regularization drive, strengthen billing collection
Transparent) to     efficiency, enact power theft legislation, implement anti-theft legal
improve public      sanctions through special courts (para. 68).
service delivery,  *  Close/privatize 11 public enterprises. Cabinet approval of Phase II
reduce              PE reform program, with implementation sequencing and costing
corruption, and     (paras.57-58).
improve the      *  Submit Right to Information Bill to Cabinet (para. 70).
investment       .  E-Governance: Implement public service access system
climate.            (TWINs/eSEVA) in Hyderabad; streamline/ computerize deed
registration (CARD) to cut turn around time and public compliance
burden (para.65).
84.     The evolution and sequencing of reforms supported by the current operation point to key
reform areas to underpin the next APERL, expected to be processed during 2002/03 and built
around measures taken during that fiscal year. The measures will focus on continued adherence
to the MTFF fiscal program for stabilization and expenditure restructuring, deepening of the
public expenditure reform program, as well as strengthening key elements of the governance
reform program and continued satisfactory progress in implementation of power sector reforms.
Annex A identifies the measures and triggers expected to underpin the second APERL, and
medium-term measures in subsequent years. The main indicative actions for the second operation
include:
Fiscal Reform
*   Fiscal targets: confirmation of 2001/02 fiscal performance (budgetary and consolidated)
through the available fiscal data; 2002/03 performance on track to achieve consolidated
fiscal targets for the year; expenditure composition reforms on track through shifting of
resources towards primary social services, non-salary O&M, and capital spending. GoAP
to prepare a public report on mid-year fiscal performance.
*   Development and implementation of pension forecasting capacity, including selection of
a forecast methodology and staff training in this system, as a first step towards pension
reform.
25



* Strengthening of revenue mobilization through preparation measures toward
implementation of the sub-national VAT; preparation of the Revenue Reform Committee
(RRC) report on tax revenue mobilization strategy, introduction of statutory requirements
for periodic revision of specific duty rates.
Public Expenditure Management Reform
*  Development of departmental medium-term expenditure plans, focused in 2002/03 on
primary health and education expenditure linkages to the consolidated MTFF to ensure
appropriate resource allocation consistent with sectoral policy objectives (universal
literacy, primary health coverage targets, etc).
*  Completion of the State Financial Accountability Assessment and related action program
covering the State Goverrnent; satisfactory progress towards implementation of agreed
financial accountability actions (reducing backlog of accounts and audit of 1999/00-
2000/01; responses to audit report of State Govemment; measures to improve some
identified internal control issues).
*  Formulation and implementation of comprehensive policy on government guarantees,
including, inter alia, setting an aggregate cap on guarantees, loss-sharing provisions,
methodology for assessing merit and risk of individual guarantees, norms for budgetary
provisioning for government guarantees, and establishment of guarantee fees.
* Implementation of an elective government payroll computerization system.
Governance and Public Management Reform
*  Establishment of the Poverty and Social Analysis Monitoring Unit, and identification by
the State Poverty Eradication Mission (SPEM) of key poverty monitoring indicators,
establishment of a baseline, and implementation of mechanisms for the regular updating
and monitoring of poverty indicators.
*  Formulation and implementation of measures to advance deregulation to relax constraints
to business environment and growth, including legislation on enhancing the effectiveness
of the single window investment clearance system, and implementation of measures to
reform the business inspection regime.
*  Initiation of the Phase II program for public enterprise restructuring/ privatization and
significant progress towards meeting first year targets.
*  Completion of a procurement review and action plan, and initiation of recommended
measures, including inter alia: strengthening of transparency in the bid process, including
publication of large tenders on the internet; improving the system for handling
complaints; and improving GoAP's value for money in state procurement.
*  Implementation of the anti-corruption strategy to reform and/or rationalize existing
agencies to strengthen the independence, professionalism and effectiveness of the anti-
corruption function.
*  Establishment of a computerized human resource management database.
*  Submission of the Right to Information Bill to the State Legislative Assembly.
D.     Implementation Arrangements and Performance Monitoring
85.   Implementation arrangements for the overall loan/credit are detailed in the GoAP Letter
of Development Policy (Annex A). To monitor the implementation of its fiscal and public
expenditure management reforms, GoAP has established a Fiscal Reforms Implementation
Committee, chaired by the FD and with appropriate participation by LDs and other concerned
26



entities. Poverty monitoring will be the responsibility of the recently established AP SPEM (para.
75).
86.    Performance Monitoring. The Government supports greater transparency and
accountability in government programs, and is disseminating its reform program strategy papers
to the public. The MTFF and an assessment of fiscal performance will be presented together with
the annual budget. The following measures are also planned to help strengthen performance
monitoring:
* The poverty monitoring and evaluation system to be established as part of SPEM will
improve availability of data about poverty, and the impact of government policies and
reforms on the poor.
* Expenditure and revenue data will be reported monthly on the internet.
* GoAP's new Right to Information Bill will, once enacted, enable the public to be better
informed about and thus better able to monitor government performance.
*  The Government's new system of monitoring indicators (para. 75) is still under
development but should strengthen performance monitoring as it is more fully deployed.
* The Government's extensive e-governance initiatives will greatly improve the flow of
data within government, and enable customers to get better feedback on their queries and
requests.
*  Survey-based monitoring is being emphasized, with regular new surveys planned of
business, households and officials.
87.    Performnance indicators for the Government's fiscal and governance reform program are
provided in Table 7. These will be used to assess progress under the program and for preparation
of any subsequent operations.
E.     Loan/Credit Administration
88.    Funds flow arrangements for the Loan/Credit are as follows. Upon effectiveness, GoAP
through Gol will submit to the Bank a withdrawal application. The US dollar proceeds of the
Loan/Credit will be transferred from the Bank to Gol's account held at the Reserve Bank of India,
into which all Bank disbursements are deposited. The account is controlled by the Office of
CAAA (Controller of Aid, Accounts and Audit) of the Department of Economic Affairs, Gol, and
is part of Gol's general foreign exchange reserves. The Rupee equivalent funds will be
transferred promptly by Gol to the Consolidated Fund of GoAP in one tranche on standard terms
for central resource transfers for state developmental budgets (30% as grant and 70% as loan,
with Gol bearing the foreign exchange risk). GoAP will confirm to the Bank the receipt of these
funds within 30 days.
89.    Disbursement of the loan/credit will not be linked to specific purchases. However, Gol
will not use the loan/credit proceeds to pay for certain expenditures included in the Bank's
standard negative list which includes expenditures on military hardware, luxury goods as defined
in the Standard International Trade Classification, and environmentally hazardous goods.
27



Table 7: Performance indicators for Andhra Pradesh's Fiscal and Governance Reforms
Reform Area            Outcomes sought                  Performance Indicators/Monitoring
Fiscal and     Reduce fiscal deficit from 5% to 2.5%  * Annual publication of the MTFF, and of the
Expenditure   in four years.                      budget consistent with the MTFF, reporting on
Management     Contain and control off budget     fiscal reform performance against targets.
reforms        borrowing and govemment guarantees.  * Filing of the power sector ARR and tariff
Develop pension forecasting and    consistent with the power business plan.
monitoring system.                 * Regular monitoring and publication of fiscal and
Develop sectoral linkages to MTFF to  power sector performance indicators.
fully reflect priority program     *Timeliness of audits and follow-up actions on
expenditure requirements.          audit observations.
Enhanced resource allocation to
priority development expenditures.
Strengthened public resource
mobilization.
Administrative  Monitorable improvements in the   * Regular reports on govemance and public
and Civil     quality of service delivery in critical  management reforms to Legislative Assembly.
Service       sectors (such as education), as well as  * Annual data on the size and composition of the
Reforms       improved access by the poor.        civil service, recruitment and attrition rates, and
Measurable efficiency gains through the  wage bill.
elimination of departmental overlap and  * GoAP organizational chart and list of annual
redundancies and the termination of  revisions/consolidations.
ineffective schemes and programs.   * Annual list of schemes and programs
Accountability and responsiveness   eliminated/consolidated.
strengthened by improved performance  * GoAP performance data on the effectiveness of
monitoring and enhanced public access  service delivery in selected sectors (scope, cost,
to information.                     etc.).
Integrity strengthened by strengthening  * Number of staff prosecuted or sanctioned for
key institutions (anticorruption) and  corruption.
procedures (procurement).           * Surveys of political leaders, civil servants and
Private sector investment increases due  the general public on the quality of service
to more favorable and transparent  delivery.
business environment.              * Surveys of business leaders on the business
environment, combined with other publicly
available rankings.
Poverty        Strengthen the information base and  * Establishment of a poverty monitoring, and
Monitoring     analytic capacity of GoAP for pro-poor  evaluation unit within the State Poverty
policy making and program design.  Eradication Mission (SPEM).
* Development of a program for poverty impact
monitoring and analysis of government programs.
* Use of M&E results by the SPEM for policy
formulation and reports to Cabinet.
90.     The preliminary public financial accountability assessment (para. 52) indicates that
although there are weaknesses, the foundations of AP's public financial accountability system are
satisfactory. Actions to strengthen and modernize the system have been agreed to and are
included in the Policy Matrix and explained in Annex D. A State Financial Accountability
Assessment (SFAA), covering the State Government (which accounts for bulk of public funds),
will be carried out in 2002/03, leading to the adoption of a medium-term action program by the
Government. The funds flow arrangements for the Loan/Credit (para. 88) are satisfactory to
ensure that the proceeds of the Loan/Credit are used for the intended purposes.
28



V.     LESSONs LEARNED, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.     Lessons Learned
91.    There are two sources of lessons particularly relevant for this operation: the AP
Economic Restructuring Project (APERP), a large multi-sectoral, investment project founded on
an agreed fiscal framework (para. 24) and the two other sub-national adjustment loans/credits the
Bank has made in India to Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. These are dealt with in turn.
92.    Lessons From APERP. APERP was an innovative project, and an important milestone
in the Bank's response to the fiscal crisis at the state level. In particular, it was the first case of
state lending in India based on an agreed fiscal framework. It has also provided several lessons in
relation to the use of fiscal frameworks which the proposed operation incorporates. First, working
on the basis of an agreed fiscal framework is crucial, but it should be revised on an annual basis,
as is the usual practice in multi-year budgeting, and not fixed for several years in advance, as is
done in a multi-year investment project. Second, the framework should be public, in order to
build consensus, and institutionalized into the annual budgetary process. Third, power sector
finances should be integrated into the fiscal framework. GoAP's new fiscal framework, the
Medium Term Fiscal Framework (para.28) which incorporates the above lessons, and which is
one of the foundations for the proposed operation, will also replace the existing and now out-
dated fiscal framework of the APERP, once this operation is approved as recommended in
para.106.
93.    Lessons From OtherAdjustnent Operations. Lessons from the first state adjustment
loan/credit in India (to Uttar Pradesh, approved by the Board in April 2000) are summarized in
the Implementation Completion Report (Report No 22297). First, the programmatic adjustment
lending approach can be an effective instrument for supporting state fiscal reforms. It requires
broad state ownership of the reforms, and flexibility to withstand political and economic
uncertainties. Second, the program should have a well-identified strategic design for a focused
but deeper policy dialogue, rather than a broad but diffuse agenda. Third, broad reprioritization
of expenditures and improved budget management practices promise more success than detailed
auditing and micromanaging of expenditures. Finally, the successful establishment of an
effective poverty and social monitoring system needs early on to focus on systematizing data
collection, analysis, and fostering demand for the use of the data. These lessons have been
incorporated in the proposed operation through the core program triggers, integration of the
power sector in the fiscal framework, emphasis on expenditure management and institutional
reforms, and support to existing poverty monitoring and evaluation capacity in the Government.
The main lesson learned from the Karnataka adjustment operation (approved in June 2001) is the
value of high-frequency monitoring by Government of the state's consolidated fiscal position to
help internalize and emphasize the state's fiscal targets, and to facilitate early corrective
measures. Both the UP and Karnataka projects have benefited from close collaboration with the
Government of India, and integration between Gol and Bank support for fiscal reform is mutually
strengthening.
B.     Benefits.
94.   Impact on Poverty. The ultimate test of the state's reform efforts - and our support for
these efforts - is whether the state achieves major progress in reducing poverty and improving
people's lives. AP has performed well in urban poverty reduction, and the Government
recognizes that its track record in rural poverty reduction needs strengthening, particularly in rural
areas where the Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe (SC/ST) population is concentrated. Although
improvement in state literacy rates over the 1990s was the second highest in India, female literacy
29



and SC/ST literacy remains low. AP's program of fiscal and governance reforms is expected to
have a strongly positive impact on poverty reduction through various channels:
*  Fiscal reform will enable a greater share of resources to be focused on poverty-related
expenditures. The MTFF seeks to reorient public spending towards priority development
spending (social sector spending, non-wage O&M and capital expenditure) that will
provide primary education, health, and other basic social services to the poor, including
support for improved agricultural performance.
*  Increasing cost recovery through user charges for public services is controversial, but in
the case of power it is a progressive policy as the recent study on power subsidies to
agriculture makes clear. About 50% of AP's rural households make no use of electricity,
and for those who do there is a life-line tariff to protect poor residential consumers. Large
users of electricity who reap the greatest share of current subsidies are the wealthier,
better-off households. Bank research conducted in AP and elsewhere suggests that the
negative impact of tariff increases on marginal and small farmers would remain limited if
mitigated by an improvement in the quality of power supply. For other user charges,
analysis is underway (e.g. for irrigation and water services), or will be undertaken by the
Fiscal Reform Implementation Committee.
*  The emphasis being given to improving poverty monitoring and policy analysis will help
the Government to better track poverty, and to adjust policies accordingly to improve
poverty targeting and program effectiveness. This includes the new poverty monitoring
capacity being developed within the SPEM, as well as AP sector-specific studies such as
on power subsidies to agriculture (completed) and on irrigation subsidies (under
preparation).
* The governance agenda aims to reduce government intervention in markets, improve the
investment climate, ease the regulatory burden on the private sector, especially for small
and medium enterprises, and help generate non-farm employment, of benefit to the poor.
These will enhance overall economic growth and generate jobs.
* The fiscal and governance reform program of the Government will increase the
effectiveness of its sectoral anti-poverty interventions, e.g., in health, education, forestry
etc., many of which are supported by the Bank. Sectoral expenditure impact reviews,
supported by DFID, have been prepared for 8 major departments during the past year,
identifying areas of waste, duplication, and recommending measures to strengthen
expenditure efficiency and delivery effectiveness.
*  AP's governance reforms also seek to improve the delivery of public services at local
levels (e.g., through citizen charters, user surveys, and performance monitoring system to
make public services 'outcome oriented'). The governance reforms should also reduce
corruption and harassment, which tend to disproportionately hurt the poor.
95.    AP's broader development program is also supportive of poverty reduction, and attention
in program design has been given to strengthening communities and addressing issues of major
concern to the poor. The APERP project (para. 24) supports enhanced resource allocation and
sector interventions aimed at strengthening the primary health delivery system, expanding
primary education services, child and infant nutrition programs, strengthening rural irrigation
systems and their management through the formation of water users associations, and the
construction and maintenance of rural roads. Several projects have been initiated by the state
targeted at strengthening communities and self-help groups with a key objective of reducing
poverty, including; (i) the District Poverty Initiatives Project, operating in most districts in the
state, with a similar program under preparation to expand support to all state districts; (ii) the
Joint Forestry Management Project, aimed at sustainable use of common resources and targeting
30



marginalized and poor rural families dependent on forest products, which recently received
national acclaim for its effectiveness; (iii) the DFID supported AP Urban Services Project which
includes improved provision of services to lower income communities, and (iv) the
'Janmabhoomi' program involving local communities in the choice and execution of
infrastructure projects. AP has also taken measures to improve the targeting of subsidized rice to
the poor to reduce the fiscal burden while improving program effectiveness.
96.    Support for Reforms. Bank and DFID backing for the Government's reform program
helps provide support for implementation, and the lessons of international experience. Success
with respect to the Government's fiscal and governance reform program will improve the
enabling environment for Bank-supported and other sectoral investments in AP. The additional
financing which the Bank and DFID can provide will help ensure that high-priority expenditures
are protected and expanded rather than crowded out at a time of fiscal stress, as well as helping to
finance the direct costs of reforms.
97.   Impact Beyond AP. AP is in many ways India's first reforming state, and has already
generated enormous competition and reform momentum across Indian states. It is very important
for the fate of state reforms in India that AP be seen to be rewarded for its reforms, and that it
succeed in the initiatives now underway.
98.    Environmental Impact. The Government's fiscal/governance reform program is not
expected to have any major environmental impact. However, environmental issues are
particularly relevant to the public enterprise privatization component of the APERL, building on
the experience under this component of the APERP program. Environmental audits have been
undertaken by the Adam Smith Institute, financed by DFID, for the first set of public enterprises
to be privatized or closed under Phase I of the program, and this has helped build local capacity.
This has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Under the Phase II Reform Program
the Govemment is committed to continue undertaking environmental audits. Beyond the fiscal
and governance program, the Bank and DFID have initiated a dialogue with GoAP on the
development of a broader environmental strategy for the state, which is expected to be undertaken
in 2002.
C.     Risks
99.    The major risks to program implementation are: (i) difficulty in adhering to the fiscal
framework and budget constraints; (ii) difficulty in reducing subsidies in the power sector and
implementing the power sector reform program; (iii) possible change in leadership and/or
opposition to reform by vested interests, including in the power sector where reform is very
controversial; and (iv) shocks external to AP.
100.  Fiscal risks arise over the Government's ability to deliver on its commitment to maintain
hard budget constraints and execute fiscal stabilization measures. As with most Indian states, AP
has a history of deviating from the budget and making mid-year changes. Forced year-end
expenditure cuts, or financing through extraordinary arrears, could undermine fiscal reforms. To
mitigate these risks, timely budget releases following regular quarterly monitoring have been
initiated, and budget constraints facing line departments have been made explicit. Public
dissemination of the Government's Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper (para. 28), including the
objectives and path of the MTFF, should help strengthen fiscal discipline. In addition, the
Government has agreed to make fiscal monitoring information available to the public (on the
internet) during the year to enhance transparency and accountability to the public. The
combination of expenditure management reforms to strengthen budget preparation and execution,
and enhanced transparency and accountability, serve to mitigate fiscal risk. Delaying the
introduction of the VAT to April 2003 has postponed potential fiscal risk posed by a revenue
shortfall during the VAT transition period until the 2003/04 fiscal year, but measures during
31



2002/03 to strengthen the prospects for a smooth transition will be needed. AP's VAT
preparations are already well advanced, but a sufficient number of states must move in tandem for
successful implementation.
101.  Fiscal risks are also posed by the adverse impact on revenue performance at both the state
and central levels, due to the downturn in growth in India. This makes fiscal adjustment more
difficult and intensifies competing demands over resources. AP has taken significant additional
revenue measures to mitigate the revenue loss, and to adjust to reduced tax devolution from the
Center. Further efforts in this direction are needed. The recently constituted RRC has been
charged with identifying further tax reforms to strengthen revenue mobilization and efficiency,
and is expected to complete its report on recommendations this year.
102.  Power sector risks. The power sector poses substantial financial risks to the Govemment
budget. Although the financial health of the power sector has improved this year, and is forecast
to continue to improve, large downside financial risks arise from: (i) the difficulty of reducing
large and politically sensitive power subsidies; (ii) insufficient progress in metering agricultural
consumers needed to improve revenue collection and support pnrvatization efforts; (iii) the risk
that industrial demand growth projections, including the return of demand to the state grid from
self-generation, do not materialize; (iv) potential excessive expansion of generation capacity that
results in surplus power, beginning in 2002/03; and (v) failure of power privatization efforts,
which would threaten the operational efficiency improvements built into the power sector
financial forecasts. Although AP has already significantly improved its billings and collections
performance, this may be difficult to sustain in the absence of privatization.
103.  Close monitoring of outcomes related to the power sector business plan is important for
enabling the Govemment to take timely actions to mitigate these financial risks. The medium
term framework of the govemment fully incorporates the required budget support to the sector,
and a system of regular monitoring of the power sector will provide advance indication of any
financial or system problems, should they arise. To mitigate the risk of reducing subsidies to
agriculture and the metering of farmers, GoAP has constituted a special Task Force for the design
of new subsidy mechanisms, to improve subsidy targeting and effectiveness (para. 15). Both the
risks of low demand growth and difficulty in attracting demand back from self-generation to the
state grid, will be mitigated through a new tariff incentive scheme and increased wheeling
charges. To guard against excessive generation plans, the power companies are required to
submit proposed projects for regulatory review and to demonstrate to the AP Electricity
Regulatory Commission the need for power, and the economy and efficiency of their power
purchases. Moreover, many of the proposed projects may not reach financial closure. Finally,
while the success of any privatization program cannot be assured, AP's conmmitment to
privatization, and to the power business plan, is high. AP's track record in meeting its subsidy
obligation to the power sector and towards govemance reforms - the anti-theft drive,
strengthening billing and collection enforcement, etc. - provides comfort to potential private
investors. Regulatory risk perceived by potential investors is proposed to be addressed through
development of a multi year tariff regulation framework.
104.  To help quantify the magnitude of these financial risks in power, some sensitivity
analysis was prepared, and is summarized in Annex B. It indicates that with more conservative
estimates of growth in sales to industry (4% per annum) and a conservative generation expansion
strategy (with unaltered third party wheeling charges), the additional cost to the budget in
2002/03 would be Rs.4.4 billion, or just under 0.3% of GSDP, and would be carried into
subsequent years, although on a declining basis. Monthly monitoring of the financial
performance of the power sector will be undertaken to provide early signs of emerging financial
pressures in the sector, and to allow contingency planning to minimize the adverse fiscal impact.
32



105.  Political risks will increase as the Government approaches the mid-point in the election
cycle this year, and the introduction of controversial reforms becomes more difficult. The
political system in AP is relatively centralized, placing importance on the top political leadership.
There are various interest groups opposed to reform, including some public employees who feel
threatened by restructuring or privatization of loss-making public enterprises and by civil service
reform. Reduced commitment to the reform program could lead to delays or loss of Gol and
World Bank financial support, which is subject to year-by-year reviews. However, the current
leadership was re-elected to a five-year term in late 1999 on a reform platform, and improved
service delivery and accountability will help generate greater support for continued reform
implementation. The institutional reforms underway also help to insulate systemic reform from
political backsliding, including adoption of fiscal responsibility legislation, which is being
considered by GoAP.
106.  In addition to the specific mitigating measures mentioned above, AP's track record as a
leading reformer over the last 3 to 4 years provides reassurance over continued comnmitment to
the reform program. This operation entails significant risks, but given the importance of the
institutional objectives of both the Bank and DFID to support poverty reduction and assist the
leading reform states in India, this operation is warranted.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Zhang Shengman
Washington, D.C.
February 15, 2002
33



Annex A
DO.No.F-1776/S(EA)/2002         Page 1 of 19
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
SECRETARY                                    Department of Economic Affairs
SECRETARY                                          zr4 fl~-R/NEW DELHI
1 gth February, 2002
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
I am happy to forward the Letter of Development Policy of
Government of Andhra Pradesh describing in detail the policy reform
programme of GoAP.
While the Government of India, in general, support the reform
programme contained in the Letter of Development Policy, I would like to
state that approach to subsequent adjustment loans would be decided
annually after discussions between World Bank and Govemment of India.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(C.M.
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn,
President,
World Bank,
Washington D.C.



Annex A
Page 2 of 19
HYDERABAD - 500 b22
P. V. Rao, I.A.S.                      {o&NgfSagta                           Off       3452620
3455340
Fax   040-3453700
Res       3548155
CHIEF SECRETARY                        February 8, 2002
Dear Shri Vasudev,
Letter of Developmnse,it Policy, Governzmjeiiz ofAnjdhlra Pradeslh
1. Andhra Pradesh faces many developmental challenges in its quest to improve the quality of
life for its 76 million inhabitants, over two-thirds of whom live in rural areas and are dependent
on agriculture and associated activities. Growth of the AP economy has been somewhat above
5% p.a. over the decade of the 1990s, an improvement over earlier years but still modest by
Indian standards and well below AP 's potential growth rate, Our state has achieved significant
progress in raising literacy, reducing infant and child mortality rates, and rcducing povcrty during
the 1990s. However, about one-fourth of the population still lives below the poverty line, literacy
levels lag behind national averages, particularly for women and for scheduled tribes and
scheduled castes in the state, and infant and maternal health indicators are still very low.
Improving the quality of life for all of AP's population, boosting economic perforrmance, and
protecting the environment and quality of life for future generations are the fundamental goals of
the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP).
2. These goals, as well as the detailed development objcctives of the state, are presented in the
1999 report we prepared called Andlzra Pradeslh Vision 2020. This report lays out a broad vision
of: (i) accelerating economic growth and eradicating poverty ivhile taking care of the old, the
infirm, and the genuinely needy; (ii) enabling the people to leam, earn, and lead healthful and
productive lives; and (iii) making government simple, transparent, accountable and responsive to
citizens. To do this we must transforn the role of government from one of direct intervention in
the economy towards one of provision of key social services, protection of the environment and
common resources, and ensuring an effective regulatory regime to protect the interests of citizens
while not impeding growth and private initiative. A more detailed short term road map for
development has also been prepared in 2001 through a set of 16 Strategy Papers covering the
major policy areas of government, which have been publicly disseminated, debated, and
presented to the state assembly for discussion. Together these documents have provided the
initial basis for our Government reforn programme, while recognizing that reform and
development are evolving, and new ideas and experiences from India and internationally will
always help to achieve greater progress.
The Andhra Pratlesh Reform Programme.
3. The Andhra Pradesh reform programme focuses on both fiscal and governance reforms, and
on sectoral reforms. Reforms have been launched across the major sectors and public services,
including the power sector, given its very important role in fostering growth and the urgent need
to reduce its large drain on fiscal resources. Our sectoral reforms aim to improve the quality of
public service delivery to achieve key social and developmeIalu objectives. Fiscal policy is an



Annex A
Page 3 of 19
important parallel area of reform that is needed to place public finances on a sustainable path,
while restructuring expenditures towards priority development needs of the state. Finally,
governance and public management reforms are essential to institutional strengtihening, to
engender greater transparency and accountability in Govemment, and to improve the quality and
effectiveness of public resource management. All of these initiatives contribute to the objectives
of improved economic performance, growth, poverty reduction, and improving people's
livelihoods. While this Letter focuses mainly.on our core fiscal and govemance reforms (details
in Annex 1), and their impact on poverty, the sectoral reforms we are undertaking are also of
fundamental importance, and are summarized briefly below.
4. Reforms are in progress in many sectors, including licalth, irrigation, forestry maniagemnit,
education, and infrastrmcture. In irrigation reform initiatives have focused on involving cntd-users
in system support wlile imiproving cost recovery to mobilize resources for operations and
maintenance of canals. The government has developed water user associations into effective user
groups for assessing irrigation use, collecting fees, and organizing irrigation system maintenance
with greater efficiency and less cost than under direct state provision. We are also expanding the
joint forest management programmes which have proven highly successful in organizing and
protecting the common use of community forest resources and halting resource degradation.
Modern commercial and project management practices have been introduced to execution of road
works, including development of a performance based maintenance contract system and Build-
Operate-Transfer projects. Expansion of health referral centers is helping to enhance primary
health care service delivery, and a new performanlcc monitoring system for prinlary and
secondary care facilities is strengthening outcome orientation. In education, the Govermncilt's
programme of Education forAll has become the cornerstone for achieving universal primary
education by 2005/06, and implementation plans are underway in parallel with expansion of the
centrally sponsored District Primary Education Project. A key objective of these efforts is to
accelerate progress in improving literacy rates, particularly among women, scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes, where literacy is below national and state averages.
5. Power sector reform is a key complement to fiscal reform, due to the sector's major demand
on budgetary support, and a necessity for accelerating growth. Andhra Pradesh's power sector
reforms have made the state a leader in India with the achievemrent of major milestones:
*  Unbundling of the State Electricity Board into six new autonomously functioning and
corporatized companies (1999 and 2000).
*  Formation of the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC) in 1999 to provide
independent oversight of the power sector reform process and full implementation of two
tariff orders, and a third tariff filing has been made with the ERC for FY2003, consistent
with the MTFF and five-year power sector business plan.
*  Launching of the most far reaching anti-theft drive in India in 2000/01 to register illegal
power connections, regularizing two million residential customers in one month, and
prosecuting cases of theft with specially constituted tribunals. Metering has already been
substantially completed for non-agriculture consumers in accordance with the ERC
directive.
*  Improved billing and collections, and the launch of an extensive anti-tlieft drive and
arrears collcction campaign. As a result. billing for clcctricity has incrcased by 34% and
collections have gone up by 44% (while the average tarill increased by 15%) since
1999/0).
6. As a result, the sector's operating results have improved, reversing the earlier trend, and has
begun to meet its operating costs from sales revenues (before interest and depreciation - Table 1).
2



Annex A
Page 4 of 19
The power sector forecasts are based on a multi-year progranmme that has been fully integrated
with the MTFF discussed above, reflecting the financing requirements from Government to
ensure success of the programme. Direct support from the budget is high initially, but designed
to fall to just 0.3% of GSDP by 2005/06.
Table 1: Forecasts of Power Sector Financing Requirements (in Rs. Billion)
2000101  2001102  2002103  2003104  2004/05  2005106
(I) Earning before Interest, Depr'n,
Taxes and Appropriatlon (EBIDTA)       -10.7    -0.3     10.1    19.9     25.5    30.8
(11) Net Proflt/Loss cxcl. Depr'n      -21.4   -16.8     -8.7     0.2     7.3     14.2
and Subsidy
(1ii) Capital Outlay                   12.1     15.7     17.9    18.2     14.9    17.6
(iv) Power Sector Financing            33.4     32.4     26.6    17.9      7.6     3.4
Requirement (III - 11)
7. One key element of the power sector strategy is the privatization of power distribution,
targeted for completion in 2003/04. Underlying successful implementation of the privatization
are four specific areas where Government, together with the regulatory authority, is working to
identify clear solutions: (i) enhance the predictability of tariff adjustment through the
development of incentive-based and long-term regulatory principles and guidelines; (ii) improve
the targeting and delivery mechanisms of the subsidy to agricultural consumers; (iii) design a
financial workout to address the accumulated debt overhang from past losses; and (iv) improve
the quality of supply and financial incertives to win industrial consumers back from captive
generation to grid supply. These are the main challenges for Government in the next two years,.
8. The Government of AP supports electricity subsidies for farmers, but recognizes that such
subsidies should not prevent the distribution companies from functioning along commercial lines,
something which is needed if sectoral efficiency is to be improved. With this goal in mind, GoAP
has set up a special task force to design, implement and monitor pilot projects involving
alternative subsidy delivery mechanisms for the supply of electricity to farmers. These pilot
projects will involve the redesign of supply, billing and collection systems to develop new ways
of providing farners with subsidies for the electricity they consume. A package of supporting
measures, including, for example, better quality of supply, metering, and provision of energy
efficient pumps, will also be considered. Based on the lessons leamed, the task force will prepare
an action plan for scaling up the pilot projects to the state level.
9. The Government is committed to universal metering in accordance with the directives of the
APERC. Based on the interim findings of the Task Force on alternative subsidy delivery
mechanisms, the Govemment will prepare an action plan by October 2002 for compliance with
the APERC directive on universal metering. In their tariff order for FY2002, APERC has also
directed the power distribution companies to meter, with immediate effect, all new agriculture
consumers, including unauthorized agriculture connections which have been regularized. The
utility companies have requested the APERC to allow extension, up to 30 June 2002, of the
period for regularization of agriculture connections, and to reconsider the time frame for
metering. IThe GoAP and the utilities will ensure compliance with the ensuing directives of the
APERC.
10. The Government is also taking action to ensure the financial independcnce and accountability
of the four newly created power distribution companics. I his is csscntial for improving sector
3



Annex A
Page 5 of 19
governance. The transfer of staff from APTRANSCO to these c6hnpanies is soon to be completed
and will enable the companies to develop their own staff cadre. Action has already been taken to
ensure separate and independent Boards of Directors for all the companies, and appointment of
professionally qualified candidates to these Boards. Institutional development of these companies
is supported by technical assistance funded by DFID.
11. The sectoral reforms noted above, particularly those in the power sector, have major
implications for the allocation of public funds and for the ability of Andhra Pradesh to achieve the
development objectives of Vision 2020. Prioritizing the sectoral allocation of public resources to
meet development goals, and strengthening the budget process, is a central element of the state
reform programme, to which this Letter now turns.
Fiscal Sustainability and Restructuring of Public Expenditurcs.
12. Reducing the fiscal deficit and state debt burden to a sustainable level, while restructuring
expenditures toward priority development areas, and enhancing resource mobilization is central to
our efforts at accelerating growth, poverty reduction, and reducing risk. In recent years there has
been a build up of state debt and as pressure on public pensions and wages has grown, debt
servicing has increased, and the burden of power sector subsidies on the budget has become
severe. During the last five years government debt has grown from just under 20% of GSDP to
reach 29% of GSDP this year. The burden of debt service and subsidies on the budget has grown
dramatically as a share of total spending, diverting public resources away from critical
development needs. As set out in the,2001/02 budget speech, GoAP is committed to reversing
this trend and restructuring public spending through a phased medium-term fiscal framework over
the next five years.
13. Fiscal stabilizaliotn. The-major fiscal stabilization goals of the Governmernt are reflected in
the Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF) and used as the basis for preparation of the 2002/03
budget, and the Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper of Govemment. The MTFF is based on a
consolidated presentation of the public accounts, which ftilly incorporates thc support provided
by the budget to the power sector. Power sector claims o0i the budget are the largest of any
sector. Without a solution to reducing the large financial burden of the power sector it will not be
possible to both finance other pressing developmental needs and restore fiscal health to Andhra
Pradesh.
14. The main goals of the fiscal stabilization programme are set out in Table 2 below (Annex 2
provides details). The Government of Andhra Pradesh is committed to reducing the total deftcit
of the govemrnment from the 2000/01 level of 5.4% of GSDP to 5.0% projected for 2W00102 and
progressively to 2.5% of GSDP in 2005/06. This is consistent with reducing thie revenue deficit
from the 2000/01 level of 2.7% of GSDP to 2.3% in 2001/02 and progressively to a surplus of
0.5% of GSDP in 2005/06. The consolidated deficit including financing requirements of the
power sector, is expected to decline from 6.2% in 2000/01, to 5.6% in 2001/02, and to 4.6% of
GSDP targeted for 2002/03. These fiscal goals are fully consistent with the objectives of the
Government of India's Fiscal Reform Facility (FRF), regarding which we have been in close
consultation with the Gol Ministry of Finance. The MTFF projects that the consolidated revenue
deficit to revenue receipts ratio, as used under the FRF guidelincs, will decline from 26.9% in
1999A(X) (the benchmark year) to a revenue surplus of 2.7% in 2004/05, more than fullilling the
target requirements of the Facility.
15, One key objective of this is to stabilize and reduce the heavy burden of debt on state
finances. During this period the'debt stock, including all off budget borrowing. will initially
increase as the state must borrow to pay for the costs of power sector restructuring and other
reforms, and to prevent an unacceptable contraction in vital social service expeniditures. It is
important to note that the Government of Andhra Pradesh is firmly committed to a complete



Annex A
Page 6 Qf 19
Hence, debt targets include all off-budget borrowing and control over govemment guarantees.
After this year all off-budget borrowing will be eliminated, apart from unforeseen financing
requirements arising from the end of year ruling of the APERC which cannot otherwise be
financed (e.g. through additional revenue measures, electricity supply curtailment, non-power
expenditure cuts, etc.). The total debt stock (including off budget borrowing) is expected to
increase from 30.6% last year to 33.5% projected for this year, and to stabilize in 2003/04 at 35%
before declining to 33.4% in 2005/06. Consistent with recommendations of the Reserve Bank of
India, the Government is also committed to preparing a comprehensive policy on govemment
guarantees, including setting an aggregate cap on all debt guarantees, loss-sharing provisions, a
methodology for assessing the merit and risk of individual guarantees, norms for budgetary
provisioning for guarantees, and the establishment of a Guarantee Redemption Fund.
Table 2: Andhra Pradesh: Medium-Term Fiscal Program 2000/01 - 2005/06
2000/011  2001102  2002t03  2003104  2004105  2005106
% GSUP                           Actuals   LE.      Prol       Pro)     Prol    ProJ
Budgetary Fiscal Deficit           -5.4%    -5.0%    -4.5%    -3.9%   -3.2%    -2.5%
Of Which:
Revenue Deficit                   -2.7%   -2.3%     -1.7%   -1.1%    -0.2%    0.5%
Budgetary Support fo Power         1.7%    1.6%     1.5%     1.0%    0.6%     0.3%
Non-Power Deficit                 -3.7%   -3.4%     -3.0%   -2.9%   -2.6%    -2.2%
Primary Deficil                   -2.2%   -1.3%     -0.6%    0.1%    0.85%    1.3%
Power Sector Financing Requirement  2.5%     2.2%     1.6%    1.0%     0.4%     0.1%
Consolidated Fiscal Deficit        -6.2%    -5.6%    -4.6%    -3.9%    -2.9%   -2.3%
16. The Government also intends to identify institutional measures that will enhance the
transparency of the MTFF and safeguard against future unforeseen circumstances that could lead
to departures from the fiscal targets in the MTFF. To this end, thc Government will hold a forum
to examine lessons for intemational and Indian experience, including a examination of the fiscal
responsibility legislation of the Gol and GoK, and will develop proposed measures for public
debate.
17. Restructuring expenditures. A second major fiscal goal is to restructure expenditures away
from non-developmental and low priority items, toward priority development expenditures. The
government succeeded in reducing the cost of rice subsidies from over 0.9% of GSDP in the late
1990s to around 0.3% cstimated for this year, and the fiscal burden of power subsidies is likely to
stabilize and begin declining over the next two years. At the same time spending on priority areas
is growing in primary social services (education and health), operations and maintenance
spending. and public investment in essential infrastructure. While the overall deficit falls,
spending on primary cducation and health together rise by 1.0% of GSDP by 2006/07, the last
year of the 10th Five Year Plan. Capital spending and non-wage operations and maintenance rise
by 0.9% over the same period. These expenditures are tied to GoAP development objectives;
including the achievement of universal primary education by 2005/06 and health targets, as set
out in Vision 2020. The Government will be preparing in 2002/03 medium term expenditure
plans, starting with health and education, linked to the overall fiscal framework and specifying
scctor allocation priorities. For eight major spending departments, including hcalth and
education, we have recently had expenditure impact reviews prepared to identify ways in which
public spending can be made more efficient, better coordinated, and to improve the quality of
public service delivery.



Annex A
Rage 7 of 19
18. Revenue mobilization. The GoAP is targeting an improvement in total state's own revenue
mobilization from 8.9% of GSDP in the current year, to 9.6% of GSDP in 2005/06. There are
several measures under preparation or planned to achieve this target:
*  Introduction of the value-added tax (VAT) in April 2003, including development of large
tax payer units to focus implementation on the key sources of revenues. This follows the
preparation of VAT legislation that is near completion, design of special software,
training programmes and public awareness campaigns.
*  Establishmcnt of a high powered Rcvenue Rerorrm Committee charged with providing
recommendations on system-wide improvement in tax revenue measures. Preparation of
mnajor reports are being planned over the year.
*  Abolition of intemal tax checkposts that have been rendered redundant with reform of
sales taxes, started last year and due for completion in the coming year.
*  Statutory regulations to be introduced for the periodic revision of specific duty rates,
penalty rates, and valuation normns for the purpose of maintaining the real value of tax
receipts.
19. Improvements in the tax system aim to strengthen compliance, reduce evasion, and to reduce
the costs of compliance facing tax payers. The VAT introduction is itself intended to herald
major improvements in tax administration, including the introduction of self-assessment and risk-
based audit. Reforms of the other taxes are also in the direction of improving enforcement and
compliance.
Governance and Public Management Reform.
20. The government is strongly committed to 'people-centcred, growth-oriented governance', to
transform the way it does business, and have the govemment do fewer things better. As
presented in AP Vision 2020, and elaborated in the GoAP Strategy Paper on Govemance reform,
GoAP aims to make government an enabler of market-based development by providing a growth-
conducive and deregulated policy environment. To achieve this, GoAP is co,mmitted to
"SMART' governance (Simple, Moral, Accountable, Responsive and Transparent) to enhance
service delivery and transform the public sector into an enabling agent for private sector growth.
There are several elements of the governance rerorm programme, including expenditure
management complementary to the fiscal reform agenda, and four elements aimed at improving
service delivery and accountability through: (i) establishing a framework for the reform process;
(ii) simplifying; redefining and rationalizing govemment; (iii) improving integrity, accountability,
responsiveness and transparency; and (iv) strengthening budget management and the integrity of
the budgetary process.
*  Establishing a Frameworkfor thie Reform Process. GoAP has established a framework
for reform, outlined in the Strategy Paper on Governance anad Public Managemnent
Strategy, which builds upon initiatives launched since the mid-1990s in e-governance and
human resource development. The Centre for Good Govemance has recently been
established and tasked with conducting the requisite analytic work in support of reforrns
and monitoring their implementation. Systemic initiatives in progress include Right to
Information legislation, establishment of a performance monitoring system, market
dcregulation; anticorruption, and deccntralization.
*  Simplifying, Redefining, and Rationalizing Gov'ernmnent. The task of government is to
move from directly providing goods and services to a prudent facilitator of private sector
activity. The realization of this agenda will require progress along major dimensions:
public enterprise reform, civil service reform, c-govctnaince and dcrcgulation. The



Annex A
page 8 of 19
Cabinet has recently approved Phase 11 of Public Enterprise Restructuring which involves
privatization, restructuring, or closure of nearly seventy remaining commercially oriented
enterprises, and preparatory measures for restrucluring of major 'labor intensive' PEs.
In civil service reform, GoAP aims to provide annual training to all senior state
employees through distance learning utilizing DVD lessons, training of trainers, and
other techniques. Human resource management is being consolidated and a modem
Human Resource Management function created in the General Administration
Department. Among other initiatives is the analysis and publication of data on staff
deployment, a civil service census to establish a computerized human resource database,
to assist with HRM and development of a pension monitoring and projection capacity for
resource planning. In E-governance GoA_P is preparing to roll out the E-Seva 'one stop
shop' system for citizens services to all major cities state-wide. To bolster the
deregulation agenda, GoAP is strengthening the legal basis for its single window
investment clearance system, streamlining business inspection procedures, and extending
grievance redressal systems statewide for licensing and inspections.
I Iiproving Iniclgrity, Accountability, Responsiveness atnd Transparency. The
anticorruption strategy of GoAP, as summarized in a 2001 policy paper on anticorruption,
focuses on the enforcement of laws regarding corruption, the prevention of opportunities
for corruption, and the strengthening of community education and awareness in the
struggle against corruption. We are now formulating a Strategic Irnplementation Plan,
which has been developed in consultation with the public, making extensive use of
survey data for benchmarking progress and identifying priority interventions. A key
component is the reform and/or rationalization of existing agencies to strengthen the
independence, professionalism, and effectiveness of the anticorruption function. GoAP is
also initiating a review of the procurement process, with the goal of: (i) improving
transparency in the bid proccss, (ii) standardizing tcntdcr documcnts and (iii) strcamlining
dccision mnkirig anc comiplaint rncchanisnms. I'lic Cabiniet dccided in Jlanuary 2002 to
lormulatc lcgislation on the Right to Information. A draf ltight to Information Bill,
which we believe is among the most progressive in India, has been submitted to a Cabinet
Subcommittee for consideration. Finally, reforms to management of the govemment's
legal caseload are in progress to reduce the enornous burden on time and resources this
presents to both the public and govemment. Several actions have already been taken,
including creation of a legal cell to manage litigation and monthly reviews of advocate
performance. We now plan to review service related cases coming before the
Administrative Tribunal (to simplify personnel policies and procedures), and to institute a
reporting system on outstanding litigation (to allow all new cases to be tracked, analyzed,
and costs identified).
*  Public expenditure management reformz. GoAP launched reforms in public expenditure
management in 1999-2000, and followed up last year with a thorough review for the
2000/01 budget with a view to generating savings and containing expenditure.
Subsequently, a Strategy Paper on Fiscal Reform and Public Expenditure Management
was published, which extends to improvement in upstream measures to strengthen budget
preparation, execution, and management, as well as downstream accounting and audit
functions in order to cnhance financial accountability. I hcsc ainm to build grcatcr realism
and credibiliLy in the budgct, improve fiscal transparency, and introduce greater
flexibility and efficiency in operational managemenit. This includes rationalization of
heads of account, advance release of spending authority to line departments within hard
expenditures ceilings, and provisioning towards government guarantees.



Annex A
rage 9 of 19
* Improving Public Financial Accountabilit)y. The public financial accountability system
includes regular legislative approval of the Budget, as well as regular preparation of
annual Accounts and placing these before Legislature. Dctailed guidelines for budgeting
and monitoring of public funds are set out in various Govemment Manuals/Codes/Rules.
Audit is regularly carried out by an independent auditor (Comptroller ant Auditor
General of India). Audit Reports are placed before Legislature, and examined by
Committees of Legislature; and thereafter necessary follow-up actions are taken by
Government. To further modemize and improve the public financial accountability
system, thc Government has initiated computeri7ztion of key accounting, payment and.
payroll-rclated functions. We intend to furthcr cnhance the transparcncy of the budget by
improving the budget overview/summary document, and by publishing summarized half-
yearly accounts information on the internet. The Govemment will initiate actions to
reduce the backlog of accounts and audit in local bodies and other Govemment
institutions; and to improve responsiveness to audit reports. The Govemment will carry
out a review of financial regulations and record keeping procedures, with the objectives
of streamlining and improving them. The state will be undertaking detailed assessment
of financial management practices and financial accountability during the coming year,
and taking action to improve the timeliness and follow-up to audits, strengthen financial
controls, and improve capacity in local body accounting.
21. Another core element of AP's public management reform programme is the restructuring,
closure, or privatization of state public enterprises. Many public enterprises are loss making and
are not cost effective providers of quality goods and services. Many are also providing services
that the private sector can provide more competitively. In other cases the enterprises provide
valuable public services but need to be restructured to make them more efficient. AP launched its
PE reform programme in the mid-1990s, and in the last two years has successfully closed,
restructured or privatized a dozen enterprises. This has provided valuable experience and helped
train a core of officers in enterprise evaluation, tendering, and transaction management. It has
also provided experience in designing voluntary retirement schemes and providing social safety
nets to displaced workers. These social safety net programmes help with the retraining and job
search needs of displaced workers. In our Phase 1I PE reform programme we aim to
restructure/close/privatize a further 68 public enterprises over the next four years, and to continue
to provide social safety net assistance.
Impact on Poverty
22. Tangible reduction in poverty rates in Andhra Pradesh is a key objective of the Govemment's
reform programme. Poverty has been steadily reduced in AP, from around one-third of the
population fifteen years ago to around one-fifth today by official measures. But this is still very
high. It is a priority state goal, as emphasized in AP Vision 2020, "to eradicate poverty and
eliminate current inequalities that prevent some social groups from realizing their full potential".
The government has established a State Poverty Eradication Mission, charged with bringing
together govemment and non-govemment civil society groups, cutting across departmental
boundaries, to provide a forum for debate and to inform public policy. It is setting up a special
unit reporting to the Mission responsible for poverty monitoring and evaluation work. The
Govcrnment strategy paper on povcrty eradication, published last year, identifies key strategy
elements:
* generating more rapid economic growth,
* promoting provision of health and education services,



Annex A
Page 10 of 19
* enhancing social capital through fostering self-help groups,
* promoting sustainable livelihoods of the poor,
* focusing greater attention on backward regions and poorer segments of society; and
* designing administrative machinery to improve delivery of services to the poor and
promoting convergence with other poverty-focused programmes in the state.
23. Empowerment and participation of the poor in civil society are important to successful efforts
to reduce poverty. The state government has accordingly emphasized conmnunity mobilization
and formation of self help groups to give a greater voice to the poor and marginalized
communities (watcr user groups, school committees, joint forcstry management groups, etc.).
Fiscal policy reformns are also relevant towards poverty reduction. One key goal of fiscal reform
is to increase resource allocation to provision of primary health and education services, and other
public services of importance to the poor. The government is stressing improved targeting of
services to the poor, for example through performance of the public distribution system, and the
work of the government task force on power subsidy delivery mechanisms. Finally, govemance
measures to reduce corruption, broaden access to services, establish grievance procedures, etc. are
also critical elements of the state's anti-poverty agenda.
Reform Programme Implementation and Monitoring
24. For more detail on our fiscal and govemance reforms, please see the attached matrix which
covers reforms in the areas summarized above. It presents the main measures that have been
undertaken through January 2002, and identifies those planned for the 2002103 fiscal year.
Implementation of the programme and its monitoring will be done with oversight from the Chief
Secretary's office and all of the major line departments executing components of the programme,
in particular the departments of Finance, Revenue, Energy, General Administration, Planning,
School Education, and Health. The Govemment is committed to regular monitoring and
reporting of progress with the reform programme in all dimensions. Several steps are planneE for
this purpose, among them the following:
*   Regular publication on the internet of fiscal performance indicators, detailing budget
expenditures by major categories, revenue pcrfornmance by major instruments, and ncw
govemment guarantees as they are issued.
*   Annual publication of reports on progress with implementation of the MTFF, in
concurrence with the budget cycle, and of progress achieving major govemance reform
milestoncs.
*   Regular monitoring and publication of power sector performance indicators (production,
revenues, billing rates, losses, etc.) and monitoring of governance indicators
(registrations, fines levied, court cases prosecuted, etc.)
*  Tracking and analysis of poverty indicators in AP, in parallel with work evaluating the
effectiveness of public social welfare programmes, under guidance of the State Poverty
Eradication Mission.
Financial Support for Reform
25. The GoAP refonn programme entails medium term costs that will place a major burden on
the state budget during the initial years of the programme. This is due in particular to power
sector reforms in progress, with costs incurred through the restructuring of the power sector and
gradual reduction of power subsidies. These costs are showvn in Table 3 including both the direct
cash subsidy to the sector on budget, and the interest payments on power bonds raised by GoAP
to finance power sector investments. The costs of restructuring and privatizing public enterprises



Annex A
Page 11 of 19
also places a significant burden on the budget due to the many thousands of workers expected to
opt for voluntary retirement schemes.
Table 3: Mediun-Term Reform Programme Costs (in Rs. crore)
_  2001/02j  2002103  2003/04  2004/0  2005/06
Budgetary support to powcr scctor*  2438    1792     11921    548
Interest on power bonds (on budget)  768     954     10!0I    961      773
Public Enterprise Rcrorm Costs     80        19(     210      26C     31C
lT'ttl                            3286]     2921     2402    1755     10731
* Includes off-budget support (PFC Bonds) in 2001/02.
26. The government is also committed to protecting and reallocating budget resources towards
priority development areas in order to achieve the goals which have been set out in AP Vision
2020 as noted above -- significantly reducing illiteracy, improving health outcomes, and sharply
reducing poverty in the state. Additional revenue mobilization efforts, expenditure compression
in non-priority areas, and access to the regular sources of borrowing can all help to offset the
costs of reform and the demand for higher spending on development priorities.
27. In light of this, and with the support of the Govemment of India, GoAP has been working
with the World Bank and the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID)
to prepare a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit to support the state's reform programme.
Discussion of the prograrnmre loan began in early 2001, and appraisal of the loan was undertaken
in early January, 2002. The programme has been designed to support the costs of the GoAP
reform programme in two main areas; the costs on budget of power sector restructuring (cash
subsidy and power related interest payments), and the costs associated with public enterprise
reform (including financing voluntary retirement schemes and social safety net expenditures for
laid-off PE employees). Financing from the World Bank of approxinately Rs. 120() crores, and
from DFID approximately Rs. 470 crore, would help to significantly finance the costs of tile
reform programme in the first year (2001/02). Support in the second year of the programme is
needed of a comparable level, and it is anticipated that costs would begin to decline in the third
year, when borrowing from the World Bank may be expected to be reduced.
28. The Government of AP requests the Government of India to propose to the World Bank
consideration of a structural adjustment loan called the Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan
(APERL), totaling $250 mn on the strength of the AP state reform programme, and to consider
support for subsequent loan/credit operations over the length of the medium term programme to
help meet the financing requirements of the programme. In addition, the approval of 65 mn in
grant assistance from DFID is also requested. The GoAP is deeply conmmitted to this reform
programme and to achieving the goals set out in this programme of fiscal stabilization,
fundamental restructuring of the power sector, a sharp reduction in state poverty incidence on
track towards eradication of poverty in the state, and to the major development goals in health
and education.   desire to work closely with the Government of India in monitoring and
evat ing the prog ss towards these goals.
You sincerel 
lChi  eretar
nd   ade



Annex 1: APERL: Program Policy Matrix, 2001-2006
February 8, 2002
Prior-acdons by Jan. 31, 2002                      2002103 Measures                          Measures for 2003/04 to 2005/06                       Outcomes
I. FISCAL REFORMS       *   Implement budget allocations limiting the  *  Reduce primary budgel deficit to no more than  *  Maintain budgel execution consistent wilh  Create fiscal space to maintain financing of
1. Establish a              pnmary (non-interest) budget deficit to    Rs, 10 billion (0.6% of GSDP); revenue deficit to  MIFF program to eliminate the primary deficit  priority social services, O&M requirements, and
sustainable medium-          Rs.19.6 billion (1.3% of GSDP) in 2001-02;  Rs. 28 bn (1.7% of GSDP); consolidated fiscal   by 2003-04; reduce revenue deficit to below  key infrastructure development expenditures,
term Fiscal Framework       revenue deficit to Rs. 34.4 bn; the        deficit to below Rs.77 billion (4.6% of GSDP); and  Rs. 5 bn by 2004/05; achieve a primary surplus  through eliminating the revenue deficit,
consolidated deficit to Rs. 83.4 billion (5.6%  total stock of outstanding debt and guarantees to  of at least 1% of GSDP and a profitable power  improving expenditure efficiency, and
of GSDP compared to 6.20/6 the previous    be contained below Rs. 686 bn.                   sector by 2005-06.                         restructuring expenditures within a sustainable
year). consolidated revenue deficit to     Provide full budget suppo to the power sector                                               fiscal framework
receipts ratio reduced to below 16.5%      consistent with ERC ruling. Eliminate recou se to  *  Reduce stock of outstanding guarantees to n
Publish revised GoAP Fiscal Strategy       off-budget borrowing, except arising from end-of  more than 10% of GSDP by March 312 200
Paper, including the revised MTFF.         year ERC ruling, which cannot be otherwise       (from 12.5% in March 2002).
Publicize the 2002/03 annual fiscal        accommodated.                                *   Provide full budget support to the power sector
framework fully consistent with the MTFF.  *  Publish a mid-year report on budget execution,  consistent with ERC ruling. Eliminate recourse
*   Adhere to Rs. 187 billion (1 2.6% of GSDP)  and consistency with projected MTFF targets.    to off-budget borrowing, except arising from
ceiling on the saock of outscanding                     .     .        .                    end-of year ERC ruling, which cannot be
cguaantheestonackount of poutstanding her  *  Strengthen public pension expenditure monitoring  otherwise accommodated
guarantees on account of power and other   and forecasting capacity.
public entities.                                                                        *   Contain total debt (including all government
*   Develop proposals for insfitutional measures to  guarantees and off-budget borrowing) to at or  Fiscal support for power sector reforms to
help enhance transparency of the MTFF, and to    below 40% of GSDP by 2005/06.              improve sector efficiency, facilitate distribution
*   Provide budget support to power sector per  safeguard against the failure to meet MTFF                                                 company privatization, and substanbally
the APERC ruling. Alt off-budget financing  targets.                                    *   Table with budget in the State Assembly   reduceleliminate the fiscal burden of power
kept within consolidated deficit targets in  *  Reduce the consolidated revenue deficit to  annual reports on fiscal performance and   subsidies.
the MTFF.                                  receipts ratio to below 8% consistent with FRF   progress with fiscal objectives per the MTFF.
targets,                                     *   Prepare and implement pension reform
strategy to address mounting pension
liabilities.
*   Meet FRF target with consolidated revenue
deficit to receipts surplus of around 3% by
2004105.
2. Improye              *    Projected budget outturn for 2001102 with  *  Completion of primary health and pBmary   *   3ased on initial sectoral MTFF analysis,  Improved development effechveness of state
Compositon, Equity          increased prorty expenditures on i.         education medium-term expenditure plans, linking  elaborate additional MTFF linkages to other  expenditures and fiscal discipline; protecbon of
and Efficencn of Public      Pnmary educabon and prmary health from     sector financing requirements to GoAPs MTFF      major spending departments                key social and priority development expenditures
Spending                    (2.1% to 2.2%1; and ii, Capital outlays and  program.                                    *   Execution of budget consistent with increased  in the budget improved targetng of transfer
non-wage at 3.7% of GSDP.              *   Execution of budget consistent with increased    support to priority development expenditures  programs and subsidies to the poor; improved
*   Expenditures on salares and pensions not   support to prority development expenditures per  per MTFF.                                  maintenance of public assets and infrastructure
to exceed (6.9%) of GSDP.                  MTFF, raising pnmary education and basic health  .  Identify options for, and implement     shrough sustaining adequate provision of O&M
*   Initiate program to eliminate all bogus rice  outlays to [2.3%] of GSDP and capital and O&M to  improvements in, the efficiency of the public  support is the budget
cards.                                     [3.9%].                                          distribution system.                                                                            D   P
*   Implement measures to complete the elimination  *  Improve targeting of rce and other subsidies to                                              CD
of bogus rice subsidy cards.                     the poor through linking eligibility to income                                                      X
and income proxies.                                                                             t_ >
3. Refornl Revenue       *   Issue terms of reference and constitute the  *  Complete the RRC Report on reforms to the  *  Implement institutional strengthening of  Increased revenue buoyancy; improve the
Systemn mo enhaticn          Revenue Refoamns Commi1ee (RRC).           structure and administration of APes tax (and non-  revenue raising depaments to increase  administragton and efficiency of the tax system;     O
rSvenum mobilehatnon      Commer      eoal Taxes:                      tax) revenue sourcesC and initiate implementation  autonomya imprOVe cost accountingc improve  reduce tax distortions to improve resource nth
nd eiciency                          .                                  of accepted recommendations.                     services and grievance procedures.        allocation; improve equity of the tax system;        H



Prior-actions by Jan. 31, 2002                     2002fO3 Measures                          Measures for 2003104 to 2005106                       Outcones
*   Initiate abolibon of internal check posts.  *  Institute a statutory periodicat revision of specific  *  Strengthen training arrangements for tax  improve voluntary tax compliance and taxpayer
*   Prepare draft VAT law and rules lor        duly rates, penalty rates and valuation norms for  revenue departments.                    compliance costs.
Pevareudaftion.  a  ndrleo                  all major taxes in line with inflation.      *   Reform recruitment policies of ta raising  Improve finances while reducing the public cost
*   Complete preparabon for establishment of  -  RRC to prepare a methodology (formula based    departrments at the oficer level  siof pertionsandmaintenac ofkey publi
Large VAT Taxpayers Units (LTUs).          and transparent monthly collecUon monitonng and
Stamrp duties:                                 estmabon system) for forecasts of revenue    0   Develop strategic program to strengthen third-
collection by moor revenue eaming departments,   tier govemment (PRI and municipal bodies)
*   Issue govemrment orders to revise market   and implement as feasible.                       expenditure management capacity and specify
value of land and buildings.           *    Improve reporting of performance by 2003 via    their revenue and expenditure assignments.
*   Introduce legislation to levy penalty on   published and publicly available semi-annual  VAT: Strengthen VAT impementation and coverage
stamp duty evasion.                        reports.                                     of services per new laws; dialogue with GOI on
Motor vehIce taxes:                                                                         abolishing declared goods restrictions; implement
VAT: In preparation for introduction of the VAT in ApHl  compensation scherme.
*   Implement upward revision and          2003; establish and adequately staff and resource  Prfessions tax: Simplify professions tax rates,
rabonalizabon of motor vehicles tax rates.  LTUs in the Commercial Tax Dept.; complete abolibon  raise the exempbon limit and improve taxpayer
of intemal check posts; strengthen dealer identificabon  identification and tax collection by partially
and improve commercial tax enfocemnent.          outsourcing collectons and dialogue with GOI to
raise ceiling rates, per RRC recommendations
Stamp duties: Rationalizabon of stamp duty and   Stamp duties: enhance computerization of property
registrabon fee rates; streamline market valuation  value/registration data. Develop a procedural
procedures for properies.                        manual for post-facto checks. Implement RRC
recommendations.
Motor vehide taxes: Implement plot reducton of the  Motor vehicle taxes: formulate proposal for
monopoly position of the APSRTC by abolition of  considerabon of other states for scrapping of
selected existing schemes and liberalizing issue of  permits and quotas for goods carriers and inter-
permits to bus operators                         state taxation agreements for contract and stage
carriages.
Excise Duties: Examine and rationalize structure and  Excise Duties: Rationalize toddy duties with special
functioning of excise check posts; strengthen excise  regard to major urban areas.
duty enforcement                                 Land taxes: Identify options and implement
rationalizabon of water tax rates to reflect water use
Land taxes: Rationalize the structure of the NALA Act..  intensity and land valuaton; establish MIS system
for land revenues and forecasting, arrears tracking,
and irrigabon status.
It. EXPENDITURE          *   Comprehensive medium-term fiscal      *    Move to steady state budget system, by      *    Gradually shift role of Finance Dept. committee  Frames annual budgeting in medium-term
PROGRAMMING AND              projections, to guide budget policy,      formalizing Cabinet approval of FD                from detailed scrutiny of proposals to    perspective and improves altocabive efficiency.
FINANCIAL                *   Publish strategy paper on budgeting and   recommendations of hard sector ceilings -to flow  monitoring of execution.
MANAGEMENT                  financial management.                       from MTFF and sector policies.
1. Strengthen policy                                                                                                                                               Reduces fiscal risk and makes budget more
bdelikand improve   *   Establish Fiscal Reformns Implementation                                                                                              transparent.                                          n-rj 
budgef link                  Committee, chaired by PS FD and with                                                                                                                                                           a
fiscal discioline.          appropnate participation by LDs and other                                                                                                                                                   OQ 
concemed entties.                                                                                                                     Strengthen fiscal discipline while empowering             X
depts. to formulate own programs within the
*   Budgetary requests brought in line with                                                                                               ceiling and improving efficiency.                    t. 
resource availability. Sectoral expenditure
ceilings are set at start of the budget                                                                                                                                                     0
process.                                                                                   Based on rsk assessment and frequency of  Permits the growth of consistent linkages             Y
*   Make initial budget provision for potential  *  Increase provisioning for government guarantees;  default, progressively increase guarantee fees  throughout the process of budget formulaton  1-.



Prior-actons by Jan. 31, 2002                      2002103 Measures                         Measures for 2003/04 to 2005106                        Outcomes
Government Guarantee (GG) defaults; full   introduce aggregate cap on GGs; establish        and adjust budgetary provision, with a view to  and implementation,
budget provision for select GGs taken on   methodology for assessing risk and merit of      eliminating the expected lo5s to the budget.
by GoAP.                                   individual guarantees; define burden-shanng in
*   Implement measures aimed at containing     event of default; adjust guarantee fees.
expenditure increases and prevention of
payments arrears.
*   Revise budget circular, beginning with
2002/03 Budget, implementing MTFF
objecfives.
2. Raise aggregate      *   Review of all schemes, with a view to  *   Regular monitonng to prevent re-introduction of  *  Continue monitorng to present re-introduction  Permits greater flexibility to achieve performance
efficiency of public        clearing payments arrears and contain      deleted or lapsed schemes, except where          of deleted or lapsed schemes.              goals
expenditure and enable      current expenditure within available       specifically decided otherwise.              *   Review labor-intensity of major schemes, with  Promotes budget implementation.
mana ment                   resources.                              *   Implement redeployment.                         a view to additional redeployment without  Reduces uncertainty in the provision of funds.
management.         *   Delink staff from speciric schemes, thus                                                    retrenchment.
facilitabng staff redeployment out of
obsolete schemes.                      *   Continues review to improve the funding of priority  *  Introduce approprate elements of ivestment
investment schemes to further rationatize        programming; expand non-governmental
investment expenditure.                          feedback mechanisms for monitoring project
mvestnnent expenditure.             ~~implementation.
B Broader implementation of departmental cost          itorereguatiy     n        i
*   Introduce the concept of user charges and  recovery efforts, subject to a avoiding adverse  *  Monitor regulary the financial and distributive
give the flexibility to departments to levy  impact on the poor.                            impaC of user charges
user charges, and retain revenues for their                                             *   Formulate a framework for state policy on user
operational purposes.                                                                       charges, with special emphasis on protecting
the poor.
*   Monitor regularly efficiency improvements
*   Set up an implementation committee in FD                                                    through appropriate indicators.
to facilitate improvements in govt.
operations and assist LDs on request.
3. Budget execion,      *   Initial rationalization of budget heads to  *  Continue rationalization of budget heads in line  *  Continue rationalization of budget heads in line  Assure compliance with approved budget,
financial management        enhance budget managers' flexibility.      with expenence.                                  with experience.                           provide financial predictability to departments.
and accou=ntabihy.      *   Formulate a new cash management         *   Implement new cash management system, starting                                             Reduce transaction costs of government activity
system, to assure compliance with budget   with 02/03.                                                                                while enabling greater operational effectiveness
and consistentwith seasonality.        *   Continue practice of advance release of spending  *  Continue to strengthen dialogue on     visx-v-is the public.
*   Introduce release of budgetary spending    authority; assess impact on LD efficiency,       performance and qualitative link to next   Sirengthen financial accountability and integrty
authority on a quartery and hatf-yearty  *  Computerze payroll.                             budget.                                   to accounting and audit follow-up processes.
ain .                t                 *   Initiate a comprehensive review of fnancial  *   Consolidate and computerize the entire
peIntrfor ce   reviw s-y ste m d rtohenalp  regulations, record-keeping  procedures, and    payments system.                                                                               O Q 
strengthen cash management as well as      regulatory streamlining.                     *   Complete the review and regulatory                                                             (D
establish a broad qualitative link to  *   Complete SFAA and related Action Program         streamlining, and implement
preparaion of the next years budget.       covering State Govemment.                        recommendations. Keep financial regulations                                                   4 
*   Review possibilities for consolidating the  *  Clear backlog of accounts and audits of      under continuous review for simplicity and                                                    0
payments systems along the model of        urban/rural local bodies and other institutions as          .                                                                                  H)
current pension payments, through the      per targets in the GoAP Action Plan.
introduction of payrolls.              *   Respond substantially to latest State Audit Report  *  Verify and expand asset register.  __
3



Prior-actions by Jan. 31, 2002                     2002/03 Measures                          Measures for 2003104 to 2005106                       Outcones
observations.                                *   Pari passu with computerization, LDs will
*   Develop measures to address key intemal control  progressively be entrusted with responsibility
issues (reconciliations, loans and advances      for accounting.
*   Initiate efforts aimed at systemafic       provided by govemment, advances charged as   *   Implement action program based on SFAA for
collection of data on a regular basis on   expenditure, and debts and guarantees recording  Stale Government.
govemment guarantees.                      and reporting).                              *   Implement measures to strengthen internal
*   Publish half-yearly accounts on the Web           oentrols, including clearing of suspense
*   Improve budget summary by including major        accounts and approprate deposit accounts in
govemment guarantees and off-budget borrowings   the public account.
*   Carry out diagnostic work, and implement
actions to strengthen financial accountability, in
rural and urban local bodies, and other
institutions, as appropriate.
lI1. GOVERNANCE          *   GoAP to produce a Strategy Paper on GPM  *  In accordance with its Implementation Plan, the  *  GoAP to periodically update the Legislative  Create a framework and institutional
REFORMS                   reform strategy for submission to          CGG will initiate work along six major dimensions:  Assembly on progress made in implementing  infrastructure for realizing the goals of Simple,
1. Deveop Strategy for       Legislative Assembly.                     simplifying government, improving human resource  the Strategy Paper on Governance & Public  Moral, Accountable, Responsive and
Gov    nce Public        *   Establish new wing headed by a Special    management, enhancing accountability,            Management.                                Transparent (SMART) govemance.
Afdmngstnt    Ror            Chief Secretary reporting directy to the  decentralizaton, better financial management, and
Admninisdve Reform.        Chief Secretary, for coordinating.         improved performance and focus on core
monitoring and reporting on governance,    functions.
public management and administrative
refomns.
Centre for Good Govemance established to
provide support for implementation of
reforms.
Z Civil Servke Reform  *   Continue 1993 freeze on recruitment, with  *  Establish a cornputenzed human resource   *   Based upon the reviews of HRM policies and  Performance indicators demonstrate monitorable
specified individual exceptions for prionty  database.                                      procedures, initiate comprehensive update of  improvements in service delivery in crtical areas
acbvities.                                                                                  personnel regulations, as appropnae       (such as primary education and health care, and
* Substantially complete a civit serice  *  Establish an integrated human resource                               a                    potable water), as well as improved access to
census.                                    management role for GAD. Conduct diagnostic  *   Based on analytic work by the CGG and     services by the poor.
census.                       ~~~~~~~~review of HRM needs and undertake review ot  government departments, reorganize      Accountability strengthened by more closely
Conduct a review of major departments      selected policies and procedures,                machinery government to consolidate       aligning functions, resources and responsi-
addressing stafing, budget schemes and                                                      functions, eliminate duplication and ensure the  bilities, and efficiency gains realized through
programs, revenue mobilization,        *   Drawing upon the initial departmental review,    close alignment of portfolios, secretaral  imred     c nai     and reduced throng
operational perormance and computeri-      develop formal organizabonal charts for the GoAP  assignments and departmental structures.  Improved coordiaton and reduced duplcation.
zation.                                    and major departments, clariy reporting                                                    The creation of a modern integrated human
relationships as neeed, and disseminate on the  *  Strengthen policy analysis capacity in the  resource management function with reliable, up-
*   Publish citizen's charters, based on       Intemet.                                         Secretariat, with particular emphasis upon core  to-date information on civil service size and  e  >
consultabon, for seven departments/                                                         departments.                              composition.                                       P   P
agencies with major public interface.  *   Analyze the GoAP legal case load and develop a                                                       .p
monitonng system, by department, of the number  *  Implement legal study findings and revamp  Modernized personnel regulations consistent      (D
of cases fielded and their disposition. Conduct  procedures for the selection of govemment  with administrative and fiscal reforms.                X
detailed analysis of revenue and service-related  advocates.                               Increased revenue collecton and reduced cases      ue  :V
cases.                            a~~~~~~~~~~ Strengthen capacity of district training centers  .going before the Administrative Tribunal through 
*   Disseminate existing citizen's charters; monitor  and establish on-going training for 'change  improved management ofatheGoAPleal tnUg
their operation (i.e., by user surveys) and take  agents.'                                 agenda
..______________________________________  corrective actions; and publish1disseminate                                       Improve the capacity and professionalism of the
4



Prior.acttons by Jan. 31. 2002                    2002103 Measures                         Measures for 2003104 to 2005106                      Outcomes
charters for additional departmnents/agencies with                                        civil service by appropriate, cost-effective
public interface,                                                                        training for different levels and cadres.
* Establish distnct training centers in all 23 districts
for use by various departments.
*   Identify up to 1 0000 change agents' and develop
specific training modules for enhancing their
manageral and technical capacity.
3. Decentralization                                               *   Strengthen capacity of PRIs to provide effective  *  Ongoing efforts targeted at. (i) strengthenmng  Improve the overall efficiency of fhe civil service
coordination of local functions and services    PRI autonomy and financial and human      and is responsiveness to the local citizenry.
resource capacity, (D) improving the integration
of departmental functions at the district, mandel
and village level; and (iii) building the capacity
of self-help groups, such as water user
associations
4. Electronic           *   Streamline deed registration through the  *  GoAP to streamline and automate paper flow  *  TWINSle-SEVA program extended to over 50  Use information technology to streamline
Govemnance                  Computer Aided Adminisration of          throughout the Secretariat dunng 2002 through    cities.                                   administrative procedures, enhance trans-
Registration Department (CARD), reducing  launching the Secretanat Knowledge Information                                            parency and improve service devery
tumaround bme from several weeks to less  Management System (SKIMS).                  *   Implementation of blueprint for e-govemance.
than one hour.                        *   TWINSle-Seva program will be extended to
penpheral municipalities surrounding Hyderabad
Implement TWINS/e-Seva, allowing one-     and Secunderabad by opening 15 additional
stop bill paymnent for over 16 different  outlets.
services throughout the metropolitan
Hyderabad-Secunderabad area.          *   Establish bluepnnt for electronic governance by
June 2002 through a survey of 50 major
departments incorporating financial information,
procurement, social benefits management and
HRM.
5. Dergulation                                                    *   Enactment of legislation to enhance the     *   APonline portal to digitize all relevant laws,  An improved business environment, leading to
effecveness of the single window clearance     ordinances and regulations for Internet access,  an increase in investment and industrial actvity,
system.                                         along with user-fiendly summares.         without compromising safety, environmental and
other standards.
*   Overhaul of business inspection regime (labor,
safety, etc.).
*   Single window services for business to be provided
through APonline portal.
*   Develop a public relations/outreach strategy for                                                                                            OQ
communicating licensing and inspection                                                                                                           X
requirements to various target audiences in a user-
friendly fashion.
*   Overhaul grevance redressal mechanisms for                                                                                                   O
industrial and commercial licenses and
inspections.
5



Prtoralctions by Jan. 31, 2002                     2002103 Measures                          Measures for 2003104 to 2005106                       Outcomes
6. Right ht Inforrnation  *  Prepare draft Right to Information Bill and  *  Submit Right to Information Bill to the Legislative  *  Index, catalog and computerize government  Strengthen accountability and transparency by
disseminate tor public consultation.       Assembly for approval.                           records, train information officers and dissemi-  establishing the legal and institutional framework
*   Submit Right to Information Bill to Cabinet.                                                nate Right to Information legislation.    that wilt allow the public to gain access to official
information.
7. Ancornruption         *  Cabinet approval of an anticorruption  *   Based on a strategy implementation plan, reform  *  Strengthen the capacity of the anticorruption  Improved deterrence through swifter disciplinary
Sftrateg                    strategy paper focusing upon prevention,   and/or ratbonalize existing agencies to strengthen  agency and selcted govemment departments  action and a greater sanction and conviction
enforcement, and public education.         the independence, professionalism and            to prevent corrupton by reviewing GoAP    rate.
*   Constitute a high-level Anticorrupbon Task  effectiveness of the anticorrupbon function.    systems and procedures.                   Reduced opportunities for corruption through
Force to develop a strategic           *    eeo    n  mlmn       omncto       taey      *   Esr    fetv   rsneIregualaory simplification, proces reengineering,
implementation plan.                   0    eeo    n mlmn        omncto       Vtg            nueefciepeec          fat-orpin          reduction in inappropriate administrative
Define termsbof reference and timetable far  for engaging public support in the anticosruption  agencies at the distfict level,       discretion, etc.
*   Define terms of reference and bmffetable for  effort.
review of public procurement process.                                   .               *   Develop and implement departmental        Stakeholder surveys indicate increasing public
*   Conduct a procurement review and, if necessary,  anbcorruption strategies for key revenue,  satisfaction with the anticorruption effort and
*   Regularize 2 million domestic consumers in  introduce legislation, with view to improving   expenditure and regulatory departments.   decreasing percepbons of corruption.
the power sector. Raise collection         transparency in the bid process, standardizing
efficiency to over 98%.                    tender documents, streamlining decision making,  *  Conduct regular surveys of corruption-related  Better value for money and reduced corruption
*   Enact a law to control theft of electricity;  strengthening mechanisms for handling        issues and publish results.                in government procurement.
create special courts and police stabons for  complaints.                               *   Consolidate and expand the utilization of e-  Enhanced revenue collecon in the power
power theft cases. Raise theft case        Lanhepoueetpit.rcrmn.
registrabon level.                     *   Launch e-procurement pilt,                       procurement
8. Povety Analysis and  *   Decision to establish and issue Temts of  *  Establish the Poverty and Social Monitorng Unit.  *  Poverty and Social Monitoring Unit to track and  Policy formulation which is informed by poverty
Monitoring for Pro-po       Reference far a Unit charged with poverty                                                   update poverty indicators with particular locus  eradication objectives of the government.
Policy Formulation          analysis and monitorng to inform       *   Elaborabon and finalization of the GoAP poverty  on key sectors (like welfare, primary health,  Better monitoring of efficiency and effectveness
Government policy making.                  strategy paper.                                  prmary educabon and agriculture), and     in service delivery to the poor.
*   Initate development by the Sate Poverty          disseminate key findings.                 Improved targeting of government schemes and
Eradication Mission (SPEM) of an overarching  *  SPEM to effect policy consultation and    programs towards the poor.
policy framework for poverty reducbon.           coordination arrangements to design and
*   SPEM to identfiy key poverty monitorng indicators,  implement pro-poor policies.
establish a baseline and implement mechanisms
for regular updating and monitorng of poverty
indicators.
9. PE Reform and        *   Submit to Cabinet Strategy Paper on Public  *  Continue implementabon of Phase i program and  *  Privatize/ closeirestructure in batches  Reorient govemment away from direct provision
Privatization                Sector Reform and Privatization of State  initate Phase 2; implement VRS for Phase 2 and   PEslCooperatives covered under Phase 2    of goods and services in the economy, enhance
Owned Enterpnses.                          non-Phase 2.                                     program to complete processing of all 68  public sector efficiency, and reduce fiscal costs
*   Close/prvatize/restructure enterprses in  *  Provide social safety net assistance as per Phase  Phase 2 PEs by 2005106                of support to PEs.
Phase I.                                  11 program to minimize adverse social impact.  *  Implement VRS and SSN programs consistent
*   Finalize and submit to Cabinet for                                                          with Phase 2 and non-Phase 2 program.
ratification Phase 2 program coverng PEs  *  Implement communications program based on                                                                                                   D    P
and cooperatives (including size and scope  stakeholder analysis and participation.                                                                                                      aQ 
of program, timing and sequencing with  *  Develop and implement compliance /remediation                                                                                                      X
phased targets, methods and procedures,    programs for PEs with mqor environmental                                                                                                       _   >>
institutional strengthening, VRS estimates  liabiities.
and social safety net, public awareness                                                                                                                                                   O
program, treatment of environmental    *   Finalize and publish (place on the net) tendering
issues).                                   and bidding procedures.
. _   _                                                                                                                                                          xD~~~~~~~~



Annex A
Page 18 of 19
kAuiex '. .-iilua Piadt-esl Mednun TeinmFisclFiainelvoik .Siunnlmiyeseetahon. 2001-5                          Feebliaiy8, 2002
(&per&14on w 4w-.pnc.Cs                                1998199   1999100  2000101     2001S02 2002103 2t03/14 2004105    20051t6
Est    Prij   PFal      PM]      Pnl
STATE GOVERNlIENT
Rretue                                                    136.2    158A      184.5       2076    236A    2629    2959      333S
State.'. ,s, R...enu                                 91.7     1028     1219        133.1    1513    1705    193.1     2209
T.                                                 796       901     ID55         1165    1340    1507    1705      1942
Ncn-Tu                                             12.1      12.7     163          165     173     190     226       26.7
CmuItRaoou,ce.                                       445      55.6      626         746     85.3     925    1020      1129
Sh-e4dt-o.o                                        301       23.4     400         405      450     52.2    600       690
G-sota                                             144       22.2     227          341     30.6    403     428       439
N.e-I    tE-teptit-.rs                                    166.8    176J5    213.9        227.2   2464    262D     2796     3039
Sl-n                                                 3355     M667      763         seCa    853      900     947      1011
Pe,on,                                               13S       167      232         229     256      286     316       350
Nyn-Weg O7&M                                         206       191      231         258     293      357     421       493
S,bs-4.. &T-ooof-ra                                  440       349      5112        519     529      485     440       403
R,ceSubsidy                                         77       106       25          51      51       52      55        5a
P.- 5ob.,dy                                         0 0       0 3     16 3         15 6    17 9    119      5 5       0 0
Othoos                                             363       240      255         312      299     314     330       346
Other R,cwnng E&p.1notw.                              4 6       1.7      3 4         5 3     5 7      6 0     6 4       6 9
C cp't.]                                             139       199      272         307     356      407     41        364
NtLLendng                                            164       17.5      99          99     114      12J     126       13.7
./oPE forfoCots(VIRS&So-l SafetyNet)                0D       b0O       02          03      18       20      2.        30
GoAPPimrySepl- (+)/D I.it(-                               -306     -18.2    -29A         .196      9fl     1D      164      299
It- o.tP.y-ets                                      264       310      437         352     651      74D0    01.       879
GoAPRoeeeocSurPlS(+) IDefcit()                            -26B     .11.7    -362         -34A    -271    -199      .44      12.1
GAP Fiscit Sopleo (+) l Deiit (-)() (57.1                          .492      -73.1       -741    -749    -73D     -65.1    .58- 
POWER SECTOR
Rerete (E=1.Pt-erSohelWy)(2)                               46.2     49.6     59.3         67A     S60    1049     119A     1375
olwSoioe of PoC.                                     44 3     4S.0      55 4        63 0    73 6     0S 0   103 2     119 4
C.ohOp-tiegE V.aditaa(exmcl.Dqi.tida)(3)                 53.1      60.1     70D          67.7    759     84.1     939     106.7
E-ingogb.f- 1t,Depr. T- 1&Aprpoa(E3IDTA)(4)-(2)(3)         -69     -10.5     -10.7        -03     10.1     199     25.5     30i
I.betot &T-ti.. (5)                                        12D      122       10.7        16.5    10S      19.7    102       16.6
Ne.tP,t(+)1Less(-     LDepm)I,f.- S     iiy(6)-(4>(S)     -189      -221     -21J        .168      -8.7    0a2      73       141
Capit.10 tL7y(7)                                           135      14D       12.1        15.7    179     18.2     149       17.6
P-erSe.cbrFietciygRq.ti.e-ste(8)-(7)(6)                    32A      361      33A          324     2665     179      7.6       3A
o/wOff-BudgotBo-rowog                                101      260       105          S8      0.0     0.0      00        00
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Re-etue                                                   179.7    2045     2405         2711    3189    3613     4085     4633
T.t.1 E.Venitooe                                          256.1    2755     323B         3548    394.7   433.1    4694     517.1
Rooonu. Eopend.tur-                                 225 4     2S.7    2313         306 S    336.6   369.0   4002      437 1
Cep, Outl.y &NltLetLd.g                              307       36S      423         479      521     641     692       800
Cans1.ated IRtmewae SarIus (+) I Deflcit(.)               .45.7    .342      -41D        -3546   -186      -7.7     84      2632
C-e lidfd Surplu (+) I Defcit () (9) - (1I()+I Ii)1i6 lit)  .7615  .71 JO   -83A         -835    -76.7   .711     .6018     -53B
CoAPFFi-o.Defirit(10)                                     .57.1    -492      .73.1       .74B    -749     -73J0   -651      .58Jn
.oeGa-ensBeige.b"ySypp.&t P- r(1)                    13D      149      23.1         23.7    24.7     19.1    1IS        76
Po.e.Sub,idy(I1                                     00a      0.3      163          156     179      1        523      00
C   teOdOO.uyStNetLendmng(Ilou)                    130       14.6      60           II      60      7.2      63       76
Ilte...to.oeP.,Bonds                                00       00        5.7         7 7      95     101      96        77
No-Po-r Drlict (I2) - (10) + (I1)                         .441     -34.3      499       .-1.1    -501     -539    -533      .50A
DeltSrck t GAAP                                           2369     2889     3525         4294    5046    5805     658.1     7289
DebtioIm.OffBu4eAtB.o--     '                             259.1    3404     414D         499.7   5749    6481     713.7     772.1
GCAPDe.It    G-t.eo                                      358.7     432D     508D         6159    6863    7623     8384     907D
a The gool del,cl enceed. the ,onsohdded delcit in Wter yeO.5s as OoAP peCy is to ssoet the sedor ni etedaig debt repayment coa,ense with prood:zdton plens end sect0
b "-t0%tPayreds o,p e.r bonds eken boer by OoAP tcr deb sdO cno end on bonrd whch  jdL barinsed a the ftu,eto tranc -the -nbtidy poymt.er4ot GOAP
c Off-Budge--t9romg refer to 0ore-mnes ahh a. beg sen edd bY olAP tn, the Bgo shhn h the ye.r ,, h   cfthe ded we redeed



p_u_ w uu q_,P.!. *11 -O ft-. e AQ #..sua'al-_w ?,u.1 toS pu %9 Pl w Wm S %S aq 01 P,. -Id 91"w 1 dOSO 10-P *1" '0 p
POWp'p- PMa4 *P *'4 A_A KU iP Core -laIW04 dVO Aq pmqaat &4ip @A 4 f 0 J SAWAoix PBoeWa 
Cilea rcrr Crel t Lf9s   f68*1  r01E0 EaLlzl rcul                                 aa0s
nra   nrcc %ric ncnl nn1        na    nfra  nIt                           o y ulav.O
niEE %nK    nt'-t nCr  nEE      %OE  %Wr   %Ca                    ,Sq   f lgfSlo0 Id sPO
%f ni        nut n%cE  nrec    nrY    nrZ   nEC cv.0PwwS
%rc-   WE- %6e-    OrE- nt-     CE-   trc-  n6e-                    (oI)+lOl) Clgda
Wo0    0   60  9; 0 WO 0     *0 WO    a00  %OrQ                i PuO.e O.O.a=IO..W
%E'0  %E0   WO    WO %va  0    0    WI    %IT1             (.l IhWon mhowoprmd.o
o     ItEO  WCO   %11  %Wl      l6CI  W0    WO                        O!OAPUIqnsNd
%VD   nrO   nU'   nru  ntI      %VI   nri   nri           (Ij I)jqd&jfamoIPS flOs .0-
nrC-  %rt, nr     r      f-     rf    nrc    Df- (U  %                       l- %C-
nrC- %nre %nt- nrc- nc- f        rg-  nrc   ng9-    ,(Ol4O+(XO G(-)noa,(+4aas ptwoe-e
nT7i  nrD   %ro- nrt-  nr-      Er    nrc-  nrc-             (-)Oag.)a .s-s --hqwqa .
IWE   f9E  IwO   W    E       %IE   O6E  %lU                  hnpuo1SKVM19OP!#bO
%611  1661  %OO  WM000  %OE    %gmOE  W61  Sff61 6!                  uid.3 nOt0J
nrc   nCR   %re  nra   nraz     natz nrZZ   na                               dmtp3 I
nror nru6   nri nr1  i %rst    nl nr9       %691nffT
sino3Ov m HvWov0ostioa
6 0  900  1600   WO   W90     10   %10   Yo60                   1m.oEogilepna-ao
Dro   %C    nut I  ra %n-I     %6n    nri   nri                             (L) op.qT&:)
nO    nro   nu`  nrD- %1o1-    n9I1- nc       1 nsa-  (c4(c)-(9) Antvm ss [s^q(a o-0f.-l0) wud ovo
nt-   %co   nri nrt    nrt     nro    nutl  nri
nrI   nri nri    nO     ro    nOr-   260-  nrc- WO t (E) (vimag3) tvvj'ba7 etvt^c3
nrc   nrc %nr     %Tc  niP     nrF    n6e   nrc          (O(.RP.ha a-uso)oMr,lum oR.1 RdoMnD
S6(   o60       %       tt1 I cIt 61  66E  E6t                      JeaOdpofPSMp
%ne    fr     f  %9nr  nrc  nrp  nrt  nI'c  %rt                    (4) (inshpad is) ---a
0D013SH MOd
Crc   nrc- %6r- nrc- nuc-       %rVP  nrc-  n0,i               *(i) O ty- l(+ I W -it - ev-o
nc0   nro  nrt- nsa-  nrC-    nCt-  nut-   %rc-                 (-)u.oI(+4 atlas--ad
%1E   1660E  %t'  W6E   E      W0 E  W     %E`I                        s  A0d06l00l9I
nrt   TlO   %0   nO rc- nrI-    nrC- %nu    nCC-                 (-) oPga (+) oraaS Ldfs dv'.
610  %10   %10  %10  %10      C00  %0I0   %0         N Al-PS P"S DD 5DA) WOO -UOwP!3 dA Atn
%90   %90   %to  610    6OI 60     91      I                            2tu6100K
W, l  %E I.  % t  %1E  %0 c     W t  %91    W I                               pPetdD
%C0   %6E0  %EO  %EO   %O      %t0   %10    t69 a                       2-8IbdqSUS .*1"
601  %91  6l1  6ISI  610    %61   IWO   60E                              ".,o
IO    IbE0O  %90  61 1  %0I1  1     Co 0  6C0 0p--qnS.d
I 1   %E0  90E 6E C   E 0   960  6 a   %I a 660nS DH
91g   Sbl l  'K9t  W E  'K9E   WCE   S6     S16E                     ...J'0',.aLqn
10  IWO    461  62I %!      61   691   WSI IO                          i9O hMW
W91   61   60 I  6 I  W  0  %21   6S  I   -Z I                         suoaiS
W, t  69*  66  610  6*0    90   600f  0g9                              oi-I's
%rvi   vEI %rtt 'K611  Eri      gi    %115 I %Flnuft                      TP&1*3*u:WI t
b6 1  %I E  %Et 1  , b E  EZ E % I   %S[ I  E I                              *lU 0
%0 E  %6 t  %S t  %g   %IE     %0 E  %L Z   %L                            *Mvm us
nt-c  nrn   n0`i %nrc %nrc     %9nt  nrct   %6En
%rl   %II   %IT  %01   %if      W I  %01    %if                             ..uL_M
66!8  610  IWO2  %4*0  600  60!  60!   60!                             i
b96d  W6    94`6  %16  b61     %06    W92   tlE 6,u1180S'n"s
nrco  n-t nrtc   ncrc  n6r      C1  % gn r%i n rn"u
[ua   ["   F.-d  [-   Wml
9tYiOOC  i  mewVEO  gtK r(i'Eg0  TilOIDO  W6661 661661                     {(dYtSDlO"w-l
;OOt S .mVft-lj sO-TOOt'uOuojnsO Atviuomfs tloea t        - rU . umup*j ij apl q v.mnypuv: saucy
61  90 61 eS,0
V xeuuV



Annex B
Page I of 8
Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Reform Program
I.     Implementation of Comprehensive Reforms: Achievements during 1999 to 2001
1.     A comprehensive program to reform the power sector was launched by the Government
of Andhra Pradesh in 1998. The foundations of this program, which entails structural, regulatory
and institutional changes, rests on the Electricity Reform Act of 1998, and Government's Power
Sector Development Policy Statement (1998)'. During the last two years, impressive progress has
been made in implementing reform measures. More specifically, substantial progress has been
made in restructuring of the power sector, corporatization and commercialization of new power
companies, establishment of regulatory framework, political and administrative support by the
state government, and efficiency improvements of the power companies.
2.     Unbundling of APSEB and commercialization of new companies: The State Electricity
Board has been functionally separated into one generation, one transmission and four distribution
companies. These companies are now fully functional and have initiated several institutional
development and human resource development measures. Commercialization, resulting from
functional separation and establishment of commercial contracts between the companies, is
beginning to emerge.
3.     Power sector regulation: An independent Regulatory Commission was set up in April
1999. In a short span of two and a half years it has implemented several important regulatory
decisions, most notably the tariff order for 2002/01 which linked the tariffs to cost of service,
reduced cross subsidies and introduced metered tariff for agriculture consumers. The utilities
have in January 2002 filed their applications for tariff adjustments for FY2003 to the ERC. The
Commission has set a transparent process of regulation with involvement of stakeholders and the
public, and demonstrated its ability to take independent decisions. There have been extensive
public consultation on tariffs, licenses for the companies, and power purchase agreements for
purchase of power from IPPs. Customer service quality standards have been set. The
Commission has directed some far-reaching changes by mandating compulsory metering of all
consumers, and defined the targets for improvement in efficiency, quality of supply and service to
the consumers. Under a recent directive of the Commission about 300,000 agricultural
connections have to be either regularized or disconnected. The Regulatory Commission had
pronounced in its last tariff order that it will issue a consultation paper on multi year tariff before
March 2002. Amendment to Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reform Act, if required to facilitate this
approach, may have to be considered by the Government. Another important reform action taken
by the Commission has been to allow, through the license awarded to the distribution companies,
purchase of bulk power by them directly from the generators thereby setting the stage for
establishing a multi-buyer-multi-seller market. The license also enables the cross holding of
distribution and new generation business, which will be seen as positive feature by the potential
investors.
4.     Governance and efficiency improvement initiatives: The most remarkable effort by the
state government in the last one year has been its full commitment and support to improve
governance and bring transparency in management of the power sector. The government, and the
companies have implemented impressive measures to control theft of electricity, root out
corruption and improve operational efficiency. Some of the important measures implemented
include the following:
To control theft of electricity, a new law - the first of its kind in India - has been enacted,
providing for stiff penalties for the guilty, including mandatory imprisonment. Several
lThese are also reiterated in " Vision 2020" ( January, 1999) and " Power Sector Strategy Paper " (March 2001)



Annex B
Page 2 of 8
new police stations and courts have been set up throughout the state to accelerate
settlement of electricity theft cases. About 2.6 million services have been inspected,
20,000 cases booked (including against 87 utility staff and one member of legislative
assembly), 1,800 people arrested.
*  More than two million residential customers have been regularized, thereby increasing
access rate from 68% to 82% in a few months. About 300,000 million agriculture
consumers are in the process of being regularized. About 1.4 million residential
consumers have been provided with connection and are being regularly billed.
*  Power supply to agriculture is being regulated and made more equitable through
monitoring of all feeders in the state to ensure that the policy of nine hours power supply
to the farmers is implemented and the information is posted on the website on a daily
basis.
*  A comprehensive program of metering and energy audit at various voltage levels has
been initiated. Statewide checking of consumer meters has been carried out and 1 million
meters were found to be defective or non-functional.
*  An extensive anti-theft drive and arrears collection campaign has been launched. As a
result billing for electricity has increased by 34% and collections have gone up by 44%
(while average tariff increased by 15%) since 1999/00.
*  A full census of all the agriculture pumpsets through out the state is underway by an
independent organization, to identify the actual number and capacity of pumps connected
to the utility system.
*  Pilot projects of computerized "Consumer Care Centers" for addressing consumer
complaints and bill collection started at Hyderabad have been highly appreciated by the
consumers. These pilots will be scaled up for implementation across the state.
5.    Improvements in quality and reliability ofpower supply: Investments in the transmission
and distribution system have fallen far short of the requirements during the last decade due to the
poor financial condition of the sector. The situation was further worsened by fast expansion of the
rural network. Andhra Pradesh was one of the first states in the country to achieve electrification
of all its villages. Consumers' expectation for improved availability, quality and reliability of
power supply have gone up with the launch of reforms. During the last three years significant
investments have been made in the transmission and distribution system for evacuation of
additional power, to improve the quality and reliability of power supply, to reduce technical
losses and in better metering. Investments supported under the Bank loan (APL1) in the last two
years have focused on critically needed rehabilitation of an overloaded and deteriorating network,
reducing transmission bottlenecks, and improving reliability and quality of supply. Based on a
comparison of the first five months in 1999/00 and 2000/01, the initial results following
completion of part of these investment schemes indicate that: (i) distribution transformer failure
rate has declined from 14% to 11% (ii) maximum energy handled by the system has increased by
4% from 137 to 142 million units per day and (iii) maximum repair time has decreased by 10%.
All these improvements in availability, quality, and reliability of power supply have been
achieved in spite of almost 20% increase in the customer base handled by the power system
during this period.
6.     Further investments in transmission system are planned for evacuation of additional
power from the new generating stations, augmenting transmission capacity and revamping and
strengthening of the present transmission system to ensure stability of the system, voltage
improvement and reduction of losses. Investments in distribution system, prior to privatization,
will be required for purchase and installation of meters to control theft and commercial losses,
reduce technical losses in distribution system, and improving quality of supply particularly in



Annex B
Page 3 of 8
rural areas for agriculture consumers and also for large industrial consumers by way of providing
dedicated feeders for power supply. Deterioration in the reliability and quality of supply due to
lack of investments, would not only cause financial losses to the utilities but also reduce public
acceptance of reforms and much needed tariff adjustments.
II.    Financial Performance.
7.     The financial performance of the sector deteriorated between 1997/98 and 1999/00 with
losses increasing from Rs. 11.3 billion to a level of Rs. 30 billion (Attachment II). During this
period coverage of cash operating expenses (EBITDA)2 deteriorated from a surplus of Rs. 0.5
billion in FY1998 to a deficit of Rs. 10 billion in FY2000. This occurred primarily on account of
a decline in sales to industrial consumers, an increase in highly subsidized agricultural
consumption, and the mounting financing costs of debt financed losses. In response to the
financial crisis, the Government of Andhra Pradesh and the electricity utilities launched the
governance improvement drive discussed above. The results of the drive have been remarkable
in FY 2002 with both billing and collection improving by over 20% and 35% respectively. In
September 2001 monthly billing and collection reached a level of Rs. 5.4 billion and Rs. 5.3
billion respectively compared to the corresponding level of Rs. 3.9 billion and 3.5 billion in April
2000. Attachment I to the note provides a comparative analysis of the billing and collection
performance of the sector over the last two years. The loss in the sector in FY 2001 has been
reduced to Rs. 29.7 billion and EBITDA maintained at a loss of Rs. 10 billion. The full impact of
the improved performance was expected to reduce financial losses substantially in 2001/02 but a
severe drought affected the state this year. This resulted not only in reducing availability of
hydro generation but also led to higher electricity demand from farmers to pump groundwater for
saving their crops. The financial impact of this is estimated to be Rs. 3.7 billion over the full year
in increased power costs owing to purchases from expensive sources to compensate for shortfall
in state's own hydro generation. Despite the drought and severe hydro failure, the measures
taken by the Government have substantially reduced EBITDA loss to Rs. 1.5 billion at existing
tariff level.
8.     The Government of Andhra Pradesh intends to pursue a combination of initiatives to
improve the financial performance of the sector rapidly which are highlighted below:
* Industrial consumption has been increasing at a rate of 4% p.a. in Andhra in the last five
years though consumption from the utility has shown a reducing trend. To attract industrial
consumers back to the grid Andhra Pradesh intends to follow a strategy of improving service
and reliability through segregated feeders, and providing incentives in tariffs to industrial
consumers. In addition the Government also intends to levy a wheeling charge of Rs. 1/kWh
on wheeling of third party electricity transfers and electricity duty of Rs.1/kWh on electricity
consumption by captive generators.
* Supply to subsidized agricultural customers would be regulated to affordable levels. Supply
to agricultural consumers has been regulated effectively to 9 hours/day in the last 10 months
(except during the drought period when supply was increased to 12 hours/day).
* To shift agricultural subsidies directly onto the budget to foster commercial operation of the
distribution companies, and to improve effective subsidy targeting, GoAP has set up a Task
Force to design, implement in select areas and monitor pilot projects of a package of
measures, including altemative subsidy delivery mechanisms for agriculture consumers and
end-use (pump) efficiency improvement. Based on the lessons learned, the Task Force will
prepare an action plan for scaling up the pilot projects to the state level.
2 Earnings before interest, tax depreciation and appropriation



Annex B
Page 4 of 8
*  As stated in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government is committed to universal
metering in accordance with the directives of the APERC. Based on the interim findings of
the Task Force on alternative subsidy delivery mechanisms, the Government will prepare an
action plan by October 2002 for compliance with the APERC directive on universal metering.
In their tariff order for 2001/02, APERC has also directed the power distribution companies
to meter, with immediate effect, all new agriculture consumers, including unauthorized
agriculture connections which have been regularized. The utility companies have requested
the APERC to allow extension, up to June 30, 2002, of the period for regularization of
agriculture connections, and to reconsider the time frame for metering. The GoAP and the
utilities will ensure compliance with the ensuing directives of the APERC.
*  Theft control and efficiency improvements measures are expected to be continued with the
same vigor as demonstrated during the last one year.
* A program of steady tariff adjustment to progressively reduce cross-subsidies is planned.
* The distribution business is proposed to be privatized by 2003/04 to improve efficiency and
reduce costs on a sustainable basis.
Figure 1: Power Sector Financial Performance
30
20
10
0
1998      -      "2000        2001      2002      2003      29
-10
.S-20
-30
-40
Financial year ending March 31
|+- Profoit after tax (w ithout subsidy)  Earning before interest, depreciation, tax and appropriation(EBIDTA)
9.     The above measures are expected to improve operational profits of the power sector as
shown in Chart I below. In addition the Government has to address the accumulated debt
overhang in the sector resulting from past losses which results in continued, though reducing,
financial losses in the power sector as shown in Chart I. At the end of 2000/01 outstanding debt
of the sector stood at Rs. 124 billion excluding Rs. 41 billion of bonds taken over by the
Government. This debt stock includes Rs. 47 billion of bonds issued to employee pension funds
which had hitherto remained unfunded. For the Government to privatize the distribution business
it is essential for them to carry out a financial workout to address the outstanding debt stock with
effective burden sharing from all stake-holders including the lenders and creditors owned by the
Government of India. Implementation of recommendations of the Expert Group (Ahluwalia
Committee appointed by the Government of India) would address the debt stock to a limited
extent (about Rs. 20 billion), helping to reduce the debt service burden of the power companies.
Past attempts at negotiating such financial restructuring measures have been mixed - over Rs. 40
billion have been converted into long term liabilities resulting in reducing immediate cash
outflows but a deeper financial workout could not be negotiated.



Annex B
Page 5 of 8
III.   Privatization of Power Distribution Business
10.    The govemment's desire to ensure long-term sustainability of the efficiency improvement
initiatives and control of theft especially in the wake of political pressures has reinforced its
resolve to privatize power distribution business. Government is committed to privatize the entire
power distribution business by 2003/04 . In the prevailing intensely competitive markets and
emerging business opportunities worldwide, minimizing the financial, regulatory and political
risks perceived by the potential private investors and offering a viable business is very important
to build investor confidence and for the success of the privatization transaction. Continued
support of the government in govemance to enable the utilities to operate post privatization is
most essential for success of the reform program.
11.    Substantial preparatory work is underway to launch the privatization of distribution
business, with the assistance of international merchant bankers. A cabinet sub-committee on
power has deliberated, through various rounds of discussions, the important issues relating to
structuring of the transaction, criteria of bidding, criteria of qualification and selection of private
investor and the role of govemment. The government has decided to privatize the four
distribution companies through sale of majority shareholding and transfer of management control
to strategic private investor. In order to make the transaction attractive to the private bidders in
the prevailing market situation, the govemment is open to consider sale of more than 76% equity
stake to potential investors.
12.    To accelerate the privatization process some of the important actions under discussion
include: (i) appointment of a "Privatization Team" in the state govemment which would provide
day-to-day support for policy guidance and implementation of the privatization process, including
interaction with potential investors once the process is launched:(ii) finalization of the strategy for
privatization and strategy for marketing of the transaction; (iii) finalization of the transfer of
employees to the distribution companies (at present the employees still belong to APTRANSCO
and are on secondment to the distribution companies); and (iv) improvement in the financial
viability of the business case, which would need serious consideration of financial restructuring
and burden sharing by the central government utilities as well. The efforts towards mitigating
regulatory risks, specifically for developing multi year tariff regulation, is underway.
IV.    Financial Risks
13.    There are substantial financial risks in the power sector. Although the financial health of
the power sector has improved this year, and is forecast to continue to improve, there are large
downside financial risks to the sector arising from the difficulties of reducing the large power
subsidy currently flowing to farmers; the risk that demand growth projections, specifically for the
industrial consumers and repatriation of demand from self generation to grid supply, do not
materialize; and the related risk of excessive generation capacity expansion resulting in surplus
power beginning 2002/03. In addition difficulty in metering agriculture consumers in Andhra
Pradesh, as in the rest of India, imposes a risk of continued growth in agricultural consumption.
Close monitoring of outcomes relative to the Power Sector business plan is important for the
Govemment to take timely actions to mitigate these financial risks.
14.    A related risk concems the failure of privatization efforts in the power sector, which
would threaten the operational efficiency improvements built into the power sector financial
forecasts: although AP has already significantly improved its billings and collections
performance, this may be difficult to sustain in the absence of privatization. While the success of
any privatization program cannot be assured, AP's commitment to privatization is high. Its track
record in meeting its subsidy obligation to the power sector will provide comfort to potential
private investors. Regulatory risk perceived by the potential investors is proposed to be addressed
through development of a multi year tariff regulation framework.



Annex B
Page 6 of 8
15.     Some sensitivity analysis has been prepared and an alternate scenario has been
prepared for the power sector performance in the event of less positive outcomes on the
key risks mentioned above. In particular, the alternate scenario considers a conservative
4% p.a. growth in the sales to industry and a conservative generation expansion strategy
while keeping the wheeling charges for third-party sales unaltered at present levels for
the projection period. Under the alternative scenario, the bottom line power financing
requirement in 2002/03 would be around Rs.440 crore higher than the current estimates
(around 0.26% of forecast GSDP), and would be carried into subsequent years, although
on a declining basis. The table below shows these estimates for the base case (used in the
MTFF) and the alternative (conservative) scenario.
Forecasts of power sector fina ncing requirem nts (2002/03 to 2006/07) (in Rs. billion)
2002/03     2003/04     2004/05     2005/06    2006/07
Earning before Int. Depn. Taxes and appropn.
(EIDTA)
- Base case                     10.1       19.9        25.5        30.8        30.0
- Alternate scenario            5.7        16.2        23.7        30.9        29.8
Net Profit/(Loss) excl. Depn. and subsidy
-Base case
- Alternate scenario           -8.7        0.2         7.3         14.2        12.8
-13.0      -3.2         5.8        14.7        14.3
Capital Outlay                          17.86       18.15       14.86       17.58      31.33
(same in both scenarios)
Power Sector Financing Requirement
- Basecase                      26.5        17.9       7.5         3.4         18.4
- Alternate scenario            30.8        21.3       9.0         2.8         17.0



Annex B
Page 7 of 8
Attachment 1: Billing and Collection Improvements in FY 01 and FY 02
(in Rs. crore)
Improvement from     Improvement from
1999/00              2000/01              2001/02            FY00 to 01           FY01 to 02
Billing  Collection  Billing   Collection  Billing  Collection  Billing  Collection  Billing  Collection
April            372        327       390        349       502       518       5%        7%         29%        48%
May              395        360       430        410       538       540       9%        14%        25%        32%
June             408        385       425        384       552       544       4%        0%         30%        42%
July             420        396       468        431       569       543       11%       9%         22%        26%
August           399        362       486        406       549       523       22%       12%        13%        29%
September        404        353       507        456       541       524       25%       29%        7%         15%
October          412        378       498        439       545       516       21%       16%        9%         18%
November         397        382       506        506       529       540       27%       32%        5%         7%
December         416        424       518        596       528       603       25%       41%        2%         1 %
January          399        379       503        510                           26%       35%
February         402        372       505        534                           26%       44%
arch           420        390        536       568                           28%       46%



Annex B
Page 8 of 8
Attachment Il: Andhra Pradesh
Aimre2ate Financial Performance of the Power Sector
(in Rs. Crores) *
(Financial year ending March 31i              1198      1999    2000    2001    2002    2003     200
(act)    (act)   (est)   (est.)  (proj.)  (pr9.)  (proj
Profit and Loss Statement
Revenue from Sale of Power                    4242     4432    4797     5535    6300    7940     970
Non operational Income                         122       188     160     393     440     659     691
I Total Power Sector Revenue                    4363      4620    4956    5929    6740    8599    1040
Purchase of power                             3464     3996    4475     5476    5498    5964     675
Repairs & Maintenance                          169      181      292     290     304     361     411
Salaries and Wages                             517       648     668     721     819     923      97
Administrative and Misc. Expenses              181       482     583     545     192     347      2
Provision for bad and doubtful debts             0        0        0       0       0       0
Electricty Duty Paid                            74       74       73      45      87      94      10
Less: Expenses capitalised                      96       67      80       80     126     100       8
11 Total Cash Operating Expenditure             4309      5316    6012    6997     6774    7590    840
IlIl Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I - II]  54  (695)  (1056)  (1068)  (33)  1009    199
IV Interest&financial Charges (incl. Lease Rent)  754      1195    1224    1066    1645    1883     196
V Depreciation                                    435      533     784      832     832     760     90
VI Taxation                                         0        0        0       0       0       0
VIl Profiti(Loss) after tax [il - IV - V - VI]  (1134)    (2423)  (3064)  (2967)  (2438)  (1781)    (925
Financing of losses
GoAP Subsidy                                                            1626    2438    1792     106
Bondsmissued                                   500      2100    2603    1053
Other debts including arrears                  634       323     462     288
Total                                         1134      2423    3065    2967
Investment and Financing Plan
Capital Expenditure                            609     1350     1400    1207    1566    1786     181
nera oeneraon                                n.a.      522     291     241     185       1      231
Transmission                                n.a.      236     442     362     580     779      620
a  Distribution                               n.a.     376     469     399      649     791     74-
Interest Capitalised                         n.a.     149      118     125      72     129     139
-Expenses Capitalised                        n.a.      67       80      80      80      86       85
Financing                                      609     1350     1400    1207    1566    1786     181
Internal resource generation                     0                                           24
Consumer contribubons                          146       145     175     175     175     179      189
Government equity                                                         25             475      101
Debt financing                                 463      1205    1225    1007    1391    1132     1279
Memo Items.
Due to severe drought in AP this year an additional expense of Rs. 373 cr. was incurred in power purchase. Excluding the
impact of the same on Profit after tax (without subsidy) and Net surplus after cash operating expense (without subsidy) are:
a . Profit after tax (without subsidy) excl . drought  -1134  -2423  -3064  -2967  -2065   -1781    -925
b. Net surplus after cash operating expenses       54      -695   -1056   -1068     340     1009    1992
(without subsidy) excluding drought
*Rs. 1 00 crorc = Rs. I Billion



Annex C
Page ] of 6
Poverty and Social Development in Andhra Pradesh
1.      Poverty Levels and Trends: Andhra Pradesh is India's 5th largest state (population: 76
million). Nearly three-quarters of the total population of the state lives across 26,500 villages in
rural areas. While the rural economy provides over 70% of employment, it is estimated to
contribute less than one-third the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Despite the widespread
attention the state has deservedly received for its achievements in the information technology
sector, poverty remains a major issue and concern, with pockets of chronic poverty within the
state affecting specific localities and population groups.
Table 1: Mean Consumption and Poverty in Andhra Pradesh and India: 1999/00
NSS 55th Round (1999/00)
Urban     Rural    Overall
1. Mean per-capita monthly consumption (Rs.)
All India:                                      855       486       591
Andhra Pradesh:                                 774       454       551
2. Gol Planning Commission Poverty Estimate (%):
All India:                                      23.6      27.1     26.1
Andhra Pradesh:                                 26.6      11.1      15.8
3. Alternative Poverty Estimates (%):
All India:                                      12.5      25.3       -
Andhra Pradesh:                                 11.3      27.9
Source: 1 and 2: NSSO 55a Round Consumer Expenditure Survey, Planning Commission, Govemment of India.
3: Deaton (2001) based on NSS data, which tries to correct for cost-of-living differences between AP and the
All-India level.
2.      Estimates of poverty incidence in Andhra Pradesh vary quite considerably: while 1999/00
Gol Planning Commission estimates (Table 1) show poverty in the state to be considerably lower
than the All-India average (16% vs. 26%), other studies suggest that poverty differentials between
Andhra Pradesh and the rest of India are considerably lower than that indicated here.' Alternate
estimates (Deaton 2001) suggest that about one-quarter of AP's population still live in poverty.
There are also strong grounds for believing that in Andhra Pradesh, the incidence of poverty in
rural areas is higher than in urban: mean per capita consumption in rural areas is considerably
lower than in urban (Table 1). Other non-income indicators of living standards from other sources
(e.g. the 1998/99 National Family Health Survey: NFHS-II), also show rates of infant and child
mortality, morbidity, illiteracy, school non-attendance rates, etc. are also much worse in rural
areas compared to urban areas.2
Table 2: Recent Trends in Monthly Per-Capita Consumption
NSS 43rd Round    NSS 50"h Round     NSS 55"h Round     A 87-88 to       A 93-94 to
1987/88           1993194            1999/00          1993194         1999/00
Urban   Rural     Urban   Rural      Urban  Rural       U     R         U      R
Mean per-capita monthly consumption (Rs.):
Andhra Pradesh     228    159        409    289        774     454       79%   82%       89%    57%
Karnataka          223    151        423    269        911     500      90%    78%      115%    86%
TamilNadu          245    156        438    294        972     514      79%    88%      122%    75%
Kerala             262    209        494    390        933     766      89%    87%       89%    96%
All-India          246    158        458    281        855     486      86%    78%       87%    73%
Source: NS_Sdata_, various years.
' For example, World Bank (1997) India, Achievements and Challenges: Reducing Poverty, Deaton & Tarozzi (1999)
Prices and Poverty in India, Deaton (2001: draft) Computing prices and poverty rates in India 1999/00.
2 For a more detailed discussion of some of these issues, please see Andhra Pradesh Poverty Note. A Preliminary
Profile and Emerging Issues mimeo, World Bank, 2001.



Annex C
Page 2 of 6
3.     Progress at poverty reduction in Andhra Pradesh in recent years may have been slower
than in other states. There has been much debate and controversy in India recently around the
poverty estimates released by the Government of India based on the 1999/00 NSSO survey.
While it is difficult to ascertain the extent to which poverty in the country has declined in recent
years, NSS data show that growth in mean per capita consumption in rural Andhra Pradesh was
slower than in other states (Table 2). In addition, National Accounts data show that the trend
growth rate for agriculture in the state declined from over 5% during the 1980s to less than 2%
during the 1 990s, a particularly worrying sign given that a large fraction of the rural poor are
depended on wage labor for their livelihoods (para. 5).3
4.     Poverty Profde: A profile of consumption-poverty in the state using the 1993/94 NSS
shows that a very large percentage of the rural population in Andhra Pradesh has virtually no
education (Table 3). Some 79% of poor rural household heads (i.e., those in the bottom quintile)
are not literate. Another 11% are educated only up to some level below primary. Even for the
population as a whole, the comparable figures are as high as 66% and 13%, respectively. Overall,
literacy rates in AP are amongst the lowest in the country. These in turn reflect low primary
school enrollment, the poor quality of education, as well as gender and social inequalities in
access to education at all levels.4
Table 3: Distribution of Population by Income and Education Level of Household Head
Education level of Household Head (1993/94 NSS)
Income Group         Not     Less than  Completed  Completed   Completed  Completed
literate   Primary    Primary     Middle    Secondary    Higher
RURAL AREAS:
Bottom Quintile 1      79%        11%         6%         3%          1%          -
Quintile 2      75%         13%         6%         4%         2%          1%
Quintile 3      68%         14%         9%         5%         3%          1%
Quintile 4      62%         13%        11%         7%         4%          3%
Top   Quintile 5       47%        15%         12%        9%          9%         9%
Overall Population     66%        13%         9%         5%          4%         3%
Mean monthly p.c.
Consumption       Rs. 255     Rs. 300    Rs. 317    Rs. 377     Rs. 459    Rs. 579
URBAN AREAS:
Bottom Quintile 1      58%        16%         12%         7%         5%         2%
Quintile 2      38%         19%        16%        12%         8%          6%
Quintile 3      29%         17%        17%        13%         12%        12%
Quintile 4       19%        12%        10%        14%         18%        27%
Top    Quintile 5      11%         5%         4%          9%        21%        49%
Overall Population     31%        14%        12%         11%        13%        19%
Mean monthly p.c.
Consumption       Rs. 292     Rs. 329    Rs.336     Rs. 398     Rs. 512    Rs. 666
Source: 1993/94 NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey
Note:  Consumption quintiles have been constructed separately for urban and rural households using the NSS MPCE.
5.     In Andhra Pradesh, a much higher share of the population report agriculture labor as their
main occupation (43%) compared to the All-India average (32%). This finding is consistent with
the fact that average landholdings in the state are considerably lower than in the rest of the
country (about 0.6 hectares per household in AP compared to 0.8 ha. in India overall). NSS data
also reveal that households in AP that relied primarily upon labor income from agriculture for
their main source of livelihood had mean consumption levels that were about 20% lower than
3Andhra Pradesh: Draft Report of the Rural Poverty Task Force, 17th May, 2000.
4 Andhra Pradesh State Strategy Paper DFID, India, 2001.



Annex C
Page 3 of 6
other households, and tended to be disproportionately represented amongst the bottom income
quintiles (Table 4). Non-farm income shares in Andhra Pradesh are relatively low, compared to
neighboring states such as Tamil Nadu, as well as compared to the All-India average.
Table 4: Distribution of Population by Income and Occupation of Household Head
Main Occupation of Household Head (1993/94 NSS)
Income Group      Self-empl.  Agriculture    Other      Self-empl.
non-agri.    laborer      laborer    Agriculture    Other
RuRAL AREAS:
Bottom Quintile 1     9%          59%          8%           18%          5%
Quintile 2     15%         52%           8%          23%           3%
Quintile 3     14%         46%           7%          27%           6%
Quintile 4     17%         33%           7%          34%           9%
Top    Quintile 5    18%          26%          4%           36%          16%
Overall Population   15%          43%          7%          28%           8%
Mean monthly p.c.
Consumption     Rs. 303      Rs. 243      Rs. 261      Rs. 325      Rs. 441
Self          Regular          Casual
URBAN AREAS:         Employed         Salaried         Labor           Other
Bottom Quintile 1      36%             22%             37%              5%
Quintile 2      37%             34%             24%              5%
Quintile 3      32%             44%             17%              6%
Quintile 4      34%             48%              9%              9%
Top    Quintile 5      23%             59%              2%             16%
Overall Population     32%             42%             18%              8%
Mean monthly p.c.
Consumption         Rs. 381         Rs. 486         Rs. 259         Rs. 504
Source: 1993/94 NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey.
Note:  Cases where no occupation was reported were excluded
6.     Three population groups who appear to be at some disadvantage in particular are women,
tribals, and scheduled caste households. To some extent Muslim households also appear find less
employment, and earn lower incomes, in the non-farm sector. Not only do these three groups
typically possess much lower levels of human capital, but controlling for these assets, they face
additional constraints on employment and earnings.5 Prevailing cultural perceptions contribute to
systematic discrimination against these groups. In addition, significant regional disparities in
living conditions persist across different parts of the state.
7.     Initial findings from DFID-financed Participatory Poverty Assessments carried out in five
towns in AP by Action Aid and PRAXIS highlight vulnerability of the urban poor to insecure
livelihoods. Particularly vulnerable to the demands of livelihood were children from poor
families. Cycles of impoverishment were found to be perpetuated by severe indebtedness for a
large number of poor, and illnesses in the family. The lack of access to basic services and social
security is often compounded by poor service delivery and corruption. Women have also
reported violence and drudgery in their daily lives to meet their basic needs such as for drinking
water.
8.     To sum, amongst the main challenges facing policy makers in Andhra Pradesh are to find
ways to (i) invigorate agriculture and the rural non-farm economy to stimulate the emergence of
vibrant and productive small-scale enterprises and raise rural incomes across the board, (ii)
improve access of the poor to opportunities in this growing economy and remove impediments
5 Ibid.



Annex C
Page 4 of6
that those of lower social status and wealth appear to face in participating in the growth process,
(iii) improve delivery of service to the poor and reduce levels of corruption, and (iv) better target
development efforts and resources towards regions and social groups with greater need of
assistance.
9.     Government Strategy for Poverty Eradication: Acknowledging the tremendous
challenges to be overcome if it is to achieve the standard of living envisioned in the Vision 2020
document, GoAP has recently issued a paper outlining the main thrust of the government's
strategy towards poverty reduction.6 The plan is geared towards (i) generating rapid economic
growth, (ii) promoting human development, (iii) enhancing social capital through fostering self-
help groups, (iv) promoting sustainable livelihoods of the poor, (v) focusing attention on
backward regions and poorer segments of society, and (vi) redesigning the administrative
machinery to improve delivery of services to the poor.
10.    More rapid economic growth in the rural sector is envisaged through increased public and
private investments in rural infrastructure such as irrigation and rural roads, particularly in
backward rain-fed areas, electrification of rural habitations and improved quality of power
supplied to promote the rural non-farm sector, and expanding the service sector though education
and skill development, provision of micro-credit, and through creating a more conducive policy
environment. The poultry, fishing, dairy, and horticulture sub-sector in Andhra Pradesh have
been growing considerably more rapidly than the food grain sector. The government plans to
channel the proliferation of self-help groups (SHG) into promoting viable self-employment
ventures, to develop partnerships with the corporate private sector to establish marketing
platforms, improve packaging, branding, and value-addition of products, as well as to exploit the
potential of information technology to help bring about transformation in rural and urban areas.
11.    The strategy paper highlights provision of basic minimum services to all citizens,
particularly the poor, women, and weaker sections as a priority action. These basic minimum
services have been identified as education, health, nutrition, safe drinking water, sanitation,
housing, and rural connectivity. The Department of Education has set as its main objective
universalizing primary education in the state. The World Bank and DFID -aided District Primary
Education Program (DPEP) is being implemented in 19 of the 23 districts in the state, while the
remaining 4 districts will be covered under the GoI Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) program. The
challenge of universalizing Elementary Education in AP is a formidable one: the Education
Department estimates that about 3.5 million children from the target population are currently out
of school, with the problem of out-of-school children being particularly acute for some regions
(e.g., the tribal dominated hilly belt across the Telangana and the coastal regions) and groups
(e.g., muslim girls). This challenge is being met through (i) mobilizing out-of-school children
through a variety of initiatives, (ii) in-school process improvements to make schools more
attractive places for attending children, and (iii) systemic reforms geared at removing structural
and procedural barriers that make it difficult for children to enroll in schools.
12.    Andhra Pradesh has one of the most vibrant self-help-group (SHG) movements in India,
with about 100,000 such registered groups having mobilized total savings of Rs. 2.2 billion in the
state. A recent study conducted for GoAP by ORG using SWOT analysis7 of Women's SHG in 7
districts found that in general these groups were homogeneous and cohesive, and exhibited
considerable flexibility in management of credit within the group. The SHG were successful in
mobilizing savings and provided an alternate source of credit to members who would otherwise
have been forced to borrow from moneylenders instead. On the downside, with three-quarters of
6 Strategy Paper on Poverty Eradication in Andhra Pradesh, 2001, Department of Panchayati Raj & Rural
Development, GOAP.
' SWOT denotes Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats.



Annex C
Page 5 of 6
the members being illiterate, book-keeping and maintenance of records was found to be deficient,
with a high degree of dependence on the leader with regard to maintaining accounts, attendance
records, etc. Ongoing efforts in facilitating the formation and development of the self-help
groups will be combined with further capacity-building and training, in addition to which these
groups will be encouraged both to form federations as well as forge partnerships with Mandal-
level and Municipal elected bodies.
13.    AP is one of the three states in India where the World Bank-aided District Poverty
Initiatives Project (DPIP) - a large community driven development (CDD) project) - is being
implemented in 6 backward districts. Other projects supporting user groups of different kinds
include the AP Forestry Project, various irrigation projects, and parents' and community
members' groups in education programs. While these groups have had a high degree of success in
channeling funds and resources directly to the poor, they also raise the longer term question of
sustainability and linkages with the elected local Panchayat Raj institutions.
14.    Development of sustainable livelihoods for the poor is being carried out with assistance
from DFID' within a framework of employment and better natural resource management and
conservation. In addition, so as to better target resources to poorer geographic regions, GoAP is
planning to select a set of parameters for ranking mandals by their development, the objective
being to focus particular attention on backward regions. Finally, GoAP is pursuing wide-ranging
initiatives and administrative reforms aimed at enhancing transparency and accountability of
government activities, and at improving the delivery of services to the poor. Reduction in
corruption, in particular, is likely to have a positive impact on the poor, as they suffer
disproportionately from various forms of rent seeking and diversion of funds from targeted
programs.
15.    With the objective of bringing backward pockets and regions in the state on par with
other more developed localities, GoAP plans to select, through a consultative process, a set of
parameters for ranking mandals by their level of development, and to then use this ranking to
focus efforts to accelerate poverty reduction in these mandals. Finally, the strategy paper
highlights the need to sensitize all government departments to issues concerning the poor, and to
mandate them to articulate clearly how their respective programs address poverty. AP has
established an overall coordinating body, the Poverty Eradication Mission, to address poverty
issues across sectors. The Mission has broad representation from both GoAP as well as civil
society. Amongst the main recommendations made to GoAP has been to pursue greater
decentralization and empowerment of local bodies, as well as to work towards convergence of
self-help groups, Panchayati Raj Institutions (i.e., elected local bodies) and government line
departments.
16.    Strengthening Poverty and Social Monitoring and Analysis: Andhra Pradesh has one
of the better databases of both quantitative and qualitative information compared to other Indian
states. The state Department of Economics and Statistics (DES) is one of the best in the country,
with various socio-economic surveys conducted by the Department on a regular and matching-
sample basis with Gol's National Sample Survey Organization (NSSO). A number of
participatory poverty assessments have been carried out under DFID financed Urban Services for
the Poor. In addition, GoAP is currently undertaking an extensive exercise aimed at improving
and refining the existing Management Information System of the various government line
departments though its Performance Indicators initiative. Finally, an extensive data collection
exercise collecting both qualitative and quantitative information has recently been initiated in 3
districts as part of the monitoring and evaluation effort in AP under the District Poverty
Initiatives Project (DPIP).
8 Andhra Pradesh Rural Livelihoods Project (APRLP).



Annex C
Page 6 of 6
17.    Given the good information base available, the main challenge facing AP is (i) to focus
efforts at improving quality of the existing system of data collection, and (ii) to try to make best
possible use is made of the extensive information base by ensuring that the findings from the
various analytic studies undertaken by different department and agencies inform and influence the
decision-making process. It is also important to gradually move towards greater transparency and
access to information by the public, in particular the poor, and build feedback mechanisms into
the system. Agreement has been reached that GoAP will take further steps to address these needs,
and to strengthen the linkages between the core components of the government's reforms efforts
with improved performance, outcomes, and accountability at the local level. The process will
focus on measures to (a) strengthen the capacity in the state to coordinate and analyze different
data sets and sources of information related to poverty and social development across sectors, (b)
discuss and disseminate findings, and (c) provide informed policy guidance and inputs to budget
processes and decision-making. A monitoring and analysis unit under the State Poverty
Eradication Mission is being charged with these responsibilities.
18.    Discussions with GoAP have highlighted the need to agree on basic principles of what
indicators are of importance in measuring poverty reduction. These indicators should be a
combination of process, output, and outcome indicators using both quantitative and qualitative
data sources. The monitoring system will disaggregate amongst different social groups and
categories on the basis of region, gender, scheduled caste/scheduled tribe, and other relevant
important factors. Important first steps for the poverty and social monitoring unit entrusted with
coordinating efforts to this end will include (a) agreement on a comprehensive poverty-reduction
framework addressing issues of growth, livelihood, empowerment, and security, (b) establish core
indicators for measuring processes and outcomes related to poverty and social development, and
(c) determine linkages and relationships with various government line departments and agencies.
This process is likely to take some time, as it will be important to involve various stakeholder
groups and build consensus and understanding of the various steps involved.
19.   In the medium-term, it is expected that consensus will be established regarding needs,
criteria, and location for poverty and social monitoring and analysis. Once this has been
identified, work is likely to focus on taking stock of existing sources of information, addressing
gaps or inconsistencies, and further strengthening the capacity to coordinate and analyze this
information. In addition, specific studies are likely to be undertaken in response to issues and
questions of particular interest. Areas proposed by representatives from Government and NGOs
include: (a) a study of gender in education reform, (b) disaggregated poverty maps, (iii)
mechanisms to refine and update the Multi-Purpose Household Survey (MIPHS) database, (iv)
benefit-incidence analysis and studies of user charges, (v) expenditure tracking surveys in priority
sectors, as well as (vi) pilot studies of quality of service delivery, for instance through client
satisfaction surveys, report cards, etc.



Annex D
Page I of 3
Improving Public Financial Accountability in Andhra Pradesh
1.    A preliminary public financial accountability assessment was carried out for AP,
including review of the state's latest accounts and external audit reports. The results of this and
other work on fiscal and public expenditure management/accountability indicate that although
there are weaknesses, the foundations of AP's public financial accountability system are
satisfactory. Maj or strengths of the system include:
*  the well-established role of Legislature in providing oversight over public finances in the
Constitution. Legislative approval of the Budget is regularly done, and annual Accounts
and Audit Reports are placed before Legislature. Committees of the Legislature examine
audit reports, conduct hearings and provide recommendations, to be acted on by
Government;
*  regular preparation and compilation of accounting information, and presentation of
annual State Accounts. The State Accounts are regularly prepared each year, usually
about 7-8 months after the end of the year (Accounts for 2000/01 have been received and
placed before Legislature). The Accounts are prepared on cash basis, and provide
comprehensive information on the receipts and payments of the state. The accounts also
provide information on some financial liabilities and assets, notably Government's debts,
guarantees granted and outstanding, investments, and loans and advances provided, albeit
with varying quality;
*  existence of detailed guidelines for budgeting and monitoring of public funds, especially
at the individual transaction level. The system provides good procedural transaction
controls over individual items of expenditures and receipts. Accounting for receipts and
payments is done regularly, and monthly accounts are regularly compiled;
*  the well established and recognized independence of the public auditor (Comptroller and
Auditor General of India - CAG) from the Executive and Legislature, as provided in the
Constitution. The mandate of the auditor is also wide. Audits are regularly carried out
and the Audit Report for the State is regularly issued, usually about 11-12 months after
the end of the year. The annual Audit Reports are placed before the Legislature and
made publicly available after receipt from the C&AG, usually within 12 months of the
end-fiscal year (as has been the case in the past few years; Audit Report for 2000/01 is
expected to be received soon, and placed before the next session of Legislature in
February/March 2002); and
*  AP has embarked on a computerization program of all major payment, accounting and
payroll-related functions. This when fully implemented would help to significantly
improve the quality, timeliness and reliability of accounting and financial information.
2.     There is also need to significantly strengthen and modernize the system for the public
financial accountability system to be effective and to support the objective of GoAP's medium-
term fiscal and governance reform program. Key actions to begin the process of strengthening
and modernizing the system have been agreed and are included in the policy matrix:
* Accounting and Financial Reporting: the Budget and Accounts need to be made more
complete. Progressively, the major 'off-budget' item viz., government-guaranteed
corporate debt needs to be brought on the Budget and also reflected fully in the Accounts.
Major government guarantees need to be disclosed in the Budget and Accounts. Towards
this end, in 2001-02, GoAP made a significant initial aggregate provision against
government guarantees, and fully provisioned selected guarantees (defaulted) as actual
liabilities. Progressively, other useful and important information such as other contingent



Annex D
Page 2 of 3
liabilities, accounting changes, summary by type of expenditure, major subsidies
provided, amounts devolved to local bodies need to be clearly disclosed in the Budget
and Accounts. Presentation of the Budget and Accounts need to be simplified and made
more user-friendly, thereby enhancing transparency. State Accounts, Audit Reports and
responses to Audit Reports need to be disclosed on timely basis, and accessibility needs
to be increased. In 2002/03, GoAP plans to publish its half-yearly accounts on the
Internet; and to improve its budget overview/summary document by including major
government guarantees and off-budget borrowings. GoAP's accounts are compiled not
by the Govermment of Andhra Pradesh but by the Accountant General of the C&AG.
Over time, there is need for increased ownership of GoAP for its accounts; for
independent attestation/certification of the State Accounts by the CAG, in accordance
with recognized standards; and for improvement of the accounting system to generate or
provide information that would be useful for performance measurement or monitoring;
* accounting/internal control weaknesses that potentially impact on reliability of
fiscal/financial information, affect the overall internal control environment, and increase
the risk of misuse of public funds, need to be addressed. These include the need to carry
out various reconciliations (numbers in the different accounting/payment offices,
accounting records with Bank statements, main accounts with detailed accounts)
regularly and in a timely manner, ensure better classification of and controls over loans
and advances provided by government, clear appropriate deposit balances in the Public
Account, clear Suspense Accounts, ensure controls over advances provided which are
charged as expenditure, and a more satisfactory debts and guarantees recording and
reporting system. GoAP (through its Fiscal Reforms Implementation Committee and/or
Center for Good Governance) will develop measures to address some of these key
internal control weaknesses. There is also need to strengthen budgetary controls,
including on supplementary appropriations, over commitments, improved budget
estimates, and Government responses to the Appropriation Accounts;
*  responses to Audit Reports of the State Government need to be provided on timely basis.
Quality of responses also needs to be improved. Regular follow-up actions need to be
taken based on the Audit Reports. In 2002/03, GoAP will strengthen its follow-up
mechanisms with Departments to ensure more timely audit responses, and will focus on
the latest audit report (in contrast to the earlier approach which dealt with the earliest
years first), with the aim of substantially responding to the CAG's latest audit report of
the State Government;
*  there is scope to ensure more effective legislative oversight, including taking prompt
follow-up action on the recommendations of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and
the Committee on Public Undertakings (COPU);
*  GoAP needs to progressively develop its institutional arrangements for responsibility and
coordination of internal controls systems, accounting, financial reporting, internal audit,
liaison with external auditors and with the Legislative Oversight Committees;
*  the backlog of accounts and audit in various Departmental Undertakings (including the
State Insurance Department which handles significant employee Funds) needs to be
cleared. The backlog of accounts and audits in rural and urban local bodies, and PEs also
needs to be cleared. GoAP has prepared an action program to reduce backlog of accounts
and audit in 2002/03.
*  there is need to substantially improve accounting and financial management systems in
local government institutions (rural and urban). Capacity-building and improving local-
level accountability mechanisms are also important priorities. In 2002/03, GoAP plans to
substantially clear the backlog of accounts and audit of local government institutions;



Annex D
Page 3 of 3
following this, further diagnostic work on the financial accountability arrangements in
rural and urban local bodies would be carried out, to help develop an improvement
program.
3. A State Financial Accountability Assessment (SFAA): GoAP will carry out in 2002/03 the
SFAA covering the State Government (which account for bulk of public funds). This is expected
to be carried out by GoAP's Fiscal Reform Implementation Committee (FRIC) and its Center for
Good Governance, with the assistance of consultants as needed, and in consultation with the
Bank. This would draw on analytical/diagnostic work already carried out such as the Impact and
Expenditure Reviews in major Government Departments, on public expenditure management,
and the preliminary financial accountability assessment; and more detailed in-depth work in
selected Govemment Departments (including primary health and primary education) would be
carried out as needed. The SFAA would focus on budgeting, accounting and financial reporting;
management/internal controls; public auditing; legislative oversight; and transparency and public
access to information on public finance aspects of the State Government. Major aspects such as
the Concept Note/terms of reference, methodology, and reports, would be discussed with the
Bank. Government will also prepare an action program in 2002/03 to address the major issues
and findings of the SFAA, for implementation during 2003-2006. In 2003-06, GoAP will carry
out diagnostic work on public financial accountability in rural and urban local bodies, and other
institutions through which public funds flow as appropriate, to help develop an improvement
program, after more progress is made on clearing backlog of accounts and audits in these
institutions. The SFAA prepared by GoAP will be used by the Bank for its fiduciary purposes; if
considered necessary, the Bank with GoAP's cooperation will carry out any additional work
required to meet these fiduciary requirements.



Amnex E
Page I of 7
Statistical Annex
India at a Glance                                                            2t14102
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           South     Low-
India     Asia   Income      Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (mi/lions)                   1,015.9    1.355     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   450       460      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   454.8       617     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (%)                                       1.8       1.9       1.9     G                 \
Labor force (V.)                                     2.3       2.4       2.4     GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capRta                     enrollment
Poverty ('A of population below national poverty line)  35
Urban population (OA of total population)             28        28       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      63        63       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              71        74       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            45        47        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  88        87       76
Illteracy (% of population age 15+)                   43        45       38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  100     100       96         -/ndia         Low-income group
Male                                               109       110      102
Female                                              90        90       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                         182.9   316.9     445.2     457.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP              20.9     25.2      24.3      24.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           6.1      7.3      12.0      14.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  17.3    22.5      21.2      21.4
Gross national savings/GDP                  18.9    22.0      23.2      23.4
Current account balance/GDP                 -1.9    -3.2      -1.1      -0.6     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       0.3      1.2       0.8       0.8     savings
Total debt/GDP                              11.3    26.4      22.0      22.0     svn
Total debt service/exports                   9.8    32.4      15.3      12.7
Present value of deWGDP                      ..       ..        ..      15.5
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..        ..      91.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040     1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 5.8     6.0      7.1       3.9       5.4      -     India       Low-income group
GDP per capita                      3.5     4.1      5.2       2.0       3.8
Exports of goods and services       5.9     11.7     6.0       5.0       7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       N
Agricuiture                                38.6     31,3      26.2      24.9
Industry                                   24.2     27.6      26.0      26.9     1S
Manufacturing                             16.3     17.2      15.2      15.8      _
Services                                   37.2     41,1      47.8      48.2 
95  t  97   ~~98  99   017
Private consumption                        72.7     65.9      65.9      65.4    -1S                     9
General government consumption              10.0    11.6      12.9      13.2                   GDI       0     GDP
Imports of goods and services               9.7      9.9      15.1      16.6                                        __G
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of exporta and Imports (%l
(average annual growth)                                                         4
Agriculture                                 3.1      3.0        1.3     -0.2     4
Industry                                    6.9      6.4       4.9       6.3    30
Manufacturing                              7.4      7.0       4.2      6.7     20 
Services                                    7.0      8.0       9.5       4.8    107
Private consumption                         5.8      4.8       2.8       4.2 o
General govemment consumption               4.2      6.9      12.0       6.5   -10      f    9     97   59   99    05
Gross domestic investment                   6.6      7.9      15.7       2.0            -E     rts       .   mpors
Imports of goods and services               5.9      9.5       6.0       5.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex E
Page 2 of 7
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflatlon .%)
Domestic prices                                                                 15
(% change)                                                                      1
Consumer prices                                     12.8       3.4       3.8    10
Implicit GDP deflator                      11 6     10 4       3.5       4.1
Government finance                                                               s                                  I
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o -.--t--t--
Current revenue                                        .      18.9      199             9s    96    97 97      99
Current budget balance                                        -4.4      -4.2                 GDP deflator 2CP
Overall surplus/deficit                                      -10.6     -10.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        8,501  18,477    37,542    44,894    75.000
Tea                                          .     535      1,183    1,394
Iron                                        ..     970       916     1,158     s0oo0
Manufactures                             5,105   12,996    29,714   34,511     45000
Total imports (ciF)                       15,862  27,914    55,383    59,264     000
Food                                     1,348     557      2.417    1432
Fuel and energy                          6,669    6,028    12,611   15,650     15000
Capital goods                            2,416    5,836     8,965    8,785
94   95  96   97   99   99  00
Export price index (t995=100)                28       S1       116      122
Import price index (1995=100)                27       46       150      162                  nExports     *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   105      109        77       75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Curn a    u     ln   o   P
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services             11,249  23,028    53,251    63,764 o
Imports of goods and services             17,821  31,485    67,028    75,656
Resource balance                          -6,572  -8,457    -13,777  -11,892
Net income                                  325   -3,753     -3,559   -3,821
Net current transfers                      2,693   2,068    12,256    12,798     1 I    I     I     I     "       '
Current account balance                   -3,554  -10,142    -5,080   -2,915
Financing items (net)                      2,564   7,650    11,482     8,771      I
Changes in net reserves                     990    2,492     -6,402   -5,856    -s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     6,823   5,834    38,036    42,281
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             7.9    17.9      43.3      45.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt /USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      20,695  83,717    98,158   100,367
IBRD                                      827    7,685     7,816     7,063                 G: 3,464 A: 7,063
IDA                                     5,142   13,312    18,930    20,804
Total debt service                         1,426   8,191    10,108     9,862                     1
IBRD                                      137    1,087     1,389     1,421                                  B:20,804
IDA                                        50      211       469      554
Composition of net resource flows                                                F. 40,376 !
Official grants                           750      461       382      336
Official creditors                        908    2,334     1,068      589                                   D4541
Private creditors                         789    1,606     -1,658    4,340
Foreign direct investment                   ..      97     2,093     1,828
Portfolio equity                            ..       6     3,024     2,760                            E 24,119
World Bank program
Commitments                             2,503    2,186       817     2,064     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             826    1,981     1,460     1,742     B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                       86      586     1,228     1,392     C - IMF                   G - Short-tem
Net flows                                 739    1,395       232      350
Interest payments                         101      712       630      583
Net transfers                             639      683      -398     -233
Development Economics                                                                                            2/12/02



Annex E
Page 3 of 7
India Social Indicators
Latest single year          Same regionlincome group
South         Low-
1970-75     1980-85     1994-00            Asia      income
POPULATION
Total population,mid-year (millions)         613.5       765.1     1,015.9          1,354.7     2,458.7
Growth rate (% annual average for period)    2.3        2.1         1.8              1.9         1.9
Urban populalon (% of population)             21.3       24.3        28.4             28.4        31.9
Total fertilty rate (births per woman)         5.3        4.4         3.1              3.4          3.7
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcourt index                        ..          .        35.0
Urban headoDunt index                         ..          .        30.5
Rural headcountindex                          ..         ..        36.7
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                          190         290         450             460          420
Consumer price index (1995=100)                 ..         40         142              136         142
Food price index(1995=100)                      .          38         134
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                      ..         ..        37.8
Lowest quintile 16 of income orconsumption)    5.9                    8.1
Highest quintile (96 of income or consumption)  49.4       ..        46.1
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Heakh (% of GDP)                              ..         ..         0.8              0.9          1.2
Educaton (% of GNI)                          2.7         3.5        3.2              3.1          3.3
Social secirity and welfare (% of GDP)        ..         ..
Net prlmary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                        81          96         100              100          96
Male                                       96         111         109              110         102
Female                                     64          80          90               90          86
Access to an Improved water source
Q'/l of population)
Total                                         ..         54          88               87          76
Urban                                       ..         80          92              92           88
Rural                                       ..         47          86               85          70
Immunization rate
(% under 12months)
Measles                                       ..          1          60              63           64
DPT                                           ..         41          78               75          70
Child malnutrtion (% under 5 years)             ..         ..          45               47
Life expecbncy at birth
(years)
Total                                        52          57          63               63          59
Male                                       52          57          62               62          58
Female                                     51          57          64               63          60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live binths)           130          97          71               74          77
Under5 (perthousand live births)            206         177          90               99         116
Adult (15.89)
Male (oer 1,000population)                324         261         218              223         288
Female (per 1,000 populaton)              353         279         206              212         258
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)             ..          ..        440
Births attended by skilled health staff (%/6)              30          49               49
CAS Annex B5. This table was produced from the CMU LDB system.                                  02112102
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Grss enrolment ratios exceeding 100 indicatediscrepandes
between the estimates of school-age popubtion and reported enrollment data.



Annex E
Page 4 of 7
India - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998    1999     2000    2001     2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                           28.0     27.7    26.2    24.9     24.5    23.7    23.1     22.3
Industry                              27.1     26.5    26.0    26.9     27.1    27.0     27.0    27.0
Services                              44.9    45.8     47.8    48.2     48.4    49.3    49.9     50.7
Total Consumption                       80.5    80.0    78.8     78.6    78.7     78.9    77.9    78.0
Gross domestic fixed investment         21.7    21.4    21.6     21.9    23.3     23.2    24.2    24.1
Government investment                  6.4     6.3      6.4     6.8      6.5     6.7     6.7      6.7
Private investment                    15.4    15.1     15.2    15.1     16.7    16.5    17.5     17.4
Exports (GNFS)b                         11.0    11.5     12.0    14.0    13.6     13.4    13.9    14.2
Imports (GNFS)                          14.5    14.1     15.1    16.6    16.5     16.5    16.9    17.2
Gross domestic savings                  19.5    20.0    21.2     21.4    21.3     21.1    22.1    22.0
Gross national savings'                 21.5    21.6    23.2     23.4    26.0     25.6    26.7    26.1
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               409718  414064   445233  456990   477555  515408   557893  606742
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)      420      420     440     450      459     488      520     558
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  4.4    6.0     7.1     3.9      4.5     5.5      5.5     6.0
Gross Domestic Income                  5.2     4.9      6.2     4.8      5.1     6.0     5.7      6.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  2.6   4.1      5.2      2.0     2.7     3.8      4.0     4.6
Total consumption                      1.8     -0.1     2.4     2.7    -13.6     5.0      1.8     5.0
Private consumption                    1.6    -2.1      1.0     2.4    -16.9     6.0      1.8     5.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                      45109   47484    53251   63764    65025   69242    77288   86022
Merchandise FOB                    35680   34298    37542   44894    44835   47093    52210   57817
Imports (GNFS)b                      59297   58565   67028    75656   78915    84888   94076   104344
Merchandise FOB                    51187   47544    55383   59264    61234   65121    71989   79656
Resourcebalance                     -14188   -11081  -13777   -11892  -13890   -15646  -16788  -18322
Net current transfers                11830    10280   12256    12798   13396    13786   15520   15237
Current account balance              -5879   -4345    -5080   -2915    -3493   -4841    -5113   -7166
Net private foreign direct investment  3557   2462     2093     1828    3300    3000     5500    6000
Long-term loans (net)                 1816    5918     4781    8133     2680    3012     -960    2605
Official                             -406      979    1068     589     1097     643      254     172
Private                              2222     4939    3713     7544    1583    2369    -1215    2434
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)  5017  187  4608  -1190  3450    3710     3941    4372
Change in reservesd                   -4511  -4222    -6402   -5856    -5937   -4881    -3367   -5811
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)             -3.5    -2.7    -3.1     -2.6     -2.9    -3.0    -3.0    -3.0
Real annual growth rates ( YR93 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)               2.5     2.8     16.7    20.9      1.1     4.0     9.7     9.2
Manufactures                           6.2     1.9     19.2    24.9      1.5     2.8    10.2      9.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)              11.3     3.1     12.7    10.6      5.4     9.5    12.8     10.6
(Continued)



Annex E
Page S of 7
India - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998     1999    2000    2001     2002    2003     2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                       19.8    19.1     18.9    19.9    20.3     21.1    21.5    22.1
Current expenditures                   22.6    23.8    23.4     24.1    23.9     23.9    23.8    23.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  -2.8  -4.7  -4.4    -4.2    -3.6     -2.8     -2.3    -1.6
Capital expenditure                     7.8     8.8     6.2      6.4     7.0      7.2     7.2      7.2
Foreign financing                       0.4     0.3     0.8      0.4     0.3      0.3    -0.3      0.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 53.9    56.2    55.7     59.5    60.1     60.6    61.7     63.2
Growth ofM2(%)                         17.0    19.2     9.9     15.6    11.8     15.0    15.0     15.0
Private sectorcredit growth/           57.6    52.2    25.7     61.9    37.3     56.0    61.5     63.7
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR93 =100)
Merchandise export price index        103.7    96.9    90.9     90.0    88.9     89.8    90.7     92.0
Merchandise importprice index         130.4   117.5    121.4   117.5   115.1    111.8   109.6    109.6
Merchandise terms of trade index       79.5    82.5    74.9     76.6    77.2     80.3    82.8     83.9
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f          76.6    72.4    71.0     75.5      ..
Consumerprice index (%change)           7.2    12.7     3.4      3.8     5.9      7.7     7.5      6.3
GDP deflator (% change)                 7.0     7.9     3.5      4.1     6.0      8.0     7.0      6.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated non-financial public sector.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex E
Page 6 of 7
India - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator             1997    1998     1999    2000    2001     2002    2003     2004
Total debt outstanding and         94320    97639   98158  100367   102936  105782   104822  107427
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)d
Net disbursements (USSm)4            850    3319      519    2209     2568    2847     -960    2605
Total debt service (TDS)            4864    5121     3782    3741     3979    3691     4969    5773
(USSm)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          164.4    166.3   148.2   129.1    129.8   126.1    111.4   103.9
TDO/'GDP                           23.0    23.6     22.0    22.0     21.6    20.5     18.8    17.7
TDS/XGS                             8.5     8.7      5.7     4.8      5.0     4.4      5.3     5.6
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                  12.2     12.5    16.4    15.9     15.7    14.6     10.7    16.2
Preferred creditor DS/public       24.0    23.6     30.0    32.1     29.6    28.1     20.6    31.5
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                         2.5     2.3      2.1     1.8      1.6     1.6      1.5     1.3
IBRDTDO(US$m)d                    8138    7990     7816    7062    7137     7305    7609     8228
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)         7.6     7.2      6.5     5.8      5.9     5.8      6.0     6.6
IDA TDO (US$m)d                   17912   18562   18930    18886   19899    20570   20817   20814
IFC (US$m)                         855.4    801.7   686.3    677.7      ..
Loans                             662.8   569.1    436.0   411.9       ..      ..
Equity and quasi-equity /c        192.6   232.6    250.3   265.8       ..      ..
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)              9.6     9.6       ..      ..       ..      ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex E
Page 7 of 7
Evolution of the Public Sector Deficit ', 1990-02 (% of GDP at Market Prices)
90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94   94-95 95-96  96-97  97-98  98-99  99-00  00-01 01-02
Prov.   BE
Actuals
Central Government
Fiscal Deficit 2                              6.6    5.2    5.1    6.4    5.3    4.3    4.1   4.9    6,7    5.4    5.4    5.3
PrinaryDeficit'                               2.8    1.1    0.9    2.1     1.0   0.1   -0.2   0.6    2.3    0.8    0.9    0.7
Outstanding Debt                             61.6   65.4   64.2   65.0   62.2   59.2   56.4   58.1  57.6   58.7   59.6   59.7
Interest Payments/Revenue                    39.1   40.2   41.9   48.7   48.4   45.4   47.1  49.0   52.1   49.7   51.0   48.5
State Government
Fiscal Deficit                                3.2    2.8    2.8    2.5    2.6    2.6    2.7   2.7    4.2    4.6    4.3    3.8
Primary Deficit                               1.6    1.1    1.0    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9   0.7    2.1    2.3     1.7   1.2
Outstanding Debt                             19.4   19.3   19.0   18.6   18.2   17.9   17.8   18.5  19.4   21.5   23.2   24.4
tnterestPayments/Revenue                     13.0   13.6   14.4   15.0   15.7   16.0   16.7   17.9  20.5   21.1   22.5   23.1
General Government
Fiscal Deficit'                               9.3    7.3    7.3    8.3    7.5    6.5    6.4    7.1   9.2    9.2    9.2    8.9
Primary Deficit                               4.9    2.6    2.4    3.3    2.4    1.6    1.3    1.9   3.9    3.5     3.6   3.0
Outstanding Debt                             67.9   71.9   70.9   71.8   68.9   66.0   63.3   65.2  65.4   68.1    70.5  71.2
InterestPaysnents/Revenue                    21.5   22.1   23.2   25.1   25.8   25.2   26.5  27.3   30.5   29.7    29.9  30.1
Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector Deficit5   11.2    9.4    9.2   10.4    9.0    8.1    8.7    8.0   9.8   10.8    10.3  10.1
Notes: For States 1999-00 = RE; 2000-01= BE; 200i-02= Estimate
1: All definitions pertain to World Bank defnitions unless otherwise specified.
2: Fiscal Deficit (Govt.of India new defh.) excluding disinvestment from revenues.
3.: Fiscal deficit minus interest payments
4: General Govt. comprises Central (excl. divestment revenues), States Governnents and excludes net lending from Center to States
5. : Consolidated Public Sector includes General goverrnent, oil pool balance and market financed central public enterprise deficit (on-lending
from central government to central public enterprises is netted out)
Source : Budget Documents, RBI State Bulletins, RBI Annual Report 1998-99, Staff Estinates, IMF, RBI Annual Report 2000-01






IBRD 31778
T. J.)-                  /7
(Niramtqf KARIMINAGAI                                    T. (r R.lur,p   J   J 
;~~~~AL~N~                   \        GOD _,I         .....         Benm garl o7A1ur<1/SJU
MA  UBNAGA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Kp                       NG
T. Porb=j}  MEDAK >&+            ANGAL        \5\SzX
KURNOO-       /  i    Ongole2<ii ( \I ) _Xo E      VISHAKHAPA
I-P.                  H RAGA wDY   ,   -  i              .-]  EAST       RA.
NELL OREl  \  I  Kh   mm   " GaDAVARI
) 4 \ \Naqo , g~~N                      WEST            -,Bay of
\ Mqhb,nq r6        NALEGONDA                                 <               jBengal
t                    .  a  _  ISHNA >li ;l - | /H
<  MA8BUNAGA)         ,_ 
ANAN PUR                                                   -   N/TIONAL HIG-WAYS
T_ . G. .  -     ,i,_)( .McliqNO
&A AnXR \\   /            z \I ANDHRA PBADESH
(  AnanMpurt^  - - -s t, NELLORE} 
ANAN      P;i            ,I.l   ,     ;  |_                         NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
B > r / __ l | - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED STATE RCADS
Z      v  a J If w CUDD~~~6MAPAH i--A ,                            RAILROADS
I  x   SL   |      r \  a  i-                    *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
I @ i X \ T \'\ \ (+) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CAPITALS
\   C|JT P  s -   \,   \<   \ \  ,                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
<   T \|  wh  CHITTOOR                     - STATE BOUNDARY
T.CRoo7,                                     * I CHENNAI
BANGALORE ,  ^? }|t  v -(MADRAS)                            50    100
BANGALORE         s   / o.-H*-             |                         KILONMERS
i   dguU                                                        ,/
- i=i ....................... I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANIUARY 200



