Report No. PID10910
Project Name                     India-Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform...
Loan/Credit
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management
Project ID                       INPE73113
Borrower                         GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Beneficiaries                    State of Andhra Pradesh
Implementing Agency              GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Secretariat Bldg., Hyderabad 500022,
INDIA
Mr. S.K. Arora
Principal Finance Secretary
Phone 91-40-345-0742
Fax 91-40-3452847
Date PID Prepared                January 25, 2002
Appraisal Mission                January 15, 2002
Board Date                       March 14, 2002 (tentative)
1.      Country and Sector Background
Economic growth has slowed in India during 2001, and the country
is expected to register growth of 4-5% in the fiscal year
2001/02, good by global standards, but below the average annual
growth rate of 6% achieved over the last decade. Causes for the
slowdown in growth include the global slowdown, negative
investor sentiment due to the slow pace of reforms at the
national level, weak agricultural demand on the back of
successive poor agricultural seasons, and the oil price rises
last year. The slowdown in growth has hurt India's fiscal
position. Central government's tax revenues for the first eight
months of 2001/02 were 3% below the figure for the first eight
months of last fiscal year.   Overall, at about 10% of GDP, the
size of the combined central and state government deficit is a
matter of substantial concern. However, India's macroeconomic
vulnerability continues to be contained by a strong external
position, a largely closed capital account, low and declining
(on a percentage basis) external debt, and low inflation.
There is a consensus that many of the reforms required to
accelerate India's growth and reduce poverty need to be
implemented by the states. These include not only fiscal reforms
to address resource constraints which are increasingly
circumscribing the states' developmental role, but also power
sector reforms to address a fundamental source of fiscal
pressure and a constraint on growth, and governance reforms to
make the government smaller, more accountable and effective in
the delivery of services. The momentum for reforms is definitely
growing at the state level as an increasing number of states
embrace fiscal, governance and sectoral reforms.



The State of Andhra Pradesh
Andhra Pradesh (AP) is the fifth largest state in India with a
population of 76 million people. Per capita income at $380 in
1999/00 is about 90% of the All-India average. Around nineteen
million people (one-quarter of the population) live in poverty,
depend largely on agriculture, and are often outside the reach
of public services. Although literacy has improved dramatically
over the 1990s (rising from 44% to 61% of the population), it
remains below the national average and is particularly high
among schedule castes and tribes. Real growth in AP has
averaged 5.29 over the 1990s, a full percentage point below the
All-India average of 6.2%. Weak agricultural performance, upon
which most of rural poor depend, has been a significant
constraint on growth with investment in agriculture falling
during the 1990s. AP's regulatory environment and weak
infrastructure constrain investment, and its fiscal position has
been a mounting source of concern.
Andhra Pradesh's Reform Program
The Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) has emerged in recent
years as a pioneer in many areas of reform, and in 1999 GoAP
published a new vision for state development called Vision 2020.
Many important policy reforms were initiated in the late 1990s,
and Vision 2020 sets out an ambitious program aimed at
accelerating growth, strengthening social protection, and
reducing poverty. The central objectives of the reforms
include: (i) eradicating poverty and take care of the old, the
infirm, and the genuinely needy; (ii) enabling the people to
learn, earn, and lead healthful and productive lives; and (iii)
making government simple, transparent, accountable, and
responsive.
Sectoral reforms are being implemented in the power, roads,
water, health and agriculture sectors. The power reforms are
particularly important given the sector's importance for fiscal
sustainability and growth. Power reforms, launched in 1998, aim
to strengthen governance, improve finances through operational
efficiency, improve cost recovery, and rapidly privatize power
distribution. AP launched India's most far-reaching antitheft
and power regularization drive in 2000.
Andhra Pradesh has also embarked on a major program of fiscal
and governance reform. Fiscal reforms include significant
increases in revenue mobilization, cuts in food subsidies,
improved allocation of resources to priority sectors, and a
freeze on civil servant hiring. Public expenditure management
changes have been adopted to restore credibility to the budget
process and improve fiscal transparency. GoAP has made
governance improvements a central plank of its reform agenda and
has built an impressive record of achievement. AP initially
pursued significant gains in areas such as e-governance and
human resource development, and subsequently expanded the agenda
to tackle systemic issues, such as anticorruption, civil service
reform, deregulation, and public enterprise privatization. GoAP
is also developing capacity in poverty monitoring and evaluation
to better inform policy makers and target poverty reduction
initiatives.
2.      Project's Objectives and Description
-2 -



The proposed Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan/Credit (APERL)
would support GoAP's efforts in developing and implementing
multi-year reforms that are designed to stabilize the fiscal
situation, improve governance, and foster an enabling
environment for improved growth and poverty reduction.
APERL is a single-tranche loan/credit, based on upfront actions
to support Andhra Pradesh's reform program, and is anchored in
the Government's medium-term fiscal framework. APERL is the
first World Bank adjustment loan/credit in Andhra Pradesh and
follows adjustment operations in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka.
The proposed operation supports GoAP's comprehensive set of
reforms in several areas. First, the fiscal and public
expenditure reforms of the APERL include a multi-year fiscal
framework, fiscal transparency, tax and expenditure reforms,
public expenditure management, and financial accountability
reforms. The emphasis is on institutional reform to ensure
sustainability of the program, and on fiscal reforms to help
create additional fiscal space for financing priority
development expenditures (primary education, health care,
infrastructure, recurrent maintenance needs, etc.) Together,
these aim to reduce poverty, and to promote more efficient and
transparent management of public resources. Second, the
administrative reforms focus on civil service reform, freedom of
information, anti-corruption strategy, and e-governance, with
the objectives of improving the efficiency and transparency by
which the government transacts its business and delivers
services. These are complemented by measures to improve the
environment for private sector development through deregulation
of the business environment and privatization/closure of public
enterprises. Finally, the APERL also supports the establishment
of poverty monitoring and analysis capacity to enable the state
to better track the impact of its services, policies, and
reforms on poverty reduction and the improvement of social
indicators.
3.      Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The focus on reforming states is an important part of the India
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The most recent CAS (June,
2001) documents the substantial progress being made in the
implementation of this strategy. AP is one of India's leading
reform states, and the Bank has a large number of projects
within the state, including the multi-sector AP Economic
Restructuring Project which aims, among other things, at
strengthening public services in primary health, education,
irrigation, roads, and child nutrition. The proposed operation
has been structured to support growth-oriented fiscal adjustment
and structural reforms, with a focus on governance. It is
justified on the basis of the state's need for financial
assistance to proceed with a growth-oriented stabilization and
structural reform program. The state-level reforms will
contribute to the overall macroeconomic stability of India and
complement the reforms initiated by the central government.
External financial and technical assistance significantly
strengthens incentives for sub-national reform and complements
efforts by the Government of India.
The Bank's backing for the reform program in Andhra Pradesh
- 3 -



helps provide support for implementation based on the lessons of
international experience. Success with respect to the
Government's fiscal and governance reform program will improve
the enabling environment for the significant range of Bank-
supported (and other) sectoral investments in priority social
and infrastructure areas, such as roads, poverty reduction,
education, irrigation, child nutrition, health, and sustainable
forestry. With considerable fiscal stress confronting the
state, Bank financing helps to ensure that high-priority social
expenditures are protected and expanded rather than crowded-out.
4.                       Financing
Total                      US$250 million
IBRD                       US$125 million
IDA                        US$125 million equivalent
5.      Implementation Arrangements
The Chief Secretary of GoAP will coordinate the overall program.
The Finance Department is the nodal agency for the fiscal and
public expenditure management reforms. The General
Administration Department is overseeing the administrative
reform program, with support from the Center for Good Governance
and other GoAP departments. The Public Enterprise Department
and the Implementation Secretariat are responsible for
implementing the public enterprise restructuring and
privatization program. Finally, the State Poverty Eradication
Mission, and the newly created Poverty and Social Monitoring
Unit, are responsible for overseeing poverty monitoring and
evaluation activities.
6.      Sustainability and Poverty Impact
Andhra Pradesh's reform program is owned and under
implementation by a highly committed and reform-minded
government. The state's strengths include a strong track record
in reform, a capable bureaucracy and a high growth potential.
These strengths would mitigate risks associated with the
reforms. Moreover, the success of the GoAP reform program is
expected to have a considerable demonstration effect across
states in India. Given its already-established position as a
reform leader in fiscal, power, and governance areas, Andhra
Pradesh has the potential to set precedents, and to help
generate reform competition and momentum across India.
Andhra Pradesh's reforms are expected to have a strongly
positive impact on poverty reduction through various channels,
specifically:
?       AP's fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources
to be focused on poverty-related expenditures. The fiscal
framework reorients public spending towards priority
development spending (primary social services, O&M,
infrastructure) to provide basic social services to the poor.
?       AP's governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public
services at local levels (e.g., through citizen charters, user
surveys, and performance monitoring). The governance reforms
should also reduce corruption and harassment, which tend to
hurt the poor disproportionately. Deregulation will help
improve the investment climate, especially for small and
- 4 -



medium enterprises, and improve rural growth to help generate
non-farm employment, of great benefit to the poor.
?       The emphasis being given to improving poverty monitoring will
help the government to better track poverty, and to adjust its
policies and programs accordingly. This includes the new
poverty monitoring system, as well as AP sector-specific
studies such as on power subsidies to agriculture (completed)
and irrigation subsidies (under preparation).
?       The fiscal and governance reform program will increase the
effectiveness of the Government's sectoral anti-poverty
interventions, e.g., in health, education, and forestry.
7.      Environment Aspects
There are no major environmental issues identified under this
loan/credit. However, there are certain environmental issues
relating to the Government's proposed divestment or closure of
public enterprises (PEs): (i) potential environmental
liabilities associated with past pollution; and (ii)
environmental compliance by each PE. In this context, the
proposed operation envisages that at the time of privatization
or closure of each PE, an environmental screening would be
carried out which would then determine if an environment audit
would be needed to assess the current environmental compliance
and liabilities of the PE, and recommend corrective measures, to
ensure that the divestment and closure process will be
environmentally sound.
8.Contact Points:
Task Team Leader:
Mark Sundberg
The World Bank:
Mark Sundberg
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-7694
Fax: (202) 522-3408
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
activities and/or components may not be included in the final
project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
-5-



