Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3616 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4651 IN
Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Program)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated March 15, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3616 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4651 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 2002, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH (Andhra Pradesh), 
Page  2
acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS (A) the Association and the Bank have received from India (the Borrower) a 
letter dated February 19, 2002, attaching a letter from Andhra Pradesh describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal framework and 
public institutions of Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter called the Program), declaring Andhra 
Pradesh’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and the Borrower’s support thereto, and 
requesting assistance from the Association and the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;
(B)
Andhra Pradesh has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
the Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association, the Bank and the Borrower, 
and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association, the Bank 
and the Borrower;
(C)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India (the 
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred one million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 101,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, 
but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(D)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India and the Bank, the 
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an aggregate principal amount of one 
hundred twenty five million dollars ($125,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(E)
the Program will be carried out by Andhra Pradesh with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and the Borrower will make available to Andhra Pradesh the local currency 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement and of 
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  3
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Loan Agreement) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Program.
Section 2.02. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall from time to time, at the request of the 
Association and the Bank, and in consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with the 
Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the Program, the actions specified in the 
Schedule to this Agreement, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Association, the Bank and the Borrower for their review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association, the Bank and the 
Borrower of any condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by 
Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section, Andhra Pradesh shall consult the Borrower and exchange views with the Association 
and the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program, including any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association, the Bank and the Borrower the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall utilize the amounts transferred to it by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 
(c) of the Loan Agreement for its budgetary expenditures.  Andhra Pradesh undertakes that any 
of such amounts shall not be used to finance expenditures under a contract in respect of which 
the Association or the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of Andhra Pradesh during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
Andhra Pradesh having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank to remedy the situation.
(b)
If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at any time that any such 
amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with 
paragraph (a) above, Andhra Pradesh shall be liable, upon request from the Association or the 
Bank as the case may be, to refund such amount to the Association or the Bank through the 
Borrower. Amounts refunded to the Association or the Bank upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for cancellation.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial conditions; and
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the said records, accounts and financial statements audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
Page  5
case not later than four months after the date of the Association’s and the 
Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association and 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
Section 3.02. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, no later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of 
the rupee amounts transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement, provide a 
confirmation to the Association and the Bank showing the date and the rupee amounts received 
from the Borrower, and stating that such amounts have been credited to the consolidated Fund of 
Andhra Pradesh on that same date.
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Andhra Pradesh shall, no later 
than sixty (60) days after the date of such request, provide to the Association and the Bank an 
audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank showing the date 
and the rupee amounts transferred by the Borrower to Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.02 
(c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the Bank and 
Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  6
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Secretariat
Hyderabad, 500022
Andhra Pradesh 
India
Facsimile:
91-40-3453700
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh may be taken or 
executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Andhra Pradesh shall 
Page  7
designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Andhra 
Pradesh, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of Andhra Pradesh to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent 
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information to Andhra 
Pradesh shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) by the 
Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant 
to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name and on 
behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Sanjay Pradhan
Acting Country Director, India
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By
/s/ P.V. Rao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Page  8
Fiscal Policy Reform
1.
Andhra Pradesh has formulated:
(a)
a Fiscal Reform Strategy Paper (FRSP) containing a Medium Term Fiscal 
Framework (MTFF) for the State, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, setting out 
policies, strategies and actions for carrying out a program of fiscal reforms covering the period 
from Fiscal year 2001-02 to Fiscal Year 2005-06, with the objectives to: 
(i)
reduce the budgetary fiscal deficit to no more than 2.5 percent of the 
Gross State 
Domestic Product (GSDP);
(ii)
generate a primary surplus of at least 1.3 percent of GSPD by Fiscal 
Year 2005-06;
(iii)
generate a consolidated revenue deficit to receipts ratio of at least 2% of 
GSDP 
by Fiscal Year 2004-05; and
(iv)
increase priority development expenditures for primary education and 
health from 
2.1 percent of GSPD in Fiscal Year 2000-01 to at least 3.0 
percent in Fiscal Year 
2005-06, and for capital and non-salary operations and 
maintenance expenditures 
from 3.7 percent of GSPD in Fiscal 
Year 2000-01 to at least 4.5 percent in Fiscal 
Year 2005-06; and 
(b)
an annual fiscal framework for Fiscal Year 2002-03 consistent with the MTFF, 
including a targeted reduction in:
(i)
the budgetary fiscal deficit from an estimated 5 percent of GSDP in 
Fiscal Year 
2001-02 to no more than 4.5 percent of GSDP in Fiscal 
Year 2002-03;
(ii)
the primary deficit from an estimated 1.3 percent in Fiscal Year 2001-02 
to no more than 0.6 percent in Fiscal Year 2002-03;
(iii)
the consolidated revenue deficit to receipts ratio to below 16.5 percent in 
Fiscal Year 2001-02 and below 8 percent in Fiscal Year 2002-03; and
(iv)
the consolidated fiscal deficit from an estimated 5.6 percent of GSDP in 
Fiscal 
Year 2001-02 to no more than 4.6 percent of GSDP in Fiscal 
Year 2002-03.
2.
Andhra Pradesh has:  (a) taken measures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank in 
order to achieve in Fiscal Year 2001-02 the fiscal targets set out in the MTFF; and (b) 
disseminated the FRSP and the MTFF as public documents.
3.
Andhra Pradesh has:  (a) unified the sales tax floor rates; and (b) substantially completed 
the preparatory work for the introduction of a system of Value Added Tax (VAT), satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank, consisting, 
inter alia
,
of
preparing and disseminating draft 
legislation, training commercial tax department staff, designing the necessary software, and 
engaging in public awareness campaigns. 
Page  9
Public Expenditure and Financial Management Reforms
4.
Andhra Pradesh has initiated the implementation of reforms to improve budgeting and 
financial management as set out in the FRSP in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank.
5.
Andhra Pradesh has taken a number of measures to improve fiscal discipline, including: 
(a) introducing the practice of setting hard expenditure ceilings for each line department at the 
start of the budget preparation cycle, consistent with realistic resource estimates; and (b) making 
a
significant initial aggregate provision against government guarantees, and provisioning fully 
against selected guarantees.
6.
Andhra Pradesh has taken a number of measures to improve efficiency and financial 
accountability in budget execution and management, including: (a) initiating the rationalization 
of heads of accounts to enhance budget management flexibility; (b) introducing the practice of 
periodic advance release of funds to line departments and mid-year performance reviews in order 
to strengthen cash management and budgetary planning; (c) computerizing pension payments and 
initiating the computerization of salary payments; and (d) adopting an action plan for clearing the 
backlog in accounts and audits of local bodies and other government institutions. 
Governance and Regulatory Reforms
7.
Andhra Pradesh has published and disseminated a Strategy paper on Governance and 
Public Management focusing on simplifying, redefining and rationalizing the role of the 
government.
8.
Andhra Pradesh has obtained Cabinet approval of an Anticorruption Strategy Paper 
focusing on prevention, enforcement and public education, and has constituted a high level task 
force to prepare a plan for implementing such strategy.
9.
Andhra Pradesh has taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency and 
productivity of the civil service, including: (a) continuing the de facto hiring freeze on civil 
service recruitment; (b) substantially completing a comprehensive civil service census; (c) 
completing an initial review of major departments focusing on issues related to staffing, budget, 
implementation of schemes and programs, revenue mobilization, operational performance and 
computerization; (d) publishing citizen’s charters for seven government departments/agencies 
with major public interface; and (e) submitting to the Cabinet for approval of a draft Right to 
Information Bill.
10.
Andhra Pradesh has taken a number of measures as part of its anticorruption drive in the 
power sector, including: (a) regularizing electricity connection to about 2 million domestic 
consumers; and (b) enacting a law to control theft of electricity and establishing special courts 
and legal sanctions to deal with power theft cases.
11.
Andhra Pradesh has obtained cabinet approval of a strategy paper on public enterprise 
reform and privatization satisfactory to the Association and the Bank and has initiated the 
implementation of the strategy, including: (a) closing/privatizing 11 enterprises forming part of 
the first phase of the program; (b) implementing voluntary retirement schemes affecting over 
14,000 workers and providing training and job search opportunities to them; and (c) obtaining 
Page  10
cabinet approval of the second phase of the program covering closure/privatization/restructuring 
of 68 remaining public enterprises.
12.
Andhra Pradesh has initiated the implementation of electronic governance through, 
inter 
alia: 
(a) streamlining the registration of land deeds to reduce turnaround time; and (b) 
implementing a one-stop bill payment system for sixteen different government services in the 
metropolitan Hyderabad-Secunderabad area. 
13.
Andhra Pradesh has initiated the establishment of a Poverty and Social Monitoring Unit 
aimed, 
inter alia
,
at systematically evaluating and monitoring the impact of government services, 
policies and reforms, including the Program, in key areas related to poverty reduction and human 
development, and enabling Andhra Pradesh in making more informed policy decisions from the 
perspective of poverty reduction.
