Page  1
December 2, 1997
Mr. Mikhail M. Zadornov 
Minister of Finance 
Ilyinka Street 9 103097, 
Moscow Russian Federation
Re:
Loan Agreement No. 4029-RU (Capital Market Development 
Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement - 
                    Center for Capital Market Development Foundation
Dear Mr. Zadornov:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Capital Market Development Project) dated 
September 29, 1996, between Russian Federation (the Borrower) and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). We also refer to:  the letter from 
Deputy Minister of Finance O. Viugin, dated September 8, 1997, requesting that the 
Loan Agreement be amended to support the implementation of the project with the 
assistance of the newly-created Center for Capital Markets Development Foundation 
(CCMDF); and discussions between Bank officials and the Chairman of the Russian 
Federation Commission for Securities and the Capital Markets (RFCSCM), D. Vasiliyev, 
in October 1997, concerning RFCSCM’s plans for the further implementation of the 
Project.
We are pleased to inform you that, on the basis of representations made in the 
above-mentioned letter and discussions, the  Bank agrees to the above request and the 
Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
1.  
In Section 1.02, after clause (h), the following new clauses are added:
“(i)  “CCMDF” means the Center for Capital Market Development 
Foundation, a non-commercial state foundation organized pursuant to the 
Law of the 
Russian Federation of January 12, 1996, on Non-commercial 
Organizations, and 
operating on the basis of its Charter dated May 19, 
1997, registered on May 22, 1997, 
by Moscow Registration Chamber 
(Registration No. 65777).
(j)  “Charter” means the charter of CCMDF dated May 19, 1997, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(k) “Subsidiary Agreement” means any agreement or other 
arrangement entered into between RFCSCM, on behalf of the Borrower, and 
CCMDF 
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, as same may be 
amended from time to 
time.”
2.  
Section 3.04 is substituted with the following:
“Section 3.04. (a)  Without limitation or restriction upon the 
provisions of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause RFCSCM 
to carry out RFCSCM’s responsibilities under the Project 
with the assistance of 
CCMDF under an agreement or other arrangement  satisfactory to the Bank (the Subsidiary 
Agreement).
(b)  The Borrower shall cause RFCSCM to exercise its rights under  the 
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)  The Borrower shall cause RFCSCM to provide such staff, funds, 
facilities, and other resources required for the administration of the 
Project and 
deemed satisfactory by the Bank.”
3.  
A new Section 3.08 is added after Section 3.07 to read as follows:
“Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall cause RFCSCM to ensure that, 
until 
completion of the Project, CCMDF is adequately funded and staffed  and has the 
Page  2
facilities, services and other resources deemed necessary by 
the Bank for 
providing the required assistance under the Project.”
4.  
Section 5.01 is replaced with the following:
“Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
CCMDF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under 
the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
The Charter of CCMDF shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability 
of CCMDF to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of 
RFCSCM or CCMDF or 
for the suspension of the activities or operations of 
RFCSCM or CCMDF.”
5.
Section 5.02 is amended to read as follows:
“Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: namely, any of the events 
specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.” 
6. 
In Schedule 1, in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
allocated amount for Category (3)(a) is changed from “46,000,000” to “43,000,000”.
7.
In Schedule 1, Category (5), in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, is replaced with the following:
“(5) Operating Costs for CCMDF 
        under Part D of the Project
10,000,000
100%” 
8.  
In Schedule 1, paragraph 2, the word “and” at the end of paragraph 2 (a) is 
deleted.
The word “and” is added at the end of paragraph 2(b) and  a new 
sub-paragraph “(c)” is added to read as follows:
“(c) 
the term ‘Operating Costs’ comprises salaries and benefits 
of 
staff payable within a range for each position acceptable to the 
Bank, utility 
charges at a rate not to exceed the rate in domestic  prices payable by comparable 
organizations, locally-procured office 
equipment and supplies, costs payable in 
connection with rental of  office space, maintenance of facilities, insurance, and 
other ordinary 
and necessary costs payable by CCMDF that would be payable by 
entities 
similarly situated on the territory of the Borrower and customarily 
regarded as a cost of doing business, including administrative costs 
such as 
travel allowances”.
9.
The following sub-paragraph shall be added at the end of Paragraph 3 of Schedule 
1:
“(d)
expenditures under Category (5) of this Schedule in any 
year, 
prior to the adoption by RFCSCM and the Board of Trustees of CCMDF 
of an annual 
work plan and budget for CCMDF for the year concerned, 
acceptable to the Bank.”
10.
In Schedule 1, paragraph 4 is amended to read:
“The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statement of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods  under 
Category (1) of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, procured under 
contracts costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent; (b) expenditures for 
services under Categories (2), 
(3) and (4) of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, procured under contracts, in 
the case of firms, costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent and, in the case of 
individuals, costing less  than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) Operating Costs under 
Category (5) of 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, for any expenditures of less than 
Page  3
$50,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.”
11.
In Schedule 2, Part D, the words “and CCMDF” are added between the word “RFCSCM” 
and the word “for”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter. This amendment will become effective 
as of the date hereof upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Amendment Letter 
countersigned by you.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Michael Carter 
    Director 
    Russian Federation Country Unit 
    Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: RUSSIAN FEDERATION
/s/ A. L. Kudrin
    Authorized Representative
Date:  December 30, 1997
