               Document of
            The World Bank


                                 Report No: 55213-RU




         RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                 ON A

    PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                   OF
THE CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
            LOAN (No. 4029-RU)
               05/30/1996


                TO THE

          RUSSIAN FEDERATION


             JUNE 28, 2010
         RUSSIAN FEDERATION -- CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                   P042622
                                 (LOAN 4029)

                                              Restructuring Memo


1.     The closing date for the Russian Federation, Capital Market Development Project,
(Loan No 4029), P042622, will be extended from June 30, 2010 until November 1, 2010.

2.       The Project implementation is satisfactory, and the Project objectives continue to
be achievable. The Project has provided key backing to laying the foundations of
Russia's ambitious reform agenda (which includes as a key component the development
of Moscow into an international financial center) by providing critical support to the
institutional, legal and regulatory foundation underpinning the Russian capital markets
throughout all of its stages of development - from infancy to high performing emerging
market status. The Project has helped strengthen the regulatory framework, the market
infrastructure and the supervisory agency, Federal Financial Markets Service (FFMS),
and has been an important vehicle for the Ministry of Finance (MoF) in their broader
financial sector policy work. Further, the Project has been instrumental in laying the
foundation for the establishment of the planned Financial Agency for management of the
country's financial assets and national debt ("Russian Financial Agency"). During this
process, the MoF and the FFMS have ensured the quality of implementation toward the
achievement of the project objectives.

3.      While all the other project activities will be completed by June 30, the extension
is necessary mainly to finalize two ongoing core system assignments for the successful
completion of the market infrastructure and capacity building of the FFMS under the
Project. These two assignments include: (i) the full regional roll-out of an electronic
work-flow system in all 12 territorial offices and 34 territorial units of the Federal
Financial Markets Service (FFMS) designed to ensure automated interaction within each
of the territorial offices and their territorial units and between the FFMS and its territorial
offices, and to replace manual procedures under Part A (Regulatory Infrastructure); and
(ii) implementation of the software component for the complex financial market
monitoring system adapted to the Russian regulatory and market environment and the
needs of the FFMS under Part B (Market Architecture); as well as (iii) a small support
contract for a Senior IT Advisor supervising the implementation/installation of the above
systems. In addition, the extension is necessary for the completion of (iv) two small
ongoing contracts for the "Russian Financial Agency" under Part C (Debt Tracking
System) and (v) the necessary Loan procedural support through the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER)1 under Part D
(Project Administration).

4.      The two core assignments - the nationwide roll-out of the automated workflow
system and the automated market monitoring system (together with (iii)) - represent core
parts of the capital market regulatory infrastructure and capacity that is essential for the
FFMS to fulfill its present duties and to build upon to support the future growth of the

1
    Operations management, administration, payments, closure functions, etc. presently provided by FER.
                                                           2
market. The completion of these two assignments is also important vis-a-vis Russia's
financial center agenda, as they are at the core of the market infrastructure and FFMS's
institutional capacity to supervise and monitor the market. Both assignments have
progressed according to implementation plans, but have encountered unanticipated
challenges that would require a limited amount of extended time to make the systems
fully operative (overall 4 months). This is not uncommon in complex system
implementation processes, and ­ in fact ­ FFMS has commendably kept these extensive
assignments on schedule, even under very tight time frames. Interrupting these activities
at this crucial stage would result in serious delays in the modernization of the FFMS and
its capacity to perform its core mandatory functions. Should the proposed extension not
be approved, these assignments would need to be re-tendered in accordance with the
public procurement law of the Russian Federation (law # FZ-94) which would not allow
the continuation of existing contracts as these were not awarded under the premises of the
national legislation. A time-consuming new bidding process would need to be launched
possibly resulting in a different contractor which could in turn disrupt the successful
completion of the installation and would undermine the efforts made under the project
and affect negatively the achievement of the Project objectives.

5.       Regarding the detailed reasons for the delays experienced under (i), we note that
the FFMS headquarter components have been installed and are in operations and that the
regional roll-out of the electronic work-flow has progressed on schedule as planned. All
territorial systems have been system-tested with standard simulated data, and the required
data-migration has been implemented. However, the distinct work-flow procedural
differences that exist between regions ­ each territorial office has local specific
procedures ­ have had a larger than anticipated impact on both the adaptation of the
territorial offices systems and their connection to headquarter's systems. To that extent,
post data-migration live operational testing of the systems would need to be extended to
fully operationalize the nationwide automated workflow system with the quality level
required. The extension needed for completion of the necessary live-data testing is two
months beyond the current closing date. Without properly executed live-data operational
testing, the FFMS would not be able to rely on the system and would thus need to
maintain manual parallel procedures.

6.      Regarding the reasons for the delays experienced under (ii), while suitable and
easily adaptable market monitoring systems were deemed to be available `off-the-shelf',
the launch of the component was delayed. While purchase of the license, adaptation of
the monitoring component and knowledge transfer from the provider to FFMS are
proceeding on schedule, a crucial factor, that could not have been anticipated in the
context of drafting specifications for the assignment, is the precise data-content and
format of the data-feeds from the market places. All four stock exchanges signed
preliminary agreements to provide the necessary data-feed in the required format, and
had already started preparing for provision of the feed. However, the data-feed content
and format requirements of the selected system (for which a license was acquired) proved
to be more challenging than anticipated to the stock exchanges. They will thus need more
time (4-month extension beyond the current closing date) to adapt their feeds to the
detailed specifications.

7.     As relates to the MoF's request for extension of the two small contracts in support
of the development of the new Russian Financial Agency, it should be noted that the
sessions of the 2010 St. Petersburg International Economic Forum on Sovereign Wealth

                                            3
Funds (SWFs) and management of sovereign debt brought to bear the significant shifts
caused by the global economic crisis on the extent, type and risks of sovereign borrowing
and of investments by SWFs. Globally, the new investment profiles of SWFs have shifted
dramatically over the past year, as have the global sovereign borrowing patterns. Both
these recent developments justify additional prudential consideration of the legal and
organizational aspects of the Russian Financial Agency's activities, as well as more
detailed analysis of best international practices of SWFs' and debt agencies' functions.
To that extent, the MoF is also requesting a 2-month extension of these two contracts
beyond the current closing date.

8.     This will be CMDP's 6th and final extension. All ongoing activities will be
completed in full by the new proposed closing date while the Loan proceeds will have
been disbursed almost in full2. A time-bound action plan for deliverables has been
prepared to monitor the completion of these last contracts by the new closing date.

9.     There are no overdue audits either for the project, or for the implementing entity.
The audit for calendar year 2009 is completed; the reports will be submitted to the Bank
by the due date of June 30, 2010. Overall, project financial management arrangements
continue          to        be         satisfactory          to         the        Bank.




2
  The loan has been practically almost fully committed. The value of Bank financing of contract
commitments amounts to 96% (or $52.82 million) of the loan ($54.91 million). Of this amount, the value of
Bank financing under the ongoing contracts that would be completed during the extended period is 3% of
the loan or $1.77 million. Disbursements amount to 93% (or $50.91 million) of the loan and are expected to
increase to 96% by the extended closing date. There is an uncommitted amount of $2.09 million because
one contract is being cancelled. Because the closing date was to expire, no new activities were planned.
The cancellation will be done upon the closing date.
                                                    4
5
