 




                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR00001923



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (Loan No 4029 RU)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$89 MILLION

                                               TO

                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                             FOR A

                        CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                          May 10, 2011




Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Russia Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
 

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2011)
                           Currency Unit = Ruble
                          30 Rubles = US$ 1.00

                  FISCAL YEAR: January 1 – December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



    CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
    CCMD     Center for Capital Markets Development (PIU)
    CCP      Centralized Counter Party
    CMDP     Capital Market Development Project
    CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
    CSD      Central Securities Depository
    ETF      Exchange Traded Fund
    FER      Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (PIU)
    FFMS     Federal Financial Markets Service
    GDIS     Government Debt Information System
    GOR      Government of Russia
    IPO      Initial Public Offering
    IT       Information Technology
    ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
    MICEX    Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (one of the major securities exchanges)
    MOF      Ministry of Finance
    NASDAQ   National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations
    NRC      National Registry Company
    PAD      Project Appraisal Document
    PIU      Project Implementation Unit
    PDO      Project Development Objective
    PMG      Project Management Group
    RFCSM    Federal Commission on Securities and the Capital Markets
    RTS      Russian Trading System (one of the major securities exchanges)




                    Vice President:         Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director:         Pedro Alba
                   Sector Manager:          Sophie Sirtaine
                 Task Team Leader:          Sylvie Bossoutrot
                 ICR Team Leader:           John Pollner
                       ICR Author:          Manuel Lasaga
 


                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                           CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                             Table of Contents

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................................... 1 
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................................... 11 
3.   Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................................. 19 
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................. 29 
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................................. 30 
6.   Lessons Learned................................................................................................................................ 33 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................................... 35 
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................................... 36 
Annex 2A: Outputs by Components ......................................................................................................... 40 
Annex 2B. Summary of Key Outputs in the Legal Framework .............................................................. 50 
Annex 2C. Market Outcome Indicators ................................................................................................... 54 
Annex 2D. Comparative Market Indicators ............................................................................................. 57 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................................ 59 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process ........................................... 60 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ......................................................................................... 61 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ................................................................. 61 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR ................................................................................................... 61 
Analysis of the Degree of Sustainability of Project Achievements, Next Steps ...................................... 71 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................................. 73 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................................. 73 

TABLES
Table 1: Project Financing Plan: As per PAD and Actual Implementation ............................................. 18
Table 2: FFMS Enforcement Activity ...................................................................................................... 23
Table 3: Russian Federation: Equity Market Capitalization ..................................................................... 24
Table 4: Volume of funds raised by Russian companies through initial and secondary public offerings 25
Table 5: Russian Federation: Fixed Income Market ................................................................................. 26
Table 6: Russian Federation Unit Investment Funds ................................................................................ 26
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Capital Market
Country:                Russian Federation      Project Name:
                                                                          Development Project
Project ID:             P042622                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-40290
ICR Date:               05/12/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVT. OF RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 89.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 52.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 52.8M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
 FFMS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/23/1995     Effectiveness:             12/17/1996        12/17/1996
                                                                                  11/07/1997
                                                                                  09/25/2000
Appraisal:            11/08/1995     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  12/19/2006
                                                                                  12/23/2006
Approval:             05/30/1996     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2001        11/01/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Moderately Satisfactory



                                                i
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Capital markets                                                       17                  75
Central government administration                                     76                  15
Law and justice                                                        7                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                25                  25
International financial standards and systems                         25                  25
Legal institutions for a market economy                               25                  25
Regulation and competition policy                                     25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Pedro Alba                           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Sophie Sirtaine                      Michael A. Gould
Project Team Leader:       Sylvie K. Bossoutrot                 Juergen Otto A. Franz
ICR Team Leader:           John Daniel Pollner
ICR Primary Author:        Manuel Lasaga


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to:




                                                  ii
  (a) develop its capital market by: (i) building a comprehensive policy and legal
framework for securities; (ii) building a core institutional capacity in regulation of the
securities market and self-regulation of securities market institutions; and (iii) improving
the efficiency, transparency and systemic stability of the securities market; and

 (b) establish a federal debt and risk management system.

 I. Comments on the PDO indicators:

 A. PDO Indicator 1:

  Equity market capitalization grew more strongly than expected and actually reached
99.8% at end-2007 before declining. The same occurred with market turnover which at
times has been affected by temporary volatility based on external global shocks (e.g.:
financial crises) which affect Russia as an emerging market; nevertheless, its increasing
trend has also been favorably correlated with greater market liquidity. While still not as
high as that of advanced country standards, the market capitalization is at par with the
BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) economies. The temporary nature of the recent
crisis-related setback should also be noted, as the Russian market index, after losing 70%
of its value in the wake of the 2008-09 crisis climbed back to close to its all-time high
value at the start of 2011. Similarly, Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) of stocks peaked in
2007 (with 29 new issues) and have not matched that level since, although it should also
be noted that a large number of new IPOs are currently planned reflecting improved
market conditions, as well as the new Government Privatization program of large
strategic state-owned enterprises. While these positive developments are noteworthy,
the equity market in Russia still remains, both in terms of market capitalization and
turnover, concentrated in a few very large oil & gas companies, financial institutions,
producers of natural resources and basic metals manufacturers, and has not yet become a
significant source of capital for a broader range of Russian firms.

 B. PDO Indicator 2:

  The recent upturn in the corporate bond market is a signal of renewed investor
confidence in the credit quality of Russian firms following the challenges faced during
the global financial crisis. The build-up in international reserves in the years prior to the
global downturn helped Russia avert a financial meltdown. During 2010 issuers of debt
were once again able to tap the securities market to finance their investments. The
increase in new debt offerings is also attributed to government initiatives to facilitate the
raising of debt by reducing placement costs as well as shortening the time to initial
market placement.

 II. Intermediate Outcome Indicators:

  1. Amendments to the Joint-Stock-Company Law dealing with investors# rights and
securities issuance to set IPO procedures in accordance with international standards.




                                             iii
  2. Amendments to FFMS administrative norms to strengthen enforcement mechanisms
including notably increasing monetary penalties involved in civil cases.
  3. Amendments to the Securities Market Law on disclosure in order to strengthen
standards of transparency.
  4. Assistance in the development of Corporate Governance Legislation (2000).
  5. Revisions to the Law on Collective Investment Schemes in 2001 affecting numerous
types of investment funds followed by substantial revisions in 2007.
  6. Law on derivates which addresses the organization of trading and clearing involving
equities and equity derivates.
  7. Amendments to laws on investment funds including asset management companies.
  8. Law on insider-trading and price manipulation establishing the criteria for
determining when violations occur and giving the regulator greater authority in obtaining
information directly from the parties involved.
  9. Improvement in the regulation of professional securities market participants.
  10. Amendments to the Securities Law affecting new and secondary public offerings.
  11. Legislative changes to the Securities Law and other legislation to introduce new
financial instruments and services.
  12. Draft law on a Central Securities Depository (CSD) which establishes the standards
of cooperation between a single CSD and all other market participants.
  13. Changes to the tax code to incentivize investments in the securities markets.
  14. Protection of bond holders# rights in the eventuality of default by establishing
mechanisms for their representation individually or as a group.

 A. Comments on Intermediate Outcome Indicators:

  Outputs were achieved. The new laws and regulatory directives had complex
relationships among them and following the drafting of new securities laws other laws
were identified for amendment to ensure internally consistent treatment of capital market
operations, hence the large number of laws and regulations requiring drafting and
approval. Nevertheless, the effective application of these laws and regulations still needs
to be strengthened.

 NOTE:

  The list of Restructurings in Section H is not correct due to a system glitch. It is being
completed and it will be included in the printed version of the ICR.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                            iv
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                Increase in equity market capitalization as a percentage of GDP (as supported by
Indicator 1 : the establishment of a stable securities market regulatory framework and further
                transparency in issuance procedures and supervisory monitoring of the market)
                                                                45% (target to
                                                                be achieved by
                                                                mid-2010).
Value
                                                                Established
quantitative or 17%                         n/a                                 59%
                                                                during
Qualitative)
                                                                conversion to
                                                                ISR from PSR
                                                                reporting.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/17/1996          05/24/2005      12/31/2009
Comments
                Please see comments above under PDO (from Project Appraisal document)
(incl. %
                Section I.-A. due to system space limitations here.
achievement)
                Corporate bond market capitalization as a percentage of GDP (based on
Indicator 2 : implementation of a regulatory and supervisory framework on bond issuance
                and establishment of government benchmark issuances)
                                                                2.5% (target to
                                                                be achieved by
                                                                mid-2010).
Value
                                                                Established
quantitative or 0.5%                        n/a                                 5.2%
                                                                during
Qualitative)
                                                                conversion to
                                                                ISR from PSR
                                                                reporting.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/17/1996          05/24/2005      12/31/2009
Comments
                Please see comments above under PDO (from Project Appraisal document)
(incl. %
                section I.-B., due to system space limitations here.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                Existence/approval of new laws and regulatory directives for enhancing the
Indicator 1 : securities market operations (see list of laws and regulatory directives under
                PDO (from Project Appraisal Document) section II. above)
Value           Existence/approval of
(quantitative   new laws and regulatory n/a                  n/a             96% met
or Qualitative) directives for enhancing


                                               v
              the securities market
              operations
Date achieved 12/31/2000              06/01/1996       06/30/2007     06/30/2010
Comments
              Please see comments above under PDO (from Project Appraisal Document)
(incl. %
              section II.-A. above.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                      IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    06/07/1996         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    01/15/1997         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    0.00
  3    06/25/1997         Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  4    03/18/1998         Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                   3.25
  5    03/19/1998         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    3.25
  6    08/04/1998         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    5.06
  7    03/15/1999        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   7.92
  8    12/29/1999        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 10.96
  9    06/30/2000        Unsatisfactory           Satisfactory                  14.09
 10    12/05/2000         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  16.51
 11    06/14/2001         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  19.41
 12    12/26/2001         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  22.47
 13    06/28/2002         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  25.19
 14    12/20/2002         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  25.78
 15    06/25/2003         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  28.81
 16    12/16/2003         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  37.52
 17    06/08/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  39.14
 18    12/08/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  39.87
 19    05/24/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  40.62
 20    01/31/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  41.35
 21    06/22/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  42.67
 22    05/08/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  45.75
 23    06/27/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  47.24
 24    04/29/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  49.59
 25    02/02/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  50.93
 26    10/25/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  53.03


H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring       Board     ISR Ratings at  Amount        Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)         Approved   Restructuring Disbursed at       Key Changes Made




                                           vi
               PDO Change               Restructuring
                            DO   IP        in USD
                                          millions
                                                        Note: System data is not
                                                        accurate on restructurings.
                                                        Word version of ICR document
                                                        will include accurate rendition
  11/07/1997       N        S    U            0.00
                                                        of actual restructurings, dates
                                                        and rationale, on text data sheet.
                                                        ICR document text refers to
                                                        these.
  09/25/2000                S    S           14.62
  12/19/2006                S    S           43.28
  12/23/2006                S    S           43.28




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii
 

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
 
1.1    Context at Appraisal

Macroeconomic environment
1.       The break-up of the Soviet Union in 1990 and the transformation from central planning to
market coordination in Russia was difficult and associated with high social costs. According to
the Bank’s CAS in 1997, Russia's transition to a market economy had been both wrenching and
chaotic, involving changes more disruptive by an order of magnitude than those experienced by
most transition economies. Implementation of reforms fluctuated from boldly market-oriented
(e.g., capital markets development) to being captured by vested interest groups (e.g., case-by-
case privatization) to near total stagnation (e.g., agriculture). This high rate of variability in the
reform process inevitably produced misunderstanding and skepticism, both domestically and
externally, about Russia's development potential and ability to maintain a coherent economic
program.

2.      The world's largest privatization program ensured a large and irreversible shift to the
private sector, but the process was widely perceived as flawed and biased in favor of government
and industry insiders. Price liberalization and high levels of subsidies for enterprises created high
rates of inflation for a protracted period (1992-1995), while output and real income plummeted.
Output did not recover, and large scale capital flight added to Russia's economic woes.

3.      A few sectors of the Russian economy, especially those dealing with finance and trade,
managed to expand during the transition, but large portions of the economy remained stalled in a
web of slack production, depressed investment, and inter-enterprise arrears. Manufacturing
industries, particularly engineering products and textiles, had been the most affected by the deep
economic recession, while export-oriented sectors such as energy and metallurgy had been
relatively more successful.

4.      The accumulated stock of foreign direct investment since 1991 equaled roughly $6 billion
in early-1997, well below the experience of eastern European countries such as Poland and
Hungary. Even in the oil sector, where there was initially strong interest by foreign investors,
foreign direct investment had reached only $1.6 billion and declined in absolute terms between
1993 and 1995. Russia's inability to attract new foreign investment in oil production reflected
serious deficiencies in the policy framework for foreign investment.

5.      During 1996, the Government reached agreements with the Paris and London Clubs on a
multi-year debt rescheduling program for about $72 billion of Soviet-era external debt,
representing roughly 70 percent of the outstanding stock. In addition, the Government received
an internationally recognized credit rating in October 1996 and made its debut in the Eurobond
market, successfully placing a five-year bond issue for $1 billion at 345 basis points above 5-
year US Treasuries.




                                                  1
 

Capital markets
6.      Russian securities markets began operations in 1992 with the launching of the mass
privatization program and the distribution of tradable privatization vouchers to every Russian
citizen. With mass privatization completed (in mid-1994), there were some 15,000 joint-stock
companies with an estimated 40 million shareholders, the world's largest capital market on both
counts. There were more than 60 licensed exchanges, 600 licensed investment funds, 1,000
registered broker/dealers and a developing over-the-telephone and curb-side secondary share
market. It was estimated that 80% of trading volume was executed in Moscow and that 90% of
all volume nationwide was non-exchange trading. Trading in Russian stocks was initially driven
by foreign investment, although there was a growing participation of Russian institutions, mostly
banks, in the securities market.

7.      On the other hand, primary share issuance in Russia had been limited, but since the
cessation of soft government credits at the beginning of 1995 there had been noticeable interest
by Russian companies in raising capital through the issuance of securities. Further advances in
capital market regulation and institutions, as well as increased public and international
confidence were needed before Russian enterprises would be able to obtain significant financial
resources from the securities markets. While the first phase of promoting capital market
development focused on facilitating voucher-based privatization, the second phase was
envisioned as building a capital market that would be integrated with the wider financial system
and support the private sector’s needs for raising capital for investments.

8.      Until late 1994, markets had to function amidst a proliferation of sometimes
contradictory regulations emanating from and often haphazardly enforced by more than five
separate government agencies. This led to the establishment in November 1994 of the Russian
Federal Commission on Securities and the Capital Market (RFCSM) with broad jurisdiction for
capital market regulation and development; the emergence of broker/dealer associations
operating on an over-the-counter trading system in four cities (Moscow, St. Petersburg,
Ekaterinburg, and Novosibirsk) with automated quotations using modified software created by
NASDAQ in the US; and the establishment of the National Registry Company (NRC) in 1995, a
large-issue shareholders' registry. A Law on Securities was passed by the Duma, the Russian
Parliament, on March 20, 1996. The most important aspect of this law was that it gave legislative
status to many rules and procedures that previously existed only in the form of Presidential
Decrees. It also provided RFCSCM with the necessary jurisdiction to become an effective
regulator of the Russian securities industry.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
9.     The CMDP, which was approved by the Bank’s Board in May 1996, was originally
designed to support the second stage of the Government of Russia’s capital markets development
program. Following completion of the first stage -- mass privatization -- the second stage of the
program was to focus on building a sustainable capital market integrated with the wider financial
system.

10.     According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the development objective of the
project was to support the Government's program for capital market development which
focused on increasing the efficiency of capital accumulation and allocation. The Project’s
specific objectives were to (i) build a comprehensive policy and legal framework for the
securities market; (ii) build a core institutional capacity in regulation of the market and self-
                                                2
 

regulation by market institutions and associations; (iii) upgrade the market architecture to
improve the efficiency, transparency and systematic stability of securities market; and (iv)
establish a federal debt and risk management system.

11.     Project outcomes and results were to be monitored through a set of well-defined
indicators, although the metrics for their measurement had not yet been sufficiently refined at the
time of Board presentation. As per the Technical Annex of the PAD, the outcome indicators
were grouped into four areas of achievement: strengthening of market efficiency through greater
information disclosure and contract enforcement; reduction in transaction costs through greater
transparency; improvement in corporate governance practices; and better management of
government debt securities markets. The outcome indicators defined for each of these areas were
to consist of quantitative and qualitative measures, including an assessment of the effectiveness
of the policy and legal reforms as viewed by private sector market participants. The indicators
described in the PAD which are grouped into two general Project areas were as follows:

I. Regulatory Framework and Market Architecture
Contract enforcement and information costs
   a. The trend in the number of public offers of securities providing complete and timely
      information;

    b. the trend in the number of public companies publishing complete and timely financial
       reports;

    c. the trend in the number of civil claims for damages arising from breach of contract
       related to securities transactions; and

    d. the efficiency and effectiveness of the resolution of civil claims.

Fraud, misinformation and manipulation externalities
   a. the trend in the number of significant incidents of fraud, misinformation and market
       manipulation;

    b. the trend in the effectiveness of the government response to such incidents (cease orders,
       license suspension and revocation, criminal prosecution); and

    c. the trend in the number and effectiveness of self regulatory organizations (sub-sectoral
       coverage, adequacy of rules and enforcement capacity).

Price discovery mechanism and corporate governance incentives
   a. the trend in secondary market liquidity; and

    b. the trend in the proportion of total secondary market trading occurring on authorized
       over-the-counter markets or stock exchanges compared to off-market trading.

II. Government Securities Tracking System
    a. The capability of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to float domestic securities offerings,
       account for receipts, project debt service requirements, and monitor the domestic
       Government securities market.
                                                 3
 



12.     For each of these areas the achievement of outcomes was also to be measured by a
qualitative assessment of the impact of improvements in the policy and legal framework on
transaction costs and of self-regulatory capacity on misallocation and withholding of investments
as expressed by knowledgeable market participants in an organized survey. This was
subsequently accomplished by face-to-face interviews during the ICR mission.

13.     Subsequent Bank and Commission (RFCSM/FFMS) discussions during 2002 led to the
identification of specific indicators to measure the development impact of the Project derived
from the original objectives and outcome indicators in the project documents. 1 While the
discussion on the choice of appropriate measures of impact continued, it was agreed that the
following indicators would be monitored during the remaining period of the loan when their
underlying data was available or feasible to collect:

            Volume of new capital raised in the market (excluding federal government securities);
            Increase in assets under management by collective investment schemes;
            Number of Russian companies publicly disclosing IAS financial statements;
            Trends in secondary market liquidity;
            Volume of trading in organized exchanges compared to off-market trading; and
            The trends in market capitalization relative to GDP.

14.     These indicators were closely related if not the same as those in the PAD and were
considered to represent a narrower cause and effect relation between the specific sector trends
and project outputs. As agreed these indicators were tracked during the remaining period of the
Project and are shown in Annex 2C of this report.

Main Beneficiaries
15.    The primary target groups for this project were: the RFCSM/FFMS; the Ministry of
Finance (MOF); intermediaries directly involved in the trading of securities; and investors, both
domestic and foreign.

16.      RFCSCM/FFMS was expected to benefit from new rules and regulatory standards in the
principal areas where the agency had jurisdictional responsibilities. The Project also aimed to
strengthen its institutional capacity in developing financial sector policies, monitoring of market
activities, enforcing market rules, facilitating the access to capital markets by corporations, and
implementing public relations campaigns to inform both domestic and foreign investors about
the Russian capital markets.

17.     The benefits accruing to the MOF were expected to include an upgrade of its public debt
management system in order to strengthen the Government’s domestic debt operations through
the issuance, trading, and servicing of government securities and thus its financing structure.



                                                       
1
  As part of an administrative reform by the Government, the securities market regulatory agency - the Federal
Commission on Securities and the Capital Market (RFCSM) - was renamed in 2004 as the Federal Financial
Markets Service (FFMS). For this reason the securities exchange commission is referred to in Section 1 of this
report by the dual acronyms: RFCSM/FFMS
                                                          4
 

18.     Market intermediaries and self-regulatory organizations (SRO) such as securities
exchanges, broker/dealers, asset management companies, mutual funds, securities registries,
clearinghouses, settlement organizations and securities depositories were to benefit from the
improvements in the market architecture supported by this project. These developments would in
turn promote the growth of institutional investing and portfolio management.

19.     By facilitating the raising of capital and the trading of securities in the secondary market,
thus contributing to greater liquidity and lower transactions costs, the activities financed by this
project were expected to improve long-term economic growth through greater investment
expenditures by private sector companies as a result of increased access to the capital market,
and the higher growth of the economy would in turn benefit the investor as well as non-investor
population.

1.3    Original Project Components
20.    In order to achieve its objectives, the Project was designed with the following major
output components:

(A) Regulatory Infrastructure (75% of project costs)
21.    Build a comprehensive policy and regulatory framework for capital markets
development, including building RFCSM/FFMS’s capacity in regulation that included the
following sub-categories:

    (i)   the building of the institutional capacity of its Moscow-based head office and a network
          of ten regional offices through policy and organizational planning advice and staff
          training;

    (ii) the provision of hardware and software and office equipment to support the
         RFCSCM/FFMS in the performance of its functions, including management and
         administration, and a data base of corporate information; and

    (iii) support for key regulatory programs, such as, legal reform, including strategic and
          policy-level advice, and production of draft laws and decrees; enforcement, licensing
          and prospectus review, including strategic and policy level advice, and detailed
          operational advice and program implementation; and public education, including
          workshops, publications and media releases for market professionals, and a shareholder
          rights program.




                                                  5
 

(B) Market Architecture (18%)
22.    This component was to provide services and computer hardware, software and
telecommunications equipment for the start-up phase of private sector organizations providing
secondary market trading services such as:

    (i) the Russian Trading System (RTS) over-the-counter market;
    (ii) the Vladivostok International Stock Exchange; and
    (iii) other exchanges.

23.    It was also designed to support the start-up phase of not-for-profit organizations
providing clearance, settlement, and registration services:

    (i) the Depository Clearing Company in Moscow;
    (ii) the Primorsky Central Securities Depository;
    (iii) other regional clearance and settlement organizations; and
    (iv) the Registrar Support Center.

(C) Government Securities Tracking System (3%)
24.    This component was to provide services and computer hardware and software to design
and establish, within the MOF, a debt tracking system for securities issued by the Russian
Federation Government.

25.     Implementation of the CMDP was assigned to two Government agencies: Parts A and B
were under the auspices of the RFCSM/FFMS and Part C of the Ministry of Finance. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was established under RFCSM/FFMS as a separate entity known as
CCMD (Center for Capital Markets Development). The PIU for Part C of the Project was
established within an existing Government entity, Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
(FER), which served as a specialized procurement agency that handled many of the World Bank
projects in the country. As explained in a subsequent section of this report, the CCMD was
eventually disbanded and its functions were transferred to FER.

From Project Outputs to Expected Benefits
26.     The regulatory infrastructure component, through the introduction of new market rules
and regulations and their enforcement, as well as gains in operational efficiencies of
RFCSM/FFMS with greater emphasis on good corporate governance, improved information
disclosure, and the creation of new and improved design of existing investment products, was
expected to generate greater investor interest in the capital markets. An effective regulatory
infrastructure was to result in greater volume of new securities offerings and consequently
greater secondary market trading, leading to an increase in assets under management and greater
efficiencies in capital accumulation.

27.     The upgrade in the quality of the securities market architecture was expected to increase
liquidity and lower transaction costs. An upgrade of trading technologies at the major securities
exchanges combined with improvements in the clearing and settlement of trades were expected
to deepen market liquidity as investors gain confidence in the efficiency and the finality of each
transaction. With greater liquidity institutional investors would also be able to manage a larger
volume of investment funds offering greater diversification of securities. Increased efficiency
was thus expected to support market growth and development.
                                                 6
 



28.     A system to track the Russian Federation’s internal debt was anticipated to enhance the
MOF’s capabilities for managing its domestic debt operations and for maintaining efficient and
reliable market operations in the largest segment of Russia’s capital market. In addition, a unified
accounting system for government securities was to facilitate the construction of a reference
yield curve used by market participants as a benchmark for the yields of other financial
instruments. Thus the output of this component was also expected to increase the efficiency of
capital accumulation and allocation.

1.4    Revised PDO
  Not applicable.

1.5     Revised Components
29.     Under the government securities component, a sub-component was added involving the
review of the feasibility and the requirements for establishing a government agency to manage
government debt as well the assets in the government’s sovereign wealth funds. Besides its own
merits, this was relevant given the influence of government debt as well as sovereign asset
management in the overall composition and structure of Russia’s securities markets.
 
1.6     Other significant changes
30.     During its implementation the Project underwent some changes in scope and operational
arrangements although these did not alter the original objectives or the three major components
as described earlier above.

Reduction of loan amount
31.     Implementation of the project was significantly impacted by the financial crisis of August
1998. In addition to the collapse of the commercial banking sector, the crisis revealed the
dependency of a functional capital market on a stable banking system, and on confidence in the
good value of Government securities. Following the financial crisis, the Government and the
Bank agreed to carry out an assessment of the situation which was articulated in a Policy Note
entitled "Re-Birth and Development Perspectives for the Russian Capital Market", completed in
December 1999 and discussed with the Government in March 2000.

32.     While the overall project development objectives remained valid, the Bank and the
Government agreed to restructure the Project and adjust its sub-components to address acute,
near-term needs for development of the capital market. A conclusion of the Policy Note was that
the most critical issues in the post-1998 crisis were to improve market regulation and corporate
governance. At the same time, with the delays in getting the Project off the ground other bilateral
and donor agencies had been providing support in the area of market infrastructure, notably for
the development of trading platforms and share registrars. It was thus agreed to focus less on the
activities related to the development of the physical market architecture (trading and security
registry, depository and transfer systems, etc.) and focus instead on major constraints to market
development in the area of corporate governance and regulation.

33.    Subsequent to the Policy Note and further discussions on the economic / financial
environment and their implications for the project, the MOF, RFCSM/FFMS, and the Bank
agreed to reduce the CMDP loan amount. An Amendment to the CMDP Loan Agreement to

                                                 7
 

implement the Project restructuring became effective in September 2000. The Amendment
included a partial cancellation of the Loan that reduced it from $89 million to $55.25 million.

Government’s administrative reform
34.     In March 2004, the Government of the Russian Federation carried out a comprehensive
administrative reform. The former Securities Regulator - the RFCSM - was abolished and a new
Service - the Federal Financial Markets Service (FFMS) - was created in its place. The FFMS
inherited the supervisory functions of the previous regulator (registration of securities issues,
monitoring of information disclosure, control of professional market participants, investment
funds' activities, self-regulating organizations and securities exchanges). Its mandate was also
expanded to include legal and regulatory responsibility for all segments of the financial market
with the exception of banking, sovereign and sub-sovereign bonds primary issuance, insurance,
and audit.

35.    In May 2004, the Bank sent an Amendment response accepting the FFMS as the
successor of the rights and responsibilities of the RFCSM for the purpose of the Loan
Agreement, and authorizing the reallocation of funds between Loan Components which resulted
in a modest net reduction in the total amount of the Loan from $55.25 million to $54.91 million.

Broadening of project activities
36.      During 2005 global financial markets including emerging markets and Russia in
particular had experienced a significant increase in volatility which was expected to continue, if
not increase. Consequently, the FFMS had been shifting the focus of its market development
efforts, not only to the improvement of the market infrastructure, but especially of 1) the safety
nets (investor compensation schemes); 2) the availability of non-partial market information
(rating agencies); 3) the improved practices in service of retail clientele; 4) capacity building
among market professionals (Russian Securities and Investment Institute) and 5) improving its
own capacity and tools in market monitoring.

37.     In 2006 the Government requested an additional two-year extension through December
31, 2008 in order to undertake a series of follow-up and new activities to be carried out under the
FFMS and the MOF in response to new important developments that had occurred in the global
financial markets. The new activities to be undertaken under the umbrella of the FFMS included
studies, advisory and TA services in the following areas:

       Compensation schemes in the financial market;
       Retail services in the financial market;
       Central Securities Depository framework;
       Corporate governance and insider information laws/regulations;
       Implementation of the prudential supervision and market risk monitoring component
        presently in the design phase;

38.     Some of the added activities under the umbrella of the MOF went beyond debt
management proper as originally envisioned under the project to address a wider spectrum of
issues facing the development of Russian financial markets. They included studies, advisory and
TA services in the following areas:


                                                 8
 


            Setting up an automated system for accounting of government debt/financial assets;
            Methodology for analyzing risks related to government debt;
            Strategy for management of an independent Financial Agency to manage Government
             assets / liabilities, including the resources of the National Wealth Funds;
            Development of the Banking Sector Strategy for 2009-2015;
            Other TA and studies in area of financial sector policy under the jurisdiction of the MOF
             including liberalization of the domestic insurance and banking sectors and enabling
             legislation to regulate cross-border insolvency of credit organizations.

39.     In addition to using the undisbursed funds remaining under the Loan, the Borrower
proposed an increase in the level of co-financing of $15.9 million of its own budgetary resources
to fund the proposed new activities.

40.      Since the changes did not materially affect the PDOs, the Project description was
amended to allow addressing the expanded issues facing Russian capital markets. A detailed
Project Paper describing the Project history, sector developments and rationale for broadened
activities was prepared in support of the Restructuring package.2 This was done in line with
Bank policy, under the guidelines pertaining to Second-order restructurings whereby project
design or implementation arrangements can be modified if an opportunity to increase project
development impact arises within the scope of the original PDOs.

Transfer of the PIU
41.     The PIU function had originally been assumed by CCMD which was established as an
extension of RFCSM/FFMS for the implementation of the CMDP. CCMD experienced its ups
and downs in managing the Project, particularly procurement delays. When MOF proposed an
expansion of Project activities in 2006, it also requested the transfer of the PIU function for that
component to FER which as noted above was a large project management unit which had been
created by the Government to administer Bank projects in Russia. The Bank subsequently
recommended and RFCSM/FFMS concurred to also transfer the Project management functions
of CCMD to FER in order to take advantage of increased operational efficiencies and economies
of scale, notably in terms of office space rental and PIU administrative costs.

Extensions of closing dates
42.     CMDP which was approved by the Board in 1996 was originally scheduled to close in
2001. It was extended five times to allow for completion of critical activities which were delayed
as a result of the following combination of exogenous and Project-specific activities:

       i.           the disruptions caused by the 1998 financial crisis as well as the 2001, and 2008-09
                    crises which renewed the project’s relevance in strengthening financial market
                    oversight and developing new supervisory risk management methods;

       ii.          the slow 1998 post-crisis resumption of Project activities, related in part to the fiscal
                    shocks which affected government matching financing (see point iv below);



                                                       
2
     Russia: Capital Markets Development Project – Project Paper 
                                                           9
 

    iii.   difficulties and delays encountered in the procurement of complex IT packages;
           where the Bank could not disengage after the process had begun and complex reviews
           were underway;

    iv.    inadequate levels of budgetary co-financing and disbursement ceilings imposed by
           the MOF under Bank Projects in 2003 in an effort to streamline foreign borrowing;

    v.     the complete overhaul of the administrative apparatus initiated by President Putin in
           2004 which led to the dissolution of the RFCSM and establishment of FFMS;

    vi.    expansion of the Project scope by FFMS and MOF in 2006 as described above some
           of which proved to be helpful in addressing concerns regarding the 2008 financial
           crisis; and

    vii.   transfer in 2007 of the fiduciary functions of the PIU from the CCMD to FER, a mega
           PIU with long experience in managing Bank projects, which inevitably created some
           disruption in Project activities.

43.     While some of the factors above could have been considered as a reason for closing the
project and starting a new project with new agencies and updated mandates, the disruption this
would have caused in the ongoing activities and the dialogue maintained by the Bank, would
have outweighed potential benefits. In addition, even though the repeated financial crises
periods (1998, 2001, and 2009) limited counterpart funding at times, they also generated
increased demand for project technical advice to strengthen institutional capacities for
developing and implementing regulations and supervisory methods relevant to greater financial
sector risks made apparent from the onset of such crises.

44.     Starting in 2006, the project restructurings cum extensions were also guided by Bank
internal guidelines on circumstances that justify restructuring of investment projects (Processing
Restructuring of Investment Projects - Guidelines for Staff) as well as strategic considerations
related to the importance of maintaining an active financial sector dialogue with a systemically
important country. More specifically, the Project was extended with a view to addressing:

     (i) Changes in country policies and priorities requiring that the project design be adjusted
     to accommodate new realities. The position of the Russian Government starting 2006 was
     to streamline Government borrowing in light of its increasing budget revenues and surpluses
     generated by fast increasing oil prices. At the same time, the Government was eager to
     receive continued Bank support in the area of financial market development and regulation
     to address important second generation systemic issues and to use CMDP as a vehicle with
     proven effectiveness on both development and fiduciary grounds to channel its own
     budgetary resources. Hence, the rationale for the Government’s requests to extend CMDP
     with added co-financing, rather than to request a new follow-up operation.

     (ii) Opportunity to increase project development impact and sustainability by adjusting the
     project design and changing resource allocation under a well performing project, including
     taking advantage of emerging unforeseen positive outcomes. The expanded scope of
     activities requested by the Government allowed the project to address important emerging
     financial sector issues related to the sound development of the fast expanding Russian
                                                10
 

     capital market. The project extensions also provided an important and unique strategic
     platform for the Bank to remain engaged in the financial sector and help address the
     substantial vulnerability that continued to affect the sector as highlighted by the deep
     disruptions that ensued following the 1998 crisis. The remaining CMDP funding also
     allowed the government to prepare strategically important follow-up operations designed to
     increase investor protection, transparency and risk management, such as the Financial
     Education and Financial Literacy Project (approved by the Board in December 2010) and
     the follow up Financial Sector Development and Strengthening Project currently under
     preparation.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
45.    The design of the CMDP addressed the challenges faced by the capital markets in the
post-voucher privatization phase in terms of the need to enhance market efficiency and
improving good corporate governance. Most importantly the appraisal document stressed the
importance of continuity in financial sector reforms.

46.     The Project was consistent with the CAS discussed by the Board on June 6, 1995; and
with a CAS Progress Report that was discussed by the Board on March 28, 1996. The Project’s
design was in sync with key CAS objectives of: (i) the development of public sector institutions
and regulations supportive of open and competitive markets, and oriented toward the provision
of legal and institutional infrastructure not normally provided through the private sector; and (ii)
support for the development of a market-oriented economy based on private sector initiatives.
The objectives of the CAS also emphasized economic growth with the capital markets serving as
a catalyst of investment-led growth.

47.     The current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) which was completed in June 30, 2009
and recently extended to 2011 emphasizes the Government’s three overarching priorities of
economic growth and diversification, human development, and regional development. The
Project’s goal of increasing capital accumulation and allocation is an integral part of any strategy
to encourage economic growth and diversification particularly in segments of the market where
the private sector continues to be underserved such as in access to the financial markets as a
source of capital for business expansion and as an opportunity for investors.

48.     Lessons learned from the experience of transitional economies led to the focus of the
Project on building the policy and regulatory underpinnings of the financial markets and on
fostering private sector cooperation in the development of industry standards. The Project
established early clarity and agreement as to fundamental areas to be addressed and then allowed
for flexibility in implementation to take account of changing circumstances. Such an approach
also called for the Bank to adopt closer supervision during implementation and a more proactive
approach to challenges and opportunities.

49.     The Project objectives were somewhat ambitious but not unrealistic since at the time of
Board approval the capital market was just moving beyond the early stages of development and
market capitalization represented less than 10 percent of GDP. However the market architecture
and government debt components were more challenging. The fragmented nature of the clearing
and settlement process and the large number of stakeholders involved made obtaining a
                                                11
 

consensus more difficult. The Government position regarding the type of market architecture
was not clarified sufficiently at the time of project design. The design of the Government debt
component may also not have been clearly understood as was subsequently demonstrated by the
long delay in activating this component.

50.     Risk assessment focused appropriately on the micro-economic issues affecting the
development of the financial sector in a transitional economy. However, the economic collapse
caused by the so-called “shock” program in the 1990s and the financial crisis in 1998 triggered
by serious public debt problems were major setbacks to the development of the capital markets.
This in turn contributed to the delays in implementation of the Government debt component.
Following the default in 1998, the oil windfall during the following decade and surge in fiscal
revenues allowed the Government to pre-pay its external debt and to rely on a limited issuance of
debt in the domestic market.

51.     While the appraisal underscored some of the risks of the project, the analysis did not
explicitly contemplate the high degree of uncertainty associated with the macroeconomic
environment. Greater emphasis on the macroeconomic environment and its linkages to the
financial sector may have been helpful in guiding the design of the Project. This may have
considered, for example, including regulatory lessons from other countries that experienced
financial/economic shocks, and designing risk management measures to address market
downturns as well as policies for enhanced liquidity support to reactivate markets.

2.2     Major Factors Affecting Implementation
52.     During its long duration, implementation of the Project faced hurdles, global as well as
domestic economic/financial crises, procurement delays, lack of agreement on outputs for some
sub-components; nevertheless, both implementing agencies and the Bank maintained a high level
of commitment and strong ownership in the key areas of the three principal components, along
with close supervision in order to keep the Project on track. As explained earlier, numerous
amendments were needed in order to extend the duration of the Project. In light of these
developments and in order to better understand the implementation factors, this section first
outlines the key outputs of the Project followed by an assessment of their implementation.
 
Key Project Outputs

Regulatory Framework Component – Legal
53.     One of the Project’s principal contributions was to support the enactment of numerous
capital markets laws, amendments and regulations through the hiring of legal experts that served
as advisors to FFMS. Key regulatory reforms supported by the Project are summarized as
follows (Additional details on these new laws and amendments are provided in Annex 2B):

    1. Amendments to the Joint-Stock-Company Law dealing with investors’ rights and
       securities issuance to set IPO procedures in accordance with international standards.

    2. Amendments to FFMS administrative norms to strengthen enforcement mechanisms
       including notably increasing monetary penalties involved in civil cases.

    3. Amendments to the Securities Market Law on disclosure in order to strengthen standards
       of transparency.
                                                12
 



    4. Assistance in the development of Corporate Governance Legislation (2000).

    5. Revisions to the Law on Collective Investment Schemes in 2001 affecting numerous
       types of investment funds followed by substantial revisions in 2007.

    6. Law on derivates which addresses the organization of trading and clearing involving
       equities and equity derivates.

    7. Amendments to laws on investment funds including asset management companies.

    8. Law on insider-trading and price manipulation establishing the criteria for determining
       when violations occur and giving the regulator greater authority in obtaining information
       directly from the parties involved.

    9. Improvement in the regulation of professional securities market participants.

    10. Amendments to the Securities Law affecting new and secondary public offerings.

    11. Legislative changes to the Securities Law and other legislation to introduce new financial
        instruments and services.

    12. Draft law on a Central Securities Depository (CSD) which establishes the standards of
        cooperation between a single CSD and all other market participants.

    13. Changes to the tax code to incentivize investments in the securities markets.

    14. Protection of bond holders’ rights in the eventuality of default by establishing
        mechanisms for their representation individually or as a group.

54.     Other Project outputs contributed directly to the legal framework through studies on
domestic and international practices in selected areas of the capital markets which in turn led to
recommendations for legal reform. These other sub-projects included a study to introduce
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and consistent accounting and auditing rules; a study
on taxation reform; and an assessment of the IOSCO recommendations on disclosure in
comparison to practices in the Russian market.

Regulatory Framework Component – FFMS IT System
55.      One of the principal strategic initiatives in building the institutional capacity of the FFMS
was to equip the Commission with an integrated information system composed of hardware,
software and telecommunications facilities in order to enhance its effectiveness as a regulator.
An assessment of FFMS’s IT needs was conducted by Booz Allen & Hamilton and completed in
2000 along with a proposed blueprint for upgrading its IT architecture. The purpose of the
system was to support the automation of the Commission’s core business functions (including
companies’ share issuance registration, licensing of market participants, monitoring of
information disclosure and market participants’ operations and handling of complaints) and to
roll it out across the regional FFMS offices.

                                                 13
 

56.     The upgrade of the IT system was carried out in three stages. The first stage was
completed in April 2002 with the acquisition of new server equipment and PCs. The second
stage which involved the purchase of telecommunications equipment was delayed due to the
Bank’s concern over transparency of the procurement process; but after an investigation which
did not yield conclusive evidence of wrongdoing in this procurement activity the equipment was
finally delivered in November 2003. Implementation of the third stage experienced unfortunate
procedural delays and temporary suspension of contracting activities. Eventually procurement
issues dealing with the development of the software components were resolved in 2008 and work
on stage three was completed in 2010. The full roll-out of the new system in FFMS headquarters
and all the regional offices was launched in October 2010.

57.     Based on the results from an initial pilot of the IT system in the Nizhny Novgorod
Regional office the following productivity improvements were noted: the number of routine
statutory off-site checks increased from 700 in 2008 to 1,800 in 2009; the level of compliance in
information disclosure rose from 47% before to 85% after the new system was installed; and the
average handling time for routine off-site inspections was cut from 11 to 4 months.

Regulatory Framework Component – FFMS Institutional Support: Enforcement
58.     In order to enhance regulators’ enforcement capacity, detailed customized operational
guidelines on how to detect and investigate market offenses were developed; various
enforcement agencies involved in securities market oversight and supervision were trained on the
latest supervisory practices and investor education materials informing investors of their rights
and recourse were developed for distribution. Within the FFMS – IT sub-component various
software systems were installed for market surveillance and the enforcement division was trained
on their utilization. Enforcement efforts were also strengthened in 2009 with a sizeable increase
in monetary penalties for breach of market rules which are expected to become a more forceful
deterrence.

Market Architecture Component
59.     An obstacle to the implementation of this component that emerged after the 1998 crisis
was a difference in approach between FFMS and the Bank. FFMS wanted to establish a Central
Securities Depository (CSD) with full Government ownership and management, while the Bank
was of the opinion that it should be a non-Government undertaking to ensure efficiency, arms-
length transactions, and be profitable, even though initially Government assistance would be
required in the creation of such an entity. As explained in section 1, with the Bank and the FFMS
placing greater emphasis on those activities that supported improvements in corporate
governance and enforcement of market regulations, work on this component was subsequently
halted.

60.    Nevertheless, with the rapid growth and strong performance of the Russian capital
market, the fragmented market infrastructure was impeding progress in transactional efficiencies.
Market participants were burdened with the excess operational costs associated with the
maintenance of multiple back-office procedures to accommodate different trading platforms. At
the same time, their operational risks increased with the complexity of the back-office functions.

61.    Recognizing the strategic importance of efficient market architecture, this component
was revisited by the Bank and the Government during the latter part of the Project’s
implementation period. By 2005, FFMS – Bank discussions refocused on the need to bring the
                                               14
 

level of Russia’s securities trading infrastructure up to international standards and increasing
trust in domestic securities trading. A new approach thus emerged which involved the following
three activities: (i) an analysis of existing market infrastructure and development of an
operational model and plan for a CSD; (ii) preparing a draft law on a CSD; and (iii) developing
draft regulations and rules of interaction of the CSD with other market participants involved in
securities trading, clearance and settlement.

62.     The study on existing market architecture funded by the Project and completed in 2009,
recommended the merger of the two existing large exchange-owned depositories each of which
had been created by the two large stock exchanges– MICEX and RTS - to service their
respective operations. It also called for the CSD to process the matching and netting of
transactions and for clearing and settlement to be conducted by authorized “settlement banks.”
Pursuant to these recommendations a draft framework law on the CSD was prepared and is
awaiting adoption by the State Duma.

63.     The two large stock exchanges recently announced their agreement to merge, which is
expected to lead to the desired outcome envisioned under this component, and towards which all
the activities funded under this component have been directed. The merger is expected to be
completed in 2011, and will lead to the creation of a centralized clearing and settlement function,
a strong Centralized Counter Party (CCP) and a more centralized securities registry function.
Market participants expect the merger to have a positive impact on secondary market liquidity
that has traditionally been an investor concern in the Russian market. It will also contribute to the
reduction of settlement risks, which at times have been considered problematic by foreign
investors leading to large part of RTS settlement having taken place abroad. The activities
supported by this component were an instrumental catalyst in the merger of the two exchanges.

Government Securities Tracking System Component
64.    The initial concept of this component was to improve the accounting system for public
debt. In 2000, the Ministry expressed an interest in a new approach focusing on a
comprehensive reform of sovereign debt management with the establishment of a Government
Debt Information System (GDIS).

65.     While encouraging, the new concept for Government debt management was to
subsequently undergo additional reformulations resulting from initial delays in implementing it,
even as the Bank considered in 2003 a cancellation of this component for lack of use. The
implementation delays resulted mostly from differences in approaches proposed by the MOF
departments of external versus internal debt. Eventually, these departments merged and an
agreed version of the component’s design that best reflected the Government’s objectives was
carried forward. In November 2004, the MOF developed a detailed timetable of activities under
the reformulated component which also included the provision of greater counterpart funding
from the Ministry. However, a year later in December 2005 the MOF reconsidered the approach
toward this component in view of the more favorable macroeconomic situation which had
allowed the Russian Federation to notably decrease its external financing requirements.

66.    In 2006, MOF adopted a wider scope of debt management and financial sector policy
needs that incorporated the project’s original activities as wells as updated activities which
addressed the build-up in government funds from the petroleum sector. By 2008, the Ministry
requested CMDP resources to support the following activities: (i) development of the technical
                                                 15
 

concepts for the establishment of a unified automated government financial asset / debt tracking
system to substitute the current fragmented system managed by different entities; and (ii)
assistance with the conceptual design of an agency to manage the assets of the National Wealth
Fund which had been accumulated based on special taxes on the energy sector. Due to the
proximity of the project’s final closing date, only the initial steps were taken in developing a
comprehensive debt IT system and in establishing a new agency for managing the National
Wealth Fund with the expectation that either a follow-up Bank operation or that the Ministry
would utilize its own resources to complete them. As well, in line with the Ministry’s increased
attention to financial sector matters, it also requested for the project to support an assessment of
the 2008-09 banking sector crisis effects in order to arrive at recommendations for the financial
sector strategies for 2011 – 2015.

67.     Based on the assessment of the existing debt accounting system a consultant developed
the terms of reference for a comprehensive government financial assets / debt tracking system.
The study of the banking sector resulted in numerous concrete recommendations for the
Development Strategy for the period 2011 – 2015. Finally, the consultant for the proposed
establishment of an independent Financial Agency to manage Government assets / liabilities,
recommended that the entity be structured as a government-owned joint-stock-company with the
MOF acting as agent for the Government to manage the fund’s resources as well as the federal
debt. A draft law on the creation of the agency was submitted in 2010 to the State Duma for
discussion and consideration.

Implementation factors
68.     Both external and internal factors influenced the trajectory of the Project’s long
implementation period. Despite the challenges, sustained implementation progress was achieved
in the Project’s principal components. The following factors materially affected the efficiency
and the quality of the Project’s outputs:

Crises of 1998 and 2001
69.      Implementation of the project was significantly impacted by the financial crisis of August
1998 generated by the turmoil in the domestic government debt market. Due to the delays during
the initial implementation period in hiring the members of Project Management Group (PMG)
Advisors, and because much of the time and attention of the staff of FFMS and of CCMD as well
as of the PMG Advisors that were already on onboard had to be diverted to handling the fallout
from the August 1998 financial crisis, the pace and quality of production of tender
documentation needed for project implementation deteriorated during 1998 – 2000.

70.    The global stock market crisis of 2001 had a temporary contagion effect on Russia but
the market recovered quickly given Russia’s stronger economic fundamentals at the time.

71.      Fortunately, this was not the case with the global economic / financial crisis of 2008.
Even though the impact on the real economy was swift and deeper than expected, successful
crisis management staved off a run on banks, prevented a currency crisis, and eased impact on
households and the real sector. After the stock market collapse of 2008, authorities responded
swiftly and massively by reversing an earlier monetary tightening and committing substantial
fiscal resources to shore up the banking system and ensure liquidity in the financial markets.
Thus Project implementation continued with only limited fallout from the 2008 global crisis.

                                                 16
 



Provision of Counterpart Funds
72.     Government commitment to the Project was strong, as shown by the almost 14 years of
active support of the Project and despite major challenges during the post-transition phase of
economic policy management. Nevertheless, the macroeconomic situation had an inevitable
impact on Project implementation through the linkage between the health of the economy and the
management of fiscal policy.

73.     FFMS’s ability to use Loan funds was related to the disbursement ceilings adopted in the
annual Law on the Budget of the Russian Federation. In 2003, in an attempt to improve its fiscal
position and streamline foreign borrowing, the Government imposed ceilings on authorized
disbursement levels under Bank-funded activities which affected a large part of the Bank’s
portfolio in the country. Most procurement activities that had been scheduled to take place
during 2003-early 2004 were disrupted as authorized disbursements were insufficient to cover
Project obligations. This funding issue, which was repeatedly flagged by the Bank in official
communications to the MOF, remained unresolved until March 2004 during which period
several key procurement activities were consequently suspended.

Expert Advisors Group
74.      One of the workhorses of the Project during implementation was a group of advisors
referred to as the Project Management Group (PMG) of technical experts. The Project was
steered by a group of nine technical advisors (PMG) in the areas of Capital Markets Laws,
Enforcement, Training of Regulators, Disclosure, Accounting, Collective Investments & Savings
Institutions, Information & Public Relations and Macroeconomic Policy. This group played an
essential role in the development and implementation of the Project components and was a
valuable intellectual resource to the Commission.

75.     The PMG filled important knowledge gaps and coordinated the activities across various
disciplines as well as overseeing the quality of work performed by consultants. At a time when
there was a scarcity of Russian securities lawyers, the legal Advisors already had the experience
in drafting and reviewing securities market laws and their knowhow also helped to build capacity
within FFMS. The legal advisors provided support at various levels: research on domestic and
international legal practices, drafting of proposed changes and additions to the laws, supporting
FFMS through the legislative process which at times involved revisions to the text of the
proposed changes in order to ensure their approval by the legislature, and reviewing proposals by
market participants in order to draft additional amendments that would more closely reflect the
dynamic reality of the marketplace.

Reduction in Borrowing from the Bank
76.     To reflect the narrower scope of the Project after the 1998 crisis, the size of the Loan
which originally amounted to $89 million was reduced in 2000 to $55.25 million (see Table 1).
By reducing the size of the Project FFMS and MOF were able to focus on the key priority areas
for the development of the capital markets. Thus the reduction in the number of Project activities
optimized the output from the more successful and higher quality initiatives dealing with the
legal framework – emphasizing good governance standards; the integrated IT system for FFMS;
enforcement training for the staff of FFMS; and under MOF: a system for comprehensive
government debt management, and setting the framework to establish an independent Financial

                                                17
 

Agency to manage Government assets / liabilities, including the resources of the National Wealth
Fund.


         Table 1: Project Financing Plan: As per PAD and Actual Implementation

         (US$ million)                                  As per PAD         Actual
                                                        IBRD GOV         IBRD GOV
         Regulatory Infrastructure
          RFCSM/FFMS Institutional Capacity              21.2   13.2       17.1      3.5
          RFCSM/FFMS Information Systems                 14.2               9.3      6.5
          RFCSM/FFMS Regulatory Programs                 29.9    5.4       13.7      2.8
         Market Architecture
          Secondary Market Trading                       10.9               1.7      0.3
          Securities Transfer                             5.9
         Gov. Securities Tracking System                  4.0
         Project Administration
          CCMD                                            2.8               9.2      1.9
          FER                                                               1.2      2.6
           Total Financing                               88.9   18.6       52.2     17.6
         Note: PAD is the Project Appraisal Document.
         GOV is Government counterpart financing

Procurement Issues
77.     During the first half of the Project, implementation was also held back by procurement
difficulties. Some of the delays can be ascribed to lack of understanding of World Bank
procurement procedures on the part of the implementing agency notably in the area of IT (poor
quality of bid evaluation). Other delays were caused by lack of understanding of Bank
procurement rules by bidders (Central Depositary). It was also noted that the Bank was not
responsive on two occasions, one involving a contract for IT consulting services for FFMS that
was considered as purchase of goods by the Bank, thus making it difficult for a consulting
contract to fit within the venue of a goods purchase contract; and the other involved a non-
essential modification of a contract for the study of the Financial Agency to manage the
Government’s assets / liabilities to accommodate the acquisition of one of the consultants by
another firm, which did not affect the deliverables nor the amount of the contract fees.

78.     With the transfer of Project PIU functions to FER, which had a strong Bank project
management record, implementation progress improved as all procurement activities were
carried out in an orderly fashion.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
79.     The original project documents (Memorandum of the President and Technical Annex)
had a project implementation plan but not a complete set of monitoring and evaluation
indicators. The M&E framework, however, was enhanced and reinforced during the supervision
by using additional indicators for tracking developmental impact of the capital markets and their
depth, as well as project outputs geared toward achieving these impacts. The latter were tallied
and tracked as part of the activities monitoring system established by the PIU.

                                               18
 



80.     The original indicators proposed in the project documents related mainly the project sub-
tasks to be completed. The project documents did not define baseline benchmarks and targets for
these indicators. However the baselines starting from 2000 and targets were later set and
reflected in the Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs).

81.     The supervision missions monitored the quantitative outcome indicators as well as the
qualitative project sub-tasks completed, especially the development and approval of key
legislation to enable capital market development. The PIU maintained detailed records not only
of costs, contracts, disbursements and procurement methods but of all the modules and sub-
modules being carried out including the generation of key outputs such as framework legislation,
amendment and regulations.

82.     The outcome indicators and project sub-outputs were effectively monitored throughout
the project. The PIU’s IT based system as well as FFMS’ systems were sufficiently
sophisticated so as to produce detailed reports allowing frequent tracking of project activities.
Given the length of project implementation, these reports were particularly useful in recording all
aspects as well as accounting of project execution.

2.3    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
83.    No deviations were found with respect to the Bank’s financial management, procurement,
and disbursement policies. All purchasing audits were satisfactory.

2.4     Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase
84.     Following the closing of the project, the government requested a follow up operation to
complete the unfinished agenda on the financial sector architecture and its technology-based
modernization as well as implementation of the new mandates given to the Russian Federation as
a member of the G20, particularly in terms of supervisory upgrading of securities market
regulation and increased risk monitoring of transactions, as well as the G20 global commitments
on new capital norms and new regulatory frameworks and requirements to be implemented in the
banking sector. Such an operation is now under preparation.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
85.     The development objectives of the Project were consistent with the priorities at the time
of Board approval as well as with current Borrower and Bank development goals. The current
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) which was completed in June 30, 2009 and recently
extended to 2011 emphasizes the Government’s three overarching priorities of economic growth
and diversification, human development, and regional development. The Project’s goal of
increasing capital accumulation and allocation was an integral part of a strategy to encourage
economic growth and diversification.

86.     The purpose of this Project was to support the development of the capital market as a
catalyst for economic growth through its role in financing investment which was one of the
government’s priorities. By focusing on the establishment of an effective regulatory framework –
the legal foundation as well as the enforcement capacity of the regulator, it addressed one of the
fundamental obstacles to market growth. The strengthening of the capital market architecture
                                                19
 

was necessary to the achievement of greater securities exchange efficiency. The emphasis on
good corporate governance practices was essential for sustainable growth of the market and to
Russia’s eventual graduation to the status of international financial center. The establishment of a
liquid market for government securities was an important element of the government’s strategy
to optimize public financial management through the development of a liquid domestic debt
market which in turn would enhance market efficiency.

87.      The institutional support of FFMS, by strengthening its capacity to regulate and monitor
market activities as well as to enforce the rules of the game, was an essential component in
achieving the Project objectives. The emphasis on upgrading of the agency’s IT infrastructure,
providing advanced training for regulators, and improving the IT linkages between the central
and the field offices was consistent with critical needs of the organization particularly with
respect to its new enforcement powers that were established through the adoption of new laws
and associated regulatory changes such as the laws on minority shareholder rights, insider
information, and market manipulation.  

88.      One segment of the market that was perhaps limiting the potential growth in the capital
markets was the commercial banking sector. The banking system is still not meeting the funding
needs of the real sector. Commercial banks are typically unable to provide financing over one
year thereby greatly restricting companies’ ability to borrow for capital investments. The Bank
addressed this challenge by preparing two other projects around the same time: a Financial
Institutions Development Program designed to support the development of the banking sector
supervisory capacity, and an Enterprise Support Project which was a credit line designed to
extend long-term funds to productive enterprises for working capital and capital investments
through eligible financial intermediaries, thereby deepening the expertise of banks in credit
appraisal and risk management. The reformulation of the Project’s MOF component in 2004 also
provided a venue for addressing banking system issues and strategy formulation through the
work of various consultants that provided valuable input for MOF’s Banking Sector Strategy for
2009 – 2015. The design of the follow-up operation currently under preparation - the Financial
Sector Development and Strengthening Project - will thus also include a banking sector
development component with a view to recognizing from the onset the need to address the above
mentioned broader mix of inter-related financial sector issues.

89.   Based on the reasons discussed above, the relevance of this project is deemed to be
High.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
90.     The Project has made significant contributions to the development of the capital markets.
The enhancements to the regulatory framework and the improvements in market infrastructure
have been responsible for significant growth in the market and its efficiency. Market
capitalization has expanded from about 14 percent of GDP in 1998 to as high as 100 percent in
2007, prior to the global recession and financial crisis. The growth in the capital market has
resulted in greater liquidity and less volatility as market participants are able to increase the
volume of transactions without necessarily disrupting market prices. This has been particularly
the case in the large cap segment of the market.

91.     The legal reforms have notably enhanced the regulatory framework contributing to
greater transparency and better corporate governance. Some truly sensitive issues have been
                                                20
 

addressed such as shareholder protection and market manipulation. The institutional
strengthening of FFMS has reinforced the regulators’ enforcement capacity and thus the
sustainability of these market reforms.

92.     The many laws, amendments and regulations that were enacted through the support of the
Project have resulted in sustainable improvements in market efficiencies. A more effective
regulatory framework combined with streamlining of market architecture has led to greater
market efficiency in terms of better price discovery and lower transactions costs.

93.     The Project has contributed to positive outcomes; nevertheless, there are some important
areas in need of further improvements. More time will also be needed to allow some of the more
recent key legislative changes to impact market efficiency and growth. One of the key outputs of
the legal infrastructure sub-component dealing with price manipulation and insider trading was
only approved by the State Duma in 2010 and came into force in late January 2011. Thus, the
expected benefits of this legislation in terms of market efficiency have not yet had time to
materialize. While legal investor protection measures have substantially improved, more work
will also be required including successful enforcement actions to ensure that minority investors
are well protected and have access to effective recourse mechanisms. Similarly other measures
requiring further refinement of regulations and time to establish an effective enforcement record
in order to support and broaden the capital market and attract additional foreign investors,
include the areas of corporate governance and transparency / disclosure. Once the recently
announced mergers of the two large securities exchanges and the central securities depositories
are successfully completed, thus marking a milestone in the integration of market infrastructure,
additional gains in market efficiency are anticipated.

Contribution of Project outputs to the achievement of outcomes

Regulatory Framework Component – Legal and regulatory aspects (Project costs: $16.5
million, of which Bank financing: $13.7)

Legal Sub-Component ($8.7 million, Bank $7.2 million)
94.     This sub-component resulted in significant improvements in the legal framework for
protection of investor rights including, inter alia, the Joint-Stock Companies Law, the Securities
Market Law, the Law on Investment Schemes, amendments to laws directly affecting the
enforcement authority of the FFSM (Administrative Offence Code, Criminal Code), as well as
drafting of various FFSM normative acts (e.g., licensing of investment funds, asset managers,
custodians, issuance standards). These important changes to the legal framework have
contributed to the growth of the market by offering greater access to investing opportunities,
providing better quality of market information, and protecting investor rights. Once the more
recent changes to the legal framework are firmly embedded in market practices greater investor
interest as well as increased issuance of securities will continue to drive the robust growth in the
capital markets.

Other activities directly-related to the legal/regulatory framework ($7.8 million, Bank $6.5
million)
95.    Several sub-projects served as an underpinning of the regulatory framework by providing
a review of international practices and recommending alternative options for implementation in
the Russian capital market. These studies included a plan to move forward on introduction of
                                                 21
 

IAS for market intermediaries and publicly traded companies; recommendations for Russian
information disclosure standards that were closer to international practice; improvement of
corporate governance mechanisms; and development of new standards for prudential supervision
of financial markets. The information and analysis compiled by these studies are also expected to
assist in the drafting of additional rules and regulations that will further enhance market
efficiencies and growth.

Regulatory Framework Component – FFMS IT System ($15.8 million, Bank $9.3 million)
96.      The Project funded a full IT system in support of FFMS’s core functions through a
network that links the headquarters to all of the field offices. This system enabled FFMS to
notably raise the effectiveness of the agency as it moved from a primarily paper-based to an
electronic platform with an automated system of core business functions and strengthened its
legal and regulatory securities market enforcement through the application of sophisticated
computer-based surveillance programs. As mentioned in the earlier section on implementation
the initial launching of the IT system also significantly increased productivity in one of the first
regional offices to implement the system. It will make FFMS’s role more effective in supervising
market participants and assuring that they are compliant with good governance practices.

Regulatory Framework Component – FFMS Institutional Support ($20.6 million, Bank
$17.1)

Technical Experts Group ($6.6 million, Bank $5.4 million)
97.     Over the course of the Project, funding was provided for a group of Russian professionals
comprising the technical experts group (PMG) of advisors to FFMS who made notable
improvements in the legal and regulatory framework. The PMG brought a high level of human
capital and extensive knowledge and experience to their work as Project facilitators that would
not otherwise have been attainable due to FFMS’s budgetary constraints on staff compensation.
These highly qualified experts played a key role in the development of strategic policy initiatives
that have contributed to the reinforcement of the capital markets. The advisors thus accelerated
the institutional strengthening of FFMS.

Enforcement Sub-Component ($4.8 million, Bank $4.0 million)
98.     This component strengthened the enforcement capacity of the FFMS. Greater clarity in
the “rules of the game” and stiffer penalties for non-compliance should attract greater domestic
and foreign investor interest in the market as they become more confident in the safety and
soundness of their investments.

99.     Enforcement is one of the critical areas for sustainability of PDOs. With the new
regulatory framework, the challenge now is to embed these new rules into a system-wide culture
of market discipline. Table 2 shows the enforcement track record of FFMS prior to the adoption
of key legal changes such as the insider-trading and price manipulation law, although the figure
on penalties for 2009 already incorporates the sizeable increases in the value of fines imposed for
breach of market rules that were approved in that year. Going forward as the recently approved
laws on insider trading, market manipulation, disclosure, and shareholder rights are fully
implemented these enforcement indicators will serve as a key barometer of the achievement of
Project outcomes.



                                                22
 


          Table 2: FFMS Enforcement Activity

                                                                   2006       2007        2008   2009
          Number of Inspections, Total                             7,145     10,809      10,771 11,506
          of which: Field Inspections                              1,236      1,391       1,416 1,434
          Number of administrative sanctions imposed               5,365        NA       10,186 5,832
          Penalties imposed, (rubles, millions)                     38.0      130.0        79.0 891.8
          Source: FFMS

Market Architecture Component ($2.0 million, Bank $1.7 million)
100. This component funded several studies on existing market architecture and also
benefitted from additional funding from bilateral lenders and donors. Bank-government dialogue
on market architecture issues facilitated the development of efficiency enhancing initiatives. As
indicative of a positive outcome of these efforts it can be noted that despite the global financial
crisis in 2008 and loss in market capitalization following the global recession, the market trading
infrastructure was able to function without any major systemic problems. One serious incident
did occur in September 2008, but quick action by FFMS in closing the exchanges for two days to
prevent a wave of panic-selling amid fears of large losses helped calm markets and after
reopening the market was able to recoup the losses that had been experienced in the prior days.

Information Sub-Component ($9.1 million, Bank $7.6 million)
101. Through the Information and Public Relations sub-component, the Commission received
support in the areas of investor education (a key mission of the Regulator), information on
capital markets development, and dissemination of the Corporate Governance Code. Most of the
work on this sub-component was done during the initial years of the project and also during a
period when the capital markets were still at the very early stages of development thus by not
waiting until a later stage of Project implementation, the effectiveness of this sub-component was
not optimized

Government Securities Tracking System & Financial Sector Policy Component ($5.3 million)
102. With Project funding MOF developed a detailed technical concept for setting up a unified
automated government financial asset/debt tracking system. Prior to Project closing MOF had
completed a detailed Terms of Reference to procure high-caliber external assistance for the
development of a Financial Agency to manage the Government’s assets and liabilities including
the National Wealth Fund.3

103. Due to its late start, progress under this component has fallen short of the critical mass
needed to achieve meaningful outcomes, although continuing work on the debt management
system and the new Financial Agency to manage the Government’s assets/liabilities bodes well
for the eventual contribution of these activities to Project outcomes.

Outcomes Achieved
104. As explained above, this Project has achieved a significant number of outcomes which
are reflected in the development indicators agreed to by the Bank and FFMS. These measures of
success include market expansion, gains in efficiency through infrastructure improvements, and
                                                       
3
 The National Wealth Fund is the entity that currently manages the special energy taxes set aside for certain
national welfare objectives.
                                                         23
 

better rankings on investor confidence. While the immediate contribution of the Project to some
of these outcomes has been significant, a much broader impact can be anticipated in the medium-
term when both FFMS and MOF will have established a clear track record on enforcement of
key market rules that have only recently been implemented and continue to improve on the
institutional progress made so far.

             Table 3: Russian Federation: Equity Market Capitalization

                         Rubles          US$      % of GDP        Top 10 as Turnover
                        (billion)    (billion)          (%)      % of total *  % **

               1998           375           18         14.2%              NA       22.6%
               2000         1,211           43         16.6%              NA       56.2%
               2005       13,655           474         63.1%           68.0%       37.3%
               2007       32,928         1,341         99.8%           63.3%       95.5%
               2008       10,962           373         26.3%           69.2%      310.3%
               2009       22,878           756         58.6%           65.1%      129.0%
             * Top 10 companies as % of total market capitalization
             ** Turnover is volume of transactions as % of market capitalization.
             Figures are year-end, except GDP
             See Annex 2A for a detailed version of the table
             Source: FFMS

105. Spurred by macroeconomic stability and economic growth, Russian debt and equity
markets staged an impressive expansion during the period following the 1998 crisis through
2008. On the equity side, market capitalization grew from 14.2% of GDP to 100% in 2007, just
prior to the global recession and financial crisis of 2008 (see Table 3). Compared to the BRIC
countries (Brazil, Russia, India, and China) Russia led in market capitalization during 2000 –
2007 in four out of the eight years (see Chart in Annex 2D); as well as compared to the ECA
region average. In terms of market turnover, an indicator of liquidity, Russia has not done better
than BRIC and ECA countries, but it has shown consistent improvement during the period of
comparison (See Chart in Annex 2D). For both indicators (market cap and market turnover),
Russia was the lowest in 2000 among BRIC and selected ECA countries, while it has now
climbed to the fourth place from the top, ahead of many ECA countries.

106. The bulk of the Russian equity market is made up of large issues of non-financial
corporations in the oil, metallurgy and telecommunications sectors such as Gazprom, Tymen Oil
Company, Unified Energy System, ALROSA (diamond producer), Magnitogorsk Metal Plant
(steel producer), and telecommunication companies from Moscow, Ural, Central and North-West
Regions. The observed equity market growth continues to be primarily driven by share price
appreciation with volatile swings in values as experienced during the 1998 crisis and more
recently with the 2008-09 market collapse following the global financial crisis.

107. As for qualitative ratings, Moscow’s score in the Z/Yen Survey of International Financial
Centers' Performance and Attractiveness improved from 421 points in March 2007 (the start of
the survey) to 506 in March 2011, while still being behind some of the world’s leading financial
centers such as Singapore, which currently has a score of 728.
                                                24
 



108. Supported by the continued improvements in the legal and regulatory framework, the
market is expected to continue to grow both in volume and sophistication. In addition, the
Government has given high priority to the development of financial literacy, economic
diversification through new firm formation and growth, and the emergence of Russia as an
International Financial Center.

109. One of the reasons why the largest firms still dominate market capitalization is that the
number of new IPOs in the market has been less than expected. The numbers shown on Table 4
are growing but remain somewhat low. The decline during 2008 – 2009 is attributed to the
negative fallout on the domestic IPO market from global recession triggered by the financial
crisis. In terms of the number of listed companies, Russia was ranked behind the other BRIC
countries in 2009 (India: 4,955; China: 1,700; Brazil: 377; and Russia: 279).4

      Table 4: Volume of funds raised by Russian companies through initial and secondary public
      offerings

                                                                                                             2010
                                                  2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    Jan-Sep
      Number of IPOs                                  1       6       5      13      29      17       4         10
      IPO volume* (US$                             0.01    0.56    1.74    6.10   24.44    3.30    0.71       1.13
      bill)

      * IPO of Russian companies on both internal market and abroad (only “market” placements),
      exclusive of selling shareholders proceeds
      See Annex 2A for a detailed version of the table
      Source: FFMS

110. Perhaps a more accessible source of capital in Russia has been the debt market. The
number of companies issuing debt in the securities market has expanded rapidly during the past
five years, and their ability to access the market has not been curtailed to the extent seen by the
equity market. During 2004 – 2009, the value of corporate bonds outstanding more than doubled
relative to the size of the economy (see Table 5).




                                                       
4
     Based on World Development Indicators 
                                                                    25
 




             Table 5: Russian Federation: Fixed Income Market


                                           2004      2005        2006   2007      2008   2009
             Corporate Sector
             Number of issuers              168         230       370      465     463    405
             Value outstanding
              US$ (billions)                 9.6      16.7        33.6 50.2 54.8 67.1
               % of GDP                    1.6%      2.2%        3.3% 3.7% 3.9% 5.2%

             Value outstanding is face value minus principal repayment
             Figures are year-end, except GDP
             See Annex 2A for a detailed version of the table
             Source: FFMS

111. With the reform of the Collective Investment Fund Law in 2007, there has been a
proliferation of investment funds which have attracted a sizeable increase in the number of
investors. Nevertheless the proportion of investors in these funds is still very small and the net
asset value of 2.1% of GDP in 2009 is quite small when compared to market capitalization (see
Table 6).

    Table 6: Russian Federation Unit Investment Funds


                                    2003      2004        2005      2006         2007    2008   2009

    Number of Funds                    168       283   402    643    1,028   1,141   1,310
    Net Asset Value (bill rubles):    21.7      108.9 233.4  419.9   766.8   646.6   826.0
     % of GDP                        0.2%       0.6%  1.1%   1.6%    2.3%    1.5%    2.1%
    Number of shareholders:
    (000s)                         1,130.3 1,206.8 1,267.5 1,466.0 1,726.6 1,807.6 1,853.0
    See Annex 2A for a detailed version of the table
    Source: FFMS

112. Based on Project effectiveness and the positive contribution so far to market
growth, liquidity and improved market efficiencies and based on the foundation for
effective enforcement set through the new capital market rules and regulations developed
under the project as well the institutional strengthening of the regulatory agencies, the
achievement of development objectives is rated as Satisfactory.

3.3    Project Efficiency and Cost Effectiveness
113. Since the Project appraisal did not incorporate an ERR/IRR criteria for evaluation
purposes, the efficiency of this Project can be approximated using a quantitative and qualitative

                                                   26
 

assessment of costs and some of the benefits that have so far been identified .5 This review
considers a reasonable partial calculation of the immediate/short-term benefits of the Project in
comparison to the costs of the project relative to the implementation timeline.6

114. Considering only the growth in market size as the basis, one way to quantify the potential
direct benefits from the Project is to calculate the growth in the volume of transactions in the
market for selected categories and the associated fee income generated by that activity.7 Three
such measures of growth in market size for the period 2003–2009 used in this calculation include
the cumulative volume of IPOs of $22.1 billion; the increase in the value of outstanding
corporate bonds of $57.5 billion; and the increase in the net asset value of unit investment funds
of $23.7 billion.8 Using conservative assumptions that IPOs and bonds have an issuing cost of
0.5 percent and the management of assets by investment funds and other investment management
firms usually generates a 1.0 percent rate on assets under management to financial
intermediaries, and applying these percentages only once during the period would yield an
approximated fee income benefit of $635 million.

115. Of course not all of the increase in fee income can be attributed to the Project and it also
excludes operational costs of the intermediaries (though most of these would have been covered
by securities trading profits), but it provides a reasonable basis for considering a positive net
benefit in terms of output of services when compared to the total cost of the Project. The full
economic impact includes the direct contribution from the estimated increase of $635 million in
fee income and the multiplicative effect arising from the additional economic benefits generated
by the initial increase in income in terms of personal and business income. As well, government
tax revenues earned from such additional capital market income earned, in turn provide more
than an offset to the direct Project costs (loan principal, interest payments, and other funding)
borne by the government.

116. Such an analysis would also need to account for the economic impact from the returns to
investors generated by the capital market securities (interest payments, dividends, and capital
gains). Separately, equity dividend and capital gains income could likewise be offset by the
equity cost of capital though a full offset is highly unlikely as this would assume zero equity
profit.

117. The benefits from the Project are as well reflected in the more intangible but significant
regulatory framework and infrastructure which was created and which represents a high-impact
area in promoting the development of the capital market. These benefits will be reflected in the
sustainable growth of the market and hence in additional economic benefits as described above.
This analysis also does not include the benefits from increased efficiencies in terms of lowering
of transaction costs in the capital market.



                                                       
5
  A least cost approach to the analysis would also not be appropriate due to the lack of information on comparable
work in other countries or in comparable agencies in Russia.
6
  Immediate and short-term is considered a three to five year period.
7
  The direct benefits refer to the immediate income generated by the Project outcomes, but it excludes the multiplier
effect arising from the spending of the immediate income on other goods and services.
8
  The increase in the value of bonds and the net asset value was calculated from the Tables in Annex 2A based on
the initial and ending year values and using the end-of-period exchange rate for 2009 for conversion.
                                                          27
 

118. When the timeline of the Project is taken into consideration or the discounting of future
benefits and costs to their present value, the net benefits may shrink due to the long
implementation period, nevertheless they offset the project’s investment costs. The original
closing date for this project was June 2001, but after five extensions, the project finally closed in
November 2010. The Project’s duration of 14 years means that the benefits were delayed
substantially. The much longer duration of the Project also contributed to a significant increase
in Project management costs from the original estimate of $2.8 million to $10.4 million (see
Table 1).

119. On the other hand, one of the views expressed by the implementing agencies was that the
longevity of implementation was one of the positive contributions of this project to the
institutional development of the capital markets particularly in the legal infrastructure where
passage of laws and amendments was a time-consuming process.

120. Following the 1998 financial crisis and in response to various delays in project
operations, the Bank and Borrower both agreed in 2000 to downsize the Project and thus reduce
the original loan amount from $89 million to $55.2 million and then to $54.9 million. This
downsizing thus helped to improve Project efficiency since the amounts cancelled were
associated with components and activities that were not progressing as originally anticipated.

121. One of the potentially adverse effects of scaling down the Project was the curtailment of
support for market architecture. While the Bank argued that market innovations and
improvements in trading technologies had reduced the need for additional work in this area, as
pointed out in the earlier sections on implementation and outcome the expected cost efficiencies
in market trading have not yet materialized although recent initiatives to consolidate the two
large securities exchanges and depositories could trigger the desired improvements in market
efficiencies and thus lowering of transaction costs.

122. Based on the experience of the project, particularly the long implementation period,
efficiency is thus considered to have been Moderately Satisfactory.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
123. Because of the strategic importance of the capital markets to the achievement of the
Government’s development goals, Project relevance is considered high. The achievement of the
development objectives based on the Project’s immediate impact as well as the expected impact
in the medium-term based on a sustainable enforcement of the legal and regulatory framework is
also considered satisfactory. Project efficiency was rated as modest in view of the long
implementation period although the cost-benefit analysis yields a significantly positive net
benefit. The overall outcome rating which incorporates the three rating sub-categories is
thus considered as Satisfactory.

3.4    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
 N/A




                                                 28
 

Institutional Change/Strengthening
124. The achievement of the Project’s development objectives was dependent on a
strengthening of the institutional framework of the market and its principal stakeholders such as
the principal regulatory agency FFMS, the SROs and the intermediaries. These and other aspects
of institutional development impact are discussed in depth in the earlier sections on
implementation and outcome.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)
 N/A

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
 N/A

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
125. The principal risks to the development outcomes of this Project are associated with
economic/financial market volatility and with institutional capacity. The institutional risks are in
turn attributed to the enforcement; the market-monitoring; and the IT capacity of the regulators.

126. From the start of Project preparation through its closing date the Russian economy has
been through financial crises and market disruptions. Financial market volatility has deterred
investors and also increased the cost of raising capital. The transition to a market economy in the
mid-1990s imposed a huge toll on financial markets. Another financial market meltdown in 1998
resulted in the default and subsequent rescheduling of the Government’s external debt.
Fortunately, the most recent financial crisis which was triggered by the global economic
downturn in 2008 was less disruptive thanks to successful crisis management which staved off a
run on banks, prevented a currency crisis, and eased impact on households and the real sector.
Nevertheless, the concentration of market capitalization in a few commodity-driven industries
will continue to pose a risk to the equity market from the highly cyclical global commodity
markets. The vulnerability of the capital markets to cyclical swings in the Russian economy is
also a concern. In this regard the effective response to the 2008 external shock bodes well for the
Government’s capacity to use economic policies to buffer the capital markets from external
shocks as well as other events triggering investor panic.

127. The institutional risk raises the stakes for regulators in ensuring that the improvements to
the regulatory infrastructure are sustainable. A workable legal framework has been put in place,
which took a long time to accomplish; however, the enforcement of those new rules has to be
applied on a consistent basis. The new enforcement powers provided to FFMS along with the
institutional development of the agency which was in part supported by this Project have
strengthened the regulatory environment. Nevertheless, the recent changes to securities laws
such as insider trading, price manipulation, and disclosure events still need to be tested in the
legal system. If enforcement actions were not to be applied on a consistent basis, investor
confidence and thus market efficiency could be adversely affected and thus compromise the goal
of capital accumulation.

128. One of the major regulatory challenges in any capital market is to keep abreast of market
innovations: new products, services and technologies. Regulations may have to be defined for
new financial instruments and monitoring their development requires continuous updating of the
knowledge base. Because of the fast pace of market development in the Russian Federation, the
                                               29
 

risk that the regulatory function will lag behind the introduction of new products and market
innovations increases the likelihood for undetected adverse situations. In the case of FFMS
which is a relatively new institution, these risks are more pronounced.

129. The rapid speed of technological change and its absorption by market participants also
raises the possibility that FFMS may not be able to keep up to date in terms of technology
resources. To the extent that the recently completed IT system is not upgraded to handle new
information requirements, including the development of more complex financial instruments that
require sophisticated computational tools, and to handle the growth in the volume of market
transactions including new issuers of securities, FFMS’s capacity for monitoring and supervising
market activity could be compromised, thus increasing the likelihood of market disruptions.
Because of the high technology content of the securities industry, regulators need to at least
match the standard of technology adopted by market participants. These concerns are being
addressed by the follow-up Financial Sector Development and Strengthening Project currently
under preparation.

130. In view of the above-mentioned factors and the continuing adaptation period required
given changing market conditions and less predictable external factors, the risk to the Project’s
development outcome is deemed as Significant.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1.   Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)
131. The design of the project in the mid-1990s was made difficult by the
macroeconomic/financial background at the time and the rapid development of the capital
market. The design of the project appropriately reflected what needed to be done. However, at
pre-appraisal review, the complexity of the Project was flagged and considering the fluid
environment at the time, it was recommended that Project design should be made more flexible.
As discussed in the section on Project preparation, perhaps greater attention to macroeconomic
risks may have led to a more flexible design suited for adaptation to a changing market and
global environment, which the project eventually accomplished iteratively. As well,
RCFCM/FFMS’s capacity on the ground in terms of project implementation was not ready to
initially handle a complex Bank TA project with multiple areas of activity as the CMDP, though
that was subsequently corrected. In view of these obstacles, the Project was perhaps too
ambitious.

132. Given that the more important contributions of the Project were achieved in the areas of
the legal regulatory framework, enforcement, and the IT system for FFMS, a simpler version of
the project could have focused on these high marginal benefit components. At the same time,
only three percent of project resources were devoted to the government debt component which
turned out to be one of the activities that experienced the longest delays. On the other hand, the
studies on the banking system and its linkages to the capital markets could have played a more
prominent role. The reduction in the Loan amount to $55.25 million implies that a more efficient
approach would have been a series of smaller projects.



                                                30
 

133. . For these reasons, Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is judged to be
Moderately Satisfactory.

Quality of Supervision
134. After 1999, Bank supervision became more proactive in working with the Borrower in
order to address implementation challenges that had been created by the 1998 crisis. The number
of amendments and other re-allocations of project funding and activities is a reflection of the
Bank’s initiatives in trying to improve Project effectiveness despite a fluid
macroeconomic/financial environment. Later, the Bank used the Project very actively as it
became a useful instrument to maintain Bank – Government dialogue on capital market
development over a relatively long period of time, particularly during periods of economic and
financial upheaval.

135. On the other hand, the Project team might have been tougher with respect to the requests
for multiple extensions. On several occasions the Bank recommended cancellation of the
government debt component. At the same time, the Bank’s decision to extend the Project
reflected the importance of staying engaged in the financial sector in view of the systemic risk
and consideration that if the Project were cancelled during Russia’s non-borrowing period it
would have been very difficult to have replaced it with a new project.

136. Despite the challenges, Bank engagement with the Borrower was reflected in the quality
of the output particularly on the legal regulatory framework and on the FFMS IT system which
were relatively long sub-projects. The frequency and content of the supervision missions was
instrumental in maintaining the impetus of Project outputs during such an extended
implementation period. The Bank’s willingness to keep the Project going through several
extensions was instrumental in ensuring that at the end the improvement in the legal framework
and IT infrastructure were significant. The decision to place greater emphasis on corporate
governance in 2000 was well taken in view of the need to promote greater investor confidence
following the tumultuous 1990’s; but this may have come at the cost of not fully pursuing the
unfinished agenda in the market architecture component. The proactive restructuring of the
Project in 2006 also kept the main activities of reform to the regulatory framework and the
construction of the IT system for FFMS on track to a successful completion.

137. Several procurement problems during the early and later phases of the Project could have
been handled more expeditiously by the Bank. FFMS officials expressed concerns about the
length of delays in Bank approval of several sub-projects. The approval of the purchase of IT
equipment should have also been made at the same time as the software component. The IT
hardware was purchased in 2002 and the software system in 2008. Considering all of the above
discussed factors, Bank performance during supervision is thus deemed Satisfactory.

Rating of Overall Bank Performance
138. Because of the long period of implementation caused in part by the ambitious design of
the Project, in determining the overall Bank performance rating a greater weight has been placed
on the quality at entry rating even though supervision was instrumental in steering the Project
through a challenging environment to a successful outcome. The overall evaluation of Bank
performance is thus rated as Moderately Satisfactory.



                                               31
 

5.2    Borrower Performance

Government Performance
139. From the start the Government was committed to the objectives of this Project. However,
the challenges from the transition to a market-based economy in the 1990s and the fallout from
two major crises, in 1994 and then 1998, at times detracted from the Government’s policy
support for capital market development. An improving macroeconomic environment in 2000
supported by more effective management of economic policies, a sign that the transition was
succeeding, resulted in robust growth during 2000 – 2008. When the global recession / financial
crisis in 2008 again jolted the Russian financial markets, a swift Government response helped
avert another crisis, and thus marked a trend towards greater market stability, a key determinant
of investor confidence and efficiency of financial markets.

140. On the other hand, Government efforts at fiscal restraint and reduced external borrowing
resulted in lower utilization of Bank resources and thus delays in funding for the Project. The
lack of sufficient Government budget funding for the Project created operational difficulties for
the PIU and also prompted complaints from contractors. As discussed in the section on
implementation, delays with counterpart funding slowed down the pace of Project activities and
at times led to suspension of sub-projects. Despite the fiscal challenges, the Government
remained committed to the Project objectives as it continued to support its implementation
during an extended period rather than the option of an early cancellation. Government
commitment was also a reflection of its interest in receiving continued Bank support in the areas
of financial market development and regulation. For these reasons Government performance
in this project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

Implementing Agency Performance
141. The implementing agencies, FFMS and MOF, were committed to the Project objectives
although operational issues within the agencies caused delays in implementation. The bulk of
Project funding was allocated to FFMS under the regulatory framework and the market
architecture components. The PMG was instrumental in guiding the work of the Project on an
ongoing basis, and given the high level of staff turnover in FFMS, this group provided both
continuity and critical advisory and management support which was reflected in the positive
implementing agency performance.

142. The Project’s PIU (CCMD) was established as a unit within FFMS. CCMD was created
for this Project and thus lacked initial experience with Bank projects resulting in a slow start-up
and some procurement problems which were reflected in the Bank’s unsatisfactory rating for
project management during the first two years. Some of the delays were ascribed to lack of
familiarity with World Bank procurement procedures on the part of CCMD notably in the area of
information technology. Other delays were caused by lack of understanding of Bank
procurement rules by bidders. Eventually CCMD’s implementation capacity improved, though it
still was considered by both FFMS and the Bank to require substantial capacity strengthening.

143. As explained in a previous section, implementation delays were a chronic problem for the
component managed by MOF. The MOF component was rated by the Bank as unsatisfactory to
marginally unsatisfactory for seven of the 14 years of the Project. Performance was rated
unsatisfactory until 2006, this component was then reactivated by MOF with a much clearer
focus on its objective and with increased counterpart funding from the Government.
                                                32
 



144. With the reactivation of the MOF component and its selection of a specialized and highly
experienced project management unit (FER) as its PIU for Part C of the Project along with the
request by FFMS to transfer its PIU from CCMD to FER, implementation progress improved
noticeably.

145. While delays were a problem during implementation, particularly with respect to the
MOF component, FFMS which handled the bulk of the Project funding completed all the key
activities successfully and the transfer of the PIU from CCMD to FER made it possible to
complete some key sub-projects that would otherwise have been cancelled due to the time limit
on the closing date. For these reasons and given the eventual proactive and successful
response toward resolving bottlenecks, this evaluation considers the rating of the
Implementing Agencies’ Performance as Moderately Satisfactory.

Rating of Overall Borrower Performance
146. The Government’s commitment and the able response of the implementing agencies to
operational challenges, including the eventual partial implementation of part C thus avoiding its
cancellation, were instrumental in the moderately satisfactory outcomes. For these reasons the
assessment of overall Borrower performance is deemed Moderately Satisfactory.

6.       Lessons Learned
147.     The principal lessons learned are:
        A longer than anticipated implementation period is not necessarily indicative of
         inefficient outcomes. Even though project efficiency may be adversely affected by a
         long implementation period, the delays may reflect issues not envisioned at the time of
         project design, and if implementation is well executed and focused on the more
         productive sub-components it may still achieve a critical mass of outcomes. The CMDP’s
         flexible design allowed the Bank and the Borrower to shift the focus of implementation to
         address more relevant issues as was done with corporate governance following the 2000
         Project amendment. As well, the continued engagement throughout periods of economic
         and financial upheaval permitted the policy dialogue to continue with the Bank while
         ensuring that the relevance of project components was adapted to changing market needs,
         without extensive periods of interruption.

        Knowledgeable and well-experienced technical advisors can play an instrumental
         role in the success of a technical assistance project. The PMG brought a high level of
         human capital and extensive knowledge and experience to their work as Project
         facilitators that would not otherwise have been attainable due to FFMS’s budgetary
         constraints on staff compensation. The advisors thus accelerated the institutional
         strengthening of FFMS and also assisted in the successful implementation of the Project.
         The knowledge and experience they have acquired through the Project represents a
         valuable resource for the financial industry, within the public or private sectors, as they
         move on to other professional activities.

        Bank dialogue and ability to remain engaged in fast evolving Middle Income
         Countries (MICs) would benefit from the availability of a broader menu of support
         instruments that could be deployed flexibly to address real-time country needs. The

                                                 33
 

        Region opted to extend the Project multiple times in order to avoid the risk of creating a
        detrimental gap in the policy and institutional building support required by the authorities
        and to remain engaged in what was deemed to be strategically important and systemic
        sectoral issues. However, the development and availability of alternative instruments
        such as fast track Technical Assistance support instruments (for example, a 3 years;
        renewable rolling TA tool) that could be deployed expeditiously and flexibly could
        provide a useful conduit to address real time needs of fast evolving client countries such
        as MICs. Government procedures would also need to adopt pertinent procedures for
        utilizing any such alternative instruments if they were adopted.

       With a complex technical assistance loan which is designed with flexibility in
        implementation, an established PIU with experienced staff could greatly enhance its
        effectiveness. It is very difficult to launch a complex project without the needed staff on
        the ground level with ample technical and operational experience in project management.
        This was demonstrated by the notable improvement in implementation that occurred
        when the project PIU was transferred to FER, a specialized and experienced project
        management unit. Had such an entity acted as the Project’s PIU from the start, it is likely
        that completion would have been achieved sooner.

       The Bank may want to consider allowing for some flexibility in procurement on a
        case-by-case basis if it will facilitate well-designed implementation of project
        activities. Procurement policies and procedures serve an essential role in maximizing
        project benefits under principles of good governance. As established in its Articles of
        Agreement, the Bank must “ensure that the proceeds of any loan are used only for the
        purposes for which the loan was granted, with due attention to considerations of economy
        and efficiency and without regard to political or other non-economic influences or
        considerations.” However, sometimes the interpretation of the policies may be too
        narrowly defined at the cost of project efficiency. In the case of the CMDP, there were a
        couple of incidents where the procurement involved the determination of whether it was a
        purchase of goods or a contract for consulting services where the Bank, although well-
        intentioned, was inflexible in terms of a situation where it was de-facto a consulting
        service and not the purchase of a good. This situation caused significant delays, but it
        could have compromised the completion of the IT system of the Project. Another incident
        involved a contract with a firm that had been selected for one of the Project activities but
        due to its being acquired by another firm which required a change in the form of the
        contract, not the substance, the contract was eventually cancelled. Interpretation of the
        policies should be consistent with good governance practices as well as take into
        consideration the consistency of the purpose for which funds are to be disbursed with the
        particular situation involved in the procurement of goods and services.

       In appraisal of a financial sector project, it may be helpful to consider the linkages
        between the macroeconomic environment and the financial sector in determining
        project risks and adjusting its design accordingly. The balance sheet of the financial
        sector reflects the current value of all macroeconomic activities. As explained earlier in
        this report, a condition for capital market efficiency is the stability of the macroeconomic
        environment. One of the key lessons of the Bank’s experience with financial operations
        has been the importance of macroeconomic analysis in the design of financial sector
        projects. The Russian economy during the transition period was in a fluid situation, the
                                                 34
 

      “shock” approach of the mid-1900s had aggravated market volatility contributing to the
      subsequent crisis 1998 which severely damaged the financial sector and caused
      significant delays in project implementation. Both in the design and during
      implementation of Bank operations in the financial sector greater attention to
      macroeconomic risks and their analysis through stress tests on the principal project
      components may enhance its effectiveness.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a)   Borrower/Implementing Agencies:
            See Annex 7 for detailed information.

(b)   Cofinanciers:
             NA

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):
             NA




                                             35
 
                                                                     ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
    Disbursement by Categories 
        Category                           Subcategory                               Actual disbursement of loan     Allocated loan amount,       %
                                                                                                   funds, in US$s                    in US$s

    (1)  Computer hardware, networks, software, office and library equipment and materials  

                                  (1)(a)  Under Parts A, B  1(b), B 2(b) and                        4,370,924.77               4,743,000.00    92.2%
                                          D.1 of the Project  
                                  (1)(b)  Under Parts B.1(a) and B.2(a) of the Project                                                 0.00
    (2)  Technical services                                                                           170,367.84                170,367.84 100.0%
    (3)  Consultants’ services            
                                   (3)(a)  Under Parts A, B.1(b), B.2(b), and                      35,948,168.61              35,593,268.15    95.0%
                                           D.1 of the Project  
                                   (3)(b)  Under Parts B.1(a) and B.2 (a) of the Project                                               0.00

                                (3)(c)  Under Parts C and D.2 of the                                1,163,847.64               3,640,000.00    32.0%
                                        Project 
    (4)  Training                                                                                   1,345,364.01               1,345,364.01 100.0%
    (5)  CCMD operating costs under Part D of the Project                                           8,985,036.79               9,059,000.00 99.2%

    (6)  Unallocated                                                                                                                   0.00
    (7)  FER operating costs                                                                          216,290.38                 360,000.00    60.1%
         Loan including                                                                            52,200,000.04              54,911,000.00    91.2%
         cancelled funds  
         Cancelled in                                                                                                         33,750,000.00
         September 2000 
         Cancelled in                                                                                                           339,000.00
         December 2004 
         Total                                                                                                                89,000,000.00




                                                                            36
 



Detailed Information on Disbursements and Counterpart Financing 
Project costs*                          Cumulative from the beginning of the project 
                                           Loan        RF funds           Total        % of 
                                       proceeds                                       Total
Information Technologies                                                                 
Computer equipment, SW, databases,      4,327,230.35       1,425,433.73     5,752,664.08      8.2
etc.  
Computer equipment, SW, databases, etc.FER*                  504,388.00       917,070.00      1.3
Consultants’ services                       917,358.47      153,248.43      1,070,606.90      1.5
Consultants’ services FER*                3,618,882.00    4,423,171.00      8,042,053.00     11.5
CCMD Subtotal                             5,244,588.82    1,578,682.16      6,823,270.98      9.8
FER* Subtotal                             4,031,564.00    4,927,559.00      8,959,123.00     12.8
Subtotal *                                9,276,152.82    6,506,241.16     15,782,393.98     22.6
                                                                                         
Legal support                                                                            
Consultants’ services                     7,236,456.20    1,447,291.23      8,683,747.43     12.4
Subtotal                                  7,236,456.20    1,447,291.23      8,683,747.43     12.4
                                                                                         
Law enforcement and training in the area of law enforcement  
Consultants’ services                      2,681,840.00      541,996.25     3,223,836.25      4.6
Training and study tours                   1,345,029.02      263,377.55     1,608,406.57      2.3
Subtotal                                   4,026,869.02      805,373.80     4,832,242.82      6.9
                                                                                         
Information disclosure in securities market                                              
Consultants’ services                     3,061,644.02       612,328.80     3,673,972.82      5.3
Subtotal                                  3,061,644.02       612,328.80     3,673,972.82      5.3
                                                                                         
Raising awareness and public relations   
Technical services                          170,336.67        34,067.33        204,404.00     0.3
Consultants’ services                     7,465,494.19     1,486,111.69      8,951,605.88    12.8
Subtotal                                  7,635,830.86     1,520,179.02      9,156,009.88    13.1
                                                                                          
Development of a strategy to support the conversion of the Russian enterprises to IFRS  
Consultants’ services                    965,214.46     193,042.91       1,158,257.37         1.7
Subtotal                                 965,214.46     193,042.91       1,158,257.37         1.7
                                                                                      
Encouragement of investment processes through improvement of taxation system  

Consultants’ services                       920,519.88       184,103.98     1,104,623.86      1.6
Subtotal                                    920,519.88       184,103.98     1,104,623.86      1.6


                                                 37
 

                                                                                              
Study of prospects for revival and development of the Russian securities market 

Consultants’ services                           89,624.00        17,924.80        107,548.80         0.2
Subtotal                                        89,624.00        17,924.80        107,548.80         0.2
                                                                                             
Prudential supervision on financial markets                                                  
Consultants’ services                      395,252.00         71,267.82           466,519.82         0.7
Subtotal                                   395,252.00         71,267.82           466,519.82         0.7
                                                                                             
Central depository and development of financial market infrastructure  

Consultants’ services                      1,747,496.27        314,411.06       2,061,907.33         3.0
Subtotal                                   1,747,496.27        314,411.06       2,061,907.33         3.0
                                                                                             
Development of a single regulator for financial market                                       
Consultants’ services                        0.00                     0.00              0.00         0.0
Subtotal                                     0.00                     0.00              0.00         0.0
                                                                                             
Improvement of corporate governance mechanisms                                               

Consultants’ services                        971,427.82      174,751.02        1,146,178.84           1.6
Subtotal                                     971,427.82      174,751.02        1,146,178.84           1.6
                                                                                               
Comparative analysis of foreign practice in promotion and regulation of retail services in financial 
markets  
                                                                                             
Consultants’ services                      93,075.38     113,301.90               206,377.28         0.3
Subtotal                                   93,075.38     113,301.90               206,377.28         0.3
                                                                                             
Development of the government debt and risk management system  
                                                                                              
Computer equipment, SW, databases, etc. FER                                                   

Consultants’ services                       1,163,847.64      2,590,499.63      3,754,347.27         5.4
Subtotal                                    1,163,847.64      2,590,499.63      3,754,347.27         5.4
                                                                                             
Group of individual consultants                                                              
Consultants’ services CCMD                  4,469,647.35             86.29      4,469,733.64         6.4
                                                                                             
Consultants’ services FER*                    950,826.88      1,162,121.73      2,112,948.61         3.0
Subtotal                                    5,420,474.23      1,162,208.02      6,582,682.25         9.4


                                                   38
 

                                                                           
CCMD operating costs                                                       
Operating costs               8,985,036.79     772,015.45     9,757,052.24     14.0
FER operating costs                                                        
Operating costs*                216,290.38    1,129,090.56    1,345,380.94      1.9
Subtotal                      9,201,327.17    1,901,106.01   11,102,433.18     15.9
                                                                           
Total project costs         52,205,211.77 17,614,031.16 69,819,242.93         100.0




                                    39
 

Annex 2A: Outputs by Components
Procurement of Goods and Services: Firms 
PIU    Description of works             Supplier/Consultant                  Amount in        Contract 
                                                                                 US$s         signing / 
                                                                                            completion 
                                                                                                  date
(1)                                                                                      
Goods 
       Information Technologies:                                                        
CCMD   Procurement of workstations and           OOO K‐Systems               511,822.79  12.12.2005 / 
       server equipment for the FFMS of                                                   20.02.2006 
       Russia 
CCMD   Transportation of server equipment        ZAO DHL International          2,019.18  03.04.2006 / 
       for the FFMS of Russia                                                              01.09.2006 
CCMD   Server equipment for the FCSM of          OOO USP Compulink          2,061,756.66  24.12.2001 / 
       Russia                                                                              01.05.2002 
CCMD   Development of the corporate data         OOO Plus                   2,636,045.68  21.02.2003 / 
       transmission network (CDTN) of the        Communications                            01.12.2003 
       FCSM of Russia 
                                               ZAO Company                                5,211,644.31
                                               TransTeleCom 
                                               OOO USP Compulink                                
CCMD   Workstations for the FFMS of            OOO K‐Systems                 541,020.52  05.11.2004 / 
         Russia                                                                           01.12.2004 
FER      Server equipment for software           OOO FUN SK                  917,070.00  17.12.2009 / 
         components of the FFMS ITA                                                       26.05.2010 
                                                                                                
(2) Technical assistance                                                                        
         Publication and dissemination of                                                       
         printed materials: 
CCMD  Phase I                                    OOO Rasters                 103,700.00  25.02.2000 / 
                                                                                          01.12.2000 
CCMD  Phase II                                   ZAO Mikhailov &             100,704.00  29.10.2003 / 
                                                 Partners Strategic                       01.08.2004 
                                                 Communications 
                                                 Management   
(3) Consultants’ services                                                                       
        Information technologies:                                                               
CCMD  Assistance in procurement of               International                98,461.21  27.01.1997 / 
         information systems                     Procurement Consulting                   01.04.1998 
                                                 (USA) 
CCMD  Analysis of needs for development          Booz Allen and Hamilton     749,928.00  09.11.1999 / 
      of Information Systems                     (UK)                                     01.05.2000 




                                                    40
 

       Development of ITA software components for the FFMS of                                           
       Russia 
CCMD  Stage  I                            KPMG Limited (UK,                          185,262.83  03.12.2003 / 
                                          Guernsey)                                               01.03.2004 
CCMD  Stage II                            Tender was cancelled                             0.00        НП 
FER    Development of complex             ZAO Firm IT. Information                 4,994,080.95  16.04.2008 / 
       information and analytical system  Technologies, ZAO                                       15.05.2010 
       of the FFMS of Russia              Soyuzinform 
                                                                                                        
FER        Implementation of automated                 Aplana Software Inc.        1,211,743.00  12.04.2010 / 
           geographically distributed                  (USA), OOO Company                         30.06.2010 
           electronic document management              Master‐Domino. 
           system in the territorial offices of        Informatsionnye 
           the FFMS of Russia ****                     Magistrali (RF), ZAO 
                                                       Aplana Software (RF) 
                                                                                                        
FER        Development of software                     Actimize UK Limited,        1,838,000.00  17.05.2010 / 
           components of the complex                   ZAO Prognoz, OOO FUN                       30.06.2010 
           financial monitoring system                 Holding  
                                                                                                        
      Raising awareness and public                                                                      
      relations: 
CCMD  Stage I                                          Berson‐Marsteller/NIS       5,838,452.18  26.09.1997 / 
                                                       (USA)                                      01.01.1999 
CCMD  Stage II                                         Berson‐Marsteller/NIS       2,169,593.12  09.06.1999 / 
                                                       (USA)                                      01.04.2001 
CCMD  Stage III                                        PBN Company (USA)             943,560.58  18.07.2003 / 
                                                                                                  01.12.2004 
                                                                                                 8,951,605.88
CCMD  Analysis of prospects for revival and  IFSL (Kadogan Financial)                107,548.80  13.10.1999 / 
      development of the Russian             (UK)                                                 01.12.1999 
      securities market  
CCMD  Legal support                          1.      Akin Gump Strauss             8,683,747.43  16.11.1999 / 
                                             Hauer & Feld LLP (USA),                              01.09.2001 
                                             OOO Legal Firm “Legist”  
CCMD  Law enforcement                                  Akin Gump Strauss           3,223,836.25  19.03.2003 / 
                                                       Hauer & Feld LLP (USA),                    01.12.2003 
                                                       OOO Legal Firm “Legist”, 
                                                       Non‐profit partnership 
                                                       “Russian Institute of 
                                                       Directors”, Lantern 
                                                       Corporation Limited (UK) 
CCMD  Information disclosure on the                    OOO Liniya prava,           3,673,972.82  30.10.2002 / 
      securities market                                Clifford Chance Punder                     01.11.2003 
                                                       CIS LTD 


                                                          41
 

      Taxation and accounting:                                                                      
CCMD  Development of a strategy to                ООО FBK                      1,158,257.37  20.09.2002 / 
      support Russian enterprises during                                                      01.09.2003 
      conversion to IFRS 
CCMD  Encouragement of investment                 OOO RUSSAUDIT                1,104,623.86  18.11.2002 / 
      processes through improvement of            Dornhof, Evseev and                         01.11.2003 
      taxation system                             Partners 
                                                                                                   
CCMD  Prudential supervision on the               Foundation “Center for        466,519.82  02.11.2005 /   
      financial market                            economic analysis and                         2007 
                                                  dissemination of 
                                                  economic information 
                                                  “Open Economy” 
CCMD  Central depository and                      ZAO                          2,061,907.33  09.01.2006 /   
      development of financial market             PricewaterhouseCoopers                         2007 
      infrastructure                              Audit (Russia), Lofort 
                                                  (Belgium), PwC CIS Law 
                                                  Office B.V. (Russia) 
CCMD  Improvement of corporate                    Partners IOS, Inc.           1,146,178.84  02.02.2006  
          governance mechanisms                                                               /     2007 
FER       Comparative analysis of foreign         Bolsas y Mercados             206,377.28  08.04.2008 / 
          practice in promotion and               Españoles Consulting                       22.04.2009 
          regulation of retail services in        (BME Consulting) (Spain) 
          financial markets 
                                                                                                    
(4) Training                                                                                        
CCMD  Training and study tours                    Akin Gump Strauss            1,608,406.57  19.03.2003 / 
                                                  Hauer & Feld LLP (USA),                     01.12.2003 
                                                  OOO Legal Firm “Legist”, 
                                                  Non‐profit partnership 
                                                  “Russian Institute of 
                                                  Directors”, Lantern 
                                                  Corporation Limited (UK) 
                                                                                            
                                                TOTAL                         48,344,597.07 




                                                     42
 



Procurement of Goods and Services: Individuals                               
PIU          Description of works                               Amount US$s     Contract signing / 
                                                                                 completion date
CCMD         Senior Advisor under the Capital Market              390,890.00     01.10.1997 / 
             Development Project                                                  01.05.2000 
CCMD         Technical Advisor to strengthen the SRO               25,437.00     05.08.1998 / 
                                                                                  01.02.1999 
                                                                                        
        Raising awareness and public relations                                          
CCMD    Coordinator of information exchange program               239,008.00     01.10.1997 / 
                                                                                  01.02.2000 
CCMD         Coordinator of information and public relations       63,793.00     07.09.2000 / 
             program                                                              01.06.2001 
CCMD         the same                                              49,200.00      01.10.2002 
CCMD         The same, extension (1)                              114,850.00      21.05.2003 
                                                                                        
        Information technologies                                                        
CCMD    Consultant to prepare the Technical Specifications         29,028.67     05.11.2001 / 
        for preparation of bidding documents for                                  01.05.2002 
        development of ITA software components for the 
        FFMS of Russia 
CCMD         Consultant to provide technical assistance in          7,926.19     14.05.2003 / 
             conducting the bidding process – Development of                      01.07.2003 
             ITA software components for the FFMS of Russia 

CCMD         Senior advisor on information technologies           151,436.97     14.02.2005  /  
                                                                                  30.04.2007 
FER          Senior advisor on information technologies           200,414.22     20.08.2007  / 
                                                                                  30.06.2010 
                                                                                        
CCMD         Advisor on information technologies                   18,653.00      30.08.2004 
CCMD         The same, extension (1)                                             01.12.2004 / 
                                                                                  01.11.2004 
CCMD         The same, extension (2)                              135,132.15     01.02.2005 / 
                                                                                  30.11.2006 
                                                                                        
        Legal Advisors                                                                  
CCMD    Senior advisor on legal issues                            339,132.59     01.10.1997 / 
                                                                                  30.06.2001 
CCMD         The same, extension (1)                              482,541.00     01.07.2001 / 
                                                                                  01.06.2003 




                                                    43
 

CCMD        The same, extension (2)                               113,900.00    01.07.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.11.2004 
CCMD        The same, extension (3)                               185,971.57    01.12.2004 / 
                                                                                 30.04.2007 
FER         Senior advisor on legal issues                        315,378.48    20.08.2007 / 
                                                                                 30.06.2010 
CCMD        Technical Advisor on legal issues                                   01.08.1998 / 
                                                                                 01.06.2001 
CCMD        The same, extension (1)                               300,916.00    01.07.2001 / 
                                                                                 01.06.2003 
CCMD        The same, extension (2)                                91,300.00    01.07.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.11.2004 
CCMD        The same, extension (3)* terminated in October        145,866.00    01.12.2004 / 
            2005                                                                 16.10.2005 
CCMD        Advisor on the issues of prudential supervision on                  01.12.2004 / 
            financial markets                                                    11.02.2005 
CCMD        The same, extension (1)                               141,353.47    11.02.2005 / 
                                                                                 30.04.2007 
FER         Advisor on legal issues (compensatory mechanisms)     138,243.18    20.08.2007 / 
                                                                                 12.05.2009 
FER         Advisor on legal issues                                74,691.60    16.06.2009 / 
                                                                                 30.06.2010 
CCMD        Technical Advisor on legal issues in the area of      140,258.57    11.01.2005 / 
            improvement of corporate governance mechanisms                       30.04.2007 
            and suppression of unfair market practices on the 
            financial market 
FER         Advisor on legal issues (corporate governance)        151,209.94     20.08.2007 
                                                                                 30.11.2009 
                                                                                       
CCMD        Technical Advisor on legal issues in the area of                    11.01.2005 / 
            pension insurance and non‐state pension provision                    30.11.2005 

CCMD        The same, extension (1)                               130,983.00    01.12.2005 / 
                                                                                 30.04.2007 
FER         Advisor on development of collective investment       164,866.60    20.08.2007 / 
            institutes and pension institutes                                    30.06.2010 
FER         Advisor on legal issues                               131,558.53    20.08.2007 / 
                                                                                 30.11.2009 
                                                                                       
CCMD        Technical Advisor on legal issues in the area of      143,955.03    11.01.2005 / 
            development of new financial instruments on                          30.04.2007 
            financial markets 




                                                     44
 

FER       Advisor on legal issues                                 197,299.51    20.08.2007  / 
                                                                                 30.06.2010 
         Advisor in the area of accounting and taxation                                
CCMD     Coordinator of programs in the area of accounting         86,650.00    21.01.2002 / 
         and taxation                                                            01.04.2003 
CCMD     The same, extension (1)                                   96,200.00    01.05.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.10.2004 
FER     Advisor on the issues of taxation and accounting on       146,249.36    24.12.2007 / 
        the financial market                                                     30.06.2010 
        Economic advisors                                                              
CCMD    Senior Advisor on the impact of macroeconomic             103,700.00    25.09.2001 / 
        factors on the securities market                                         01.06.2003 

CCMD      The same, extension (1)                                  91,300.00    01.07.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.11.2004 
CCMD      The same, extension (2)                                 157,571.46    01.12.2004  / 
                                                                                 30.04.2007 
FER       Senior Advisor on macroeconomics                        216,048.60    20.08.2007 / 
                                                                                 30.06.2010 
CCMD      Technical Advisor on the impact of macroeconomic         64,500.00    10.09.2001 / 
          factors on the securities market                                       01.06.2003 

CCMD      The same, extension (1)                                  62,100.00    01.07.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.06.2004 
CCMD      Advisor of institutes for collective investments and                  06.09.2001 / 
          citizens savings                                                       01.08.2002 
CCMD      The same, extension (1)                                 128,600.00    01.09.2002 / 
                                                                                 01.06.2003 
CCMD      The same, extension (2)                                  96,500.00    01.07.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.11.2004 
CCMD      The same, extension (3)                                 150,112.33    01.12.2004 / 
                                                                                 30.04.2007 
CCMD      Technical advisor on provision of training to the                     01.08.1998 / 
          staff of the market regulators.                                        01.06.2001 
CCMD      The same, extension (1)                                 291,528.00    01.07.2001 / 
                                                                                 01.04.2003 
CCMD      The same, extension (2)                                 102,600.00    01.05.2003 / 
                                                                                 01.11.2004 
CCMD      Technical advisor on Development of systems for                       22.12.2004 / 
          professional education and monitoring of risks on                      28.11.2005 
          financial markets 
CCMD      The same, extension (1)                                 136,804.29    28.12.2005 / 
                                                                                 30.04.2007 



                                                   45
 

FER       Advisor on the issues of business financing and         164,910.99     20.08.2007  / 
          restructuring with the use of financial market                          30.06.2010 
          instruments  
CCMD      Coordinator of the program in the area of               122,100.00     14.09.2001 / 
          information disclosure                                                  01.04.2003 
CCMD      The same, extension (1)                                 105,800.00     01.05.2003 / 
                                                                                  01.11.2004 
CCMD      Coordinator of program in the area of information       148,554.03     01.12.2004  / 
          disclosure and public relations on the securities                       30.04.2007 
          market – extension (2) 
FER       Advisor on the issues of information disclosure and     212,077.60     20.08.2007  / 
          monitoring on the financial market                                      30.06.2010 
                                                                              
          TOTAL                                                  7,499,100.93 




                                                  46
 


Procurement of Services under Part C of the Capital Market Development Project  
PIU  Description of works                   Consultant                  Amount  Date of contract 
                                                                            US$s  signature / 
                                                                                  completion 
                                                                                       
Consulting services                                                                    
FER  Development of legislation to          Foundation “Institute         1,199,000.09     16.04.2008 / 
      regulate cross‐boarder insolvency of  for the Economy in                              31.12.2008 
      financial market participants         Transition”  

                                                                                                  
FER  Assessment of the dynamics in            Consortium consisting        898,735.20      14.12.2009 / 
     banking sector in the context of the     of PKF (UK) LLP, OOO                          30.06.2010 
     government support and                   Interfax‐ Center for 
     stabilization packages                   Economic Analysis and 
                                              OOO ABK‐Consult 



                                                                                                  
FER  Preparation of proposals on mid‐         Consortium: Global          1,918,632.80     24.12.2007 / 
     term government strategy for             Insight Inc. (USA), NBF                       31.12.2008 
     development of financial markets         “Expert Institute” (RF)  
     (until 2015) 
                                                                                                  
FER  Analysis of microfinance market in       Noncommercial                189,808.90      24.12.2007 / 
      the RF: structure, quality and risks    partnership                                   20.04.2008 
                                              Mutual Insurance Society “Soyuz”, RF  



                                                                                                  
FER  Preparation of proposals on              Foundation “Resource         135,582.34      31.03.2008 / 
     microfinance infrastructure              Center for Small                              30.06.2010 
     development in the RF                    Businesses” 

                                                                                                  
FER  Development of detailed technical        Consortium consisting        198,181.67      21.12.2009 / 
     concept for setting up a unified         of ZAO Soyuzinform and                        30.06.2010 
     automated government financial           ZAO Avicomp Services 
     asset/ debt tracking system 


                                                                                                  




                                                   47
 

FER  Development of regulatory and              Consortium consisting       185,592.98      14.09.2009 / 
     procedural documents for                   of OOO Center for                            30.06.2010 
     implementation of activities related       Consulting and 
     to microfinance infrastructure             Procurement  and OOO 
     development                                Jet Logic Finance 



                                                                                                   
FER  Preparation of proposals on legal          Closed Joint‐Stock          135,539.50       13.10.2008 
     regulation of microfinance                 Company Consulting 
     institutions, including credit             Group “Tsenny Sovet” 
     cooperatives 
                                                                                             31.12.2008 
FER  Preparation of legislative proposals       NRONO Vozmozhnost           139,165.50      30.11.2009 / 
       to establish the specificity of          dlya vsekh                                   31.03.2010 
       taxation of credit consumer 
       cooperatives 
                                                                                                   
FER  Development of regulatory legal            OOO Training Center         147,527.40      20.11.2009 / 
       documents with the aim of                                                             30.03.2010 
       implementing functions of the 
       government regulation, control and 
       supervision of self‐regulatory 
       organizations CCCC in the context of 
       multilevel system for the CCCC 
       development 
                                                                                                    
FER                                              Andryakov A.D.               50,480.00      27.01.1997 / 
                                                                                              30.06.2010 
         Individual consultant to develop terms of reference for setting up an automated government 
         financial assets/ debt tracking system and to provide quality control under these ToRs – 
         accounting and risk management aspects 




                                                                                                    
FER                                                      Novichikhina         37,859.99             
                                                         N.V. 
         Individual consultant to prepare proposals on selection of the legal form of a specialized unit 
         responsible for administration of funds of the National Welfare Fund and to develop draft legal 
         and regulatory acts needed for its establishment 




                                                     48
 

                                                                                               
FER  Individual consultant to prepare proposals        Chistikov N.S.      13,256.70    21.05.2010 / 
     on functions, organizational structure and                                          30.06.2010 
     rationale for contribution to charter capital 
     of the open joint‐stock company Russian 
     Financial Agency 
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
FER                                                   Brykin V.P.          14,367.80           
       Individual consultant to develop incorporation and registration documents for OAO Russian 
       Financial Agency  

                                                                 TOTAL 5,263,730.87            




                                                      49
 

Annex 2B. Summary of Key Outputs in the Legal Framework

    Summary of Reforms to the Legal and Regulatory Framework of the Securities Markets
                                 Supported by the CMDP

The objective of this component was to establish and implement a legal and regulatory
framework for capital markets which promotes efficiency and investor protection. The project’s
principal contribution was the support of the enactment of numerous laws, amendments and
regulations through the hiring of legal experts (part of the PMG) that served as advisors to
FFMS. Because of the intangible nature of this component’s output yet its critical importance to
the achievement of the Project’s objectives, key regulatory reforms are summarized as follows:

     1. Amendments to the Joint-Stock-Company Law dealing with investors’ rights and
        securities issuance to set IPO procedures in accordance with international standards
        including:
            a. More stringent procedures for the placement of public and private offerings.
            b. Provision of pre-emptive rights to all shareholders for public and private
                offerings.
            c. Requirement that nominations to the Board of Directors take place only at general
                shareholders meetings and that election of Directors be based on cumulative
                voting to strengthen the rights of minority shareholders.
            d. Procedures for shareholder approval involving mergers and acquisitions of other
                companies as well as material transactions with related-parties and insiders that
                affect shareholders ownership interests. This addressed among other matters the
                abusive practice of asset-stripping, where company assets were sold at below-
                market prices to related parties .
            e. Right of shareholders to participate in stockholders’ meetings and to provide input
                in the framing of the meeting agenda

     2. Amendments to FFMS administrative norms to strengthen enforcement mechanisms
        including notably increasing monetary penalties involved in civil cases. These initiatives
        also raised the liability for violations of the law. Board of Directors and company CEOs
        became liable to civil and criminal penalties for negligence of their duties

     3. Amendments to the Securities Market Law on disclosure in order to strengthen
        transparency. Specific items included:
            a. Additional requirements on the contents of the offering prospectus were
               established and also for the quarterly and annual reports. Enhanced financial
               reporting standards were adopted, including conditions for reporting on a
               consolidated basis (IFRS and US GAAP).
            b. Adoption of more stringent definitions of material events including the
               specification of a list of material events subject to disclosure.
            c. Requirements to disclose all material information on issuers’ web-sites within two
               days and within one day via authorized information vendors.
            d. Disclose a list of affiliated parties on a company web-site.



                                                 50
 

           e. Adopted different disclosure requirements for securities qualified as for
              sophisticated and non-sophisticated investors.
           f. Disclosure of beneficial owners of more than 5 percent.
           g. Standardization of disclosure formats – including submittal of forms in electronic
              format and deadlines for reporting of material events

    4. Assistance in the development of Corporate Governance Legislation (2000) including the
       following areas:
           a. Establishment of clear fiduciary responsibilities of the members of the Board of
              Directors and raised the civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance.
           b. Definition of related-parties with the goal of greater transparency in the
              ownership structure.
           c. Streamlining of the definitions of independent directors.

    5. Revisions to the Law on Collective Investment Schemes in 2001 affecting numerous
       types of investment funds followed by substantial revisions in 2007 including:
          a. Law specified legal structure as well as regulations affecting various types of
              investment funds and the role of a fund’s asset management company and special
              depositories.
          b. Improved mechanisms for the determination of a fund’s net asset value.
          c. Established the legal basis for the development of non-government pension funds.
          d. Introduced a draft-law on Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs).

    6. Law on derivates which addresses the organization of trading and clearing involving
       equities and equity derivates.
          a. New regulations established to govern the trading of derivatives in formal
               exchanges

    7. Amendments to law on investment funds, including asset management companies

    8. Law on insider trading and price manipulation which establishes criteria for determining
       when violations occur and gives the regulator increased authority to obtain information
       directly from the parties involved. Changes included:
           a. The act of price manipulation was redefined in the law including features of price
               manipulation, in addition, an amendment to the Criminal Procedures Law
               established the penalties for conviction
           b. Introduced the legal definition for “insider” and “inside information,” as well as
               the ban on illegal use of insider information and additional requirements to insider
               information disclosure and legal mechanisms to control its use.
           c. Issuers and other entities have to list insiders. Securities firms are required to
               establish clear policies and procedures geared to preventing price manipulation
               and when they occur to report suspected transactions to regulators.

    9. Improvement in the regulation of professional securities market participants including:




                                                51
 

           a. FFMS normative acts on licensing of broker / dealers, investment funds, asset
              managers, custodians, as well as standards of professional qualifications and
              certification of financial market specialists through qualifying exams.
           b. Issuance of prudential norms including an increase in capital requirements and
              associated sanctions for non-compliance. Creation of indicators to measure
              financial strength of market intermediaries.
           c. Introduction of more stringent listing and trade reporting requirements for
              exchanges and market participants.
           d. Requirement that securities firms implement risk management systems
           e. Tougher due diligence requirements for underwriting firms.
           f. Creation of a new type of intermediary: financial consultant who is a broker /
              dealer that provides underwriting services for the issuers of new public offerings.

    10. Amendments to the Securities Law affecting new and secondary public offerings.
          a. Simplified the rules for IPOs when managed by a registered underwriter.
          b. Shortening of the time period before secondary trading of a new issue.
          c. Bringing offering procedures in line with international practice

    11. Legislative changes to the Securities Law and other legislation to introduce new financial
        instruments and services. Some of the key changes included:
            a. Placement of Russian equity securities overseas through depository receipts and
               the rights of the owners of these receipts including participating in shareholders
               meetings.
            b. Perfected the process of securitization of assets, including the legal basis for
               issuance of mortgage-backed securities and requirements for special depositories
               for these securities.
            c. Expanded the coverage of the private offerings up to 500 shareholders and further
               simplified the registration procedures.
            d. Introduced a streamlined process for the issuance of bonds: exchange-traded
               bonds which are short-term corporate obligations equivalent to commercial paper.
            e. Established regulations for the issuance of Russian Depository Receipts on
               foreign stocks on domestic exchanges.
            f. Established regulations for offering and circulation of the foreign issuers’
               securities on domestic exchanges.

    12. Preparation of a draft law on a Central Securities Depository for securities which
        establishes the standards of cooperation between a single CSD and all other market
        participants.
            a. Addresses clearing and clearinghouse arrangements and the establishment of
                central counterparties.

    13. Changes to the tax code to incentivize investments in the securities markets.
           a. Modified treatment of capital gains for purposes of taxation by allowing the
              taxpayer to incorporate the value of capital losses in the final tax calculation.
           b. Improved tax treatment for investment funds [how?]
           c. Established tax parity across different types of investment activities



                                                 52
 

           d. Reduced the tax burden on investors and on intermediaries by reducing the tax
              rates and introduced a longer period of loss-carry forward. Long-term capital
              gains tax rates were also lowered.

    14. Protection of bond holders rights in the eventuality of default by establishing mechanisms
        for their representation individually or as a group.




                                               53
 

Annex 2C. Market Outcome Indicators

               Table  : Russian Federation: Equity Market Capitalization 
                             Rubles          US$ % of GDP          Top 10 as Turnover 
                            (billion)   (billion)         (%)   % of total *         % ** 
                                                                                          
                 1998            375           18      14.2%             NA       22.6% 
                 1999         1,463            54      30.3%             NA       10.7% 
                 2000         1,211            43      16.6%             NA       56.2% 
                 2001         2,499            83      27.9%          82.1%       34.1% 
                 2002         3,650          115       33.7%          82.9%       36.7% 
                 2003         5,807          197       43.9%          80.1%       50.0% 
                 2004         6,867          247       40.3%          77.4%       56.3% 
                 2005        13,655          474       63.1%          68.0%       37.3% 
                 2006        25,315          961       94.2%          66.1%       66.4% 
                 2007        32,928       1,341        99.8%          63.3%       95.5% 
                 2008        10,962          373       26.3%          69.2%      310.3% 
                 2009        22,878          756       58.6%          65.1%      129.0% 
               * Top 10 companies as % of total market capitalization                     
               ** Turnover is volume of transactions as % of market capitalization. 
               Figures are year‐end, except GDP                                           
               Source: FFMS                                                               




Table : Volume of funds raised by Russian companies through initial and secondary public offerings
                                                                                                     2010
                                             2003   2004   2005    2006      2007    2008    2009     Jan‐
                                                                                                       Sep
Number of IPOs                                  1      6       5     13      29     17      4           10
IPO vol.* (US$ bill)                         0.01   0.56    1.74   6.10 24.44  3.30  0.71             1.13
IPO vol. in domestic market**(rub. bill)     0.46   9.46    6.14 41.90 375.54  78.40  20.51          33.61
Russian ADR/GDR IPO vol.*** (US$ bill)       0.00   0.23    1.52   4.55    9.69  0.00  0.00            n/a
                                                                                              
* IPO of Russian companies on both internal market and abroad (only “market” placements), exclusive 
of selling shareholders proceeds 
** IPO of Russian companies on the internal market (only “market” placements). 
*** IPO of Russian companies on external markets through placement of American or Global depository 
receipts (only companies registered in the Russian jurisdiction). 
**** IPO funds raised both on internal market and abroad including shareholders proceeds made in 
2006 – 16,59 bn USD, in 2007 – 29,36 bn USD, in 2010 (9 months) – 1,44 bn  
Source: FFMS                                                                                  



                                                    54
 


    Table  : Russian Federation: Fixed Income Market                               
                                                                                   
                                 2004    2005        2006    2007   2008     2009 
    Corporate Sector                                                               
      Number of issuers           168      230        370      465    463      405 
      Number of issues            199      302        488      607    650      630 
      Value outstanding                                                            
        Rubles (billions)       267.1 481.6         885.9 1,231.4 1,628.4  2,171.7 
        US$ (billions)             9.6    16.7        33.6    50.2   54.8     67.1 
        % of GDP                 1.6%     2.2%       3.3%    3.7%    3.9%     5.2% 
                                                                                   
    Government Sector (GKO‐OFZ)                                                    
    Value outstanding                                                              
      Rubles (billions)         757.0 851.0 1,028.0 1,249.0 1,421.0  1,837.0 
      US$ (billions)              27.3    29.6        39.0    50.9   48.4     60.7 
      % of GDP                   4.4%     3.9%       3.8%    3.8%    3.4%     4.7% 
    Value outstanding is face value minus principal repayment                      
    Figures are year‐end, except GDP                                               
    Source: FFMS                                                                   




                                           55
 



     Table : Russian Federation: Unit Investment Funds                          
                                                                                
                            2003       2004       2005   2006    2007    2008     2009
                                                                                
     Number of Investment Funds: 
     Open‐end                106         170       216     317     483     492      437
     Interval                 43          48        58      79     101     102       93
     Closed‐end               19          65       128     247     444     547      780
     Total                   168         283       402     643   1,028   1,141    1,310
                                                                                
     Net Asset Value (bill rubles): 
     Open‐end                 2.8       14.7       30.9   91.1   134.9    47.4     73.6
     Interval                10.7       21.9       38.8   59.6    43.7    13.3     22.1
     Closed‐end               8.1       72.3     163.8   269.2   588.1   585.9    730.3
     Total                   21.7      108.9     233.4   419.9   766.8   646.6    826.0
     % of GDP               0.2%        0.6%      1.1%    1.6%    2.3%    1.5%     2.1%
                                                                                
     Number of shareholders: 
     (000s)                                                                     
     Open‐end                 NA        75.4     133.5   315.3   590.1   669.3    683.0
     Interval                 NA     1,131.2   1,132.9 1,147.9 1,131.0 1,129.9  1,161.2
     Closed‐end               NA          0.2       1.2     2.8     5.4     8.4      8.8
     Total              1,130.3      1,206.8   1,267.5 1,466.0 1,726.6 1,807.6  1,853.0
     Source: FFMS                                                               



Number of Issuers whose Securities Trade on the RTS Stock Exchange                         
Who Prepare and Disclose their Financial Statements in Accordance with IFRS (US GAAP) 
                                                                                           
                                  2000  2001 2002 2003  2004 2005 2006  2007                  2008
Issuers with listed securities      20     23    25       31      46       48     63    81     110
of which: reporting on IFRS          9     14    21       29      39       48     64    68      68
(US GAAP) 
  % of total                       45%  61%     84%      94%  85% 100% 102%  84%              62%
                                                                                           
Issuers admitted to trading         NA    NA     NA       NA      NA      261    281   302    275
  of which: reporting on IFRS       17     28    39       56      78       93    123   124    117
(US GAAP) 
  % of total                        NA    NA     NA       NA      NA     36%     44%  41%     43%
Source: FFMS                                                                               




                                               56
 

Annex 2D. Comparative Market Indicators


                   Stock Market Capitalization / GDP (%)                                        RUS
    200.0

    180.0                                                                                       BRA
    160.0
                                                                                                CHN
    140.0

    120.0                                                                                       CZE

    100.0
                                                                                                HUN
     80.0
                                                                                                IND
     60.0

     40.0                                                                                       POL

     20.0
                                                                                                TUR
      0.0
            2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006       2007     2008   2009
Source: FINSTAT


    250.0                                                                                         RUS
                                   Stock Market Turnover Ratio (%)
                                                                                                  BRA
    200.0
                                                                                                  CHN
    150.0
                                                                                                  CZE

    100.0                                                                                         HUN

                                                                                                  IND
     50.0
                                                                                                  POL

      0.0                                                                                         TUR
            2000     2001    2002    2003    2004    2005       2006     2007     2008   2009



Source: FINSTAT




                                                           57
 


                             Stock Trading Volume (% of mkt cap)
    200
    180
    160
                                                                        Russia
    140
    120                                                                 Hungary
    100                                                                 Poland
     80
                                                                        Turkey
     60
     40                                                                 Kazakhstan
     20                                                                 Ukraine
      0
            2004      2005    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009

Source: FINSTAT



    35,000.00      Emerging Mkt External Issuance of Bonds ($mill)
    30,000.00

    25,000.00

    20,000.00                                                           2006
                                                                        2007
    15,000.00
                                                                        2008
    10,000.00                                                           2009
                                                                        2010
     5,000.00

          0.00




Source: FINSTAT




                                             58
 

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Russian Federation - Selected Economic & Financial Indicators
                                                  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
GDP and prices
 Real GDP growth (% p.a.)                           7.1    6.4 8.2 8.5  5.2 -7.9
 CPI inflation (period average)                    10.9 12.7   9.7 9.0 14.1 11.6

External sector
 Current account balance as % of GDP                    10.1   11.1    9.5    5.9     6.2    4.0
 Trade balance as % of GDP                              15.0   15.0   14.0   10.0    11.0    9.0
 Exchange rate Rubles/USD (period average)              28.8   28.3   27.2   25.6    24.9   31.7
 Gross international reserves/ avg. months of imports   11.0   13.0   17.0   20.0    14.0   21.0

Public Sector Deficit
 Overall public sector balance – (% of GDP)              4.3    7.5    7.4     5.4    4.1   -5.9

Source: IMF, EIU, WB

Economic Costs and Benefits of the Project
As established in the Project Document (Memorandum of the President and Technical Annex), a
cost effectiveness analysis was not applicable for this project given its technical assistance
nature. As stated in the project document, the TA character of the operation implied that
quantitative economic and financial analysis was not appropriate. For this reason, the economic
analysis of the project would focus on presenting the regulatory and market promotion rationale
for the selection of the interventions supported by the project as instruments for improving
efficiencies in the capital market. Nevertheless a detailed analysis of project outcomes and net
economic/financial benefits vis-à-vis project costs, is elaborated under Section 3.3: Project
Efficiency and Cost Effectiveness, in the main text of this document.




                                               59
    

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process

         (a) Task Team members
              Name                           Title                     Unit           Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending (from Task Team in Program Document)

Juergen Franz                   Principal Financial Sector                     TTL
                                Specialist

Robert Pardy                    Sr. Financial Sector Spec.                     Financial Sector
Yvonne Jones                    Principal Operations Officer                   Operational Design
Elena Shtykanova                Securities Market Specialist                   Equity Markets
Denise Vergot                   Financial Sector Specialist                    Securities Markets
Noritaka Akamatsu               Sr. Financial Specialist                       Bond /Fixed Income Markets


Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Lalit Raina                     Lead Financial Specialist        ECSPF         TTL
Michael Fuchs                   Lead Financial Specialist        ECSPF         TTL
Sylvie Bossoutrot               Senior Operations Officer        ECSPF         TTL
Taka Akamatsu                   Senior Financial Specialist      FPD           Capital Markets Advisor
Paula Perttunen                 Lead Financial Sector            ECSPF         Capital Markets Advisor
                                Specialist
Alexander Balakov               Procurement Specialist           ECCU1         Procurement Advisor
Galina Kuznetsova               Financial Management             ECCU1         Financial Management Advisor
                                Specialist


         (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)


                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                     Stage                       No. of Staff Weeks                        US$ ‘000
                                                                               (including travel and consultant
                                                                                             costs)
       Lending
                FY1995-FY1996                              39                                148
       Supervision/ICR
                FY1997-FY2011                              281                              1,561




                                                            60
 



Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)
NA

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)
NA

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR

The following represents a summary excerpt of the Borrower’s comments and evaluation of the
project. The original document is 239 pages long and is available in the project file.

Evaluation of Results for Key Directions of Activity by Accomplishment of Objectives A1
and A3 of CMDP – Providing Assistance to the Borrower for Capital Market Development
by Creating Comprehensive Policies and Legal Foundation in the Sphere of Securities (A1)
and Increasing Efficiency, Transparency and Systemic Stability of the Securities Market
(A3)
 
Supporting Development of Strategic Documents and Regulatory Policy of FCSM/FFMS of
Russia
 
        In this report there is a conclusion that after the crisis of 1998 in Russia there is simply no
capital market that would efficiently play the part of the mediator between savers and borrowers.
Thus, the Report formulates recommendations for key directions of activity, which will allow to
revive Russian stock market and ensure its sustainable development. Mention must be made that
out of 12 recommendations that were formulated by the end of project implementation,
according to our estimates, only 6 have been implemented, 3 were partly implemented and 3
were not implemented, at the same time it is evident that full implementation of all
recommendations would contribute to increased efficiency of Russian capital market and its
more accelerated development. 

        Thus, the recommendations of this Report were mostly used as the basis of state policy to
revive Russian stock market and objectively contributed to the success that was achieved in the
following 10 years. Besides, the conclusions and recommendations of this Report were taken as a
principle of new CMDP structure, which corresponded to the needs of post-crisis revival and
development of capital market more adequately. In fact, the Report itself became the first long-
term action plan of Russian capital market regulator (FCSM of Russia), i.e. a strategic document,
even though an unofficial one. 

        At the same time, under the component “Legal support” for the first time the technology
of strategic plan development for legal framework of capital market regulation improvement was
worked through. Current legislation, draft laws, RF Governmental decrees, FCSM acts,
legislative work programs of RF Government and State Duma for 1999 on stock market
regulation issues were verified. By the results of analysis there have been determined the needs
to develop norms and laws to regulate stock market, a plan of development of normative acts


                                                  61
 

was prepared, which contained a list of activities that had to be carried out under the component,
as well as terms of their accomplishment and summary presentation.  

        Later, after the transition to long term strategic state planning CMDP project consultants
were actively involved in strategic document development. During 2001 – 2010 in the context of
strategic documents development support and regulatory policy the FCSM/FFMS of Russia
carried out the following works: 

          Consulting assistance in preparing FCSM/FFMS of Russia reports to the Government
           of Russian Federation about key issues of Russian financial market development and
           conceptual basis of its regulation development in mid-term perspectives;
          During 2002 main directions of activity of FFMS in terms of Russian capital market
           development oriented towards intensification of the role of securities market in
           modernising of economy;
          During 2002-2004 consulting works were carried out to prepare the sections of
           conceptual document that determined main tasks of the market regulator in the sphere
           of securities market regulation in mid-term perspective; macroeconomic sections of
           this document were prepared;
          participation in development of state policy of financial market development,
           corporate management, as well as mandatory pension insurance and private pension
           support in the context of preparation of Medium-term Social and Economic
           Development of Russian Federation (2005 – 2008) and Government of Russian
           Federation Action Plan to implement Medium-term Social and Economic
           Development of Russian Federation (2005 – 2008), as well as of the Medium-term
           Forecast of Social and Economic Development of Russian Federation(2006 – 2008);
          Development of proposals of draft texts of sections dedicated to financial market
           development in the yearly Messages of the President of Russian Federation
          The materials were prepared for the Strategy of financial market of Russian
           Federation developemt for 2006 – 2008 approved by the Order of the Government of
           the Russian Federation of June 1, 2006 № 793-р. This concept document formulates
           main objectives and tasks of the RF financial market develoment as well as the
           methods and ways of their achievement were defined. Participation of the project
           consultants was performed within the following problem section elaboration:
           formulation and justification of the main problems of financial markets development,
           ways of their solving, objectives and tasks of financial markets development;
           improvement of pension savings investment; development of the new forms of
           voluntary pension ensurance; unification of the standards of investment activity of the
           collective investment institutes; increasse in competibility of stock exchanges and
           trade systems; creation of legsal bases for formation of new financial tools; protection
           of rights of shareholders in the market of merging and takeover and at economic
           associations reorganisation; protection of rights of sharholders and investors through
           information disclosure in securities market. This document was the first three-year
           action plan for improvement of financial market of Russia improvement and its
           regulation, its preparation was only possible with the support of highly qualified
           consultants;



                                                62
 


       The materials were prepared for the Strategy of financial market of Russia
        development for long-term prospective (up to 2020). This Strategy determines the
        priority directions of state bodies’ activity in the sphere of financial market of the
        Russian Federation regulation for the period up to 2020. Its aim is formation of a
        compatible world financial centre of the basis of Russian financial market. This
        Strategy was the first among “industry” documents determining the development
        strategies of the corresponding sectors of social and economic system of Russia
        accepted for development and in the order of detailing of the Concept of long-term
        social and economic development of the Russian Federation, which was the direct
        consequence of consultative support of its development from the side of the project
        consultants;
       Development of the main provisions of the Report to the RF Government on
        transition of powers to the FFMS on regulatory legal regulation, control and
        surveilance in all the sectors of financial market, including insurance and banking.
        Within this work the PCDM consultants performed the analysis of theoretical bases of
        mega-regulation introduction and foreign practice of mega-regulation, analysis of
        fundamental processes in Russian economy creating objective needs of mega-
        regulation in Russian financial market in prospect and the need of creation of
        elements and prerequisites of mega-regulation immediately, proposals on forms and
        methods of elements of mega-regulation introduction. These developments can and
        should form the basis for one of the leading directions of further improvement of
        financial regulation and financial system reforming to be implemented in future,
        outside the RCDM implementation. In this regard the effect of the works performed
        within the loan will be percieved for a number of years after the loan completion;
       Participation in elaboration of the FFMS of Russia proposals on transformation of
        Stabilization fund and on formation of efficient system of funds of Stabilization fund
        managing, including determination of acceptable instruments for investing;
       The projects of notes and proposals of the FFMS of Russia to the Main proposals of
        the Concept of International Financial Centre creation in Russia as well as to the map
        of the project «Creation of international financial centre and turning of ruble into
        regional reserve currency»;
       Materials were prepared for the project of report of the Council on financial marlet of
        the RF affiliated to the President of the RF to the RF President;
       Ana algorythms was developed for preparation of analytic indices and their
        calculation for inclusion into the Report on results and major directions of the FFMS
        of Russia activity, proposals were elaborated on departmental aimed programs which
        are an integral part of the Report, forecast calculations and justification of foresast
        indices of the Report were produced. The materials for the Report on the results and
        main directions of the FFMS of Russia were prepared for 2006-2008; for 2007-2009;
        for 2008 – 2010; for 2009 – 2011; for 2010 – 2012; project Report for 2011 – 2013.
        In these Reports the consultants formulated the measures for increase in efficiency of
        the FFMS of Russia activity through introduction of program-target methods of
        planning oriented for results; the structure of program activity of the FFMS of Russia,
        aims and indices of program activity of the FFMS of Russia were described, the
        methodologies of calculation were corrected, justification of target indices of the
        FFMS of Russian activity was prepared. Project consultants participation in the


                                            63
 

        Reports preparation allowed high level of elaboration and economic justification of
        main direction of the FFMS of Russia activity;
       Withing the work of premanent working group of program-target planning and
        management on the results of the FFMS of Russia activity work was performed on
        preparation of notes and proposals on objectives and tasks as well as indices of the
        Reports on results and main directions of the FFMS of Russia activity and also in data
        preparation for inclusion into the projects of annual reports of the FFMS of Russia;
       Participation in development of deprtmental target programs («Regulation and control
        of the Construction Contractors and Housing Accumulative cooperatives activity in
        the part of investor funds attraction in financial market», «Population information on
        possibilities of investment in financial markets» etc.);
       The mechanism was developed for calculation and correction of the reporting anf plan
        indices of financial market of the Russian Federation development, used as target
        ones in the Concept of long-term social-economic develoment of the Russian
        Federation for the period up to 2020 and Main directions of the activity of the Russian
        Federation Government for the period up to 2012;
       For the purpose of accoun to the international experience at elaboration of the state
        policy of financial marlet regulation and formulation of the position of Russian
        regulating bodies in regard of new structure of financial architecture, monitoring of
        foreign mass media, state authorities, and international organisations taking part in
        elaboration of the standards of financial market regulation publications, as well of the
        discussions and materials dedicated to covering international trends of financial
        markets regulation, measures of regulatory character intended to overcome the global
        crisis and prevention of system crises in financial market emerging in future, as well
        as the standards and recommendations elaborated withing the process of Group 20,
        including by the Council on financial stability,         OECD, and other organisations
        participating in elaboration of standards of financial sector, analysis and preparation
        of reviews of the indicated documents for the FFMS of Russia was regularly
        performed;
       Expert support of the FFMS of Russia was rendered in expert assessment of a number
        of documents submitted to the FFMS of Russia for agreement with various agencies
        (the Bank of Russia, MEDT) and international organisations (EurAsEC), as well as
        preparartion of conclusions and project replies to the questions from such
        organisations;
       Developemt of the concept of state policy intended for reduction of transaction
        expenses of shares issuers performing public placing, increase in IPO market capacity
        and growth of competibility of Russian domestic IPO market; participation in the
        work of the working group on the issues of transaction expenses reduction (both in
        costs and time terms) of the Russian enterprises performing IPO in domestic market;
       Participation in elaboration of project of the concept of the new scheme of pension
        savings investment allowing significant increase in the efficiency of the mechanisms
        of population savings organisation, extension in the range of instruments and risks
        which may be offered to unqualified investor with the use of the system of collective
        investments possibilities;
       Elaboration of proposals and notes to the Debt strategy of the Russian Federation
        allowing the increase in the efficiency of debt policy of the state and especially in the


                                             64
 

           effect of adequate develoment of state securities sector upon other sectors of the
           finacial market of Russia;
          Elaboration of notes and proposals of the FFMS of Russia to the Concept of
           cporporate legislation development for the period up to 2008 developed by the
           MEDT;
          Elaboaration of the project theses of presentations of heads of FCSM / FFMS of
           Russia in the part of identification of strategic problems and measures on their
           solution; calculation of indicees used in such reports / interview;
          The analysis of intermediary and final reports on assessment of conformity of Russian
           financial market regulation to the principles of securities market regulation IOSCO,
           prepared by the experts of the IMF ad the World Bank (FSAP); comments and notes
           to the reports were prepared as well as the new edition of the final report, necessary
           corrections and additions being introduced in its text, in connection with the
           inaccuracies and facts of inadequate reflection and interpretation of a number of
           issues referring to the Russian financial market regulation in the report;
          The work wa performed connected with participation of regulator of the Russian
           capital market in international organisations and within foreign contacts (The Council
           of Heads of authorised bodies on securities market regulation at Integration
           Committeeof EurAsEC, within national action program Russian – ЕС 2008, the
           Committee of Economic Cooperationa and Development Organisation (CEDO) on
           investments, participation in preparation of summarized monitoring on the course of
           implementation of the recommendations of the Group 20 and Forum/Council on
           financial stability, participation in the meetings with the World Bank mission on the
           issues of financial sector develoment, participation in Diplomatic conference on
           adoption of the project of Convention on the rules of material right applicable in
           regards of securities, accounting of rights upon which is run by an intermediary,
           cooperation of the FFMS of Russia with TACIS within the program «Bilateral
           partnership» etc.);
          The analysis of recommendations on harmonization of legislations of the CIS
           countries regulating information disclosure on the activity of the securities (shares)
           issuer, work was performed on preparation of notes and recommendations on this
           document. 

        The work of the PCDM advisers in preparation of dicuments of strategic character,
analysis of analogous documents proposed by foreign regulators and international financial
organisations facilitated significant increase in justification of the decisions adopted by the
FCFM (FCSM) of Russia, increase in efficiency of state policy in the sphere of financial markets
regulation, investment activity stimulation, and as a result – increase in efficiency of financial
market functioning as a mechanism of savings transformation into investments.

        Besides, the proposals on establishing of efficient measures of regulator effect upon the
violators of prudential norms and standards (both warning and forced) have been formulated.
These measures, on the one hand, serve as stimulus for the market participants to strictly observe
the prudential norms, on the other hand, are an efficient disciplinary instrument for regulator
against unfair companies. 



                                               65
 

       In particular, the following main results have been achieved in the course of work on
prudential control development:
       – Analytical report on risks in the Russian financial market has been prepared;
       – Comparative analysis of the experience of the systems of prudential control
           functioning in foreign financial markets and current state of the Russian legislation in
           the sphere of control in the financial market, including the measures of forced control
           has been performed.
       – Draft regulation of monitoring system functioning in the Russian financial market has
           been prepared.
       – A system of measures of forced supervision has been developed including the indices
           and norms which allow assessment both of the risks of financial market participants
           and aggregated risks of the industry in general.
       – A system of sanctions has been developed for violation of prudential norms of
           activity including the criteria for control body assessment of violation and adequate
           sanctions choice.
       – A number of draft concepts and other documents necessary in accordance with the RF
           legislation for the draft law forwarding to the RF Government.
       – Amendments to the RF legislation have been developed in order to establish the
           mentioned above measures of effect upon the violators of prudential norms and
           standards.
       – A curriculum for the FSFM of Russia staff has been developed in the matters of risk
           monitoring and prudential control in securities market mechanisms (in the form of
           manual).
       – Technical task for development of software for risk monitoring in financial market
           has been prepared.
       – A number of draft legal acts and (or) amendments and additions into the existing
           normative acts regulating Russian securities market, on performing the measures of
           prudential control in the Russian prudential market, have been prepared. In particular,
           amendments have been proposed into the Federal Laws «On securities market», «On
           investment funds», «On non-state pension funds», «On investing funds for funding
           accumulating part of the labour pension in the RF». Projects of new legal acts have
           been developed as well as amendments to the existing legal normative acts of the RF
           Government and the FSFM of Russia. 

        Separately should be mentioned the Draft Federal Law "On amendments to the Federal
Law "On securities market" (in the part of prudential control over professional securities market
participants). By this draft law the control over the professional participants of the financial
market is enhanced in the part of their financial stability. In particular, the latter will be obliged
to create the inside system of risk-management, and also meet the corresponding qualitative
norms of reliability. The document also extends the rights of the FSFM of Russia in control over
observing the orders of the service: it will be able to require the administration of company
replacement and introduction of its representative into the administrative body. In case of license
of the professional securities market participant withdrawal the FSFM of Russia will introduce
temporary administration in order to protect the rights of investors. 




                                                 66
 

        The draft law introduces the additional articles into the securities market law related to
the requirements to the professional participants founders and to professional participants
themselves. In particular, there are agreements in regard of entities entitled to hold over 5% of
shares of the company, for example, a legal entity with cancelled license cannot do it. Also, the
professional participants will be obliged to provide the structure of property with indication of
entities directly or indirectly holding 5% or more of the authorized capital to the FSFM of
Russia. 

       The draft Order of the FSFM of Russia has been elaborated and adopted "On
amendments approval to be introduced into the norms of sufficiency of own funds of the
professional securities market participants as well as managers of companies, investment funds,
mutual investment funds and non-state investment funds». 

        The initiative of the FSFM of Russia on increase in the norm of capital of market
participants sufficiency corresponds to the Strategy of financial market development, in
accordance with which the raise of investor risk protection level is declared. In the idea of FSFM
of Russia the proposed measures will allow getting rid of minor, unreliable and suspicious
companies and will lead to enlargement of market players. The Order is intended to limit license
issuing to, and market entering by, new small companies.

1. New financial instruments.
        Legal acts and regulatory documents have been elaborated regulating the following key
issues:
        – Regulation of the procedure of Russian depositary receipts issuance, stating property
           right on foreign securities, as well as establishing of rights and obligations of parties
           (depositary, foreign securities issuer, holders of Russian depositary receipts) at their
           issuing into circulation;
        – Amendments into the RF legal acts preventing mortgage-backed securities from being
           issued (Civil Code of the RF, Federal Law "On insolvency (bankruptcy), Federal Law
           "On Joint-Stock Companies" etc.);
        – Formation of the legal basis of bylaw for issuance and circulation of mortgage-backed
           securities;
        – Setting the order of main assets assessment, making mortgage securing for mortgage-
           backed bonds and mortgage-backed participation certificates;
        – Establishing requirements for certain types of assets making mortgage-backed
           securing for risk limiting;
        – Establishing requirements for specialized depositaries of mortgage-backed securing,
           including performing control function and filling inventory of mortgage-backed
           securing. 
        –
        Consultative support was provided to preparation of the legislative acts regulating activity
of construction contractors and housing-accumulating associations, first of all in the part of
ensuring these institutes financial stability. A system of indices characterizing efficiency of state
regulation of the construction contractor organization activity in the market of share construction
has been developed. Proposals have been formed on nomenclature and methodology of
calculation of financial stability indices of construction contractor organizations in the financial


                                                 67
 

market, the corresponding provisions became a part of the decision of the Russian Federation
Government «On quarterly reporting of construction contractors on the performed activity
related to monetary funds of the share construction participants attraction” where EDS use was
stipulated. 

        The experts took part in preparation of the Concept of the system of mortgage-backed
housing crediting development in Russia for the period up to 2010. PCDM advisers actively
participated in preparation of the materials for the Report on the measures for financial market
instruments extension intended for cutting the rate of consumer price growth;
In 2008 – 2010 active work was performed to create the necessary conditions for formation in
Russia of the foreign financial instruments market as an integral part of efforts for creation of
international financial centre in Russia. With active involvement of the experts the draft order of
the FSFM of Russia has been prepared on the order of circulation of foreign securities and
foreign financial instruments and accounting of rights for securities, intended for qualifies
investors, and foreign securities; legal documents regulating the order of access of foreign
securities to stock trades in the territory of the Russian Federation; elaboration of the legal basis
for issuance and placing of Russian depositary receipts has been completed.  

2. New types of traditional instruments.
        Legal acts and regulatory documents have been elaborated regulating the following key
issues:
        – Regulation of the procedure of issuance of liquid bonds subject to placing through the
           stock exchange without state registration of their issuance and registration of the
           report on the results of issuance;
        – Elimination of legal barriers for development of the new financial instruments created
           for the purpose of re-funding of the assets of legal entities (introduction of rights
           mortgage on bank accounts and deposits contracts, determining the order of SPV
           activity, introduction of the procedure of general meeting of shareholders,
           introduction of escrow-accounts, etc.), including within the processes of financial
           assets securisation. 

       The experts actively participated in elaboration of draft federal laws «On peculiarities of
securing of financial obligations execution» and «On amendments to some legislative acts of the
Russian Federation» (in the part of regulation of financial assets securisation). 

3. Extension of possibilities of traditional instruments issuance.
        In the course of the PCDM implementation restriction have been identified and analyzed
impeding more active use of shares and corporate bonds markets as a source of long-term
investments, which simultaneously restrained growth of these sectors of the financial market and
limited the diversity of various instruments within these sectors. On the basis of the performed
analysis proposals have been formulated on legislation and bylaws updating due to reducing
transaction costs for securities issuance and elimination of barriers for market entering.  

        The PCDM advisers have developed the draft Federal Law «On amendments to some
legal acts of the Russian Federation» stipulating revision of restriction for economic associations
in the authorized capital formation, revision of the ways of creditor rights protection in case of


                                                 68
 

the authorized capital decrease, changes in requirements to economic associations in case of
inconsistency of the authorized capital to the price of net assets, revision of the restrictions
related to the economic associations bonds issuance. Besides, a draft of the Federal Law has been
elaborated «On amendments to the Federal Law «On Joint-Stock Companies» optimizing legal
regulation of purchasing of large blocks of shares of open joint-stock companies. 

4. Reduction of risks of the existing instruments.
        Legal acts and regulatory documents have been elaborated regulating the following key
issues:
        – Regulation of the procedures of liquidation netting on derivative financial
           instruments;
        – Regulation of the activity of investment consultants, including the order of
           recognition of persons as qualified investors, as well as rendering services to retail
           investors;
        – Introduction of new requirement s to financial services and financial instruments
           advertising through amendments to the draft law “On amendments to the law “On
           advertising”. 

       Consultative support has been provided to preparation of amendments to legal acts for
creation of efficient regime of organization of trade in derivative financial instruments and
reduction of system risk in this sector of financial market. 

        For reduction of investment risks for various investors work has been performed on two
components of the PCDM: «Comparative analysis of foreign practice on promotion and
regulation of retail services in financial markets» and «Elaboration of legal bases for regulation
of retail services in financial market». Implementation of the components has allowed getting a
number of applied measures, in most part already implemented in the legislation, allowing
significant reduction of risks of population savings investment into financial instruments of
various kinds due to elimination of non-market risks. 

       Within the direction «Financial instruments development» the following key results have
been achieved:

    1.    The conditions have been provided for significant increase in the capacity and
          structure extension of shares and corporate bonds market.
    2.    Legal conditions have been created for stock bonds market development. This resulted
          in the growth of this market of corporate bonds segment (by the cost of bonds in
          circulation) in 2009 from 1,0% to 7,5%.
    3.    Necessary legal conditions have been created for formation of the market of new
          financial instruments:
          Market of mortgage-backed securities (bonds with mortgage-backed securing and
           mortgage-backed participation certificates);
          Market of foreign securities;
          Market of Russian depositary receipts;
          Market of financial instruments issued in assets securisation.



                                                69
 

    4.     Necessary legal basis has been created for intensification of the processes of
           construction funding due to the use of such new institutes as construction contractors
           and housing accumulative associations entitled to attract savings of population.
    5.     Risk of investing into derivative financial instrument has been significantly reduced,
           legal protection of this class of financial assets has increased.
    6.     The level of protection of retail investors into financial instruments has been increased.

        Wider access for various groups of investors to the structure of financial instruments has
been ensured, besides for the first time the work has begun to link the access to the instruments
to their risk and the investor characteristics (including due to introduction of the notion of
qualified investor and the project of introduction of the institute of investment consultants). 

Key Achievements under Part C of the CMDP
      Key achievements under Part C of the CMDP are as follows:

         – Assistance in the implementation of activities aimed at establishing OAO Russian
           Financial Agency, including the selection of the legal form and development of the
           legal and regulatory framework, development of legal and regulatory documents,
           preparation of proposals on functions and organizational structure;
         – Development of the detailed terms of reference for automated government financial
           assets/debt tracking system;
         – Development of proposals for the Russian Banking Sector Development Strategy for
           the period of 2011-2015;
         – Development of proposals on the draft federal law developed by the RF Ministry of
           Economic Development “On introducing changes in the Federal Law “On insolvency
           (bankruptcy)” and other legal acts of the Russian Federation” (regarding the
           regulation of the specificity of implementing the bankruptcy procedures and measures
           towards prevention of financial organizations’ bankruptcy);
         – Preparation of proposals on the draft law “On credit cooperation” (adopted by SD FA
           RF on 03.07.2009, Federal law # 190-FZ of 18.07.2009) and draft law “On
           microfinance activity and microfinance institutions” (approved in the second reading
           by SD FA RF on 16.06.2010);
         – Preparation of proposals to make changes in the tax legislation of the Russian
           Federation, in particular in the draft federal law # 313369-5 “On introducing changes
           in chapter 25 of Part Two of the RF Tax Code”;
         –
         – Development of a set of documents regulating the activity of the authorized body in
           the area of credit cooperation, which have been used to prepare the following acts:
           - Administrative procedure for performance of the government functions related to
               the maintenance of the state registry of credit cooperatives by the Ministry of
               Finance of the Russian Federation;
           - Administrative procedure for performance of the government functions related to
               the maintenance of the state registry of self-regulatory organizations of credit
               cooperatives by the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation;
           - Regulation on conducting inspections of credit consumer cooperatives and self-
               regulatory organizations of credit consumer cooperatives;


                                                 70
 


           -   Administrative procedure for performance of the government function to monitor
               (supervise) the activity of credit consumer cooperatives by the Ministry of
               Finance of the Russian Federation;
           -   Procedure for placement of funds of the reserve funds of credit consumer
               cooperatives

       – Development of the regulatory and procedural documents and other project
         documents in accordance with RF Government Resolution #43 of 28 January 2005
         and IBRD requirements as part of preparation for the Russia Financial Literacy and
         Financial Education project.
       – Development of a set of documents in accordance with RF Government Resolution
         #43 of 28 January 2005 and IBRD requirements as part of preparation for the Russian
         Federation Microfinance Infrastructure Development Project, the concept of this
         project has been agreed upon with the RF Ministry of Economic Development.

Analysis of the Degree of Sustainability of Project Achievements, Next Steps
Project achievements are sustainable in their nature, in particular: 

       Implementation of activities aimed at establishing OAO Russian Financial Agency,
including the selection of the legal form and development of the legal and regulatory framework,
development of legal and regulatory documents, preparation of proposals on functions and
organizational structure, contributes to the development of legal, regulatory and institutional
framework for future operations of the agency; 

        Development of the detailed terms of reference for the automated government financial
assets/ debt tracking system will ensure effective implementation of activities aimed at setting up
such system; 

       Developed proposals on the Russian Banking Sector Development Strategy for the period
of 2011-2015 have been used by the Minfin of Russia during the development of said strategy;
Two new projects in the area of financial sector have been prepared. Both projects have been
included by the Minfin of Russia in the Program of State External Borrowings; 

       Legal and regulatory framework and principles of regulation of microfinance sector have
been developed to ensure sustainable development of this segment of financial sector.

       Future operations include, in particular:
       – Completion of the preparation and implementation during the period 2010 - 2015 of
          the IBRD-funded Russia Financial Literacy and Financial Education project;
       – Completion of the preparation and implementation during the period 2011 - 2016 of
          the IBRD-funded Microfinance Infrastructure Development Project.




                                                71
 




    72
 



Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
     1.Project Appraisal Document, Report No. P 6916 - RU
     2.Loan Agreement
     3.CAS for 1995, 1997, 1999, 2002, and 2009
     4.PSRs / ISRs for the following dates: 6/7/96, 1/15/97, 6/27/97, 3/18/98, 3/19/98, 8/4/98,
         3/15/99, 12/29/99, 6/30/00, 12/5/00, 6/14/01, 12/26/01, 6/28/02, 12/20/02, 6/15/03,
         12/16/03, 6/08/04, 12/08/04, 5/24/05, 1/31/06, 6/22/06, 5/08/07, 6/27/08, 4/29/09,
         2/2/10
     5.Supervision mission back-to-office reports / Aide Memoir for the following
         dates:9/11/97, 3/16/98, 7/20/98, 1/14/99, 7/21/00, 12/15/00, 11/29/02, 6/11/03,
         11/29/03, 12/22/05, 6/3/06, 6/6/08, 9/23/09
     6.Miscellaneous project documents (posted on the IRIS)




                                               73
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.               70°N                                 80°N                                                                                                                        80°N                                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                A RCT IC                                                 O CEA N
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bering St
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ra
                                                                          Nor wegian Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                it




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60°N
              NETH.                              NORWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ra
                              DENMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                B a r e n t s         Franz Josef                                                                                                                                                                      da
                                                             SWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                 East Siberian                                An
           GERMANY                                                                                                 S e a                    Land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea                                                                      Anadyr
                                                                                                                                                                    Severnaya                                                               New Siberia
                                                                                                                                                                       Zemlya                                                                 Islands
                                                                                                     Murmansk              Novaya
                                      RUSSIAN                         FINLAND
                                        FED.                                                                               Zemlya
                        Kaliningrad                                                               Kola                                                                                                                       Laptev
                                                           ESTONIA                                Pen.                                         Kara          Sea                                                              Sea
                                                  LATVIA




                   POLAND
                                         LITH.




                                                                                   Karelia
                                                                                                                                                                                                            la
                                                                                                                                                                                                   insu                                                                     In
                                                                        St. Petersburg                                                                                                       Pen                                                                                 di




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolyma
                                                            Pskov                                                                                                                   m   yr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ange
                                                                                                                                                                                Tay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  g irka
                                                                                 Petrozavodsk Arkhangel'sk
                                                                    Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                     Che
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rskiy
                                  BELARUS                                                                           Nar'yan Mar                                                                                                                                                   Ran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolmya R
                                                                                                                                            Yamal                                                           ga                                                                             ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                         wland




                                                                                                                                                                                                    n
                                                       Smolensk Tver                                                                         Pen.                                                  at                        Lo
                                                                               Vologda                                                               Gyda                                     Kh             Siberian
                                                            MOSCOWYaroslavl          Kotlas                                       Vorkuta            Pen.
                                        Bryansk Kaluga
                         UKRAINE                                                                             s.
                                                                     Kostroma                                                      Salekhard
                                         Orel                      Ivanovo                  Syktyvkar                     Ob




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Le
                                                                                                                t
                                                 Tula          Vladimir




                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             na
                                   Kursk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Magadan
                                                         Ryazan       Nizhny Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Petropavlovsk-


                                                                                                             al
                             Belgorod       Lipetsk
                                                                                   Kirov                                                                                                                Central                                                                                                                                      Kamchatskiy
                                                                                                         Ur
                                    Voronezh                Cheboksary      Yoshkar-Ola
                                                Tambov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Okhotsk
                                                                 Saransk Kazan'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea of
                                                      Penza                       Izhevsk                                                                                                           Siberian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yakutsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Range
                                                                                            Perm'                           Khanty-
            Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                          Ul'yanovsk
                                                                                                                            Mansiysk                                                                                                                                                                                          Okhotsk
                                  Rostov-
             Sea                  on-Don                R. Saratov                                                                          Wes
                                                                                                                                            We s t                                                      Plateau                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dzhur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Len




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        en
                Krasnodar                                              Samara       Ufa          Yekaterinburg                                                                                                                                                              d
                   Maykop
                                                 Volgograd                                                                                                                                                                                                             Al
                             Stavropol                                                                    Tyumen                      Si r
                                                                                                                                      S i b eO i a n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dzhug
                                                                                        Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                 b




                                                                                                                                                                       Ye n
                                        Elista                            Orenburg                      l
              Gora El'brus    Cherkessk                                                              bo
                                                                                                   To Kurgan                                Pla
                                                                                                                                            Plain




                                                                                                                                                                            i
               (5,633 m)




                                                                                                                                                                         sey
                              Nal'chik          Astrakhan r a
                                                                    l




                                                                                                                                                                                        Angara
                                                              U




                   Vladikavkaz Nazran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                       Omsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Am
                   GEORGIA             Groznyy                                                                                                       Tomsk
                                          Makhachkala                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yuzhno-
                                             Sea




                                                                                                                                   Novosibirsk              Kemerovo            Krasnoyarsk                                                                                                                                                           Sakhalinsk

                    AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                       Novokuznetsk                                                                   Lake
                                         ian




                                                                                                                                       Barnaul                                                                                                                   Blagoveshchensk                                       Khabarovsk
                                                                                                                                                                        Abakan                                                     Baikal                                                       Birobidzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ust' Ordynskiy
                                       sp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Chita
                                                                                                K A Z A K H S TA N
                                      Ca




                                                               UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                   Irkutsk          Ulan Ude




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    li n
                                                                                                                                                      Gorno-                                                                                   Aginskoye




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ote-A
                                                                                                                                                      Altaysk                    Kyzyl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40
                      RUSS I A N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sikh
                    FEDER AT I O N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vladivostok

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea of
                        OBLAST CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA
                        FEDERAL CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D.P.R.                                               J A PA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KOREA
                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP.
                                                                                                                                                                0      200       400 600 Kilometers                                                                                                               OF
                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KOREA
                                                                                                               RUSSIAN
                        RAILROADS                                                                            FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33470R2
                                                                                                                                                                0           200              400                 600 Miles                                                                                                                                            °N
                        OBLAST, KRAI, REPUBLIC, AUTONOMOUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
                        OBLAST, OR AUTONOMOUS OKRUG
MAY 2009




                        BOUNDARIES
                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     90°E                                      100°E                                        110°E                                           120°E                                                     130°E
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
