Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17059
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STATE OF ERITREA
RECOVERY AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2478-ER)
September 30, 1997
Country Department for Eritrea
Macroeconomics II, AFTM2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Ethiopian Birr (EB)
US$ 1.00 = EB 5.0 (as of March 1993)
US$ 1.00 = EB 7.2 (as of July 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ECDF      Eritrea Community Development Fund
ECRF      Eritrea Community Rehabilitation Fund
EFMP      Economic and Financial Management Program
EC        European Community
GNP       Gross National Product
GOE       Government of the State of Eritrea
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IDF       Institutional Development Fund
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OPS       Office of Project Services
PGE       Provisional Government of Eritrea
PMU       Program Management Unit
RRPE      Recovery and Rehabilitation Project for Eritrea
SA        Special Account
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
TF        Trust Fund
TGE       Transitional Government of Ethiopia
UK        United Kingdom
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USA       United States of America
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 8 to July 7 (for Ethiopia)
January 1 to December 31 (for Eritrea)
Vice President:      Mr. Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Director:            Ms. Oey Astra Meesook, AFC06
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Akbar Noman, AFTM2



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STATE OF ERITREA
RECOVERY AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2478-ER)
CONTENTS
Preface ...................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................                           ii
PART I:   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background .............................1
B. Project Description and Objectives .............................       1
C.  Achievement of Objectives ............................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................5
E.  Bank Performance ...6.........................6
F.  Borrower Performance ............................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................8
H. Future Operations ...9.........................9
I.  Key Lessons Learned .............................9
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2  Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3 Project Timetable .13
Table 4    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .14
Table 5 Project Costs .14
Table 6A  Project Financing .................... 15
Table 6B Project Financing (IDA) .15
Table 7  Status of Legal Covenants .16
Table 8  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .17
Table 9  Bank Resources: Missions .17
APPENDIX
A. Map of Eritrea
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Recovery and
Rehabilitation Project for Eritrea (RRPE) for which an IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 18.1
million (US$25.0 million equivalent) was approved on March 30, 1993 and made effective on
May 23, 1993. The Credit was originally made to the Transitional Government of Ethiopia
(TGE) and on-lent on the same IDA terms by the TGE to the Provisional Government of Eritrea
(PGE) because Eritrea was not yet an independent country nor a member of the Bank Group.
The Government of the State of Eritrea (GOE) assumed the credit obligation upon joining the
World Bank Group on July 6, 1994.
The Credit, except for one component, was closed on June 30, 1996, six months after the
original closing date of December 31, 1995. In order to utilize the remaining balance of the IDA
Credit, as well as balances in IDA-managed Trust Funds, for the importation of industrial
machinery and raw materials, category 2A of Schedule 1 was extended to November 30, 1996
and subsequently to March 31, 1997. The last disbursement was made on April 25, 1997 and the
remaining balance of SDR 0.3 million was canceled on July 31, 1997.
Cofinancing of the RRPE was provided by the Governments of Australia, Japan,
Netherlands and Sweden in the form of IDA-managed Trust Funds. Parallel financing was
provided by Denmark, the European Community (EC), Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, the
United States, the IMF, and the UNDP.
This ICR was prepared by F. Stephen O'Brien as a consultant to AFTM2 of the Africa
Region. It was reviewed by Ms. Oey Meesook, Country Director for Eritrea. It is based on
material in the project files including the Borrower's own evaluation of the project's execution,
field investigations, discussions with Bank and GOE staff associated with the project. The
borrower's comments on this report were communicated in a letter from the Minister of Finance
in which the following remark was made about this ICR "I am glad to say that it is acceptable to
us






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STATE OF ERITREA
RECOVERY AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2478-ER)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Eritrea gained independence from Ethiopia in 1993 following three decades of civil war
which left a devastated economy. The Provisional Government of Eritrea (PGE) appealed to the
donor community for support for their recovery and rehabilitation program (RRPE). IDA, the
UN, and bilateral and multilateral aid agencies pledged approximately US$100 million in grants
and soft loans to fund the RRPE. An IDA credit of SDR 18.1 million (US$25 million), approved
in March 1993, was made to the Transitional Government of Ethiopia because Eritrea had not yet
become a member of the Bank Group. The credit obligation was assumed by the Government of
Eritrea upon joining the World Bank in July 1994.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the RRPE were to: (a) restore agricultural and industrial production;
(b) rehabilitate infrastructure; (c) support community self-help rehabilitation activities through
the Eritrea Community Rehabilitation Fund (ECRF); and (d) strengthen public sector institutions
through the Economic and Financial Management Program (EFMP). Funding under the RRPE
supported sub-projects and programs in agriculture, industry, roads, energy, ports,
telecommunications, water supplies, and social infrastructure such as schools and health centers.
The objectives of the RRPE were clear and consistent with the highest priority recovery and
rehabilitation needs of the economy. The validity of the priorities established under the RRPE
was underscored by the fact that only limited redesign or reallocation of funds was required
during implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The total cost of the RRPE at appraisal (excluding the EFMP) was US$142.1 million.
Initial funding comprised US$93 million from donor pledges and US$8.6 million from the GOE,
leaving a financing gap of US$40 million. Funds were allocated primarily to sub-projects in
industry (27 percent), roads (19 percent), and agriculture (16 percent). IDA funding went to
industry (42 percent), agriculture (21 percent), roads (20 percent), power (13 percent), the ECRF
(4 percent), and project management (0.5 percent). In addition, IDA managed Trust Funds
totaling US$8 million for the Governments of Australia, Japan, Netherlands and Sweden. Some
of the initial donor pledges did not materialize but this shortfall was more than offset by
additional commitments from the original and new donors, bringing total donor funding to
US$96.3 million, and from the GOE. Against the original RRPE cost estimate a sizable funding
gap remained unmet, but most of the unfunded sub-projects are being implemented under
follow-on donor programs.



iii                                                           Evaluation Summary
4.    The primary measure of performance for the RRPE was the timeliness of supply of
essential imports and completion of civil works. The original completion date for the IDA credit
of 12/31/95 was used as the benchmark for assessment of overall progress of all donor-supported
sub-programs. By this measure, performance was satisfactory; of total donor funding of
US$96.3 million almost 83 percent had been disbursed and a further 10 percent was committed
by end-1995. Disbursements from the IDA credit started slowl.y in 1993 but accelerated in 1994-
1995 to reach 99 percent of the appraisal estimate at end- 1995.
5.    Implementation experience varied across sectors. The agricultural inputs program was
fully funded and basically completed by end-1995. The ECRF was well managed and highly
successful in completing over 100 sub-projects benefiting more than 1 million mainly rural
inhabitants. Community participation was strong with beneficiary contributions exceeding the
required 10 percent of project costs. A shortfall in donor funding was offset by additional GOE
contributions. The industrial sector imports program was seriously underfunded (US$27.7
million vs. estimated needs of US$86-96 million) but available funds were effectively used to
assist some 166 private and 14 public enterprises. The infrastructure rehabilitation program was
generally successful but some components experienced poor supplier or contractor performance,
delays in implementation, and funding shortfalls; as a result completion of some infrastructure
sub-projects has been carried over to the post-RRPE period. The EFMP component was
prepared during RRPE implementation with a total funding requirement of US$20 million, of
which US$14.4 million was pledged by donors. Given the GOE's serious lack of trained
personnel at independence a focus on capacity building in economic and financial management
was appropriate. However, the EFMP was overly ambitious in its estimate of the GOE's
readiness to accept external advisors and its absorptive capacity for technical assistance.
Implementation has been affected by lack of agreement between the GOE and donors over
specific technical assistance needs and how to address them; as a result utilization of donor funds
has been slower than originally planned.
6.    The RRPE was a complex, multi-donor, multi-sector program which proved challenging
for the new GOE. Donor procedures for procurement and disbursement were unfamiliar and not
well adapted to emergency programs such as the RRPE. Inadequate attention was given early in
the program to training of GOE personnel in these procedures, and this deficiency was
compounded by an absence of donor personnel in the country on a continuous basis.
Nevertheless, the fact that over 90 percent of total donor funds were disbursed or committed
within the target period (and 99 percent for IDA) attests to the overall effectiveness of
implementation. The shortfall in funding was disappointing to the GOE, as was the failure of
some donor pledges to materialize, but most of this short- fall has been offset by new donor-
funded programs.
7.    The overall performance of IDA was satisfactory.  IDA demonstrated initiative and
flexibility in responding to Eritrea's needs prior to the country's membership in the Bank Group,
but then failed to provide adequate supervision and guidance in IDA procedures at the outset.
However, supervision effort and implementation performance improved markedly in 1994-95
and can be rated highly satisfactory during this period. IDA assisted the GOE in mobilization of
l     Because of an uncommitted balance in the IDA credit at end-1995, and the later commitment of
the IDA-managed Trust Funds, a decision was taken to extend the closing dates to 6/30/96, and then, for
one category of the IDA credit and those Trust Funds with undisbursed balances, to 3/31/97.



Evaluation Summary                                                           iv
donor financing and in organizing biannual multi-donor supervision missions, but IDA's role in
overall donor coordination was not always clear. The GOE demonstrated commitment to and
ownership of the program and a strong sense of accountability for the use of donor funds. The
only shortcoming on the borrower side was the extreme shortage of skilled personnel.
8.    The outcome of the RRPE was satisfactory. The program addressed Eritrea's highest
priority rehabilitation needs, implementation of most sub-projects was effective, and the bulk of
the import program was completed within the targeted time period. The program has made a
significant contribution to the marked recovery of the Eritrean economy since 1993.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned, and Future Operations
9.    The most important finding of this operation is that donor procedures for procurement
and disbursement of funds are not well adapted to emergency situations involving new borrowers
such as the GOE. Despite efforts to expedite procurement there were frustrations over the
inflexibility of donor procedures. More effort should have been devoted to training of the
borrower, which could have been facilitated by greater donor presence in country. The other
lessons learned are:
*  In multi-donor projects of this type, the responsibilities for donor coordination of
the government and IDA or any other key donor should be clearly defined.
*  While technical assistance for capacity building in economic management may be
critical for new governments, it should be planned and implemented separately from
import-support rehabilitation programs and should have realistic goals.
10.   During implementation of the RRPE it was anticipated that a second-phase RRPE, or a
series of Economic Recovery Credits for balance of payments support would follow, but these
have not materialized. The only ongoing operations are the US$17.5 million Community
Development Fund (ECDF) project building on the success of the ECRF, and the US$6.3 million
Road Sector Engineering project. Major delays have been experienced in the preparation of
follow-on projects in human resource development, health, and ports, but these projects are now
expected to proceed during FY98.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STATE OF ERITREA
RECOVERY AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2478-ER)
- PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Eritrea is a new nation which gained independence from Ethiopia in 1993 after three
decades of civil war ending in 1991. The Eritrean economy was devastated by war, recurring
droughts, erosion of the natural resource base, and the negative impact of repressive economic
policies and neglect under the previous regime. Over a million people had left the country due
to the war and more than half a million were living in refugee camps in Sudan, in addition to an
estimated 100,000 internally displaced persons. Much of the economic and social infrastructure
as well as agricultural and industrial production capacity was destroyed or in need of major
rehabilitation. Social indicators were extremely low.
2.    In mid-1992 the Provisional Government of Eritrea (PGE) requested assistance from
IDA; this led to an agreement with the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) whereby the
TGE would borrow from IDA to support the Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea
(RRPE) on the undertaking that Eritrea would assume all repayment obligations of the IDA
credit upon becoming a member of the Bank Group. Following a reconnaissance mission in
September 1992 and preparation missions in October-November, the Bank appraised the RRPE
in December 1992 in collaboration with other donors. An IDA credit of SDR 18.1 million
(US$25 million) was negotiated jointly with the TGE and PGE and approved by the Board on
March 30, 1993. The credit obligation was fornally assumed by the Government of the State of
Eritrea (GOE) upon joining the World Bank and IDA on July 6, 1994.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
3.    The specific objectives of the RRPE were to: (a) restore agricultural and industrial
production; (b) rehabilitate infrastructure supporting the agricultural and industrial sectors; (c)
assist community self-help rehabilitation activities through the Eritrea Community Rehabilitation
Fund (ECRF); and (d) establish or strengthen institutions for economic and financial
management through the Economic and Financial Management Program (EFMP). These
objectives were to be met through the financing of sub-projects and programs for: agricultural
inputs, implements and machinery, and strengthening agricultural support services; imported raw



2                                                             Eritrea RRPE - ICR
materials, machinery and spare parts for public and private sector manufacturing enterprises;
road maintenance facilities, equipment and materials; spare and replacement parts for power
generation, transmission and distribution; rehabilitation of the port of Massawa; rehabilitation of
urban and rural water supplies; construction of water-catchment dams; telecommunications
equipment; rehabilitation and construction by local communities of basic social and economic
infrastructure, e.g., health centers, primary schools, rural roads and bridges, small dams and soil
conservation works; and equipment, advisors and training for the EFMP and the RRPE's
Program Management Unit (PMU).
4.    The total cost of the RRPE (excluding the EFMP) at appraisal was US$142.1 million
(US$136.8 million for goods and civil works and US$5.3 million for non-EFMP technical
assistance.) Donor pledges (excluding EFMP) totaled US$93.0 million from IDA, the EC,
Denmark, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Sweden and UNDP. The PGE allocated US$8.6 million,
leaving a funding gap of approximately US$40 million. Some of these initial pledges did not
materialize for various reasons, but this was more than offset by additional pledges from the
original and new donors (Australia, Japan), sufficient to raise total donor funding to US$96.3
million. GOE funding also increased, to US$11.3 million, but a sizable funding gap remained
throughout implementation.
5.    The EFMP component was not prepared at the outset of the RRPE. In the President's
Report for the RRPE it is simply quantified as the amount which had been pledged for capacity
building in economic and financial management from donors (Italy, Sweden, UNDP) up to that
time - a total of US$5 million. During implementation of the RRPE the EFMP was developed as
a much larger program with a total funding requirement of US$20 million. Additional pledges
were obtained from the above and other donors (Germany, UK, USA, IMF, IDF Trust Funds)
sufficient to bring total funding to US$14.4 million, but leaving a funding gap of approximately
US$5.6 million.
6.    The IDA Credit supported (i) agricultural and industrial inputs: US$15.69 million; (ii)
civil works - the rehabilitation of roads, construction of road maintenance depots, and
rehabilitation of electrical power facilities: US$8.17 million; (iii) the ECRF: US$1.0 million; and
(iv) the RRPE's Program Management Unit (PMU): US$0.14 million. In addition, IDA
managed Trust Funds (TF) for the following donors: Australia: US$0.9 million for the ECRF;
Japan: US$0.2 million for industrial equipment; Netherlands: US$4.9 million for agricultural
inputs and technical assistance, the ECRF, and equipment for the port of Massawa; and Sweden:
US$2.1 million for industrial inputs. Other donors provided parallel financing.!
7.    The objectives of the RRPE were clear and consistent with the highest priority recovery
and rehabilitation needs of the economy. During appraisal agreement was reached with IDA and
the other financing partners on the sectoral allocation of resources and on the sub-projects to be
included in the RRPE. Because this was an emergency operation, prepared quickly by a new
government, there was insufficient time for detailed preparation and appraisal of most sub-
projects. However, the fact that only limited reallocations or redesign were necessary during
implementation validates the initial focus and composition of the RRPE.
I     While this ICR treats the RRPE and its financing as a comprehensive and coordinated program,
and provides an overview of all components of the program, including those supported by parallel
financing from other donors, it discusses the details of implementation, procurement and disbursement only
for those components financed by IDA and IDA-managed Trust Funds.



Eritrea RRPE - ICR                                                             3
8.    In the agricultural sector lack of tools, machinery, oxen, seeds, fertilizers and pesticides
prevented recovery of production. Also, the capacity of the Department of Agriculture to
provide advisory and support services was constrained by shortages of staff and equipment.
Hence, restoring agricultural production capacity in the short-run through the supply of inputs
and strengthening GOE support services was appropriate. However, it must be recognized that
the potential contribution of the agricultural sector to economic recovery is limited. Because of
soil erosion, loss of tree cover, low and erratic rainfall and limited irrigation potential, only 3
percent of the total land area is cultivated and agriculture contributes a significantly smaller
share of GNP than is typical in Sub-Saharan Africa - only some 15-25 percent. Nevertheless, the
provision of inputs through the RRPE permitted the resumption of production in regions of the
country where agriculture had virtually disappeared during the war.
9.    Given Eritrea's limited agricultural potential, the manufacturing sector is more important
for recovery and longer-term development of the economy than in many other African countries.
Eritrea possessed a relatively diverse industrial base during the colonial era, but in recent years
all of the larger scale manufacturing enterprises had been nationalized and had suffered from
lack of new investment and inadequate maintenance.  Small and medium-scale private
enterprises had also suffered under wartime conditions, lacking inputs and access to markets.
Average capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector had fallen to 25-30 percent. Restoration
of manufacturing production was critical for the supply of basic consumer goods, expansion of
exports and employment creation. The immediate needs of the industrial sector for imported raw
materials, spare parts and replacement machinery were large - estimated by the GOE at US$ 86-
96 million.
10.   The objective of rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure was also clearly
justified. The port town of Massawa was heavily damaged during the war as were other towns in
the interior of the country. The critical road link between Massawa and Asmara had deteriorated
due to lack of maintenance and the effects of warfare. All of the electrical generating equipment
was old and half of the capacity of the interconnected system was decommissioned. The
telecommunications system was outdated and lacked adequate international switching capacity.
After 30 years of warfare and almost no investment by government the needs at the community
level were immense - for schools, health centers, access roads, water supplies, etc. The ECRF
was important not only for the restoration of social and economic infrastructure at the village
level and for employment generation, but also for rebuilding a sense of community.
11.   The focus on the GOE's economic and financial management capacity was also
appropriate. Because of the withdrawal of many Ethiopian civil servants employed by the
previous regime, the GOE lacked trained people in all areas of public sector management. The
economic data base was almost nonexistent and the government lacked systems and institutions
for effective economic management. However, for the reasons set out below, (para. 18) it is
legitimate to question whether the EFMP was the correct response and whether it should have
been linked to the RRPE.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
12.   The primary measure of performance for the RRPE is the timeliness of supply of
essential imports. For the IDA credit the completion date for RRPE was initially established as
12/31/95. While other donor-funded programs did not necessarily have target completion dates,
end-1995 was used during implementation as the benchmark for assessment of RRPE's progress.



4                                                                Eritrea RRPE - ICR
On this basis it can be said that overall performance under RRPE was reasonably satisfactory but
fell short of what the donors and GOE had hoped to achieve. Out of the revised donor funding
total of US$96.3 million an amount of US$79.9 million or almost 83 percent had been disbursed
by 12/31/95 and an additional US$9.7 million (10 percent) was committed.
13.   As for IDA, after a slow start in CY 1993 (only US$2.41 million disbursed through
12/31/93, of which US$2 million represented the initial deposit to the Special Account, vs. an
appraisal estimate of US$8 million) performance improved substantially during 1994 and 1995,
with US$18.4 million disbursed at end-1994 vs. an appraisal target of US$19 million (97
percent), and US$23.8 million disbursed by end-1995 vs. an appraisal estimate of US$24 million
(99 percent). The disbursement record of the IDA-managed TFs was good. The Netherlands TF
was the first to be negotiated; it was signed in August 1993, was over 98 percent disbursed as of
12/31/95, and closed on 6/30/96. The Swedish TF, signed in March 1994, was 75 percent
disbursed on 12/31/95, 99 percent disbursed on 12/31/96 and closed on 1/31/97. The Australian
TF, pledged in mid-1994, was fully committed by March 1996 , 83 percent disbursed by July
1996 and closed 3/1/97 with final disbursements in April 1997. The Japanese TF was pledged
much later, in November 1995; nevertheless it was 90 percent disbursed within one year and
closed on 1/31/97 with full disbursement.2
14.   While the overall record for timely use of RRPE resources was generally satisfactory,
experience across the various sectors was mixed. The agricultural inputs program was fully
funded and was essentially completed by end-1995. However, while the importation of
agricultural machinery funded by IDA (tractors, pumps) was completed in a timely fashion and
a credit scheme was set up to assist farmers with the purchase of this equipment, the utilization
was slower than expected, with sale of the 100 tractors completed only in early 1996 and sale of
the 330 pumps in July 1996.
15.   The industrial imports component was seriously underfunded with donor commitments
of only US$21 million for the public industrial enterprises vs. an identified need of US$66
million, and US$6.7 million for private enterprises vs. estimated needs of US$20-30 million.
After an initial low response from the private sector due apparently to inadequate promotion by
the GOE, which was corrected, the response picked up and the available funds were fully utilized
by the end of 1994, benefiting some 166 firms. The import program for the public enterprises
was essentially completed by end-1995, with the exception of those elements for which the IDA
credit and Trust Funds were extended. Only 14 of 41 public sector manufacturing enterprises
could be assisted. All public and private firms assisted were required to borrow to finance their
use of RRPE funds; no subsidies were provided. The program had a positive impact; most firms
assisted showed a substantial improvement in capacity utilization, output and employment.
16.   There were delays in the utilization of some RRPE funds for the rehabilitation of
infrastructure, e.g. in rural water supply and dam-building projects which have been redesigned
2      As of the original closing date of 12/31/95 there was an uncommitted amount of US$0.58 million
remaining in the IDA credit. It was decided to allocate the bulk of these funds to the procurement of
industrial equipment and to extend the credit closing date to 6/30/96 to complete this transaction. The
IDA-managed TFs were also extended to 6/30/96. Because delivery of the IDA-fnanced equipment was
delayed, and procurement was not completed under the Swedish, Australian and Japanese TFs, the closing
date for the IDA credit (Category 2A of Schedule 1 only) was extended to 3/31/97 and the TF closing dates
were also extended as indicated above.



Eritrea RRPE - ICR                                                             5
and extended beyond the end of RRPE. However, the Massawa water supply project was largely
completed by 1996. Not all of the anticipated support for the power and roads sectors was
forthcoming. The Asmara-Massawa road project, funded by the EC, was redesigned during
implementation from a short-duration repair project to a major rebuilding operation which is still
going on but which will result in a new, greatly improved road. The completion of two road
maintenance depots funded by IDA was delayed by 9 months to July 1996, with a cost overrun
of US$73,000, because of poor contractor performance, but they were eventually completed to a
satisfactory standard.
17.   The ECRF was fully funded at US$10.4 million, including a US$ 1.0 million contribution
from IDA, but during implementation there was a shortfall of US$1.9 million in bilateral
contributions. This shortfall was made up by Australian and GOE funding. The ECRF was
highly successful in mobilizing community participation; beneficiary contributions exceeded the
required 10 percent of project costs. The program was well managed by the Ministry of Local
Government and local authorities. During the three-year project implementation period, which
ended in February 1996, some 110 sub-projects were completed which have benefited over 1
million people. The priorities of the ECRF were schools, health facilities and water supplies.
More than 80 percent of the projects were in rural areas. The success of the ECRF established
the base for the much larger Eritrea Community Development Fund project begun in 1996.
18.   The EFMP was slow to start because of the time required to identify the capacity
building needs of the GOE and develop proposals for donor assistance. Obtaining agreement
between donors and the GOE on the scope and content of the program has proven difficult.
Implementation has also lagged for other reasons - the GOE's lack of experience in handling
multi-donor programs of technical assistance, complex donor procedures for selection of
consultants, changing assessments by the GOE of its own needs due to continuing governmental
restructuring, shortage of Eritrean counterparts to be trained, and the GOEs sensitivities
regarding the role of external advisors. Because of these problems, and the recognition that
capacity building is a longer term exercise, it was accepted that the EFMP time frame would
extend beyond the RRPE closing date. Efforts have been made to speed up the implementation
of EFMP and to increase its effectiveness. An EFMP coordination desk was established within
the Ministry of Finance and an EFMP Steering Committee involving all donors and the GOE was
created. IDA made available in 1994 an IDF grant of US$446,000 for EFMP and funded an
advisor who helped develop a comprehensive EFMP work program. However, utilization of
donor funds is still slow, and the overall impact of the EFMP is uncertain. The EFMP was
overly ambitious in its initial assessment of what could be accomplished in the short time frame
of the RRPE, and should have been developed as a separate, longer-term operation.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.   The Eritrean situation was not an ordinary war-to-peace transition; rather it involved the
creation of an entirely new country in the aftermath of a war, in which the old institutions were
replaced by new ones. Management of the complex, multi-donor, multi-sector RRPE was
challenging for the newly-established GOE which had little experience of donor rules for project
preparation, appraisal, procurement, contracts, employment of consultants, disbursements, etc.
The GOE would have preferred to see all donor funds combined in one pool, managed by IDA,
but this did not occur. The GOE was frustrated by the lack of flexibility in donor procedures for



6                                                               Eritrea RRPE - ICR
procurement and disbursement which are not well adapted to emergency situations.3  If the
procedures could not be modified to permit a more rapid, flexible response then donors should
have provided more training and guidance in their use. This would have been facilitated by
expanded donor presence on the ground throughout implementation of the RRPE.4
20.    The RRPE was affected by certain other factors mostly outside the control of the GOE.
Among these were underfunding of certain project components, in particular the manufacturing
sector imports program. Sub-projects in power, dam construction and community development
were affected by withdrawal of certain donor funding, procedural delays in release of funds, and
changes in project concept which delayed implementation. The overall shortfall in funding of
RRPE was disappointing to the GOE, but has been largely offset by financing from other sources
or through the follow-on programs of RRPE donors. Problems arose with some suppliers, in
particular two contracts funded by IDA, one for the supply of steel poles for power transmission
lines and one for bitumen for road construction. In the first case the contract was canceled after
partial delivery on grounds that the poles were defective and not according to contract
specifications. A new contract was let for the supply of wooden poles. In the second case, after
numerous failures of the supplier to meet delivery dates the contract was canceled and awarded
to the second-lowest bidder. These contractor problems were costly in both time and money for
the GOE.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
21.   IDA responded quickly to the PGE's request for emergency assistance in mid-1992 and
demonstrated flexibility and creativity in finding a way to lend IDA resources before Eritrea
became independent or a member of the Bank Group. The lapsed time between initial
reconnaissance mission and Board presentation was less than seven months, clearly a rapid
response that was recognized and much appreciated by the GOE. IDA helped the GOE mobilize
donor assistance for the RRPE, bringing potential donors and UN agencies into the appraisal and
negotiation process. IDA mobilized additional donor contributions during implementation.
However, the role of IDA in donor coordination aside from mobilization of resources was never
clearly spelled out. The GOE initially wanted help from IDA in understanding and coping with
IDA and other donor procedures, but as implementation proceeded and the PMU gained
experience in dealing with donors they were less dependent on IDA for assistance. The GOE
appropriately saw itself as fully responsible for program implementation. The PMU prepared
regular progress reports on RRPE while IDA assisted in organizing twice-yearly multi-donor
supervision missions and in channeling information to donors. However, IDA had no authority
to take action to unblock other donor funds which were not disbursing.
22.    Supervision.  IDA's overall  performance in supervision can only be rated as
satisfactory because of a slow start during 1993, due primarily to changes in task managers. The
original task manager who handled the program through appraisal, negotiations and Board
For example, it was anticipated at appraisal that some 72 percent of IDA procurement would
require ICB. This proved to be inappropriate for the ECRF which was heavily biased toward local costs. It
was later agreed to allow LCB procedure for ECRF procurement.
4      Among donor countries and agencies only the UNDP and a few other UN agencies, Italy and
USAID had established a presence in Asmara in 1992. The EC and Germany opened offices in 1995, but
few others have followed to date.



Eritrea RRPE - ICR                                                              7
approval left the Africa Region in mid-1993. Another task manager who was unfamiliar with the
project was designated but was reassigned before leading a mission to the country. This
breakdown in continuity of task management and lack of adequate supervision in the early
months of implementation led the GOE to complain that IDA was neglecting the project.
Finally, in December 1993 a task manager was assigned who had been on the appraisal mission
and who then remained with the project until mid-1996. Staff were designated to handle
supervision of the sectoral components of the RRPE and continuity was maintained in these
assignments. A team approach was adopted with monthly meetings in head-quarters to review
progress. From December 1993 until April 1996 IDA supervised the RRPE intensively, on a
quarterly basis, and took the lead in organizing multi-donor supervision missions twice yearly.
As a result of these efforts project supervision and implementation improved significantly
throughout 1994-95 and can be rated as highly satisfactory. As the procurement momentum
accelerated IDA expanded the focus of supervision from monitoring only the delivery of imports
to the effective installation and utilization of goods supplied for, e.g., the port,
telecommunications, water supply and power, and to facilitating the use of imports, for example
through the establishment of the credit scheme to accelerate the purchase of farm machinery.
23.   Procurement and Disbursement. While IDA provided some assistance in handling
procurement and disbursements in the early stages of implementation this was considered
inadequate by the GOE. It had been foreseen that this would be critical; the President's Report
states that the main lesson learned from other emergency operations is that "an emergency
program relies more than anything else on effective procurement and disbursement procedures."5
Terms of reference for a procurement adviser were included in the Board documents. However,
following credit effectiveness the GOE proposed to contract UNDP/OPS to handle all IDA
procurement under a management services contract.  This was acceptable to IDA but
negotiations broke down over differences in IDA and UN bidding eligibility rules. Finally in
November 1993 a procurement adviser was employed with UNDP funding, but almost ten
months had been lost and the adviser made only a limited contribution during his one year
assignment. Once the procurement delays were fully realized IDA took steps to address the
situation. The PMU was assisted in reorganizing and expanding its procurement unit. IDA held
several procurement workshops in Asmara and also funded other training outside the country for
GOE staff. These efforts contributed to significant improvements in GOE's handling of
procurement over the remainder of the program, but should have come earlier. The best
approach would have been to place staff in country from the outset to provide continuous support
in procurement. In summary, while the Bank mounted an intensive supervision effort beginning
in December 1993 which was successful in bringing IDA disbursements in line with appraisal
targets over the final two years of the RRPE, a continuous presence on the ground from the
beginning would have facilitated smoother implementation.
24.   Another procurement/disbursement issue involved the Special Account (SA) of US$2
million opened in July 1993. In May 1994, because the SA was fully obligated against large
outstanding letters of credit, the GOE asked for an increase to US$4 million. IDA did not agree,
arguing that such large procurements should have been handled through direct payment by IDA.
Instead IDA agreed to reduce the threshold for direct payments from US$200,000 to
5     Memorandum  and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association on a Proposed Credit to the Government of Ethiopia for a RecoverY and Rehabilitation
Program for Eritrea. Report No. P-5985-ET, March 8,1993, p. 5, para. 18.



8                                                             Eritrea RRPE - ICR
US$100,000, and made provision for advanced procurement of US$2 million to relieve the
immediate liquidity problem in the SA.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   One of the most important contributing factors to the success of the RRPE was the
GOE's high level of commitment to and ownership of the recovery program. This was
reinforced by a strong sense of accountability for public resources which assured the effective
utilization of donor assistance. The only shortcomings on the borrower side were due to the
extreme scarcity of human resources available to the country in the immediate post-
independence period.  Despite this shortage of skilled personnel, the GOE performed
satisfactorily in setting priorities for the RRPE, in identifying the high-priority sub-projects, and
in project implementation. However, in many areas the government needed technical assistance
and this was not always effectively utilized, for reasons stated earlier. The decision to establish a
PMU to manage the RRPE was important for project implementation. While it was organized in
advance of implementation and given effective leadership, there were delays in recruiting the full
complement of staff, in training and in setting up systems for handling procurement and
monitoring utilization of program funds. However, once the PMU was fully staffed and
provided with the necessary equipment and accounting systems it functioned effectively. Project
monitoring and auditing were carried out on a regular basis and reports submitted to IDA in a
timely manner.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.   The RRPE program can be considered successful. Implementation of most sub-projects,
despite a slow start, accelerated in year two and was substantially completed within the three-
year time frame. Project inputs have been effectively utilized; no donor resources were wasted.
Most projects not completed during the RRPE period are now being implemented, often with
support from the same donors. All the RRPE donors remain active in supporting Eritrea and
most have increased their level of funding since RRPE. The overall outcome of the RRPE is
probably superior to the experience of most other war-to-peace transition situations.
27.   The RRPE has contributed to the recovery of the Eritrean economy over the past four
years. While economic data are limited and only rough estimates of economic trends are
possible, the fact of economic recovery is unmistakable. While GNP declined steadily during
the war and immediate post-war period, by an estimated 1 percent per annum on average during
1986-93, estimated GNP growth has averaged 6.5 percent per annum in 1994-96. Agricultural
production has fluctuated widely due to recurring droughts, but other sectors have performed
strongly with industrial production having expanded by an estimated 13 percent per annum
during 1994-96. The external trade sector has also shown strong recovery with recorded exports
increasing from US$15 million in 1992 to US$95 million in 1996.
28.   While the RRPE provided the bulk of donor aid supporting Eritrea's economic recovery
during the 1993-95 period, other factors contributed to recovery. Food aid and resettlement
programs for refugees were funded by NGOs, UN agencies and donors. The GOE has itself
funded activities such as urban housing and urban infrastructure rehabilitation and has borrowed
to finance new investments in power generation and transmission. The economy has also
benefited from a strong inflow of remittances, equivalent to approximately 1/3 of GNP in recent



Eritrea RRPE - 1CR                                                                9
years, and from rising foreign investment. Nevertheless, the RRPE was clearly instrumental in
supporting economic recovery.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.   During the implementation of RRPE it was anticipated by IDA that this operation would
be followed by an RRPE II; however, this did not occur. One reason was the feeling of the GOE
that it could move from rehabilitation operations to longer-term development. Another factor
was the complexity of managing multi-donor funding within the same program framework and
which the GOE decided to deal in future with each donor agency separately. In addition, given
Eritrea's sizable external resource gap, IDA was prepared to provide balance of payments
support through one or more Economic Recovery Credits.6  Such operations have not yet
materialized, primarily because of the GOE's sensitivity regarding the conditionality attached to
such lending, but discussions between IDA and the GOE on this subject are continuing.
30.   In project lending to Eritrea, the RRPE has been followed to date only by the US$17.5
million Eritrean Community Development Fund (ECDF) project in FY 96, (total project cost
US$49.68m.), which built on the successful ECRF component of the RRPE, and the US$6.3
million Road Sector Engineering (Technical Assistance) project in FY 97. Other projects now
under preparation include Ports, Human Resource Development, and Health (all tentatively FY
98).
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.   The four main lessons learned from this operation are:
(a)    There is need for greater flexibility in IDA procurement and disbursement
procedures. These are intended to ensure that IDA resources are effectively
used for the designated purposes; the emphasis is on accountability, not speed of
implementation. They are not designed for quick response in post-conflict
emergency situations.7
(b)    Even if greater flexibility is introduced as per (a) above, any new borrower will
still face complex and unfamiliar procedures. Therefore, in assisting programs
of war-to-peace transition such as the Eritrea RRPE, it is critically important to
provide early training and follow-up. This can best be done by establishing an
early and continuing presence in the country to deal with implementation
6      The case for balance of payments support, the estimated external resource gap, and possible levels
of support from IDA and the IMF were discussed at the first Consultative Group Meeting for Eritrea held
in December 1994.
7      Introducing more flexible procedures in such situations may not be easy because the borrower
will usually not have a "track record" of accountability and effective project implementation. However,
some flexibility could be built in by relaxing certain rules and procedures progressively during
implementation in response to effective borrower performance.



10                                                                    Eritrea RRPE - ICR
issues.8 This does not necessarily require a Resident Mission; other approaches
are possible such as secondment of staff from headquarters on short-term (e.g.,
six-month) assignments or establishing an accommodation office with locally-
hired staff trained in IDA procedures.
(c)    In multi-donor projects of this nature, the responsibilities in donor coordination
of the government and IDA or any other key donor should be clearly defined at
the outset.
(d)     The EFMP tried to accomplish too much and overestimated the receptivity and
absorptive capacity of the GOE with regard to technical assistance. A more
modest set of objectives for capacity building in the early phases of post-war
recovery would have been more appropriate.
In some war-to-peace transition situations there may be questions of government stability,
security, capacity to implement a rehabilitation program, etc., which would militate against establishing an
early presence on the ground, but this was not the case in Eritrea where appraisal of the RRPE was carried
out some 20 months after the end of hostilities and where a unified govermnent was clearly in charge.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:   Project Cost
Table 6A: Project Financing
Table 6B: Project Financing (IDA)
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions






Eritrea RRPE - ICR                                                                     12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project
Objectives               Substantial        Partial          Negligible            N/A
Macroeconomic policies                                          l                ll l
Sector policies             r Z       Z                                                 x  i|j
Financial objectives                                                                    x m  r n
Institutional development                    [                1
Physical objectives              W        X                         W
Poverty reduction                                 x
Gender issues                                                                           X
Other social objectives          W        xr
Environmental objectives              j                                        L II XZ|
Public sector management                          x i         [1111                 I
Private sector development                        x z              m XIIhI
B. Project Sustainability                       Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
w X   
C. Bank Performance                             Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                    x X
Preparation assistance                                              X
Appraisal                                   |    X       |u|
Supervision                                                         x
D. Borrower Performance                         Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                     r       n          u   lX
Inplementation                                          I                               m m
Covenant Compliance                                                 X        | I
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                                 Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
wE I  I    X                 I  I                I                   I



13                                                              Eritrea RRPE - ICR
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose              Fiscal Year of     Status
Approval
Preceeding Operations
None
Following Operations
Eritrea Community    To finance community-based        1996        Under
Development Fund    projects for rehabilitation of                 supervision
basic social and economic
infrastructure and improve the
income -generating capacity of
poor households.
Road Sector Engineering  Technical assistance to the     1997        Under
Project                Roads Branch of the Ministry                  supervision
of Construction
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                        Date Planned         Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       10/92                10/92
Preparation                                      10/92                10/92
Appraisal                                        12/92              12/07/92
Negotiations                                    2/22/93              2/22/93
Board presentation                              3/30/93              3/30/93
Signing                                         4/07/93              4/07/93
Effectiveness                                     4/93               5/23/93
Mid-term review                                 3/31/94              6/08/94
Project completion                              12/31/95             3/31/97
Loan closing                                    4/30/96              7/31/97



Eritrea RRPE - ICR                                                           14
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY93        FY94        FY95        FY96      FY97
Appraisal estimate        2.00       14.00        22.00      25.00     25.00
Actual                    0.00        9.81        21.98      25.21     25.85
Actual as % of estimate   0.0        70.1         99.9      100.8     103.4
Date of final disbursement: April 25, 1997
Table 5: Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Item                         Appraisal Estimate    Latest Estimate (4/96)
Agriculture                         18.33                  18.33
Industry                            47.00                  47.00
Infrastructure                      61.45                  61.45
Community Rehabilitation            10.00                  10.00
Technical Assistance to PMU          5.36                   5.36
EFMP                                 5.01                  19.98
Total                              147.15                 162.12



15                                                                 Eritrea RRPE - ICR
Table 6A: Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Source                     Appraisal Estimate   Latest Estimate (4/96)1
IDA                              25.00                   25.85
Italy                            24.25                   25.61
EC                               23.01                   22.88
Sweden                            9.11                    6.44
Denmark                           6.50                    6.00
Germany                            5.49                   8.20
Netherlands                        2.22                   4.87
UNDP                               2.50                   4.33
USA                                -                       1.35
IMF                                -                      1.20
Australia                          -                      0.91
UK                                 -                      0.67
Japan                              -                      0.16
Government of Eritrea              8.61                  11.31
Total                           106.69                  119.78
Table 6B: Project Financing (IDA)
(US$ millions)
Category                      Appraisal Estimate2    Actual
Agriculture                          5.29              5.29
Industry                            10.40             11.01
Roads                                4.92              5.05
Power                                3.25              3.33
Community Rehabilitation             1.00              1.03
Technical Assistance (PMU)           0.14              0.14
Total                               25.00             25.85
For IDA and IDA-managed Trust Funds for Australia, Japan, Netherlands and Sweden, data reflect
actual disbursements through 7/31/97.
2   It was estimated at appraisal that 93-95% of IDA funds would be allocated to foreign costs.



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present    Original          Revised              Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type        Status    Fulfillmen    Fulfillment
t Date        Date
Project      2.01(c)       5            C          NA            NA        The  Govt.  shall  maintain  the  Project Dept. of Econ. Development and
Management Unit (PMU) in the Dept. of  Cooperation has been replaced
Economic Development and Cooperation with  by the Ministry of Finance.
functions  and  an  adequate  number  of
professionally qualified key staff satisfactory to
the Association.
Project     2.01(d)        5            C          NA            NA        The Govt. shall maintain, until completion of  The Secretary, Department of
the project, the Steering Committee chaired by  Economic  Development  and
the  Secretary,  Department  of  Economic  Cooperation    became    the
Development and Cooperation, which shall be  Minister of Finance.
responsible for the general oversight of the
project. The Steering Committee shall include
the Secretary of Finance and the Head of the
PMU.
Project      2.01(e)       5            C          NA            NA        The Govt. shall maintain the Community  The Office of Local Government
Rehabilitation Fund Unit (CRFU) in the Office  was replaced by the Ministry of
of Local Government with functions and an  Local Government.
adequate number of professionally qualified key
staff satisfactory to the Assoc.
Project      2.06(a)       9           CD        3/31/94       6/18/94     The Govt. and the Assoc. agree to undertake a  Mid-term review of project was
review of the progress achieved in carrying out  completed in June 1994.
the project based on indicators satisfactory to
the Assoc.
Project       2.07        2,3           C          NA            NA        The Govt. shall ensure that the proceeds of the
Credit made available to public and private
enterprises participating in the project shall be at
the same exchange rate, and this rate shall be the
same as the rate at which foreign exchange is
made available to the public and private
enterprises from sources other than the Credit
proceeds.
Covenant types:                                                                 Present status:
2 =  Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries.           C    =  Covenant complied with.
3  =  Flow and utilization of project funds.                                CD  =  Complied with after delay.                                                  _
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency.
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting.



17                                                                      Eritrea RRPE - ICR
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project       Planned   Planned    Revised    Revised    Actual    Actual
Cycle                   Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal         na          na         na          na         63.1       165.6
Appraisal-Board           na          na         na          na         11.1        35.3
Board-effectiveness       na          na         na          na           -
Supervision               na          na         na          na        219.9       736.0
Completion                na          na         na          na         27.9        75.3
TOTAL                     na          na         na          na        322.0      1012.2
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of   Month/ Number of  Days in  Specialized staff skills Implementation Development  Types of
project cycle   year    persons    field      represented 1/        status       objectives  problems3'
Through       Aug-92;    6; 12      12; 13    A, E, IE, CO, PE,       NA             NA          NA
Appraisal      Dec-92
5, L, P
Appraisal      Mar-93      5          7        E, CE, IE, PE, A       NA             NA          NA
through
Board approval
Supervision    Apr-93      6          8       A, IE, CO, CE, PE       NA             NA          NA
Dec-93      4         NA         PE, CE, P, IE          3             2           M
Mar-94      6          10        A, CE, S, IE           2              2          M
Jun-94      7         10      L, S, PE, IE, A, CE       S             S          F, M
Aug-94      1          11            IE                 S              S          M
Nov-94      2          11            E, IE              S              S         M, T
Feb-95      5         10         CE, IE, PE, S          S             S           M
May-95      2          16            E, IE              S              S          M
Sep-95      5          9          PE, IE, S             S             S           M
Apr-96      4         12            A, IE              HS             HS
Completion     Jun-97       1         13             E                 S              S
A = Agriculturalist, E = Economist, IE  Industrial Sector Specialist, CO = Country Officer, CE = Civil Engineer,
PE = Power Engineer S = Social Sector Specialist, L = Lawyer, P = Procurement Specialist.
2  As shown in Supervision Form 590
3/  F = Financial, M = Managerial, T 3/ F = Financial, M = Managerial, T = Technical



APPENDIX
Appendix A:     Map of Eritrea



I



IBRD 24604R
I  j    '                   k,                I 
18                 37                        38'     f   vei,          393 7O  '. 40                       ;                4Al'                      42'                       43      1
.7, /        :                                                                             :'          SAUDI ARABIA
_gJl$;raq)% \\ ' ' 'L / ~~~~~~~E R I T R E A
S   U   D   A   N                                            M.,,.X T-16 '%Asroy.'';'t
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I    A  ,.   -\ '>  o A w n:f,  t'(  .'                                                          K ,~                                                            SE C O N D A R Y   R O A D S
' ; :  '  r       )I                                                                                             . x~                                                     -  ' .  R A I L R O A DSX  ;   ,   :   '  .   g.  R I
)   ~~~~~'F  yOA5A'{                                                ,'t2:9                                                       .1                    "N...."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RIVERS
? l               EOINI                                                                                                   <N                  )f'- ' 9 Z ,'\ I                      _ t) , / 5 , > 6 o     | IN TERMITTENT STREAMS
F                         i ; .  -AnrTh"v S b*-                                                                            ',                                                 ; ; '  . -,  LK 0    SELECTER TOWNS
Ano~~~~~R40 ~~~~~~  K~~~~'~~~   "      ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ A2                   4A                              * ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
A     .f  ',gOUogule 'I'; ! Asmatr  9o\      9     ~ 't'   i 8)  ; ' >  I 4e Al  1,' 'A;                            '      '        '            '     ' "'                             _._ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
16 j 05uie) ' I -; '~~ A-  t(                  -        Nl ',_,                                                                                                                    (  Arf lJprl fO  ,M  |  
/ B ~~A                                                             R                          A7   .-b9 <om        -ij
/           Ad   Ai>  Acit  9ki S                         >O,OeFIe fg ) n r R           7"" M'-vtX b i   ^     ,,,''                                 9      A    
|~~~O7                                ,,      VAS'   '                                            A 7 0.tC ; 010(0      10M1R 
fiDJ16       .             F                        .                                  .                                          .1 6C
KRRN~                        ~s '   S~  4  -tX00XYSN 
I                                                       '2 Ihml,V
BARKA  4roboo  '  D   r                                                                          ,,. j    i ,                                                                        ;
/~~~~~A  E "                      '  H~010Mn                       MAI OL P I yAOAWa                           gr0  '   Kl' A~
s~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Meoser   Meeoe""                                                                                            akei !r  A++ rth'e                     ;
J0S bd ro                       38                         39                         40 &1l "'20  '/ A'I B                                                    OUA 'o e P 0o   ki        j~ 1<i 0  '
-,SEMq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVME 199
To Kosoc,Ic, ,  ~AdAl           u,.c oIo    KF'                                          -bitAlr                                                                     >
A  (0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T  0Adene I   9rnr-    ' c'"'    Teb  <'SE.A            6 4 keio RAI                 (    
IS'                                               I'- 'Terornr~2o/Al,<N20 Rh            .'0KureIe1 15
VAd--1sA,G                      ,d  RAd,        '         OAE
"6   N  Ilneombro                                  .2/                           FoIrn2K>T'b6 
GASH-,                                       AS TWAAT%.A)bB.,d
K     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
'  Rhrgo '      'I                j"4'4                ~~~~~                                       I  F    -{ -_
'~~~'~~otot  xoi  K   y. ~~~~~~~~To A, A4-                  T.oAdiogrt                               DENKIE       ~tohr
\,j  " "                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'5 "Kg  SAUDI'ARABIA,2''K
-  ..   Aloe,I,o  4                      ~~SUDAN
ETHIOPIA                                                                                       r          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETH IOPIA  '"- 
-13'                                                                                                                                                    N     <        t      V                                                 OAI7,
0'  Lobe                                     0"I
I  I                                                    43~~~~~~~  ,~~~  DJIBOUTI-':Keoo                               l
37'                        3'39'                                                 4'                        412                                                    43            '.   3N            0'.'*'
NOVRMBER 199



iMAGING
Report No.:       17059
Type     ICR



