CREDIT NUMBER of      ET
Project Agreement
(Recovery and Rehabilitation Project for Eritrea)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
Dated                  ,41993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER a449 ET
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             fleRt   4       , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the
PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA (PGE).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Ethiopia (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,100,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that PGE agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PGE, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent to PGE on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
WHEREAS PGE, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "PMU" means the Program Management Unit referred to in
Section 2.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee
referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(c)   "CRFU" means the Community Rehabilitation Fund Unit
referred to in Section 2.01 (e) of this Agreement; and


﻿-2-
(d)   "DEDC" means the Department of Economic Development and
Cooperation of PGE.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PGE declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and procurement
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and PGE shall
otherwise agree, PGE shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(c)   PGE shall continue to maintain the Program Management
Unit (PMU) established and operating in PGE's Department of Economic
Development and Cooperation with functions and an adequate number of
professionally qualified key staff satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   PGE shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the
Steering Committee chaired by Secretary, Department of Economic
Development and Cooperation, which shall be responsible for the
general oversight of the Project. The Steering Committee shall
include the Secretary of Finance and the Head of PMU.
(e)   PGE   shall   continue  to   maintain  the   Community
Rehabilitation Fund Unit (CRFU) established and operating in PGE's
Office of Local Government in the Office of the Secretary General
with functions and an adequate number of professionally qualified
key staff satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. PGE shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. PCI shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, PGE shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PGE shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   PGE  shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by PGE of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) PGE and the Association agree to undertake
not later than March 31, 1994, a review of the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project, based on indicators satifactory to the
Association and pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement;
(b) PGE shall without derogation or restriction upon any provision
of this Agreement promptly take such remedial or other action
satisfactory to the Association as may be required by the results of
the said review.
Section 2.07. PGE shall ensure that the proceeds of the Credit
made available to public and private enterprises participating in
the Project shall be at the same exchange rate, and this rate shall
be the same as the rate at which foreign exchange is made available
to public and private enterprises from sources other than the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) PGE shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of PGE
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) PGE shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each six-month
period (a semester) of the fiscal year audited,
in   accordance  with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such semester, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, PGE shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in


﻿-5-
which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made; and
(iii) enable   the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   PGE shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each six-month period (a
semester) of the fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such semester the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including a separate
opinion by said arditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
semester, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish    to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PGE thereunder shall terminate on the date on


﻿-6-
which the Drivelopment Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have iasignated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For PGE:
Department of Economic Development
and Cooperation
P.O. Box 895
Asmara, Eritrea
Telex:
117947


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PGE, or by PGE on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Secretary for Economic Development and Cooperation or such other
person or persons as PGE's Secretary for Economic Development and
Cooperation shall designate in writing, and PGE shall furnish to the
Association   sufficient  evidence   of  the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByAt C                            C
Regional Vice President
Africa
PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
By A>/
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    (a)   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(i)   Paragragh 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalifiction, or to bid in at
least one of the following forms:
(A)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Business; or
(B)   a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required; or
(C)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide technical circulation."
(ii) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, the bidding documents
may require the bidder to state the price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and
specified in the bidding documents."


﻿-9-
(b)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of -%he Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid
evaluation.
2.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, PGE shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. Where
payment under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, such copies together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to this
paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Eritrea may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    The following items may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international shopping procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof):


﻿- 10 -
(i)   industrial inputs for Part A (ii) of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding $4,000,000 equivalent; and
(ii) vehicles and office supplies for Part A (i) and
(iv) and Part D of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract,
up   to  an  aggregate   amount  not   exceeding
$1,260,000 equivalent.
2.    (a)   The following items may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association:
(i)   civil works for Part B of the Project up to an
aggregate   amount   not    exceeding   $660,000
equivalent;
(ii) civil works for Part C of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $70,000 or less up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000
equivalent.
(b)   Rehabilitation of road maintenance equipment under Part
B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or
less, may be procured through direct negotiation with original
suppliers of the equipment on the basis of unit costs satisfactory
to the Association.
3.    Construction materials for Part C of the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, may be procured
through local shopping procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Specialized and proprietary items for Part A (ii) of the
Project, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$400,000 equivalent, may be purchased directly under negotiated
contracts with original suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satifactory to the Association.


﻿- 11 -
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for raw materials, goods,
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist PGE in carrying out the Project, PGE shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).


﻿- 12 -
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review
or approval by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior review by
the Association shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    Implementation. The Program Management Unit (PMU) in the DEDC
will be responsible for the coordination of Project implementation.
The Sector Departments of PGE will be responsible for the
implementation of components of the Project within their respective
areas of competence. A Steering Committee under the chairmanship of
the Secretary of DEDC will oversee the carrying out of the Project.
A Procurement Committee under the chairmanship of the head of PMU,
and consisting of technical specialists from the concerned Sector
Departments of PGE, will deal with procurement matters.
2.    Community Rehabilitation Fund. The Community Rehabilitation
Fund will be managed by the Community Rehabilitation Fund Unit
(CRFU) established in the Office of Local Government (OLG) of PGE.
CRFU will screen project proposals presented by Local Project
Committees set up by local communities. CRFU will assist in the
preparation   of  project   proposals  documentation,   agree  on
implementation arrangements for approved projects and provide other
types of technical support and training. Local Project Committees
will be responsible for collecting community contributions to
projects resource requirements. A Committee, consisting of the
Secretary of OLG, the Head of the Local Government Affairs Office of
OLG, and the Coordinator of CRFU, will oversee the activities of
CRFU and be responsible for the selection of project proposals.
3.    Reporting. PMU will be responsible for monitoring the progress
of the Project and for preparing quarterly, and semi-annual and
annual consolidated progress report on the carrying of the Project.
Progress reports will be submitted to the Steering Committee at the
end of each quarter. CRFU will provide PMU with quarterly reports on
the activities of the Community Rehabilitation Funds.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
)XOR SECRE ARY


