CREDIT NUMBER 2478 ET
Development Credit Assumption
Agreement
(Recovery and Rehabilitation Project for Eritrea)
between
ERITREA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated as of July 6, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2478 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of July 6, 1994, between ERITREA and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) by a Development Credit Agreement (the Credit
Agreement), dated April 7, 1993, between the Association and
Ethiopia. the Association agreed to assist the Provisional
Government of Eritrea (PGE) in rehabilitating, reconstructing,
maintaining and operating priority sectors of Eritrea's economy (the
Project) by extending to Ethiopia a credit (the Credit) in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,100,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Credit Agreement;
(B)   by a Project Agreement dated April 7, 1993, between the
Association and PGE, PGE agreed to undertake all obligations
pertaining to the implementation of the Project;
(C)   by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement dated April 7, 1993
between Ethiopia and PGE, PGE undertook, inter alia, that in the
event Eritrea became an independent state and a member of the
Association, it would assume all debt service obligations under the
Credit Agreement;
(D)   by a letter to the Association, dated April 9, 1993, the
PGE confirmed that, in the event Ethiopia and Eritrea separated into
two independent states, Eritrea would assume all payment obligations
with respect to the Credit; and
(E)   Eritrea became: (a) an independent and sovereign state
on May 24, 1993, and (b) a member of the Association as of July 6,
1994;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Assumption of Obligations
Section 1.01. Eritrea hereby assumes and agrees to carry out
all obligations of Ethiopia under the Credit Agreement, and the
Association hereby recognizes the succession of Eritrea to the
rights and obligations of Ethiopia under the Credit Agreement, with
the same effect as though the word "Eritrea" was substituted for the


﻿-2-
word "Ethiopia", subject to the following modifications of the
Credit Agreement:
(a)   Recital (B) of the Preamble shall be deleted;
(b)   Subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 1.02. shall
be deleted and replaced by the following:
"     (b)   "PMU" means the Program Management Unit referred
to in Section 3.01. (c) of this Agreement;
(c)   "Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee
referred to in Section 3.01. (d) of this
Agreement; and
(d)   "CRFU" means the Community Rehabilitation Fund
Unit referred to in Section 3.01. (e) of this
Agreement;"
(c)   The term "Secretary  of Finance of the PGE" in Section
2.09. shall be replaced by the term "the Borrower's Minister of
Finance and Development";
(d)   Article III shall be replaced by Article II of the
Project Agreement which shall become Article III of the Credit
Agreement, subject to the following modifications:
(i)   the term "Schedule 2", in Subsection 2.01.(b),
shall be replaced by the term "Schedule 6";
(ii)   the   term   "PGE's   Department   of   Economic
Development and Cooperation", in Subsection 2.01.
(c),  shall  be   replaced  by  the  term   "the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Development";
(iii)   the term  Minister of Finance and Development"
shall be substituted for the terms "Secretary,
Department    of   Economic    Development   and
Cooperation" and   "Secretary  of Finance", in
Subsection 2.01. (d);
(iv)   the term "PGE's Office of Local Government, in
the  Office   of  the  Secretary   General",  in
Subsection 2.01. (e),  shall be replaced by the


﻿-3-
Subsection 2.01. (e), shall be replaced by the
term "the Borrnwer's Ministry of Finance and
Development";
(v)   the term "Schedule 1", in Section 2.02, shall be
replaced by the term "Schedule 5";
(vi)   Section 2.03 shall be deleted, and Sections 2.04,
2.05, 2.06, and 2.07 shall be renumbered "Section
2.03",  "Section  2.04",  "Section  2.05",  and
"Section 2.06", respectively; and
(vii)   the  terms  "and  under  the   Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement", in Subsections 2.05 (a) and (b),
shall be deleted;
(e)   A new Article IV shall be added which shall incorporate
the provisions of Article III of the Project Agreement;
(f)   Articles IV, V, and VI shall be renumbered "Article V",
"Article VI", and "Article VII", respectively;
(g)  A new Schedule 5 shall be added which shall incorporate
the provisio7-s of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(h)   A new Schedule 6 shall be added which shall incorporate
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, subject to
the following modifications:
(i)   the term "Secretary of DEDC", in paragraph 1,
shall be replaced by the term "Minister of
Fin4nce and Development";
(ii)   the term "Ministry of Finance and Development"
shall be substituted for the trzm "Office of
Local Government (OLG) of PGE", in paragraph 2;
and
(iii)   the term "Secretary of OLG", in paragraph 2,
shall be replaced by the term "Minister of
Finance and Development; and


﻿-4-
(i) The Borrower's address in Section 6.02 shall be replaced
by the following:
"Minister of Finance and Development
P.O. Box 895
Asmara
Eritrea
Telex:
583 49 242 1150"
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Miscellaneous
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of Eritrea have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01. of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Association,
of counsel, acceptable to the Association, showing, on behalf of
Eritrea, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Eritrea and is legally
binding upon Eritrea in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. Upon the notification by the Association to
Eritrea of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01.
of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be deemed to have taken
effect as of July 6, 1994.
Section 2.04. If and when this Agreement shall have entered
into effect: (a) the Project Agreement and all obligations of the
parties  thereunder   shall  forthwith  terminate,  and   (b)  the
Association shall release Ethiopia of all its obligations under the
Credit Agreement.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ERITREA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   Kk
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


