AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2478 ET
Agreement
between
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
(Recovery and Rehabilitation Project for Eritrea)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Dated      atr C-  /L         , 1994


﻿AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2478 ET
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of    7tArc C 'k     , 1994, between the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter referred to as Sweden) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as
the Association) for the administration by the Association of
certain funds to be made available by Sweden to ERITREA (hereinafter
referred to as Eritrea).
WHEREAS: (A) Sweden wishes to make available to Eritrea a
grant (hereinafter referred to as the Grant) in an amount of fifteen
million Swedish Kronor (Skr 15,000,000) to assist Eritrea in the
financing of the importation of raw materials and spare parts for
edible oil mills or any other enterprise within the industry sector
in conjunction with the Recovery and Rehabilitation Project (the
Project) referred to in the Development Credit Agreement (Credit
Number 2478 ET) dated April 7, 1993 between Ethiopia and the
Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
(B)   Sweden wishes that the proceeds of the Grant should be
incremental to the Development Credit and extended for the same
purposes by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(C)   the Association has agreed to administer the Grant upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a grant
agreement (the Grant Agreement) to be subsequently entered into by
the Association and Eritrea;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Administration of the Funds
Section 1.01. For the purpose of this Agreement Sweden shall
deposit an amount of Swedish Kronor fifteen million (Skr 15,000,000)
into the International Development Association's Cash Account "T"
(No. 89501-00225) which is maintained with the Sveriges Riskbank
(hereinafter referred to as the Trust Account). When making payment,
Sveriges Riksbank should be instructed to advise the World Bank's
Cash Management Department as to the amount received, that it is for
the Recovery and Rehabilitation Project in Eritrea (Project 24315),
and the date of the deposit. In addition, Sweden will fax a copy of
the payment request to the Office of the Trust Funds Administrator
at the World Bank utilizing Fax No. 202-477-3056.


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Sweden hereby appoints the Association as
administrator of the Grant and authorizes the Association to:
(a) disburse the proceeds of the Grant to Eritrea to finance the
importation of materials and spare parts for edible oil mills or any
other enterprise within the industry sector in accordance with the
provisions hereof and the Grant Agreement; and (b) do any and all
such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate to fully
accomplish the foregoing. Disbursements of funds from the Trust
Account attributable to the Grant shall be effected on the basis of
withdrawal applications for expenditures submitted by Eritrea to the
Association in accordance with the Association's applicable
procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the
Association.
Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions hereunder as it 'exercises with
respect to the administration and management of its own affairs ard
shall have no further responsibility to Sweden in respect thereof.
Section 1.04. The Association may invest, and reinvest, the
Grant funds held in the Trust Account pending their disbursements.
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of the
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under
this Agreement, the Association may retain for its own account the
income from any such investment mentioned above, however, not
exceeding 2 percent of the disbursed amount. The balance of the
income from any such investment exceeding 2 percent of the disbursed
amount shall be credited to a separate account and shall be refunded
to Sweden.
Section 1.05. The administration and enforcement of any
provisions of any agreement entered into between the Association and
Eritrea will be the responsibility solely of the Association and
will be carried out in accordance with the Association's normal
procedures.
Section 1.06. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify Sweden of such later date.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Records and Accounts
Section 2.01. The Association shall maintain separate records
and ledger accounts of the proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the
Trust Account, and furnish Sweden quarterly statements thereon. The
Association shall cause the records for the preceding twelve months
with respect to the Grant to be audited by the external auditors of
the Association and provide Sweden with a copy of the report of such
audit. The cost of such external audit shall be deducted from the
income of any investment or reinvestment of the Grant funds.
ARTICLE III
Consultation
Section 3.01. The Association will keep Sweden informed of the
progress of activities funded under this Agreement by providing
copies of any monitoring reports and studies. Opportunity to
participate in discussions or workshops arising from the above
activities will be provided in a timely manner to representatives of
Sweden, subject to the consent of Eritrea.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature by the parties and, .ubject to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until December 31, 1995.
Section 4.02. The arrangement covered by this Agreement may be
terminated by either party upon three (3) months prior notice
thereof in writing. Upon such termination, unless the parties hereto
agree on another course of action: (a) any agreement entered into
between the Association, consultants, and/or third parties shall not
be affected by the termination, and      be Association shall be
entitled to continue withdrawals from the T-Account in respect of
such agreements as if this arrangement had not been so terminated;
and (b) any balance in the T-Account shall be returned to Sweden and
the Association's functions pursuant hereto shall be considered
terminated. Promptly after termination, the Association shall
furnish to Sweden a final report and a financial statement of the T-
Account.


﻿ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Swedish International Development Authority
(SIA) shall be competent to represent Sweden for the purpose of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made hereunder shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or mail, telephone, telex or rapifax to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address, hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For Sweden:
Swedish International Development Authority
S-105-25 Stockholm
Sweden
For the Association:
Agriculture and Environment Division
Country Department 2
Africa Region
International Development Association
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.Ct 20433


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By  Al!h0 A74-     Z/    1- /\
/Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/Ac-xq Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


