Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16463-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
August 21, 1997
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 1997)
Currency Unit = Forint
US$1= 192.5 Forint
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1993        1994        1995        1996       July 1997
US$1.00=       91.9        105.2       125.7       152.6         192.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assessment Strategy
DEM          Deutsche Mark
EU           European Union
EU-PHARE  European Union - Pologne Hongre Action pour la Reconversion
GOH          Government of Hungary
HHRD         Hungary Human Resources Development
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
MOL          Ministry of Labor
NGOs         Non-Governnental Organizations
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PIM          Project Implementation Manual
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
YTP          Youth Training Project
REPUBLIC OF HUNIGARY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger Grawe (ECC07)
Acting Sector Director Chris Lovelace (ECIIDS)
Responsible Staff: David Fretwcll, Task Manager, (ECI/2HR)
Michael Mertaugh, Principal Education Economist (ECl/2HR)
Jim Stevens, Operations Officer, (EC 1/2HR)
Gyorgy Novotny, P'rocurement Specialist (EC2HU)
Edith Santos, Sr. Staff Assistant (EC 1/2HR)
Peer Reviewers:  Indermit Gill, Economist, (LA I C 1)
Clarence Burdette, Education Specialist (Consultant)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Republic of Hungary
Hungary Youth Training Project
Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................................                                                                 i
I. BACKGROUND .........................................................1
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT .........................................................1
B. SECTORAL CONTEXT ........................................................                                                         2
C. RATIONALE AND STRATEGY FOR WORLD BANK INVOLVEMENT .................................... 7
II. THE PROJECT ......................;.                                                                                                         9
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE ......................                                                                                           9
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................                                                                                        9
COMPONENT A: POST-SECONDARY, JOB-ORIENTED TRAINING ............................... 9
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT .......................................................                                   9
CURRICULUM  DEVELOPMENT ....................                               .................................... I 0
INSTITUTIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ............................................010
STAFF DEVELOPMENT UNIT ........................................................                                    10
COMPONENT B:  SECONDARY  VOCATIONAL ORIENTATION  .................                                       ................... 1 1
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR CORE CURRICULA ....................................................... 1 1
OCCUPATIONAL FAMILIES CURRICULA ........................................................                           1 1
C.  PROJECT COSTS ....................................................... 1 2
D. PROJECT FINANCING ........................................................                                                       14
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................                                                           16
A. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ........................................................                                             16
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ........................................................                                         17
C. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ........................................................                                        18
D. DISBURSEMENT AND  FINANCING  SCHEDULES ........................................................                                   21
E. SPECIAL ACCOUNT .......................................................                                                          22
F. STATUS OF PREPARATION .......................................................                                                    22
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................                                                                 23
A. BENEFITS .......................................................                                                                23
B. RISKS .....................................                                                                                      23
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................                                                                         24
A. AGREEMENTS .....................................                                                                                 24
B. RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................                                                                           25



TABLES
TABLE 1: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES BY AGE GROUP (1 995) ..................................................2
TABLE 2: DISTRIBUTION OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REGISTERED UNEMPLOYED BY
EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND AGE GROUP BETWEEN MARCH 1995
AND MARCH 1997 ....................................................................3
TABLE 3: PROJECT SUMMARY BY COMPONENT ................................................................. 12
TABLE 4: PROJECT SUMMARY BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE ....................... .......................... 13
TABLE 5: COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT AND SOURCE OF FINANCING .......................... 14
TABLE 6: COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND SOURCE OF FINANCING ..... 15
TABLE 7: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................   21
TABLE 8: PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCING SCHEDULES ................................... 22
FIGURES
FIGURE 1: CHANGING PROFILES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENT, 1990-1995 ....4
ANNEXES
ANNEX I: NUMBER OF SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS .................................... 26
ANNEX II: PROCUREMENT PLAN ...................................................................  30
ANNEX III: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ...................................................................   31
ANNEX IV: KEY CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF INSTITUTIONS AND PROGRAMS ................ 36
MAP
IBRD 28708



- i -
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                          Republic of Hungary
Implementing Agency:               Ministry of Labor
Beneficiary:                       Youth in secondary schools and in post-secondary/post-
compulsory school age settings
Poverty:                           Program of targeted interventions
Amount:                            DEM 62.9 million
Terms:                             Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate
for fixed-rate DEM single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 0-3 years.
Commitment Fee:                    0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                    See Table 5.
Net Present Value:                 Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:             16463-HU
Map:                               IBRD  28708
Project ID Number:                 HU-PE-8485
Vice President: Johannes Linn, (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger Grawe (ECC07)
Acting Sector Director Chris Lovelace (ECHDS)
Responsible Staff: David Fretwell, Task Manager, (ECHDS)
Gyorgy Novotny, Procurement Specialist (ECCHU)
Michael Mertaugh, Principal Education Economist (ECHDS)
Jim Stevens, Operations Officer, (ECHDS)
Edith Santos, Sr. Staff Assistant (ECHDS)
Peer Reviewers: Indermit Gill, Economist, (LAICI)
Clarence Burdette, Education Specialist (Consultant)






Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
i. BACKGROUND
A.   COUNTRY CONTEXT
1.1         Hungary experimented with market type reforms much earlier than the other
Central and Eastern European countries. The "new economic mechanism" introduced in the late
1 960s aimed at substituting market prices for the plan as an allocative mechanism. The pace of
reform was significantly accelerated in the late 1980s, and was strongly supported by both
Bretton Woods institutions. These efforts were successful in building up some of the basic legal
and institutional infrastructure of a market economy. A new government came to power through
free parliamentary elections in the spring of 1991 with a mandate to establish a fully-fledged
market economy. At the same time, Hungary took a major step toward realizing its vision of full
integration with Europe by entering into an Association Agreement with the European Union
(EU) in 1991, and joined the OECD in 1996.
1.2         The economic transition requires an extensive reorientation in the way Hungary
develops and uses its human resources. This work has been underway since 1991 using a
combination of national, bilateral and multilateral resources, including the US$150 million
Human Resource Project, which closed in June 1997. These efforts have been instrumental in
helping Hungary cope with emerging unemployment and redeployment of labor to higher
productivity uses, in retraining adults for the new skills needed as a result of economic
restructuring, in reorienting the narrow and rigid vocational training for youth in order to develop
a more mobile and technically adaptable labor force, and in narrowing the technology gap
between Hungary and Western Europe by reforming and expanding higher education and
professional training, especially in the fields of management and scientific research and
development. The central theme of the reforms has been to address the need to redirect human
resources investments so as to maximize their contribution to economic competitiveness.
1.3         The proposed Youth Training Project would extend two of the successful
initiatives supported under the Human Resources Project. Chapter I of this report gives the
sector background to the proposed Youth Training Project. Chapter II describes the project
objective, activities; project costs and financing. Implementation arrangements are discussed in



-2 -
Chapter III. The benefits and risks of the Project, and the policy agreements reached with the
Government of Hungary (GOH) are set out in Chapters IV and V, respectively.
B.   SECTORAL CONTEXT
1.4         Youth Unemployment. Starting from a negligible level at the start of the
transition, unemployment in Hungary developed rapidly in 1991, and reached a maximum of
13.6 percent in 1993. Although the unemployment rate has subsided slightly since then, it
remains high: 475,000 people are currently unemployed -- 10.2 percent of the labor force,
according to registration data. Youth unemployment is a particular concern for the Government.
As shown in Table 1, below, unemployment rates are highest for workers aged 16 - 19 (38.5
percent), and decline progressively with age. (Of the current unemployed, 22.5 percent are 25
years old or less; 50.8 percent are 35 years or less.)
Table 1: Unemployment Rates By Age Group (1995)
1  Unemployment
Age Group          rate (%)
16-19 years              38.5
20-29 years              23.4
30-39 years              10.9
above 55                 07.2
Total                    11.8
Source: 1995 Household Survey
1.5         The success of new labor force entrants in finding jobs differs markedly by their
educational experience. Unemployment rates vary inversely with level of education. As shown
in Table 2, fully seventy-five percent of the unemployed consists of people with the lowest
educational qualifications: "less-than eight-year primary school", "primary school", and
"apprenticeship" (primary plus two or three years of vocational training, most of it in
enterprises). Unemployment rates range from 12 percent to 25 percent for labor-market
participants with less than a secondary level education. Unemployment rates drop sharply for
labor-market participants who have a secondary education or more, and are lower for graduates
of secondary vocational schools than for gimnazium (grammar-school) graduates.



- 3 -
Table 2: Distribution of the Total Number of Registered Unemployed by Educational
Qualifications and Age Group between March 1995 and March 1997
Period    Grad.  Graduated  Graduated  Graduated   Grad.    Total    From the total number of registered
from    from       from     from sec.   from   number of            unemployed
eight-  grammar  apprentice    tech.    higher  registered
year    school   school and   school,  education
primary           secondary    and   institution  unempl. Younger between  between 56 years of
school            level voc.  polytechnic               than 17 17 and 25 26 and 55  age and
school                               years of                    older
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ ____ __   _ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ag e
Mar-95  42.6      7.7       35.9       11.7      2.1    540718    1.9      25.0    71.2      1.9
June   43.6     7.9       34.5       11.7      2.3    482744    1.6      21.9    74.4      2.1
September  40.3      9.2       34.1       13.6      2.8    491413    2.7      24.8    70.5      2.0
December  40.9       8.6       35.2      12.8      2.5    495890    2.2      24.4    71.6       1.8
March 1996  41.0      8.4       36.1       12.3      2.3    528364    1.6     24.5    72.1       1.8
June  41.8      8.2       34.8       12.4      2.7    481949    1.1      21.6    74.9       2.4
September  40.9      8.5       34.1       13.3      3.2    501041    1.9      22.9    72.8      2.4
December  41.8       7.7       35.6      12.3      2.6    477459    1.5      22.2    74.2       2.0
March 1997   41.7     7.3       36.5       11.9      2.4    493281    0.6     22.2    74.6       2.4
1.6            The Inherited Education and Training System. Hungary in 1968 had
abandoned central planning in terms of physical output targets; public enterprises had financial
performance targets, but were free to pursue them in response to evolving markets for inputs and
outputs. Thus Hungary entered the transition without the rigid linkage between the
education/training system and the manpower requirements for meeting planned output targets
which characterized many of the other transition countries. Even so, Hungary's education system
at the start of the transition had several features in common with other transition countries. Its
management was highly centralized. It had achieved a high level of literacy in the population
and a relatively high level of skill qualification in the labor force. It did so through essentially
universal coverage at the secondary level -- much of it in the form of vocational, technical, or
apprenticeship training. Higher education coverage was more limited, and concentrated upon
science and engineering education.
1.7            There were a number of serious problems with the inherited education and
training system. I Secondary level vocational training was provided in too specialized form and
too early (age 14), before students were mature enough to make a reasoned choice between
occupations. Specialized vocational education and training provided detailed practical
instruction for highly specific occupations, but little theoretical instruction in the underlying
scientific and quantitative principles of the occupation. The graduates of these programs were
productive only within the confines of these narrow job specializations, and only as long as the
technology remained unchanged. They were not well equipped to adapt to changes in the
prevailing technology, or to change occupations in response to the needs of an evolving market
economy. Moreover, the training relied heavily upon on-site practical experience in enterprises.
Under the market pressures of the transition, many of these enterprises have closed or lost their
1 These are described in detail in Hungary: the Transition to a Market Economy -- Critical Human Resource
Issues (World Bank Report No. 8665-HU; August 1990).



- 4 -
capacity to provide such training. Finally, the training programs were almost exclusively pre-
service and concentrated in industrial and agricultural specializations. Very few programs of
training were available to members of the labor force -- either working or unemployed -- to
upgrade their skills or to change occupations after leaving the formal education and training
system. Very few training programs of any kind existed in the service sectors, which have
experienced the most rapid growth in output and wages since the start of the transition.
1.8           The economic upheavals which occurred under the transition revealed the
weaknesses of the education and training system. Apprenticeship and vocational schools are
having increasing difficulty in finding enterprises willing to provide training places for their
students, and students who complete vocational and apprenticeship training programs without
secondary school matriculation are having increasing difficulty in finding jobs. For these
reasons, enrollment in these programs and the number of schools which offer them have declined
since the start of the transition (see Figure I and Annex I). Increasingly, non-diploma vocational
secondary schools are being absorbed or converted into diploma-level secondary technical
schools. There is growing demand for diploma-level secondary technical education and post-
secondary specialized programs of technical training in areas like computer skills and foreign
languages, which are in high demand in the post-transition economy. Enrollments in diploma-
level secondary courses -- in both academic grammar schools and secondary technical schools --
have increased since the start of the transition.
Figure I: Changing Profiles of Secondary Education Enrollment
1990-1995
45
' -- _.  - - -  -   - -  Apprentice school
40-
35 - ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. . . . . . .
35
Secondary vocational school L=
30 --
25 -         Grammar school
20
15
10 -Secondary level vocational school
_, ---0-91-1991-92-192-931993941994    -,9                   - 199_9
1990/91     1991/92       1992/93      1993/94     1994/95      1995/96



1.9         Education and Training Reforms. Recognizing the limitations of its prior
programs of vocational education and training, Hungary moved early in the transition to make its
education system more flexible.2 With support from the World Bank3 and EU PHARE, it
launched in 1991 an extensive program of reforms -- the most extensive reform of vocational
education undertaken in any of the transition countries -- designed to make the system more
flexible, more efficient, and more responsive to student demand and evolving labor market
needs. The main features of the reform are: a) a major decentralization of responsibility for
managing education and training, including the involvement of employers and trade unions in the
management of vocational training, b) extension of general education by two years (grades 9 and
10) prior to the start of vocational orientation, c) development and delivery of vocational
orientation in the form of 13 broad job families in place of the well-over-100 separate
occupational specializations previously offered, d) development of career counseling for students
to inform them of employment prospects and associated training opportunities in alternative
occupations, and e) development of post-secondary training, including a network of Regional
Human Resource Development Centers, to update skills, to upgrade skills, and to support a
move from one occupation to another. The underlying objective of these reforms is to extend
and improve general education in basic quantitative, scientific, and problem-solving skills for all
young people while still providing vocational orientation prior to specialized vocational training
at the post-secondary level. This is meant to provide a better basis for later work, whether
students choose to pursue further academic studies, to pursue specialized vocational training, or
to enter the labor market directly. Under the Government's reform program, compulsory
education is being extended from eight years to ten years, and the outmoded apprenticeship
programs are being progressively replaced with secondary vocational orientation programs, along
with the development of job-specific focused training programs at the post-secondary level.
Taken together, these changes are developing a more cost-effective education and training
system which is more adaptable to the skilled manpower needs of an evolving economy, and
more consistent with education and training systems in the EU and OECD countries.
1.10        The Human Resources Project is supporting these and a number of related
reforms. The project has been successfully implemented. One of the key reform activities
supported under the project was the development of seven new core curricula and 13 new
consolidated vocational orientation curricula, and the implementation of these programs in 79 of
the approximately 400 secondary vocational schools in the country. On the basis of the very
positive reception to these new programs by teachers and students, EU PHARE supported
implementation of the new curricula in another 79 secondary vocational schools. Another small
group of schools have joined as "follower schools" without external financial support. The
proposed Project would support expansion of the number of schools implementing the new core
curricula and vocational orientation curricula to encompass most secondary vocational schools
not yet equipped to offer them.
2 Described in A New Vocational Training Model for Hungary, MAria Sallay, editor, 1996.
3  Described in Staff Appraisal Report No. 9183-HU, Hungary Human Resources Project (March 11, 1991).



-6 -
1.11          Another key activity supported under the Human Resources Project is the
development of flexible training programs for adolescents and young adults at the post-secondary
and post-compulsory school level. The project supports the development of flexible, modular
training programs to meet regional manpower needs. The specializations covered by the
programs in each locale are jointly agreed by employers, trade unions, and local governments.
The training programs are being successfully delivered under the project by nine Regional
Human Resource Development Centers4. Under the proposed Project, this training model would
be diversified to support, on a competitive basis, training for agreed programs to be provided to
young adults by public schools, private schools, NGOs5, and the nine Regional Human Resource
Development Centers. Procedures would be developed to promote development of local
consortia to ensure that duplication and overlap of programs is minimized and common services
shared when possible and appropriate. As in the HHRD project, actual training delivery would
be jointly financed by employers, by local governments, and by the state budget. Decisions
about specific training to be offered would continue to be made jointly by employers, trade
unions, and local governments, following criteria and principles agreed with the Bank (Annex
IV).
1.12          Financing of Vocational Training. Vocational education and training is
financed through five main sources: the state budget, local budgets, employers' contributions to a
national Vocational Training Fund, commissioned training with specific enterprises, and training
carried out under the Employment Fund. The evolution of financing from these sources is
presented on page 4 of Annex I. State funds are available to finance the training of youth, who
are receiving their first vocational qualification, up to the age of 22 (the major focus of the
proposed Project). State budget financing used to be the main source of financing, but since
1993 has been eclipsed by local government contributions and commissioned training. In
addition to these main sources, vocational schools can and do supplement their budgets by
selling products and services, and renting spare capacity to a variety of users. The state budget
provides about 50 percent of the total costs of vocational education, which is meant to cover at
least the full costs of teacher salaries. Under the Local Self-Government Act, counties are
responsible for administration of secondary education, including vocational and technical
education. State budget funds for vocational education are transferred to county governments
primarily on the basis of a normative grant, which stipulates per-student allocations for each type
of program.6 The state budget transfer is not limited to public schools; it is also paid, under the
In 1995, the average cost of these modern training programs for the unemployed was approximately US$750
for programs of about 5 months duration. Job placement rates are in the range of 80% as compared with a
national average of slightly less than 40%. In comparison, the unemployment benefit was US$100 per month,
or US$500 for five months in 1995.
At present, there are some 165 NGOs which offer a range of vocational training in Hungary. (See Annex L.)
6   The per-student allocation for secondary vocational education was formerly higher than for gimnazium,
reflecting the higher costs of providing vocational education due to equipment and materials, smaller class
sizes, etc., and also to encourage large share of vocational education. Per-student allocations have recently
been changed in order to encourage a shift towards baccalaureate-level programs. In the 1997 draft budget
law, the per-student allocations were HUF 64,000 for grades I through six of primary school, HUF 68,000 for
grades 7 and 8 of primary school, HUF 70,000 for grades 9 and Io of gimnazium and technical secondary



- 7 -
same formula, to private and NGO schools which are registered as schools and follow the
approved public curriculum. In addition, state budget funds can be paid on a "program" basis to
institutions which are not registered as traditional "schools", including the nine Regional Human
Resource Development Centers.
1.13         All employers -- excluding the army, the civil service, prisons, and the Hungarian
National Bank -- are required to contribute an amount equal to 1.5 percent of gross wages to a
National Training Fund. Employers who provide training to their employees or to others, or who
contribute to training through provision of equipment, staff, or facilities, may be granted a partial
exemption from paying the training levy. Monies from the Vocational Training Fund are
distributed to counties on the basis of the number of vocational training students enrolled in each
county. Decisions on the use of these funds are taken by regional tripartite councils, with
representatives of employers, workers, and government. The regional tripartite councils decide
the priorities for training in the region, establish norms for unit costs of each type of training, and
invite and judge training proposals from private and public training providers.
C.    RATIONALE AND STRATEGY FOR WORLD BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.14         The rationale for government and Bank involvement in the proposed Project is
economic. In principle, individuals' decisions about training are subject to the same profitability
calculus which guides other investment decisions: Individuals should seek training to the extent
that the benefits of training in the form of enhanced expected earnings exceed the cost of
training, including foregone income. Firms should provide training for their employees to the
extent that firm-specific productivity gains exceed the costs of training. In practice, there tends
to be a suboptimal provision of both types of training because of market failures. Individuals
tend to purchase too little training because credit is not freely available to finance the training in
spite of the expected benefits -- a market failure which results from the absence of suitable
collateral to secure the human capital investment. Employers tend to finance too little training
because of the fear of losing the trained employee before the training investment is fully
amortized through increased productivity. This, too, is a market failure, which reflects the
impracticability of binding employees to work until the full cost of their training is repaid to their
employers. Like many countries, Hungary deals with these market failures through the
combination of a training levy (which ensures cost recovery for training in the aggregate) and
public involvement in -- though not necessarily government provision of-- training.
1.15         The Bank's assistance strategy in Hungary, as described in the President's Report
for the recently approved Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan,7 has the broad
objectives of: a) helping maintain macroeconomic stability and accelerate growth to facilitate
Hungary's accession to the European Union, b) reforming social policies and strengthening the
school, HUF 60,000 for all grades of vocational and apprenticeship school, and HUF 87,000 for grades 11
through 13 of gymnasium and technical secondary school. Allocations under the normative grant for earlier
years are presented on page 2 of Annex 1.
Report No. P-6826 - HU; February 6, 1997.



-8 -
human resource base, c) improving environmental management, and d) attracting know-how,
especially in the infrastructure sectors. Consistent with this general thrust, the investment lending
proposed in the CAS is intended to respond to particular priorities of the Government, to support
implementation of agreed policy changes, and to make use of the Bank's experience with what
works in other countries.8 The proposed Youth Training Project responds to a request from the
Government to help address the problem of youth unemployment through the expansion of two
activities developed under the Human Resources Project which are successfully training and
placing young people in productive jobs. Job placement rates for graduates of the programs are
in the range of 80-90 percent. Alternative designs were not considered for the proposed Project
in view of the successful and cost-effective experience with the same activities under the former
project. However, key lessons learned in the first project have been incorporated in this follow-
on operation. These lessons include, but are not limited to: the use of contracted procurement
agents to expedite large equipment purchases, the involvement of employers in the selection of
training programs to be financed, the development of networks between institutions at the local
level to increase efficiency of resource use, and the inclusion of ample local financing to ensure
sufficient local staff development and training.
The Bank is involved in policy development to help reorient youth and adult training to labor-market needs in
a number of countries, including FYR Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania, Poland, and Russia. It
is also supporting the implementation of vocational training reforms in Romania and Russia, as well as under
the Hungary Human Resources Project.



-9 -
2. THE PROJECT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVE
2.1          The objective of the proposed Project is to help adolescents and young adults
make the transition from school to work, thus reducing youth unemployment. The expanded use
of the improved vocational orientation curriculum in secondary schools in place of the former
excessively narrow secondary level vocational training programs will provide a better basis for
improved productivity and improved job mobility as the economy continues to evolve. It will
also reduce recurrent costs, as unit costs for some of the new programs to be extended under the
Project are about ten percent less than for the former programs. By supporting market-driven
specialized training for youth and adults, the Project is expected to reduce youth unemployment,
thereby reducing income support payments and helping young people to make a positive
contribution to the economy.
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.2          The proposed Project would provide equipment, software, technical assistance
and training (US$60.1 million equivalent total cost) 9 to continue development and strengthening
of youth vocational orientation and training programs to address the above objective. The
Project would be implemented over a three-year period by the Ministry of Labor. It has two
major components:
2.3          Component A: Post-Secondary, Job-Oriented Training (US$26.2 million).
The objective of this component is to strengthen and modernize post-secondary and post-
compulsory school specialized training programs for young people to facilitate their entry into
the labor market. These programs of customized training to meet identified local labor-market
needs are offered to young people who have completed the baccalaureate level or are past
compulsory school age (after 10th grade or age 16). All training proposals to be financed under
this component would be submitted to the National Vocational Training Council for review and
endorsement.
(a)   Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (US$0.3 million). This sub-component
would finance limited technical assistance,10 including limited funds for project
9  This includes all project costs including Loan financing and local financing, including taxes and contingencies,
0  Assistance would include limited financing to support country and regional project promotion and
coordination activities and four months of international training financed by the Loan, plus 12 months of local
consultants financed by the Government.



- 10-
coordination and promotion, fellowship training, equipment, and software to
support ongoing operation of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established
under the Human Resources Project. The PCU would serve the needs of both
components of the Project, and would serve as the project "business office" for all
liaison with the Bank, including procurement and reporting.
(b)    Curriculum Development (US$5.3 million). This sub-component would
finance technical assistance1' and limited hardware and software to support
approximately 15 writing teams which would define occupational skills and
knowledge, develop modular training curricula, and specify materials and
equipment necessary to implement the curricula for approximately 85
occupational specialties. Priority curriculum areas would be identified using
procedures, principles, and criteria agreed with the Bank. 12 The primary criteria
would be evidence of labor market demand at the local and national levels as
ascertained by employer input and evidence of high job placement rates from
existing programs.
(c)    Institutional Infrastructure Development (US$18.7 million). This sub-
component would finance technical assistance,'3 equipment, hardware and
software to support implementation of new and revised training curricula in
approximately 170 sites (an average of two sites per curriculum). The institutions
receiving support would be selected on a competitive basis following procedures,
principles, and criteria agreed with the Bank (see Annex IV and PIM). Primary
institutional criteria would include: i) involvement of employers, employees and
government in managing the institutions and programs, and in selecting the
training which they provide; ii) evidence that the investment would not duplicate
existing programs in the region, iii) ability of institutions to operate flexible-entry
and flexible-exit modular training programs, iv) availability of job counseling and
placement programs; and v) willingness of the institution to sign performance-
based training contracts with local labor offices for training the unemployed. The
competition would be open to public, private, and non-governmental training
providers -- including, but not limited to, secondary vocational schools, regional
labor development centers, foundations, and private schools.
(d)    Staff Development (US$1.9 million). This sub-component would finance staff
training for key individuals involved in directing and implementing the new
Assistance would include 85 months of international consultants and 15 months of international training
financed by the Loan, and 1,020 months of local consultants and 15 months of local training financed by the
Government.
12 Key criteria are listed in Annex IV, and detailed procedures are in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
3  Assistance would include 15 months of international consultants financed by the Loan, and 160 month s of
local consultants financed by the Government.



- II -
modular training programs:'4 instructors and managers in training-provider
institutions, and representatives of local governments, employers' associations,
and employees' associations. The staff development activities would include both
international and local training sessions.
2.4            Component B: Secondary Vocational Orientation (US$33.9 million). This
component would expand the number of secondary vocational schools  which apply the new
core curriculum and occupational orientation programs developed under the Hungary Human
Resource Project.
(a)    Infrastructure for Core Curricula (US$9.1 million). This sub-component
would provide hardware, software, and limited technical assistance and staff
training16 to assist approximately 100 secondary vocational schools to implement
the seven new academic core curricula for grades 9 through 12 developed under
the Human Resources Project. Selection of schools would follow principles,
criteria, and procedures agreed with the Bank (see Annex IV and PIM). Selection
of schools would be limited to those which did not receive support under the
Human Resources Project and which have agreed to implement the new
vocational orientation curricula starting at grade 11 (see following sub-
component). In addition, approximately 35 schools which were to receive limited
support under the previous EU PHARE project to implement the new core
curriculum would be eligible to receive support to implement the new curriculum.
(b)    Occupational Families Curricula (US$24.8 million). This sub-component
would provide hardware, software, and limited technical assistance and staff
training 17 to assist approximately 135 secondary vocational schools to implement
an average of two vocational orientation curricula each in grades 11 and 12.
Selection of schools would follow principles, criteria, and procedures agreed with
the Bank (see Annex IV and the PIM). Selection of schools would be limited to
those which did not receive support under the Human Resources Project and
which agree to implement the new core curricula (see previous sub-component).
Assistance would include 15 months of international consultants and 170 months of international training
financed by the Loan, and 15 months of local consultants and 150 months of local training financed by the
Government.
5  In general, schools that received support under the Human Resources Project and the EU PHARE project
would not be eligible. However, PHARE schools which were to receive minimal support for core curriculum
implementation (i.e. grades 9 and 10 only), and no support of the vocational orientation program, would be
eligible for supplementary project support.
16  Assistance would include 70 months of international training financed by the Loan, and 70 months of local
consultants and 945 months of local training financed by the Government.
17 Assistance would include 270 months of international training financed by the loan, and 168 months of local
consultants and 270 months of local training financed by the Government.



-12-
2.5          During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (a) the Borrower shall ensure
that training institutions included in, and programs supported under parts Component A (Post
Secondary, Job-Oriented Training) and Component B (Secondary Vocational Orientation) of the
Project shall meet the criteria (Annex IV) agreed by the Borrower and the Bank; (b) the
Borrower shall ensure that all training proposals to be included under Component A (Post
Secondary Job-oriented Training) of the Project shall be submitted to the Borrower's National
Vocational Training Council for review and endorsement; and (c) the Adult Labor Market
Training Department (Munkaeropiaci Kepzesek Foosztaly) of the Borrower's Ministry of Labor
(MOL) will be responsible of technical implementation of Component A (Post Secondary Job-
oriented Training) of the Project, and Youth Training Department (Szakoktatasi Foosztaly) of
MOL will be responsible for technical implementation of Component B (Secondary Vocational
Orientation). In addition, during negotiations, assurances were given that: (a) approval
procedures for training under the Post Secondary, Job-Oriented Training component of the
Project would permit project financing of any training program which is on the national training
list, but, for programs which are not on the list special procedures are available to put these
programs on the list if there is clear evidence of labor-market demand; and (b) state budget
financing for vocational education in schools will be provided through normative grants, and
program financing grants will be available for other institutions at approximately the same levels;
for training carried out by private and public secondary vocational schools, NGO schools, and
Regional Human Resource Development Centers.
C.    PROJECT COSTS
2.6          Summary of Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$60.1
million, including contingencies, local taxes and duties. Total contingencies (physical and price)
amount to US$3.4 million, representing about 6 percent of total base costs (US$56.6 million).
Project costs includes consulting services, fellowships and training, furniture, equipment and
materials and local staff training costs. Base cost estimates were calculated in US dollar
equivalent, and reflect costs at the time of pre-appraisal in March, 1997. Estimated project costs
are summarized in Tables 3 and 4 below. Detailed cost figures are provided in the Project
Implementation Manual.
Table 3: Project Summary by Component
(US$ thousands)
Total
(US$)             Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange Cost
S
A. Post Secondary, Job-Oriented Training  10,137.3  14,779.8  24,917.0     59   44
B. Secondary Vocational Orientation       12,349.0  19,475.0  31,824.0     61   56
22,486.3  34,254.8  56,741.0     60  100
Physical Contingencies                      238.0    442.0    680.0        65     1
Price Contingencies                        1,034.3   1,664.8   2,699.1     62    5
Total                                     23,758.5  36,361.6  60,120.1     60  106



- 13 -
Table 4: Project Summary by Type of Expenditure
(US$ Thousands)
Post
Secondary
Job-     Secondary
Oriented    Vocational
Training    Orientation  Total
Investment Costs
A. Equipment             15,514.8    23,505.9    39,020.7
B. Technical Assistance  3,420.4     2,473.3      5,893.7
C. Local Staff           4,109.1     3,243.6      7,352.7
Development
D. Materials & Software  3,142.1     4,711.0      7,853.1
Total                 26,186.4    33,933.7     60,120.1
Taxes                    6,529.9     9,875.9     16,405.8
Foreign Exchange         15,547.4    20,814.2    36,361.6
2.7            Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs were estimated on the following basis:
(a)    Base Costs. All project costs were estimated in US$, given that inflation of the
Forint is difficult to predict. The average cost of foreign specialist consulting
services (US$16,000 per month) is based on recent contracts for comparable
services in other Bank-financed projects in the central and eastern European
region. This unit cost includes fees, relocation/recruitment costs, housing and
subsistence, and overheads. The average cost of local consultants has been
estimated at US$3,000 per month. Overseas fellowships and study visits are
estimated to cost US$7,000 per staff month, on average. Local training is
estimated to cost US$2,000 per month. Price estimates for equipment, including
computers, and furniture are based on current market prices in Hungary and recent
experience in purchasing similar equipment under the Human Resources Project.
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a six percent contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical contingencies for all equipment and furniture.
The total physical contingency of US$0.68 million is equal to about one percent
of the estimated base cost. The low physical contingencies reflect the absence of
civil works in the Project. In the absence of credible forecasts of annual local
price escalation and exchange rates, price increases have been applied to both
local and foreign costs in US dollar terms at the rate of 3 percent per annum.
Estimated price contingencies total US$2.7 million.
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was
estimated on the basis of the following projected shares of foreign expenditures
for each category of expenditure: (i) equipment (65 percent), (ii) materials and



- 14-
software (65 percent), (iii) expatriate consulting services, fellowships and studies
(100 percent), and (iv) local staff development, including local consultants, local
training, local staff salaries (0 percent). The resulting foreign exchange
component, including contingencies, is estimated at US$36.4 million, or about 60
percent of total project costs.
(d)   Taxes. The Project has been costed inclusive of import taxes and duties,
estimated at 35 percent of all goods. The funds are included as part of the
Borrower's counterpart contribution, and amount to US$16.4 million.
2.8         Recurrent costs. No significant incremental recurrent costs are foreseen, as the
Project primarily supports upgrading or replacement of existing programs rather than expansion
of existing programs. Indeed, in the case of the Secondary Vocational Orientation Component,
it is expected that recurrent costs will be reduced by approximately 10 percent due to lower unit
costs for implementing the new vocational training programs. The significant local staff
development costs (estimated at US$7.4 million) are included as part of total project costs, to
help ensure that these amounts are budgeted annually as Borrower counterpart funds.
D.   PROJECT FINANCING
2.9         The proposed Loan of US$36.4 million would finance 60 percent of estimated
total project costs, or 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange component. The Borrower
would finance the remaining 40 percent of local costs and all taxes and duties, estimated to total
US$23.7 million equivalent. The project financing plan is shown in Tables 5 and 6, below:
Table 5: Cost Summary by Component and Source of Financing
(US$ Thousands)
IBRD        Government         Total
Amount         Amount         Amount
1. Post Secondary, Job-Oriented Training  15,547.4       10,639.1        26,186.4
2. Secondary Vocational Orientation       20,814.2        13,120.0       33,934.2
Total                                 36,361.6        23,759.1       60,120.6



- 15 -
Table 6: Cost Summary by Expenditure Category and Source of Financing
(US$ Thousands)
IBRD      Government    Total
Amount      Amount        Amount
1. Equipment              25,363.4   13,657.2        39,020.7
2. Materials and            5,104.5    2,748.6        7,853.1
Software
3. Technical Assistance     5,893.7         0         5,893.7
4. Local Staff                   0    7,352.7         7,352.7
Development
Total                   36,361.6   23,758.5       60,120.1



- 16-
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.1         The Project is scheduled to be implemented by the Ministry of Labor over a three-
year period. The implementing staff will be integrated, to the degree possible, directly into
existing staff units in the Ministry to simplify administration, build on experience gained in the
Human Resources Project, and to enhance the transfer of technology. The implementation team
will include: a) a small Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) which will be maintained to serve as
liaison with the Bank; and b) individual technical teams to implement each of the two
components of the Project.
3.2         The Project Coordinating Unit will act as a "business office" for the Project and
will facilitate and coordinate all contacts with the Bank, all reporting and Loan disbursement
activities, and procurement. The Ministry will maintain a minimum of three staff in the PCU: a
director, procurement or financial officer, and suitable support staff. The PCU will
administratively report directly to the Deputy Secretary of State.
3.3         One technical team will be located in the Adult Labor Market Training
Department (Munkaeropiaci Kepzesek Foosztaly) of the Ministry of Labor, and will be
responsible for managing implementation of the post-secondary, job-oriented training
component. This Department has extensive and successful experience in developing and
implementing specialized modular labor market training as a result of their work on the
Regional Human Resource Development Centers under the Human Resources Project. Thus,
they are well placed to undertake similar work under the post-secondary component of the
proposed Youth Training Project. A second technical team will be located in the Youth Training
Department (Szakoktatasi Foosztaly) of the Ministry of Labor, and will be responsible for
implementation of the Secondary Vocational Training component. This Department was
responsible for the successful design and implementation of the core curriculum and vocational
orientation program under the Human Resources Project, which will be expanded under the
proposed Youth Training Project to include approximately 135 additional schools. These staff
will be supplemented by a cadre of local consultants, as needed, financed by the Government
under the Project. During Negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Youth
Training Department (Szakoktatasi Foosztaly) will be responsible for technical implementation
of the Secondary School component, and the Adult Labor Market Training Department
(Munkaeropiaci Kepzesek Foosztaly) will be responsible for technical implementation of the
Post-Secondary Training Component.



- 17 -
B.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
3.4         Project Coordination Unit (PCU). To help ensure that project objectives,
performance targets and schedules are met successfully, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has
been established in the MOL under the Human Resources Project. This unit will be maintained
under the Youth Training Project under the direction of the Deputy State Secretary. The PCU
would be responsible for coordinating all project-related tasks. During Negotiations, the
Borrower agreed that the Government will maintain a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the
supervision of suitably qualified Director and procurement or financial officer and supported by
support staff in adequate numbers. The day-to-day implementation of individual project
components would be the responsibility of the technical teams in the Departments for Youth
Training and Adult Labor Market Training. The PCU's role would be one of support and
facilitation.
3.5         Project Commitment and Sustainability. The Project was prepared largely by
the Ministry of Labor. During preparation, the Ministry developed individual components
through dialogue with project beneficiaries and stakeholders, including representatives from
labor and employers. A working group is being established to provide guidance for
implementation of each component of the Project. The Government has demonstrated its
commitment to the Project, inter alia, by agreeing to provide the necessary counterpart funding
for the Project, amounting to 40 percent of total costs. Finally, the Borrower has committed
itself to the staffing of small but critical technical teams to support both components.
3.6         Monitoring and Reporting. The PCU would be responsible for Project
monitoring. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) includes a framework for systematic
monitoring and evaluation of progress in project implementation. During negotiations,
assurances were given that the contents of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), including
terms of reference, dated July 8, 1997, were agreed. This document will serve as a technical
working document for the Project. However, it is understood that the contents of the Manual
may be updated from time-to-time if needed, with the mutual agreement of the technical staff of
the Borrower and World Bank. It identifies a set of performance indicators to be used in project
supervision. On a semi-annual basis, the PCU would submit to the Bank a consolidated report
on the status of project implementation, covering each component, its objectives and activities,
and including: a) current status and issues, b) deviations, if any, from the implementation plan
and project targets, c) recommendations for actions and forward planning, and d) actual and
planned expenditures. The Borrower will carry out, with the Bank, a mid-term review of the
project implementation about eighteen months after effectiveness. During negotiations it was
agreed that the Borrower shall: maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators (PIM Section 3 (B)) agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof; prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, on or about May 31, 1999, report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activity activities, and review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report. In addition, during Negotiations, assurances were given that
the May 31, 1999, project monitoring and evaluation report will include: a summary of progress



- 18 -
on each objective and activity of the Project, a summary of progress toward each project
performance and outcome indicator, a summary any issues or problems and alternative methods
of overcoming them, a financial summary comparing budgeted vs. actual expenditure for each
component and expenditure category, if appropriate and necessary recommendations for
reallocation of funds between project components and/or cost categories, and a revised
procurement plan for the remainder of the Project
3.7         Project Completion and Evaluation. Project completion is expected by
December 31, 2000. The closing date will be June 30, 2001. The PCU would be responsible for
preparing the Borrower's contribution to the Project Implementation Completion Report.
3.8         Bank Supervision. Because this is the second project with the Ministry, it is
expected that the Project would not require intensive supervision. It is estimated that an average
of 10-15 staff weeks per year, and possibly more in the first year of implementation. Project
monitoring reports and indicators, the PIM, and a careful review of project expenditures and
availability of project resources would form the basis for the supervision missions which would
be held at least twice a year. Staffing for supervision missions would need to include, in addition
to the task manager, a project implementation specialist. There will be no project launch
workshop as this is a follow-on project and the Borrower is fully conversant with Board
procedures.
3.9         Project Audits. Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank, dated March 1982. During negotiations agreement was reached
that the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after then end of each fiscal year, the report of auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested (including a separate opinion by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against certified statements of expenses
(SOEs). The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
C.   PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
3.10        Procurement of Goods. Equipment contracts which are estimated to cost more
than US$300,000 equivalent per contract will be procured following international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, Revised January and August 1996. A
detailed project procurement plan appears in Annex II. Hardware and software will be primarily
procured through ICB, and will account for about 65 percent of the total equipment/materials
value (US$21.8 million out of a total equipment cost of US$30.3 million, excluding duties and
taxes). Specialized hardware and software for unique curricula, primarily in the post-secondary
component, will be primarily procured through LIB and will account for about 15 percent of the
total equipment value (US$4.9 million out of a total equipment cost of US$30.3 million



- 19 -
(excluding duties and taxes). Taxes for hardware and software are estimated at US$16.4 million.
The remaining 20 percent of the equipment value will be in packages suitable for procurement
other than ICB. In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, local
manufacturers, which have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that: a)
labor, raw materials and components from within the country of the Borrower will account for
more than 30 percent of the ex works price of the product offered, and b) the production facility
in which the goods will be manufactured or assembled has been engaged in manufacturing/
assembling such goods at least since the time of bid submission, would receive a preference in an
amount equal to: i) the amount of duties and other related import charges which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered, or ii) 15 percent of the CIF
or CIP bid price of such goods if said duties and charges exceed 15 percent of such price.
Appropriate Bank standard bidding documents will be used for procurement of goods and
equipment. (The General Procurement Notice for the Project is scheduled to appear in the July
1997 edition of Development Business Forum). Table 1 of Annex II shows the major
procurement packages for goods.
Methods other than ICB
3.11        Limited International Bidding (LIB) and International Shopping (IS).
Contracts for purchase or customization of application software, and purchases of customized
and specialized hardware, estimated to cost US$4.9 million equivalent, would be awarded under
Limited International Bidding procedures in view of the fact that they would require limited
amounts of specialized hardware and software and associated services available from only a
limited number of sources. As noted in the previous paragraph, this procedure will be used for
the Post-Secondary Training component, which requires goods for a wide variety of programs
and from different suppliers. Procedures for International Shopping will be used for small
amounts of equipment where the cost of ICB and LIB would clearly outweigh possible price
advantages. Contracts for equipment and software, materials, and books, not to exceed an
aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent, and up to US$300,000 per contract, may be
awarded under International Shopping procedures, based on comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries, in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines.
3.12        National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items, such as small lots of information
technology and office equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.5 million, may be purchased on the basis of prudent national shopping by
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines.
3.13        Direct Contracting (DC). Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees:
a) are of proprietary nature, b) are required on a timely basis for efficient project implementation,
or c) need to be compatible with other installed equipment, may be procured through direct
negotiations with property and/or copyright owners, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Such items include contracts for intellectual property such as books, technical journals,
training materials, audio-visual materials, computer applications software, including annual



- 20 -
upgrading and licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights for training
materials for the 85 different post-secondary curricula, 7 core programs, and 13 vocational
orientation prograrns. In aggregate, these items are estimated to cost under US$1.6 million
equivalent.
3.14        Civil Works. Minor civil works to upgrade facilities to accommodate the new
and revised training programs are not included in the Project. When needed, they will be
financed entirely by the Government.
3.15        Technical Assistance. Qualified firms will be invited to submit proposals for
foreign technical assistance (TA) in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated January, 1997.
Terms of reference for the two major TA components have been drafted and agreed with the
Borrower, and are contained in the Project Implementation Manual. To keep the evaluation
process manageable, no more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited from a
shortlist acceptable to the Bank, based on the "quality and cost-based" selection process. It is
anticipated that technical assistance will be procured in two packages, totaling US$5.6 million.
As needed, the services of individual specialists or firms for advisory services will be contracted
on the basis of shortlists of eligible candidates. Out of the total TA, it is anticipated that about
US$0.3 million equivalent of the aggregate for technical assistance would be for individual
specialists.
3.16        Bank Review. For goods, the Bank shall review the Borrower's procurement
plans, decisions and procedures in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January, 1995, revised January and
August 1996. In particular: a) all ICB contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 or more, which
will cover all ICB contracts; and b) all direct contracts shall be subject to prior review, in
accordance with paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. Other goods contracts costing
less than US$300,000, shall be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of the
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. For technical assistance contracts, the applicable review
procedures are discussed in various sections of the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency, dated January, 1997.
Terms of reference for all consulting contracts would require prior review by the Bank.
Consultants contracts above $100,000 for firms and above $50,000 for individuals would require
prior review by the Bank. However, for technical assistance contracts under US$50,000 for
individuals, the Bank will require prior review of only the terns of reference and short lists of
potential consultants.



- 21 -
Table 7: Procurement Arrangements a
(US$ Million)
Category of Expenditure                         ICB         LIB         Other       N.B.F b/    Total
1. Technical assistance
Policy Development                                                 0.2                       0.2
(0.2)c/                   (0.2)
Project Implementation                                             0.1                        0.1
(0.1)_/                   (0.1)
Capacity Building                                                  1.3                        1.3
(1.3)c/                   (1.3)
2. Training                                                             3.7                        3.7
(3.7)c/                   (3.7)
3. Equipment, furniture/ materials               33.5        7.5 d/       5.6 e/                   46.6
(21.8)      (4.9)       (3.5)                     (30.3)
4. Local Staff Development                                                           7.4           7.4
(0)           (0)
Total                                  33.5         7.5         11.4        7.4          60.1
(21.8)    (4.9)         (9.4)      (0)           (36.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
a/ Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding.
b/ N.B.F. - Non-Bank Financed expenditure.
c/ Services of consultants/institutions (advisors, experts, fellowships/training) to be engaged in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
d/ Limited International Bidding (aggregate US$4,900,000);
e/ National shopping (aggregate US$500,000) packages estimated at less than US$50,000 per contract; Intemational Shopping (Aggregate
$2,000,000 estimated at less than US$300,000 per contract; and direct contracting (aggregate US$1,600,000) proprietary items such as joumals,
Hungarian books, and computer software.
D.   DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCING SCHEDULES
3.17             Disbursements against contracts for goods costing less than US$300,000
equivalent would be made on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs). Statement of
Expenditures would also be used for all consulting firm contracts less than $100,000 and
individual consultants contracts less than US$50,000 and for all expenditures on training,
fellowships and studies. All related SOE documentation would be retained by MOL, the
implementing agency, and made available for subsequent examination by independent auditors
and Bank supervision missions. The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period
of three years, which is considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the Region (about seven
years). The shorter implementation period is appropriate in view of the Ministry's experience in
implementing the equivalent activities under the Human Resources Project. The Project



- 22 -
completion date will be December 31, 2000. Disbursements of World Bank Funds will be made
as shown in Table 8.
Table 8: Proposed Disbursement Categories
Category               Amount of Loan        Percent of Expenditures to be
(US$ Million equivalent)         Financed
Goods                                27.5            100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 100 percent
of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85 percent
of other local expenditures
Consulting Services                   5.3            100 percent of expenditures
Unallocated                           3.4
Total                                36.4
E.   SPECIAL ACCOUNT
3.18        The Borrower will establish and maintain a Special Account (as specified in the
Loan Agreement) with an authorized allocation of US$4 million. This will be exclusively for
making payments from the proceeds of the Bank Loan. An initial deposit into the Special
Account is to be made upon the Borrower's request upon effectiveness, in the amount equivalent
to US$2 million, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan plus outstanding
commitments entered into by the Bank shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4 million.
(a)   All applications for direct payment or special commitments must be for an
amount not less than 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the Special
Account, once available; and
(b)   applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted on a
monthly basis or when one third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs earlier.
F.    STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.19        The Project was appraised in May 1997 on the basis of a draft Project
Implementation Manual (PIM), which includes detailed costing and implementation schedules,
criteria and procedures for selection of participating institutions and programs, project output and
performance indicators, and sample bidding documents and Terms of Reference for technical
assistance. Procurement will be initiated for the technical assistance packages as soon as
negotiations are completed. Identification of institutions programs to be supported under the
Project will begin as soon as negotiations are completed.



- 23 -
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   BENEFITS
4.1         The major benefit expected from the proposed Project is to help adolescents and
young adults to make the transition from school to work, thus reducing youth unemployment.
The expanded use of the improved vocational orientation curriculum in secondary schools in
place of the former excessively narrow secondary level vocational training programs will provide
a better basis for improved productivity and improved job mobility as the economy continues to
evolve. It will also reduce recurrent costs, as unit costs for some of the new programs to be
supported under the Project are about ten percent less than for the former programs. By
supporting market-driven specialized training, the Project is expected to reduce unemployment,
thereby reducing income support payments and helping young people to make a positive
contribution to the economy.
B.    RISKS
4.2         There is a risk that project resources could be used to support training which is
either inappropriate for local labor needs, or delivered by unsuitable training providers. To
ensure that project-supported training is appropriate for local labor needs, training programs
will be developed in consultation with tripartite regional training boards, and training
providers will be required to assist with job placement of trainees and to achieve a negotiated
rate of job placement, as they are under the current Human Resources Project. In selecting
training providers under the Project, strict criteria will be applied to ensure that training
providers have the technical qualifications to provide modem, demand-driven youth training
under flexible-entry and flexible-exit programs which meet the needs of employers and
trainees.



- 24 -
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   AGREEMENTS
5.1         Agreements were reached that:
(a)   The Borrower shall ensure that training institutions included in, and programs
supported under Component A (Post Secondary Oriented Training) and
Component B (Secondary Vocational Orientation) of the Project shall meet the
criteria (Annex IV) agreed by the Borrower and the Bank (paras. 2.3b, 2.3c, 2.4a,
2,4b, and 2.5;
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that all training proposals to be included under
Component A (Post Secondary Job-oriented Training) of the Project shall be
submitted to the Borrower's National Vocational Training Council for review and
endorsement (paras. 2.3 and 2.5);
(c)   The Adult Labor Market Training Department (Munkaeropiaci Kepzesek
Foosztaly) of the Borrower's Ministry of Labor (MOL) to be responsible for
technical implementation of Component A (Post Secondary Oriented Training) of
the Project, and Youth Training Department (Szakoktatasi Foosztaly) of MOL to
be responsible for technical implementation of Component B (Secondary
Vocational Orientation) (paras. 2.5 and 3.7);
(d)   During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) under the supervision of a suitably qualified director and procurement
or financial officer and supported by support staff in adequate numbers (para.
3.8);
(e)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators (PIM
Section 3 (B)) agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (ii) prepare, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about
May 31, 1999, report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activity activities, and (iii) review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report (para. 3.10);
(f)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, the report of auditors, of



- 25 -
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested (paras.
3.13).
5.2         Additionally, during Negotiations, assurances were given that:
(a)   The contents of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), including terms of
reference, dated July 8, 1997, were agreed. This document will serve as a technical
working document for the Project. However, it is understood that the contents of the
Manual may be updated from time-to-time if needed, with the mutual agreement of
the technical staff of the Borrower and World Bank (para. 3. 10);
(b)   The May 31, 1999, project monitoring and evaluation report will include: (i) a
summary of progress on each objective and activity of the Project, (ii) a summary
of progress toward each project performance and outcome indicator, (iii) a
summary any issues or problems and alternative methods of overcoming them,
(iv) a financial summary comparing budgeted vs. actual expenditure for each
component and expenditure category, (v) if appropriate and necessary
recommendations for reallocation of funds between project components and/or
cost categories, and (vi) a revised procurement plan for the remainder of the
Project (para. 3.10);
(c)   Approval procedures for training under the first post-secondary component of the
Project would permit project financing of any training program which is on the
National Training List, but, for programs which are not on the list special
procedures are available to put these programs on the list if there is clear evidence
of labor-market demand (paras. 2.3(b) and 2.5);
(d)   State budget financing for vocational education in schools will be provided
through normative grants, and program financing grants will be available for other
institutions at approximately the same levels; for training carried out by private
and public secondary vocational schools, NGO Schools, and Regional Human
Resource Development Centers (paras. 2.3(c), and 2.5).
B.   RECOMMENDATIONS
5.2         Subject to the above, the proposed operation would provide a suitable basis for a
Bank Loan of US$36.4 million to the Republic of Hungary under standard Bank terms.



-26 -
Annex I
Page I of 4
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Number Of Secondary Educational Institutions Between 1980-1994
en./$1  1NS/"6.    19210gl1    1991^12  1       199W4.      .Vocational
is-   -       Secondary School
Number of StdetsinSeonayduatonlnsiutn Secondary lwel
V                     'A    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Vocational School
20%     ~          ~    . -    ~     -  ~  Von. Training school
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ' A 
Grammar  Voc. sec.  VGrammar School
school'AA~<  Grammar School and
'  Von. Sec. School
10/1 19=1156   199011    1991192    1992193.  199119   199419.
Number of Students in Secondary Educational Institutions between 1980-1995
100
40%
20%   -       __
0%
198018     1985)8      1 99019    1991(9      1992/9     1993/9      1994/9     1995/9
Grammar                    Voc.'sec.                 Voc. training              Sec. level
school                    school                     school                     voc. school



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal Report
The Sources of Financing of Vocational Training
Name                     1991. | 1992. | 1993. | 1994. | 1995.   1991. I 1995.    1996
HUF million                        distribution
Total budgetary expenditure               24490.9  30666.3  41104.0  46810.4  56172.5    70.0    76.7    73.9
Of which:
state normative contribution              19059.1  23000.0  22871.6  22814.3  22632.6    54.5    30.9    28.4
self-government and other expenditure      5431.8  7666.3  18232.4  23996.1  33539.9    15.5    45.8    45.5
Vocational training contribution           9366.0  10365.0  11537.0  12792.0  13773.0    26.8    18.8    21.6
Of which:
Vocational Training Fund                   2077.0  1977.6  2120.6  2256.8  2745.8         5.9      3.8     4.1
company training                           4938.0  5689.0  6080.0  5908.0  5880.0    14.1          8.0     6.4
direct support to schools                  2351.0  2698.4  3336.4  4627.2  5147.2         6.7      7.0    11.1
part of the Employment Fund spent on training    1117.0  2752.0  3679.0  4076.0  3250.0   3.2      4.4     4.4
Total limit spent on training             34973.9  43783.3  56320.0  63678.4  73195.5   100.0   100.0   100.0
Tax base allowance                         2963.0  2560.0  2189.0  1934.0  2352.0         8.5      3.2
Other data:
Number of pupils
Secondary vocational school                178973  186225  192388  196965  208415        44.2    54.1
Apprentice school                          204655  188570  174187  163330  154294        50.6    40.0
at school workshop from this                40040   46337   52593   55902   57089
at company workshop from this               69506   52178   42028   33725   27773
vocational school                           21058   28186   30411   27967   24132         5.2      6.3
Total                                      404686  402981   396986  388262  386841    100.0   100.0
Per-student expenditures (current prices, HUF)
Levels of education  1985   1986   1987 | 1988 |1989 | 1990 | 1991  | 1992 | 1993 | 1994 | 1995   1996*
Kindergarten       15919  17049  18706  22207  29804  39583  50952  59584  75082  93415  105714 130931
Primary school     13651  14257  15352   18691   26748  37169   50112  63613  77476  99332  110829 103245
Grammar school     17339  18189 20357   26590  37169  48877  62007  73891   88372 106034 121486 134331
Vocational training   21448 22609 23909  28613  37242  47728  61079   79866 110440 121503 133664 132401
Voc. sec. training    24576 25597 27686  34189  45592  58974  74403  88018 103460 113469 123946 139341
Higher education   78013 82447 89447 108142 147409 200133 246698 314214 339942 377474 392189   n.a.
* Preliminary estimates of the Ministry of Finance



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal
School Graduates by Qualification, 1982 through 1996
1000
student
Name 1)                1982.  1985.  1990.  1991. | 1992.  1993. | 1994. | 1995. 11996.*
year
Graduated from higher level institution  14.7   14.4   16.2   16.9   17.1   16.8   19.1   20.9   22.0
Graduated from secondary vocational school   28.7   31.6   28.7   37.2   41.9   50.7   48.4   45.9   46.0
or dropped out from higher level institution
From this: graduated from grammar school  7.8    9.6    7.5   12.6   13.1   17.4   17.8   17.8   16.5
graduated from secondary vocational school   20.9   22.0   16.5   19.3   22.4   26.7   19.7   19.7   15.5
graduated from polytechnic  ..    ..   4.7    5.3    6.4    6.6   10.9   10.9   14.0
graduated from apprentice school        43.1   52.3   51.6   55.4   63.0   60.0   56.4   50.9   46.0
graduated from a typist school                  1.7    2.1    2.4    2.0    1.7    1.3    1.2    1.0
graduated from health vocational school  3.0    1.6    1 .3    1.5    2.0    1.8    1.4    0.9    0.8
graduated from other and special vocational  ..    ..   0.8    1.0    1.6    5.7    9.0    8.7    8.4
school
Completed the eight grades of primary   30.5   30.0   41.4   40.7   35.0   32.8   28.1   18.3   15.0
school but did not study further or dropped
out from secondary level educational
institution
Did not complete primary school, are over  6.2    6.1   10.3   12.4   10.0    6.8    6.6    5.0    4.8
the age of 16
Youthlaborforceinthe given year        126.2  137.7  152.4  167.5  172.6  176.3  170.3  151.8  144.0
Of this:
with qualifications                81.7   92.0   93.2  101.8  114.5  119.3  117.8  111.4  107.7
without qualifications            44.5   45.7   59.2   65.7   58.1   57.0   52.5   40.4   36.3
proportion (%) without qualifications  35.3   33.2   38.8   39.3   33.7   32.3   30.8   26.6   25.2
1 graduated from full-time course
21 Together with graduates from special
vocational school up to 1993
31 Without students admitted to HEis up to
1990, but starting their studies later,
with young people intending to go to HE, but not admitted (from 1991) temporary labor
force
* Preliminary data
Source: Statistical Year Book, 1995, KSH (Central Statistical Office)



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Number of vocational trainees according to the place of their practical training
between 1980-95
#of
stud.
60000    _    _.._.._           __7                     __
70000 ._     _____   .__
in school workshop
50D000 t  _--     ----------1 -----.------72 o         - 1 9--  _   _other, not in groups
40000                                    0 V  j= oS,#  
in factory workshop
20000 . L___  _      
in factory production environment
FoUNDATIONS RELATED TO SECONDARY-LEVEL EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Voc. sec
Vocational  Voc. sec.                 school
I school and Voc. traininl sch      T       Gramma  Grand
Type            secondary   Gfi               hI   and Voc.l TOTAL   sho    OA
school     Grammar    school   training                school  TOTAL
school                 school
Technical                    15            1           3         2       21         0      21
General                      10            4           2         1       17       78       95
Commerce/ catering            9            2           4         1       16        0       16
Agricultural                  8            0           1         2       11        0       11
Economic                      6            2           0         0        8        0        8
Information
Technology                     6           0           0         0        6         0        6
Medical                       3            1           0         0        4        0        4
Tourism                       3            0           0         0        3         0        3
Enviromental
protection                    0            0           0         1        1         0        1
TOTAL                        60           10          10         7       87        78     165



- 30 -
Annex 11
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Procurement Plan
Procurement Plan           Total Cost    Total Bank      Procurement   Notice/        Document       Contract
Procurement Package                        Financing        Method       invitation      Issue         Award
US$'000        US$'000
Equipment, Furniture &
Materials
ICB
7 Equipment Packages (Sec)          4,913          3,193            ICB          04/98         5198           7/98
13 Equipment Packages(Sec)          18,592        12,084           ICB           05198         7/98           9/98
43 Equipment Packages(PS)           7,500          4,875            ICB          06/98          8/98          1/99
I Material Package (PS)              972           632             ICB           05/98         8/98           1/99
1 Material Package (Sec)             521           338             ICB           05/98         7/98           10198
Material Package (Sec)              1,048          681             ICB           02/98         9/98           11/98
Subtotal ICB              33,546        21,803            ICB
LIB
42 Equipment Packages (PS)          7,500          4,875            LIB           7/98         9/98           1/99
LIB
Subtotal LIB              7,500          4,875
IS
2 packages (PS)                      380           247              IS             na           na           1997/98
5 Material Package (PS)              972           632              IS             na           na           97/98
5 Material Package (Sec)             815           338              IS             na           na           97/98
5 material package (Sec)            1,048          681              IS             na           na           97/98
Subtotal IS               2,911          1,898            IS             na           na
DP
40 packages (PS)                     972           632              DP             na           na           1997/98
7 packages (Sec)                     521           338              DP             na           na           98/99
13 packages (Sec)                   1,048          681              DP             na           na           98/99
Subtotal DP               2,541          1,651            DP
NS
Project Coord. Unit                  79             51              NS             na           na           97/98
Post. Sec. Component                 167            108             NS             na           na           97/98
Sec. Component                       80             52              NS             na           na            97/98
Subtotal NS                 326           211              NS
Technical Assistance & Training
Project Coordination Unit            160            160             CQ           09/97         10/97          12/97
2 Packages (Program Development)    5,733          5,733           QCBS          09/97         10/97          12/97
Local Staff Development             7,352          NBF              NA             na           na           1997/00
Subtotal TA & Training        13,345         5,893
TOTALS                  60,100         36,400
LIB = Limited Intemational Bidding             DP  Direct purchase for proprietary items or training materials
SL = Short listing of firms                   NS = National Shopping (three price quotations)
ICB = International Competitive Bidding    .  NBF = Non Bank Financed
CQ = Consultant Qualification                  QCBS = Quality and Cost-based Selection



- 31 -
Annex III
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
(KPI) IS
CAS Objective                                                                                (CAS OBJECTIVES TO BANK
MISSION)
In the 1995 CAS the "most       1. Strengthening of post        Ongoing supervision of HHRD   The scenario envisaged in the CAS
desirable" scenario for         secondary specialized vocational   Project and the Proposed  assumes continued economic stability
adjustment lending includes     education                       Youth Training Project.      and good progress on economic
support for critical social policies                                                         reforms. Some of the policy
and investment projects in      2. Completion of implementation                               measures in the areas of public
education which would be taken    of Secondary Vocational school                             finance, enterprise privatization, and
as sector policies permit. The  reform started under the Human                               education will require a strong
latter would aim at attracting the    Resources Project, thus enabling                       political consensus and the
private sector and/or raising the    the education. and training sector                      willingness of the public to accept
efficiency of social and economic  to produce graduates, knowledge                           further painful adjustments. If these
infrastructure. Although the    and services needed by the                                   adjustments are slowed, the direction
scenario goes on to discuss     market economy and a future EU                               of labor force development, and
support to higher education, a key  country member.                                          youth and adult training initiatives,
focus is on "enabling the                                                                    will be somewhat obscure but it will
education sector to produce                                                                  become even more important to
graduates, knowledge and                                                                     create human resource development
services needed by a market                                                                  institutions that are flexible and can
economy and a future EU                                                                      sense and respond rapidly to changes
member country". This is the                                                                 in the economy and labor market..
major objective the Youth
Training Project defined in this
SAR. Strategy updates developed
by the Hungary Resident Mission
for the 1996 Annual Meetings
broadened discussion of the
sector to include "education and
training" and noted that the
Government was considering
asking the Bank for follow-up
support, in the field of training,
to the existing Human Resource
Project.
18   Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and
full impact.



- 32 -
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~(KCPI)   '
Project                                                        MONITORING AND               (DEVELOMENT OBJE(CTIVES
Development Objectives                                         SUPERVISION                  TO CAS OBJECTIVES)
The objective of the Project is to                             All post secondary institutions   The rapid emergence of employment
improve enterprise productivity                                and secondary vocational     in small and medium sized
and competitiveness, the                                       schools will be selected by  enterprises, as contrasted with the
transition to a market economy,                                the Ministry of Labor        previous dominance of large state
and accession to the EU by                                     technical implementation     enterprises, and increasing levels of
continuing development of the                                  teams and monitored in       technology require: (a) significant
human resource base; in                                        accordance with the          changes in the skills and attitudes of
particular by improving the                                    monitoring and evaluation    the workforce; (b) related changes in
effectiveness and efficiency of the                            program outlined in the      representation and input from social
use of public financial resources                              Project Implementation       partners, particularly from employers
used to prepare youth and young                                Manual, to be reviewed       which represent the demand side of
adults to make the transition from                             periodically by supervision  the labor equation; and (c) related
school to work, thus reducing                                  missions.                    changes in traditions and the content
youth unemployment.                                                                         of training provided by "supply side"
institutions. Existing patterns of
A. Post Secondary               A. 1 Identification and selection                           social partner representation, and
Job-oriented training           of approximately 170 sites in                               some operating policies of supply
private, public, and non-                                   side institutions, will be difficult to
governmental institutions, on a                             change, but if they do not change the
competitive basis and based on                              effectiveness of public investments in
local and national labor market                             human resource development will not
demand, which will help to                                  improve.
develop, and implement, new
specialized training curricula
curricula to support the emerging
market economy.
A.2 Provision of modernized
modular specialized training to
approximately 4,250 young adults
a year, which is an approximate
doubling of the number of
graduates from existing programs
in existing Regional Human
Resource Development Centers
A.3 Job Placement rates, or
transfer to higher education, for
graduates from specialized
training programs at
approximately 75% within 6
months after completion of
programs with the understanding
that placement rates in
communities will vary due to
economic conditions.



- 33 -
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
(KPl 18_
Project
Development Objectives
(Con't)
B. Secondary Vocational         B. I Identification of
Orientation                     approximately 135 secondary
vocational schools which are
interested and willing to
implement the new Core
Curricula in grades 9-12, and
Vocational Orientation programs
at grades 11 and 12 which reflect
the economy in their region.
B.2 A 25% increase in the
enrollment of secondary school
students in the new programs by
the end of the Project.
B.3 A reduction in the
unemployment rate of post-
compulsory /post-secondary
school young adults by 20 %
when students complete the new
programs, with the understanding
that placement rates in
communities will vary due to
economic conditions.



- 34 -
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
(KPI)'I
PROJECT OUTPUTS:                                                MONITORING AND               (OUTPUTS TO DEVELOPMENT
SUPERVISION                  OBJECTIVES)
A. Post Secondary Specialized                                   Technical team and PCU       Support for the reform of secondary
training.                                                       management of Project        technical schools, for which enabling
I  Development of Curricula     A. I  Development of           implementation and Bank       legislation has been passed, will
approximately 85 new/revised   supervision missions,         continue without abatement. Opening
specialized training focused on                              of the market and promotion of
new and emerging needs of the                                increased competition for provision
economy.                                                     of post-secondary (pre -university)
training will be fully supported by the
2.  Provision of resources to   A.2  Provision of required                                    Ministry and participating
selected sites/institutions.    curriculum, materials and                                    institutions. There is a risk that some
equipment to the approximately                               traditional institutions, and Ministry
170 selected sites to enable them                            personnel, may not support open
to implement the curricula.                                  competition for Project investment
resources, particularly among post-
3. Staff Development            A.3  Provision of staff                                      secondary/post-secondary training
development and training to                                  providers which may find it difficult
approximately 170 lead                                       to meet minimum requirements for
instructors and managers in the                              delivery of modern demand driven
selected institutions to assist them                         youth/adult training. The social
in implementing the curriculum.                              partners will participate in definition
and development of human resource
development programs. There is a
B. Secondary Vocational Schools  B. I Provision of staff training,                            risk that it will be difficult to obtain
1. Infrastructure for Core      materials, and equipment to                                  sufficient representation from small
curricula                       approximately 135 schools to                                 and medium sized businesses in some
allow them to implement the new                              localities because they are not well
core curricula at grades 9-12                                organized and mechanisms for
gaining input are not well developed.
2. Vocational Orientation       B.2. Provision of staff training,                             A National Register of Vocational
Curricula                       equipment, and materials to allow                             Qualifications exists, and the
approximately 135 schools offer                              Ministry proposes to use it as a
an average of two vocational                                 method of identifying priorities,
orientation programs in grades 11                            especially for post-secondary
and 12.                                                      training. There is a risk that this list
may be dated, and that mandating it's
use will curtail development of
needed labor market training.



Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
(KPI) tS
PROJECT COMPONENTS:             INPUTS AND COSTS:               MONITORING AND                (COMPONENTS TO OUTPi
(US$'000)                       SUPERVISION
A. Post Secondary Specialized                                                                 The Ministry of Labor can manage
Training.                                                                                     project implementation without major
problems. It is successfully
1. Project Coordinating Unit    1. 1 A PCU with a minimum of    Bank supervision              completing implementation of youth
3 full-time staff by Dec. 1997  of PCU activities.            and adult training components of the
1.2 Technical Assistnce and     Involvement of MOL staff.    previous Human Resources Project.
training for PCU staff in 1998.
($0.3 Mil)                                                    The Ministry has the legislative
mandate to continue development of
2  Development of Curricula     2.1 Approximately 170 sites     Close monitoring of course    labor market training program at the
identified through a competitive    design and delivery by MOL  secondary and post secondary (pre-
process, 15 writing tams        Technical team. Review of     university) levels and chairs the
established, and approximately  procedures by Bank            existing National Vocational
85 new modular curriculum       supervision missions.         Training Council.
written along with specifications
for materials and equipment by                                The existing Project Coordinadng
end 1998 (S5.3 mil)                                           Urit is familiar with administration of
Bank financed projects and will be
3.  Provision of resources to   3.1 Materials and equipment     Involvement of MOL and        continued to support the new project
selected sites/institutions.    procured for approximately 85   writing teams, involvement of
program and delivered to        PCU in procurement process,   The Government has committed
approximately 170 implementing   supervision by Bank staff.   US$24 Million in counterpart
sites by the end of 1999 (S18.7    Field visits and site inspection   financing..
mil)                            by MOL and Bank staff
4. Staff Development            4.1 Staff development provided    Involvement of MOL
to approximately 170 individuals   technical team, Technical
at sites implementing new       Assistance consultants and
curriculum by the end of 1999   Bank supervision staff.
($1.9 mil)
B. Secondary Vocational Schools  1.1 Approximately 135 schools    Involvement of MOL stff and
1. Core curricula               selected which will implement the  review of procedures by Bank
new seven core curriculum by    supervision missions..
December. 1997.
1.2 Materials and equipment     Involvement of MOL staff,
procured for sites by December,   using materials developed
1998. ($ 6.4 mil)               under the previous HHRD
1.3 Staff training provided to all  project. PCU assistance and
participating sites by end 1999  monitoring, and Bank
($2.7 mil)                      supervision.
2. Vocational Orientadon        2.1 Approximately 135 schools    Involvement of MOL
Curricula                       selected which will implement an  technical team, Technical
average of two vocational       Assistnce consultants and
orientation curricula each by   Bank supervision staff.
December, 1997.                 Involvement of MOL staff and
review of procedures by Bank
supervision missions..
2.2 Materials and equipment     Involvement of MOL staff,
procured for sites by December,   using materials developed
1999. (US$ 21.7 mil)            under the previous HHRD
project. PCU assistance and
monitoring, and Bank
supervision.
2.3 Stff training provided to all  Involvement of M OL
participating sites by end 2000  technical team, Technical
($3.0 mil)                      Assistance consultants and
review by Bank supervision
missions.



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Hungary
Youth Training Project
Staff Appraisal report
Key Criteria for Selection of Institutions and Programs
1.     Component A: Post Secondary Job Oriented Programs
Minimum Criteria for Qualifying Institutions and Programs
(a)    Legal Status: are a legally incorporated entity (Hungarian or Joint Hungarian-foreign Enterprise) which
has a main field of activity in vocational training, has satisfied their tax and social security payment
obligations, and commits to the continuous provision of training needed for the implementation of the
project..
(b)    Social Partners: Possess a management board composed of the social partners, or have established such a
board for the management of the program to be financed.
(c)    Client Services: are committed to training young people over compulsory school age, young people with
final examinations, and adults who are unemployed or wish continuing education.
(d)    Counseling: can provide job counseling and placement services either from their own capacity or by
contracting with other organizations.
(e)    Delivery: can provide flexibly entry/exit training on a modular basis to clients.
(f)    Evaluation: undertake, upon program completion and six months after program completion, to provide
the Ministry of Labor with data concerning the work and educational status of program completers.
(g)    Placement: Agree to sign service contracts, including negotiated rates ofjob placement, for training the
unemployed, if requested by County Labor Centers.
Weighted Criteria for Ranking those Applicants Meeting Minimum Criteria
(a)    Demand: evidence of Labor Market Demand (i.e. local tripartite council endorsement, enterprise hiring
commitments, labor market information/data, job placement rates from similar programs). Programs
without sufficient evidence will be rejected.
(b)    Supply: need for additional or upgraded training capacity to meet demand (i.e. evidence that demand
exceeds current supply, evidence that the program will not duplicate existing programs).
(c)    Counseling: method of providing job-counseling and placement services (i.e. higher weight will be
placed on provision of on-site rather than off-site services).
(d)    Services: including experience with post-secondary job oriented adult labor market training, experience
with flexible entry /exit modular training, breadth of experience in serving different client groups (youth,
adults, company specific training),
(e)    Facilities: existing and needed materials, equipment, and facilities.
(f)    Staff: quality and experience, including on-job work experience in the program to be financed.
(g)    Evaluation: expected placement of graduates in jobs and further training.
(h)    Proposal: overall quality and completeness of the proposal.
2.     Component B: Secondary Vocational Orientation
Minimum Criteria for Qualifying Institutions and Programs
(a)    Legal Status: financing open to any Hungarian state, non-state, or private education institution which is
legally constituted as a "secondary level school" and which has a main field of activity in provision of
secondary school youth vocational training.
(b)    Program: are committed to use the seven core, and 13 job family, curricula and materials developed
under the previous World Bank project, and offer at least two job family curricula.



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
(c)    Timeline/delivery: are committed to launch classes from the beginning of the 1998/99 academic year, and
continue for at least five consecutive years.
(d)    Counseling: agree to provide career orientation/counseling information and services.
(e)    Staff and facilities: commit to involve staff in inservice training and make necessary support facilities and
materials available to support installation of the new programs.
(f)     Graduate Status: agree to provide information the status of graduates (i.e. work or in further education)
to the MOL six months following program completion.
(f)    Previous Support: have not obtained support previously from World Bank or PHARE financed projects.
(g)     Local Support: have provided letters of intent from administrative and teaching staff for participation and
a letter of endorsement by the local government.
Weighted Criteria for Ranking those Applicants Meeting Minimum Criteria
(a)     Demand: evidence of Labor Market Demand for the job family(s) for which support is being requested
(i.e. local tripartite council endorsement, enterprise hiring commitments, labor market information/data, job
placement rates from similar/existing programs). Programs without sufficient evidence may be rejected.
(b)     Linkages/Articulation: evidence of linkages with enterprises and other schools in Hungary and abroad,
including articulation agreements with post-secondary programs which are willing to provide advance
credit for completion of secondary level job family programs.
(c)     Financial Support: evidence of local financial support from the school, community, and local
government.
(d)    Services: availability of existing equipment for the proposed job families, availability of needed facilities
for new core and job family curricula,.
(f)     Staff: quality and experience, including on-job work experience in the job-family programs to be offered.
(g)    Experience with Job Family Curricula: additional weight will be given to schools which have already
attempted to initiate the new job family curricula, even without outside PHARE or World Bank project
support
(h)     Proposal: overall quality and completeness of the proposal.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28708
16                                                                               HUNGARY                                                                            20'                                                                               22'
YOUTH TRAINING PROJECT                                                                                                   V                   *r            o                                                      U
/  z(      v  C8dusnemell  ~>                         wT. U,.,rd       UK RA  IN  E
_ MOTORWAYS          WM    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                    /                                          0 S               2
AUSTRIAkOADS)   COUNTY JMEGYEI CAPITALS' S-L V                                              AD K      R E-ABAUJ d-T
RAIIRQADS                         OTHERKMAJORCITIES,
CANALS                         COUNTY (MEGYE) BOUNDARIES  <w@ /c g> G7  
a ~~~~~~~RIVERS                            -             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES vT uoe  /g<TrY rn>.  Ksodi 
T. vi- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      ,,,,                           A               46   o
0                                                         AD 25h So-RnEeP.  O FYUGOSAI                                                                                 1                          LLo RA
T. N-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L/AN,Eb r
0u d a '                 P E S 20D30   f0   50 M ILES  l8'   <   t   \  20'         1                                                   Le6A                        4 '
A                                       .. "'                       Kopoovor      i>.o                                                                                                                                                                            ;tUGU5o                           1 99
Tr6/goh                                                  Darn                                                                              'ASZ-       YKU -''TAo                                                                                        Eo'90
SZOLNO             S     '        o,d{-166'                                                                           BAJ
ROMANIAt04  - 
40                                                               ~~o                                                                                                                                                                         425 ~~   ALSTEFA4ju16c06/           \ 4zp'
l1ES,7PRFM  f FJFR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1106  0
EKES ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 1               o~0o~,r   r           <
0LO         10I     20       20       40OGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .",hf   %~ / 
OL                                                                                             22-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rc47A6A1
N.  i.                                                                    CSON         RA                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6/JTIp






IMAGING
Report No.:        18463   HU
Type:     SAR



