Report No. PIC5411
Project Name                     Hungary-Youth Training Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       HUPE8485
Borrowers                        Republic of Hungary
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor
Contact                          Mr. Jozsef Papp
Head, Project Coordinating Unit
Youth Training Project
Ministry of Labor
Roosevelt Ter 7-8
Budapest V
H-1051 Hungary
Tel: (36-1) 331-9169
Fax: (36-1)331-9169
EM : PPPJO@mail.MATAV.hu@internet
Date This PID Prepared           July 8, 1997
Appraisal Date                   April, 1997
Projected Board Date             Sept. 30, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Economic Development: Hungary experimented with market
reforms much earlier than the other Central and Eastern European
countries. The "new economic mechanism", introduced in the late
1960s, aimed at substituting market prices for the plan as an
allocative mechanism. These efforts were successful in building up
some of the basic legal and institutional infrastructure of a
market economy. A new government came to power through free
parliamentary elections in the spring of 1990, and Hungary took a
major step toward realizing its vision of full integration with
Europe by entering into an Association Agreement with the European
Union in 1991 and joined the OECD in 1996.
2.     Human Resources: The economic transition requires a
fundamental reorientation in the way Hungary develops and uses its
human resources. This reorientation has been underway since 1991
using a combination of national, bilateral and multilateral
resources. These efforts have been instrumental in helping Hungary
cope with emerging unemployment and redeployment of labor to higher
productivity uses, in retraining adults for the new skills needed
as a result of economic restructuring, in reorienting the narrow
and rigid vocational training for youth in order to develop a more
mobile and technically adaptable labor force, and in narrowing the
technology gap between Hungary and Western Europe by reforming and
expanding higher education and professional training, especially in



the fields of management and scientific research and development.
The central theme of the reforms has been to redirect human
resource investments so as to maximize their contribution to
economic competitiveness.
3.     Unemployment: Starting from a negligible level at the start
of the transition, unemployment in Hungary developed rapidly in
1991, and reached a maximum of 13.4 percent in 1993. Although the
unemployment rate has subsided slightly since then, it remains
high: 475,000 people are currently unemployed -- 10.2 percent of
the labor force, according to registration data. Youth unemployment
is a particular concern for the Government. Unemployment rates are
highest for workers aged 16-19 (38.5 percent), and decline
progressively with age. Most of the unemployed are young; 50.8
percent are 35 years or less. The success of new labor force
entrants in finding jobs differs markedly by their educational
experience. Unemployment rates vary inversely with level of
education. Fully seventy-five percent of the unemployed consist of
people with the lowest educational qualifications: "less-than
eight-year primary school", "primary school", and "apprenticeship"
(primary plus two or three years of vocational training, most of it
in enterprises). Unemployment rates range from 12 percent to 25
percent for labor-market participants with less than a secondary
level education. Unemployment rates drop sharply for labor-market
participants who have a secondary education or more, and are lower
for graduates of secondary vocational schools than for gymnasium graduates.
5.     Training Legacy. There were a number of serious problems with
the inherited education and training system. Secondary level
vocational training was provided in too specialized a form and too
early (age 14). Specialized vocational education and training
provided detailed practical instruction for highly specific
occupations, but little theoretical instruction in the underlying
scientific and quantitative principles. The graduates of these
programs were productive only within the confines of these narrow
job specializations, and were not well equipped to adapt to changes
in the evolving market economy. Moreover, the training relied
heavily upon on-site practical experience in enterprises. Under the
market pressures of the transition, many of these enterprises have
closed or lost their capacity to provide such training. Finally,
the training programs were almost exclusively pre-service and
concentrated in industrial and agricultural specializations. Very
few programs of training were available to members of the labor
force (working or unemployed) to upgrade their skills or to change
occupations after leaving the formal education and training system,
and few training programs of any kind existed in the service
sectors, which have experienced the most rapid growth in output and
wages since the start of the transition. The economic upheavals
which occurred under the transition revealed the weaknesses of the
education and training system. Apprenticeship and vocational
schools are having increasing difficulty in finding enterprises
willing to provide training places for their students, and students
who complete vocational and apprenticeship training programs
without secondary school matriculation are having increasing
difficulty in finding jobs.
-2-



6.     Education and Training Reforms. Recognizing the limitations
of its prior programs of vocational education and training, Hungary
moved early in the transition to make its education system more
flexible. The Ministry of Labor, in cooperation with the Ministry
of Education, implemented the most extensive reform of vocational
education undertaken in any of the transition countries -- designed
to make the system more flexible, more efficient, and more
responsive to student demand and evolving labor market needs. The
main features of the reform are: a) a major decentralization of
responsibility for managing training, including the involvement of
employers and trade unions in the management of vocational
training, b) extension of general education by two years (grades 9
and 10) prior to the start of vocational orientation, c)
development of vocational orientation in the form of 13 broad job
families in place of the well-over-100 separate occupational
specializations previously offered, d) development of career
counseling for students to inform them of employment prospects and
associated training opportunities in alternative occupations, e)
and development of post-secondary training, including a network of
Regional Labor Development Centers, to update skills, to upgrade
skills, and to support a move from one occupation to another. The
objective of these reforms is to extend and improve general
education in basic quantitative, scientific, and problem-solving
skills for all young people while still providing vocational
orientation prior to post-secondary specialized vocational
training. Taken together, these changes are developing a more cost-
effective education and training system which is more adaptable to
the skilled manpower needs of an evolving economy, and more
consistent with education and training systems in the OECD
countries. Implementation of these reforms is being supported by EU
PHARE and by the Hungary Human Resources Project (Loan 3313-HU),
which closed in June, 1997. The proposed Youth Training Project
would extend two of the successful initiatives for youth training
which were developed and introduced under the Human Resources
Project: the programs for post-secondary, job-oriented training,
and streamlined programs of secondary vocational orientation.
Objective
7.      The objective of the project is to help adolescents and young
adults to make the transition from school to work, thus reducing
youth unemployment. The expanded use of the improved vocational
orientation curriculum in secondary schools in place of the former
excessively narrow secondary level vocational training programs
will provide a better basis for improved productivity and improved
job mobility as the economy continues to evolve. It will also
reduce recurrent costs, as unit costs for the new programs are
about ten percent less than for the old programs. By supporting
market-driven specialized training for youth and adults, the
project is expected to reduce youth unemployment, thereby reducing
income support payments and helping young people to make a positive
contribution to the economy.
Description
-3-



8.     The proposed Youth Training Project would to expand
implementation of youth vocational orientation and specialized
training programs to address the objective described above. The
project would be implemented over a three-year period by the
Ministry of Labor. The proposed project has two major components:
(a)    Post-Secondary, Job-Oriented Training: This component would
strengthen and modernize post-secondary and post-compulsory school
specialized training programs for youth to facilitate their entry
into the labor market. These programs of customized training to
meet identified local labor-market needs are offered to young
people who have completed the baccalaureate level or are past
compulsory school age (after 10th grade or age 16).
(b)    Secondary Vocational Orientation: This component would expand
the number of secondary vocational schools using the new core
curriculum and vocational job orientation programs developed under
the Bank-financed Human Resources Project and the EU PHARE project.
Cost and Financing
9.     Total project costs are estimated at US$60.1 Million
including contingencies, local taxes and duties. Approximately
US$26.2 million would be allocated to the Post-Secondary Component,
and US$33.9 to the Secondary Component. Funds would be used to
provide equipment, software, technical assistance and training. The
Proposed Loan of US$36.4 million would finance 60 percent of total
project costs (primarily international technical assistance,
training, and equipment), the borrower would finance the remaining
40 percent (primarily duties and taxes, and local technical
assistance and training).
Implementation
10.     The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Labor
over a three-year period. The implementing staff would be
integrated, to the degree possible, directly into existing staff
units in the Ministry to simplify administration, build on
experience gained in the previous Human Resources Project, and to
enhance the transfer of technology. The implementation team would
include: (a) a small Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) which will be
maintained to serve as liaison with the Bank, and (b) two technical
teams to implement the two components of the project.
Sustainability
11.     The project was prepared largely by the Ministry of Labor and
has the support of the Ministry of Finance and National Bank. New
supportive legislation is in place. During preparation, the
Ministry developed individual components through dialogue with
project beneficiaries and stockholders, including representatives
from labor and employers. A working group is being established to
provide guidance for implementation of each component of the
project. Government commitment to the project is demonstrated,
inter alia, by its willingness to commit the necessary counterpart
- 4 -



funds -- amounting to 40 percent of total estimated project costs -
- to implement the project. In addition, the Ministry has committed
itself to the staffing of small but critical technical teams to
support implementation of the two components. Since the project
primarily involves upgrading existing programs rather than
expanding or creating additional programs, there are no significant
incremental recurrent costs. On the contrary, the unit costs of the
new secondary vocational orientation programs, financed under the
second component of the proposed project, are lower than those of
the existing vocational training programs which they will replace.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations
12.     The Bank is involved in policy development to help reorient
youth and adult training in a number of transition economies,
including FYR Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania, Poland,
and Russia. It is also supporting implementation of vocational
training reforms through projects in Romania, and Russia, as well
as the Hungary Human Resources Project. The lessons learned in
implementation of this project have been incorporated into the
proposed project and include, but are not limited to: the use of
contracted procurement agents to expedite large equipment
purchases, the involvement of employers in the selection of
training programs to be financed, the development of networks
between institutions at the local level to increase efficiency of
resource use, and the inclusion of significant amounts of local
financing to ensure sufficient local staff development and
training. The Ministry of Labor has ensured that the proposed
Youth Training Project is coordinated with, and complementary to,
other initiatives, including those financed by other bilaterals and
the EU.
Poverty Category
13.     The project is classified as a program of Targeted Interventions.
Program Objectives Categories
14.     The project falls into a single Program Objective Category:
Poverty Reduction and Human Resources Development.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The project has been placed in Category "c" which does not
required an environmental assessment.
Project Benefits
19.     The major benefit expected from the proposed project is to
help adolescents and young adults to make the transition from
school to work, thus reducing youth unemployment. The expanded use
of the improved vocational orientation curriculum in secondary
schools in place of the former excessively narrow secondary level
vocational training programs will provide a better basis for
improved productivity and improved job mobility as the economy
- 5 -



continues to evolve. It will also reduce recurrent costs, as unit
costs for the new programs are about ten percent less than for the
old programs. By supporting market-driven specialized training for
youth and adults, the project is expected to reduce youth
unemployment, thereby reducing income support payments and helping
young people to make a positive contribution to the economy.
Project Risks
20.     There is a risk that project resources could be used to
support training which is either inappropriate for local labor
needs, or delivered by unsuitable training providers. To ensure
that project-supported training is appropriate for local labor
needs, training programs will be developed in consultation with
tripartite regional training boards, and training providers will be
required to assist with job placement of trainees and post-
secondary training providers will be required to achieve a
negotiated rate of job placement, as they are under the current
Human Resources Project. In addition, strict criteria will be used
to ensure that training providers have the technical qualifications
to provide modern, demand-driven youth training which meets the
needs of employers and trainees.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 18, 1997.
- 6 -



