Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22917
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42300)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
FOR A
YOUTH TRAINING PROJECT
OCTOBER 15, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1997)
Currency Unit = Hungarian Forint
US$ I = HUF 192.5
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
DEM                  Deutsche Mark
EU                   European Union
EU-PHARE             European Union - Pologne Hongre Action pour la Reconversion
GOH                  Governnent of Hungary
HHRD                 Hungary Human Resources Development
1BRD                 Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                  Intemational Development Association
MOL                  Ministry of Labor
NGOs                 Non-Governmental Organizations
OECD                 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PIM                  Project Implementation Manual
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
YTP                  Youth Training Project
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:   James A. Socknat
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David Herbert Fretwell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
YOUTH TRAINING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                        9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     10
9. Partner Comments                                                                    10
10. Additional Information                                                            22
Annex 1. Key Perforrnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance                                     30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008485                                       Project Name: YOUTH TRAINING
Team Leader: David Herbert Fretwell                       TL Unit. PA9ES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 15, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: YOUTH TRAINING                                 LIC/IE Number: SCL-42300
Country/Department: HUNGARY                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education & Training
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/27/1997                              Effective: 12/19/1997
Appraisal:  05/15/1997                                MTR: 11/17/2000
Approval:  09/11/1997                              Closing: 06/30/2002          04/23/2001
Borrower/Ihplementing Agency: NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY/MINISTRY OF LABOR
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                            Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:      James A. Socknat                          James A. Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:   David Herbert Fretwell                   David Herbert Fretwell
ICR Primary Author:   Darrell D. Prokopetz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project is to help adolescents and young adults make the transition from school to
work, thus reducing youth unemployment The expanded use of the improved vocational orientation
curriculum in secondary schools in place of the former excessively narrow secondary level vocational
training programs will provide a better basis for improved productivity and improved job mobility as the
economy continues to evolve. It will also reduce recurrent costs, as unit costs for some of the new
programs to be extended under the project are about ten percent less than for the former programs. By
supporting market-driven specialized training for youth and adults, the project is expected to reduce youth
unemployment, thereby reducing income support payments and helping young people to make a positive
contribution to the economy.
The project objective is clear and consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy. Specifically, one of
the broad objectives of the CAS is to "reform social policies and develop human resource capacities".
This project was designed to modemize Hungary's approach to the design and delivery of youth training
and education and to reduce structural unemployment through the provision of relevant skills training.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project was designed with two distinct components-one for post-secondary training and one for
secondary training--and a variety of sub-components. The components as described in the Staff
Appraisal Report are as follows:
Component A: Post-Secondary, Job-Oriented Training The objective of this component is to
strengthen and modernize post-secondary and post-compulsory school specialized training programs for
young people to facilitate their entry into the labor market. These programs of customized training to
meet identified local labor-market needs are offered to young people who have completed the
baccalaureate level or are past compulsory school age (after 10th grade or age 16). All training
proposals to be financed under this component would be submifted to the National Training Council for
review and endorsement.
(a)    Project Coordinating Unit This sub-component would finance limited technical assistance,
including limited funds for project coordination and promotion, fellowship training, equipment and software
to support ongoing operation of the PCU established under the Human Resources Project. The PCU
would serve the needs of both components of the Project and would serve as the project "business
office" for all liaison with the Bank including procurement and reporting.
(b)    Curriculum Development This sub-component would finance technical assistance and limited
hardware and software to support approximately 15 writing teams which would define occupational skills
and knowledge, develop modular training curricula and specify materials and equipment necessary to
implement the curricula for approximately 85 occupational specialities. Priority curriculum areas would be
identified using procedures, principles and criteria agreed with the Bank. The primary criteria would be
evidence of labor market demand at the local and national levels as ascertained by employer input and
evidence of high job placement rates from existing programs.
(c)   Institutional Infrastructure Development This sub-component would finance technical
assistance, equipment, hardware and software to support implementation of new and revised training
curricula in approximately 170 sites (on average two sites per curriculum). The institutions receiving
support would be selected on a competitive basis following procedures, principles and criteria agreed with
the Bank. Primary institutional criteria would include: i) involvement of employers, employees and
govemment in managing the institutions and programs and in selecting the training which they provide; ii)
- 2-



evidence that the investment would not duplicate existing programs in the region; iii) ability of institutions
to operate flexible-entry and flexible-exit modular training programs; iv) availability of job counselling and
placement programs; and v) willingness of the institution to sign performance based training contracts
with local labor offices for training the unemployed. The competition would be open to public, private and
nongovemmental training providers including, but not limited to, secondary vocational schools, regional
labor development centers, foundations and private schools.
(d)    Staff Development This sub-component would finance staff training for key individuals involved
in directing and implementing the new modular training programs: instructors and managers in
training-provider institutions and representatives of local govemments, employers' associations and
employees' associations. The staff development activities would include both intemational and local
training sessions.
Component B: Secondary Vocational Orientation This component would expand the number of
secondary vocational schools that apply the new core curriculum and occupational orientation programs
developed under the Hungary Human Resources Project.
(a)   Infrastructure for Core Curricula This sub-component would provide hardware, software and
limited technical assistance and staff training to assist approximately 100 secondary schools to
implement the seven new academic core curicula for grades 9 through 12 developed under the Human
Resources Project. Selection of schools would follow principles, criteria and procedures agreed with the
Bank. Selection of schools would be limited to those which did not receive support under the Human
Resources Project and which have agreed to implement the new vocational orientation curricula starting
at grade 11 (see following sub-component). In addition, approximately 35 schools which were to receive
limited support under the previous EU PHARE project to implement the new core curriculum would be
eligible to receive support to implement the new curriculum.
(b)    Occupational Families Curricula This sub-component would provide hardware, software and
limited technical assistance and staff training to assist approximately 135 secondary vocational schools to
implement an average of two vocational orientation curricula each in grades 11 and 12. Selection of
schools would follow principles, criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. Selection of schools
would be limited to those which did not receive support under the Human Resources Project and which
agree to implement the new core curricula.
The components and sub-components were related to achieving the overall project objective. The
development of curricula and the provision of training related equipment for secondary and
post-secondary institutions is a logical step toward reducing youth unemployment (at least with respect to
the amount of unemployment that can be considered as structural).
Representatives of the borrower indicated that the project was appropriately designed in that it focused
on the priorities of the Hungarian Govemment. They also stated that the design was appropriate in that it
was not overly complex --there are only two components and the range of institutional improvements
was realistic. They also indicated that the project was designed as a logical extension of a previous
Bank project in this sector--the Human Resources Project. For example, while the Human Resource
Project developed new curricula for vocational schools and Regional Human Resources Centers for
Adult Training, the Youth Training Project financed additional adult training programs and disseminated
the new secondary school curricula to additional schools.
This project was designed taking into account a significant lesson learned from the Human Resource
Project (as well as others), specifically, the use of a competitive selection process to determine which
training institutions should participate. The implementation of a competitive process helped to ensure
that only those training institutions which demonstrated initiative would receive funding for curricula
development and equipment. This process helped to maximize the possible benefits from a limited
amount of money.
-3-



3.4 Revised Conmponents:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
As indicated above, the project objectives are consistent with the CAS and the priorities of the
Hungarian Government. The objectives are clear and both the components and sub-components are
related to achieving the overall objective.
QAG - Rapid Assessment of Project Quality at Entry - Marginal
A very short review of the project (2.5 person days) through a process called "Rapid Assessment of
Project Quality at Entry" resulted in a rating of 3 - Marginal. (The other possible ratings were I - Good, 2
- Satisfactory and 4 - Poor) The following narrative comments were provided to explain their rating.
* No serious analysis carried out of economic aspects (no assessment of impact of preceding, similar
operation.
* No assessment of beneficiaries-who were the beneficiaries of the preceding operation? (unknown!)
* No quantified indicators of project impact.
*   Project was "rushed through Bank processing" (no attention paid to peer reviewer's major criticism of
operation's targeting in view of earlier studies).
*   Overall, the project's quality is satisfactory, but given several shortcomings in project processing
(including lack of attention to impact of preceding similar project), we gave it an overall "3".
While the review team rated some aspects of the project as good, such as "the institutional capacity
action plan", they rated two areas as poor, specifically: "Adequate attention to project's social impact?"
and "If project is poverty targeted, adequacy of project design to reach target population?".
It should be noted that in March,1998 the Task Team Leader questioned the marginal rating in detailed
correspondence--an excerpt from which is included below:
*  Economic analyses completed for the initial project were updated, but not completely redone, since
this was a follow-up operation. This approach was agreed with all concerned (i.e. CD and HD).
* The beneficiaries are clearly defined in the title and components of the project (i.e.youth). These
same beneficiaries were addressed by a major component of the previous project, and based on the
success of this project the follow-up project was requested by the client.
*   There are well defined and quantified indicators of project impact in the SAR and MOP.
*   There was extensive analysis of the issues encountered in the previous project during project design,
and these lessons were integrated into the project design.
*  Impact indicators are defined and monitoring procedures are agreed as detailed in the SAR and PIM.
Lessons from the previous project were integrated as noted in the SAR.
*  Both project components are directed at youth, institutions which receive project resources must
provide data on all program participants and graduates (as noted in the PIM) and the Govemment
had a national performance indicator program in place for all post-secondary adult training financed
under the Employment Fund.
The marginal QAE rating seems unduly harsh because economic analysis was completed for the initial
project and there was extensive analysis of the issues encountered in the previous project during project
design. Given that the primary mission of the World Bank, however, is to "fight poverty", the Staff
Appraisal Report could have been more explicit as to how this project accomplishes this mission
(keeping in mind that this project was not classified as a targeted poverty operation). Overall, the
official documentation of this project is such that it warrants a rating of "satisfactory" in terms of quality
at entry.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project achieved its major objectives and has achieved or is expected to achieve
satisfactory development results with only a few shortcomings. In one instance--through the
development of extended vocational guidance material and the hosting of an intemational conference on
this subject--the project exceeded expectations. This project would have likely been rated as fully
satisfactory had it not been cancelled prior to completion. While the Project was scheduled to terminate
on June 30, 2002, the Government of Hungary cancelled the project on April 23, 2001. The
Govemment indicated that the reasons for cancelling the project were that World Bank procurement
procedures are too cumbersome and that Govemment is able to secure credit at a lower interest rate
than what this loan provided. The essential development tasks--curriculum development and staff
training--have been fully completed. Furthermore, there is a strong reason to believe that the remaining
elements (primarily the purchase of remaining training related equipment) will be completed given that
the Hungarian Parliament has already approved funding for these remaining purchases. It is also
important to note that significant progress has been made toward completing the procurement process in
that approximately 39% of the materials and equipment have been purchased (with project funds) an
additional 21 % has been contracted following World Bank procurement rules (financed with local funds)
with the remaining 40% yet to be contracted.
Some of the general benefits of the project taking into account both components are as follows:
*  Expanded use of monitoring the effectiveness of training programs (follow-up surveys), student
evaluation of courses and program audits;
*  Changing of attitudes of teachers to focus more on labor market requirements and to make courses
more practical in nature;
*  The competitive process to select participating schools helped to ensure that funding was provided to
institutions which are committed to sustainable reform;
*  General exposure to new teaching methods and technology; and
*  More exposure to career information and counseling techniques and the development of new
Hungarian career information material designed with gender neutrality in mind.
One of the problems with the project was that there were some delays in the implementation schedule
which led to delays in disbursement. A key reasons for this was that limitations in the state budget
delayed adherence to co-financing requirements. Because of this, the project implementation period was
extended by approximately 1 year. (The project was originally scheduled to terminate on June 30, 2001).
At the time of cancellation, only 25% of the committed funds was disbursed. The most significant
ramification of the delayed implementation was that not all of the modern training equipment was fully
installed at the scheduled time which led to delays in the launch of some post-secondary programs.
There were no significant delays in the commencement of secondary programs as most of the required
materials and equipment was installed on schedule and, furthermore, it is not necessary to have all of
the equipment installed at the start of these four year programs.
Other reasons for delayed implementation are as follows:
* Restructuring of Ministries--the implementing Agency was originally the Ministry of Labor but due to a
reorganization of Ministries in 1998, the Ministry of Labor was dissolved and the project was moved
to the Ministry of Education:
*  Selection of participating schools took longer than expected;
*  Changes in PCU management;
*  Introduction of the Treasury in loan administration;
*  Procurement of materials and equipment is very complex given the large number of very small
items;
*  Delays in replacing a procurement expert within the PCU when the initial staff member retired;
*  Introduction of new senior govemment committee to control procurement: and
*  The original time table may have been somewhat ambitious.
- 5 -



It should be noted that a representative from the National Bank of Hungary, which is involved in the
administration of all Bank projects, indicated that this was one of best projects ever delivered. This
representative indicated that the project was well designed because all of the participants knew what they
wanted. There was a true sense of cooperation and "basic trust" between Bank and Ministry officials.
This atmosphere helped to ensure that the project remained on track.
4.2 Outputs by conmponents:
A. Post Secondary Specialized Training (US$26.2 million)
A. 1 Development of approximately 85 newtrevised specialized training programs focused on new and
emerging needs of the economy.
This output was achieved in a satisfactory manner. Fourteen development teams were formed and 105
new or revised course curricula were developed using the DACUM method. (DACUM refers to a process
whiereby curricula is developed taking into account skill and knowledge requirements as defined by those
actually working in the field). The course curricula is composed of a variety of modules. The project was
instrumental in the completion of 2,284 module descriptions. Based on these module descriptions,
1,296 learning guides were completed.
Representatives from the post secondary training institutions consulted during the ICR mission spoke
positively about the process and outcomes related to this sub-component. Some concem, was
expressed, however, about the excessive time demands on teachers who were expected to participate in
the development teams while carrying on their full teaching load. Another concem was that it was not
always possible to get the most knowledgeable people to participate in the development teams.
A. 2 Provision of required curriculum, materials and equipment to the approximately 170 selected sites to
enable them to implement the curricula.
While this output has yet to be fully achieved, what has been completed has been done in a satisfactory
manner and the bower is committed to completing the remaining elements (the purchase of the
remaining equipment). There are 164 sites (schools or branches thereof) that have agreed to implement
the new course programs. The course curriculum for the various programs has been completed and
posted on a government intemet site to ensure broad dissemination. However, some of the materials
and equipment necessary for the schools to fully implement the new programs have not yet been
purchased. Nevertheless (as mentioned previously), Parliament has approved funding for the remaining
elements of the project and progress in the procurement of materials and equipment is proceeding. The
cancellation of the loan should not significantly slow down completion of project activities. The Ministry of
Education has indicated that contracts which will not be financed by the Bank loan, but have already
been signed, will not require a new procurement process. For those procurement activities where the
contracts have not yet been signed, the procurement must follow the Hungarian Procurement Law,
starting the procedure with the advertisement in the Procurement Bulletin.
A concern raised by a representative of a training institution is that the institutions will have difficulty in
dealing with recurrent costs associated with this project. For example, who will pay for the printing of the
learning guides and who will pay for the maintenance of the new training equipment? In order to ensure
that the benefits of this project are maximized, the Ministry of Education should ensure that adequate
funding exists for recurrent costs.
A. 3 Provision of staff development and training to approximately 170 lead instructors and managers in
the selected institutions to assist them in implementing the curriculum.
This output has been completed in a satisfactory manner: 168 lead instructors and managers received
training on the design and implementation of new curriculum. In total, with respect to component "A",
600 instructors participated in local or foreign training. An evaluation of instructors who participated in
the program revealed that the training was effective and had a positive impact in changing the
- 6 -



instructors' approach toward more modern teaching methods. Training and development were also
completed through the provision of 190 months of foreign technical assistance.
B. Secondary Vocational Schools ($US33.9 million)
B. 1 Provision of staff training, equipment and materials to allow approximately 135 schools to allow them
to implement the new core curricula for grades 9-12.
The staff training element of the above output has been completed in a satisfactory manner and
procurement of equipment and materials is in process. Through this component, instructors from 133
institutions received a total of 320 months of study-visits/training programs through 55 study visits
varying in duration from one to four weeks. In total, 1,004 study opportunities were created in the
Netherlands, Canada, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany and France.
A recent program audit completed by DHV Consultants (the Technical Assistance firm) concluded that:
"Based on the results of the evaluation of the participants the conclusion can be drawn that the large
majority of the programs was evaluated as very positive. In terms of the aspects of 'organization' and of
'interesting' the scoring was the highest". The audit goes on to state that: "Generally speaking the
project has been contributing towards facilitating and smoothening the introduction of the revised general
and vocational orientation subjects at the 133 participating schools, by exposing part of its management
and teaching staff to new developments in teaching methodology, school management, career guidance,
media utilization, etc. in foreign settings".
B.2. Provision of staff training, equipment and materials to allow approximately 135 schools offer an
average of two vocational orientation programs in grades 9 - 12.
As indicated above the training has been provided in a satisfactory manner. Most of the new vocational
orientation programs have commenced in September 2001. The remainder will start when the training
related materials and equipment are installed. The Hungarian Government is committed to commencing
the offering of new programs within the previous operation dates of the project (i.e. by June 30, 2002).
4.3 Net Present ValuelEconomic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a significant development impact on the Ministry of Education. A constant theme
that came out of the interviews with Ministry and training institution staff was the "change in attitudes"
towards teaching. Both secondary and post-secondary training is being designed and delivered with
more regard to the skills and knowledge demanded by the specific occupation. Skill development is now
much more attuned to market requirements. The project also had an impact on institutional
development in that a Vocational Advisory Board has been established to improve the quality of training
and education. Another significant impact is the adoption of modular based training.
The Ministry of Education has also implemented a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation process
which they intend to utilize for future activities. This process includes the following elements: 1) course
evaluations by students on their perceptions of the quality of training, 2) follow-up surveys with students
upon completion of training to determine the proportion employed in the area trained and 3) program
audits to determine the overall effectiveness of government initiatives.
Another significant development impact is with respect to the competitive process employed to select
schools to participate in the development of new programs and the competitive process employed to
- 7 -



select teachers to participate in training. Ministry officials spoke highly of this process and indicated that
they would use it in the future.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governzent or inipleinenting agency:
There were no apparent significant factors outside the control of govemment or the implementing agency
that affected the outcome of the project.
5.2 Factors generally sutbject to government control.
Sorrie of the project delays were due to the activities of the Hungarian Government including:
*   dissolving the Ministry of Labor (where the project was initially housed) and transferring responsibility
to the Ministry of Education;
*   initial shortage of co-financing funds;
*   introduction of theTreasury into the loan administration process (new body that had to define and
establish its role);
*   introduction of a centralized procurement process creating another step in the approval process; and
*  cancellation of the project prior to completion of equipment purchases.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two separate PCU managers and a significant delay in the replacement of a procurement expert may
have had an impact in the delays of scheduled activities and disbursement.
One of the reasons why the project operated in a satisfactory manner is that Program Director, Dr.
Beredek, and the leaders of the components (as well as their deputies) remained in their positions
throughout the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was expected to be $60.12 million which included $23.8 million of local
counterpart funds and a loan component of $36.4 million. At the time of closure, $16.2 million was
expended of which $11.5 million was Bank financed. It is important to note that an additional $10 million
for materials and equipment has been contracted following World Bank procurement rules but not yet
delivered and paid for prior to the cancellation of the project.
The various delays also had a significant impact on the flow of disbursements. While disbursements
were expected to occur in 1998, no disbursement occurred until late 1999. By the time the project was
cancelled, the disbursement lag was approaching 70%.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The probability of maintaining the achievements generated or expected to be generated is rated as
likely. To begin, the govemment is committed to completing the remaining elements of the project.
There are two reasons for this: 1) Parliament has already approved necessary funding and 2) senior
government officials have adamantly expressed their determination to carry on with planned activities.
In :he short term, there is strong reason to believe that the selected training institutions will provide the
new training courses because they have contractually committed themselves to do so. If they do not, the
government can impose penalties including seizure of the training equipment. This commitment was
pait of the government's call for proposals whereby selected institutions were required to agree to
provide 3 course intakes in return for the materials, equipment and training.
It should be noted that Hungary has a strong tradition of academic excellence and their students fare well
in OECD and UNESCO surveys. The difficulty is not with acquiring knowledge, but adapting this
knowledge to the skills employers require. Still, the deeply embedded academic tradition provides
confidence that Hungarian officials will adopt modern teaching practices and continue with the direction
outlined by this project.
-8 -



6.2 Trantsition arrangement to regular operations:
No significant arrangements are required for the transition to regular operations. All of the key staff
presently working on the project will continue to do so. The only significant difference is that the advice
and guidance provided by Bank staff will no longer be available.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. As indicated in section 3 (quality at entry) the project was well designed in that the overall
objective is clear and the components and sub-components logically lead to the fulfillment of this
objective. Furthermore, the project built on the accomplishments of the Human Resources project. The
overall project objective is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy and consistent with the
objectives of the Hungarian Government. Key stakeholders (government, employers, unions) were
directly involved in project design and the entire project and implementation procedures were presented
to the Tripartite National Council for Vocational Training.
Some key points regarding readiness for implementation are as follows:
*  The Project Implementation Manual, including TORs for Technical Assistance Bids, procedures of
selection of participating institutions, performance monitoring indicators and disbursement schedules
were agreed at negotiations;
*  PCU team staffed and in place at the time of effectiveness; and
*  Component Team Leaders in place prior to the date of effectiveness.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Supervision requirements were fully met. The supervision team benefited from having
the Program Team Leader in Budapest and thus available (with the procurement specialist) on an
ongoing basis. The Task Team Leader was also located in Budapest for part of the project's duration.
Supervision missions documented in Aide Memoires took place as follows: October 1998, April 1999,
August 1999, December 1999, March 2000, November 2000 and May 2001. The Aide Memoires are
concise and provide the borrower with clear guidance as to what the outstanding issues are and what
corrective action is required.
It should be noted that several representatives from the Hungarian Govemment spoke highly about the
quality of supervision. They indicated that Bank personnel were excellent subject matter experts who
developed a working relationship based on trust and respect. The fact that Bank staff were involved in
the previous Human Resources Project and located in the field was put forth as part of the reason for the
good working relationship.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. In the partner comments section of this ICR, the borrower states: "The Hungarian Project
Management judges the cooperation with the World Bank to have been very proper and to have given a
long-term orientation to Hungarian developments in this area".
One area above and beyond the normal supervision of a project which should be noted here, is the
hosting of an international conference on career orientation. The World Bank, the European Vocational
Training Foundation, and the Hungarian Ministry of Education organized a Regional conference on
career orientation in April 2000. Hungarian officials speak highly of this exchange of information and
expressed pride in being involved.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
-9-



Satisfactory. It should be noted that the QAG Rapid Quality at Entry Assessment rated the following
aspects as "good":
* Executing Agency capacity to carry out mission;
*  Sustainability of institution building arrangements;
*   Project management's capacity in financial management, procurement and implementation; and
*  the borrowers contribution to project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. As indicated previously the outputs completed to date have been done in a satisfactory
manner and it appears that the govemment is on track to complete the remaining activities (i.e. the
purchase of remaining training related equipment and materials). Many of the delays in project activities
and the corresponding delays in disbursement can be attributed to the Govemment's implementation
performance. The decision to cancel the loan pRor to completion was the Government's decision.
7. 6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. For the most part the Ministry of Education and its PCU completed project activities in an
acceptable manner. However, as previously stated, some of the delays in implementation are partially
attributable to changes in PCU management and the delay in replacing a procurement expert.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Government officials displayed a high degree of commitment toward project objectives.
The various govemment institutions involved (Ministry of Education, Treasury, National Bank of
Hungary, National Vocational Training Board) generally communicated well and worked toward the
overall goals.
8. Lessons Learned
The following processes worked well in the delivery of this project and these processes can likely be
applied to other Bank projects.
Competitive Process.The Competitive Process to select the institutions to participate in the
development of new course programs and to select those teachers to be trained helped to ensure that
limited resources were allocated in an effective manner.
Establishment of Performance Targets for Training Institutions. The establishment of performance
targets in terms of the number of individuals who find jobs in the area in which they have been trained
and the use of follow-up surveys to determine if these targets are met, is instrumental in ensuring that
training programs are effective. While it is too early to determine if the performance targets for this
project will be met, the Ministry of Education is committed to the utilization of performance targets for
this project as well as for other training initiatives.
Program Audits. Program audits to determine the overall effectiveness of govemment operations are
useful tools to assist in the re-design of government programs. The Ministry of Education indicated their
satisfaction with the program audit process and indicated that they will use program audits to evaluate
other spending initiatives.
Student Evaluations. Evaluations completed by students on their perception of the quality of training
can lead to improvement in course content.
9. Partner Comments
(6) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 10 -



Review and closing report of the implementation of the World Bank
programme, "Modernisation of Youth Vocational Training"
Programme launch tasks
The basic task in launching the programme was to select by tender institutions to provide
vocational training. This established the conditions for development work. The invitation to tender
was published in daily newspapers on 12 and 13 March 1998. Applications were evaluated at two
levels in both components: evaluation committees were established at a county as well as national
level. The Ministry of Education concluded contracts with the winners of tenders and their
supporting institutions to clearly define the parties' obligations. Market-oriented vocational
trainingfor young people (component "A") started out with 116 training institutions, and
Vocational orientation in secondary education (component "B") with 133.
The foreign consultant companies providing expert services were selected by international tender.
The tender attracted applications from a great many institutions and consortia of institutions. An
evaluation committee composed of independent experts, following the rules of intemational
tenders, selected the two most appropriate consortia, and the contracts with the winners of the
tender were signed on 14 September 1998. The consortia started their work on 28 September.
In the component entitled Job Oriented Vocational Training for Young People (component "A"),
the tender was awarded to the Irish-USA-Canadian-Danish consortia let by FAS International
Consulting Ltd, Ireland Consortium members: Ohio State University, Aarhus Technical College, Ontario
Colleges Group. The other consortium, that assists Secondary vocational orientation component,
was established under the leadership of DHV Consultants B V, the Netherlands The other member of
the consortium: Association of Canadian Community Colleges.
The procurement agent was also selected in line with public procurement procedures. The best bid
was submitted by Inter-ed Kft, with whom a contract was signed on 2 July 1998. Under the
contract, funding comes from the project facility allocated from the vocational training portion of
the Labour Market Fund.
Continuous monitoring of the programme has been conducted by the project management ever
since 1998, under the monitoring plan accepted at that time. In order to ensure objectivity,
monitoring tasks for the project are performed by an external expert company, which was selected
by tender in the spring of 2000. Expanzi6 Humain Tanacsad6 Kft emerged as the winner of the
tender, signing the contract on 23 March 2000, and started its work after consultations with
relevant parties.
Accomplishment of development tasks
Human resource development
- 11 -



The resources development programme (study trips, further training within Hungary) has been
completed in both components. The loan-financed foreign study trips took place successfully
between October 1998 and April 2001; the two tables in the attachment provide a summary of the
study trips in components "A" and "B". Further training in Hungary is still under way (e.g.
preparation for meetings and further training courses related to the introduction of training
programmes and framework curricula, and their implementation using Hungarian resources).
To facilitate the start of labour market-oriented curriculum development, the leaders and staff of
institutions included in the programme for the component Job Oriented Vocational Training for
Young People were trained first; further training in Hungary started on 9 November 1998 and
continued unbroken until September 2000. The further training courses provided in the
component may be classified into four groups according to the composition of their participants.
Course participants, except for those who attended the programme managers' course, also went
on study trips abroad. The topics of study trips matched those of the domestic courses.
In the framework of manager training one manager from the institutions that were involved in the
programme participated in study trips to Ireland or to Denmark where they studied the issues
related to the contents and methodology of the relationship between vocational training and the
labour market, and were able to gather experience on the operation of the management system
that ensures flexible adaptation to the labour market. This training was also provided to members
of social partners, the National Board for Vocational Training and the national Project Evaluation
Committee as well.
The objective of trainingfor curriculum developers was to learn about the DACUM/SCID
Systematic Curriculum and Instructional Development curriculum-development and job-audit method, by
which the curriculum for a given vocational qualification (vocational output) may be continuously
adjusted to the actual needs of the labour market. One teacher from each institution involved in
the programme attended training in Hungary and learned the methodology and procedure that was
new for them under the direction of the teachers from Ohio State University who developed the
methodology. The training resulted in the basic documents for the curricula to be developed, i.e.
the DACUM tables The systematic registration of the tasks required for performing a job.. As the closing
stage of this training, curriculum developers participated in study trips to North America - the
U.S. and Canada - in 8 groups following training in Hungary, and studied the relationship between
the labour market and the vocational training that builds on modular curricula based on
competencies developed using the methodology described during the training.
The general objective of instructor training was to provide a comprehensive picture to
participants on the preparation, teaching and official recognition of competency-based training in a
standard environment in order to be able to start teaching the new Hungarian curriculum
developed in the programme. The institutions delegated as many persons to the training as the
number of vocational qualifications they intended to implement. The two-week course was for
those teachers who were to take a key role in teaching the given vocational qualification.
Participants were provided with structured training in line with their vocational group, followed by
a one-week study trip to Europe (Ireland, Denmark or Germany).
- 12 -



The objective of the training for programme managers was to explain and analyse the new
modular vocational curricula and to study the tasks that programme managers and teachers of the
institutions will have pursuant to the introduction of such curricula.
In addition to the above there was one special study trip in the summer of 2000 for the members
of the Career and Employment Consulting Team where the team studied career-building
programmes and the methods of applying the programmes.
Thefirst monitoring audit included the audit of the effects of human resources development.
Expanzi6 Humain Tanacsad6 Kft also looked at how the teachers and school managers evaluated
the usefulness of study trips they had participated in. In response to the question of what they
consider to be the most important effect of the World Bank programme, institution managers
indicated the positive effects of human resources development in the first place (91%). The
extension of professional contacts (87%) was mentioned second, followed by the possibility of
having an outlook on the international situation, and the evaluation of the increase in equipment
(82%) came only after this. 9 % more of the respondents indicated human resource development
as the strongest effect than those who have indicated the improvement in tangible equipment that
has taken place or is expected to take place. The study trip linked to the institution managers'
course appears to have been the most successful, while the DACUM/SCID training provided the
greatest volume of new information.
A special task for the Secondary Vocational Orientation component was to improve staffing and
develop human resources in education. An indispensable condition for the programme is for
school managers and teachers participating in the introduction of the new vocational training
model to have adequate knowledge for applying the new curricula and the teaching aids, and to be
sufficiently committed to implementing the programme. In line with this objective, further training
for teachers, the organisation of training courses and workshops that help to transfer experience
were given special emphasis in the components.
The objective of further training for teachers was primarily to change the approach regardless of
whether the courses were held abroad or in Hungary. This is why the development of skills
required for achieving a broadening of approach was given great emphasis in the course of further
training. Key qualifications such as: development of personality, development of communication
skills, career orientation, development of school management, importance of team work and the
responsibility of individual work were given special importance in the progranmmes for further
training as well as developing language skill and learning about the most up-to-date teaching aids
and their application.
A total of 1004 teachers and school managers attended domestic further training courses, in three
phases. Foreign tours involved school employees in three areas: school managers, general subject
teachers and vocational orientation subject teachers. In component "B", foreign training programs
were related to domestic further training. Study trips for media technology and career orientation,
which took place in November 1998 and spring 2000, involved teachers of both general and
career-orientation subjects.
- 13-



The one-week school management programmes were organised in November 1998 for 9 groups
in the Netherlands. The team, composed mainly of school directors, studied the following areas:
processes of profile extension and integration, the subsidy system for education, the role and
functions of regional education centres, the application of information and communication
technology in education and administration, strategic management, financial management,
marketing activities and quality assurance. Another 7 further training courses in management were
conducted in Britain on similar topics in the spring of 2000.
The study trips for teachers of general knowledge subjects were organised along the fields that
were considered to the special fields of the programme. The fields studied were communication,
mathematics, information technology, natural sciences, social studies, foreign languages (English,
German, French) and education. The programmes lasted for one-week except for the four-week
programme for language teachers. The programmes were conducted in the Netherlands and
Denmark, and linguistic further training took place in a native speaker environment, in Germany,
Canada and France.
Similarly to the study trips for teachers of general knowledge subjects, participants in study trips
organisedfor teachers of subjects of vocational orientation had the opportunity to get familiar
with the education and training system of the country visited (the Netherlands, Denmark, Great
Britain). Members of 13 vocational groups had the opportunity to study the syllabus, text books
anud teaching tools corresponding to their respective vocational group, the experience and practice
of the given country in vocational training, and the application of the most recent technical aids.
Teachers of vocational subjects who have successfully completed a linguistic further training
course in Hungary were able to participate in language training abroad. This latter training aimed
not only at developing English, German or French language skills in a native speaker environment;
teachers were also shown examples for the methods they can use to teach foreign languages to
their own students in their respective vocational fields.
Schools managers and teachers involved in component "B" who were questioned for the
monitoring audit, as mentioned in its first summary report, rated as the most important effects of
the World Bank programme improvements to school equipment and the development of human
resources. Within the latter, they gave nearly identical grades to further training conducted in
H ungary and abroad. Vocational subject teachers' study trips were considered to have been the
most successful. Vocational programmes were evaluated twice, first right after the trip, and then
half a year or one year after the trip. The first rank was awarded to the course on personality
development and self-knowledge. The responses to questions on entry to school also show,
indirectly, that PR and school strategic planning skills learned on the school management training
courses had found good use. Overall, it may said that while directors consider the positive effect
of project on human resources development and the supply of equipment to be equal (nearly 85
%/a), teachers rank human resources development highest.
Curriculum development, syllabus correction
Component "A". In the component entitled Job Oriented Vocational Training for Young
- 14 -



People curriculum development took place in the 14 development teams in which the teachers of
the vocational training institutions involved in the programme worked under the leadership of
elected team leaders. (The "job" of team leaders was also described using the DACUM method.)
The institutions agreed to develop (or renew) the curriculum for 105 vocational qualifications and
introduce the teaching of this curriculum in the framework of the programme. Training will be
launched at altogether 164 locations This number reduced by one because an institution has withdrawn. by
the end of the programme. The table set out in attachment No. 3 summarises the number of
curricula prepared in each development team and the location where they will be implemented.
The DACUM tables were prepared in course of training, and were subsequently checked and
confirmed. The related standard task analyses were then performed, and used by institution
managements to compile training plans for all vocational qualifications in respect of each training
location. In addition, the competency profiles, the module maps and the descriptions of the
common modules for vocational groups have been completed (there are 19 modules that are
common at component level).
The development teams identified their common vocational modules and 2284 module
descriptions were completed. These module descriptions were proofed in terms of methodology
by the members of the component's Advisory Board, then the module descriptions were
corrected. Based on the 2284 module descriptions, 1296 learning guides were completed. The
package of curricula DACUM table, competence profile, training plan, module map, module descriptions,
learning guide. is available at the Department in both hardcopy and electronic format. This
completed the stage of curriculum development supported by central funds, but curriculum
development itself has not been closed: the institutions participating in the programme are
continuing the work at their own initiative, and will even review the finished curricula after testing
and will revise them if necessary based on experience. The folders for teachers to collect and
manage the teaching documentation (updates, upgrades, corrections, solutions for individual
tasks, lectures delivered by students, etc.), and for students to do the same with learning
documents for each vocational qualification (output) were completed and distributed in December
in quantities appropriate the headcount of the institution concerned.
The development of curricula was assisted by foreign experts who spent some 190 man-months in
Hungary working on the project. The expert services contract with the consortium led by FAS
International Ltd, Ireland, expired in April 2001. The activities were evaluated in a work meeting
of the parties concerned on 25-26 April 2001. The leadership of the component and of project was
of the opinion that the service has resulted in new knowledge and methods being introduced into
curriculum development and training organisation. These are now spreading throughout the
Hungarian schooling system, and will contribute to the improvement of young people's position
on the labour market.
Respondents questioned in the monitoring audit consider the SCID curriculum development
method, and the part of it based on a special job audit, i.e. the DACUM method, to be good. The
application of DACUM has become general, they are familiar with and appreciate the other
components of the complex method, but many say it is difficult to apply and several people talked
about the necessity of adaptation. The audit reflects the situation in December 2000, but feedback
- 15 -



from those questioned provides a good indication of the achievements and problems of
(levelopment. By the time of the audit, 38% of institutions were completely finished and 54%
were partly finished with curriculum development, and about half of this 54% started education in
September 2000 in a situation when its curriculum development was about 80% completed. By
the time of the first audit, only 15.1% of the institutions showed a completeness rate of 10-50%.
In the first stage of monitoring the implementation of new training programmes in 2000/2001
took place in about one-third (34%) of institutions. There may be several reasons why training in
accordance with the programmes developed in component "A" is to be launched at a later date (as
of December 2000): the curriculum has not been completed (47.5%), the equipment was lacking
(40.6%), the teachers have not yet received preparation, the entry to school of students was not
appropriate, the uniform requirements system has not been completed, or the given training
programme is not included in OKJ. The second report (June 2001) shows that 10% more have
started up the training in the last six months.
The modemisation of the OKJ and the co-ordination of curriculum development implemented in
the framework of the programme is rather complex, but is very important for schools. In 1999 the
NSZI investigated the relationship between the vocational qualifications included in the OKJ then
valid and the DACUM tables prepared and evaluated in the framework of the World Bank
programme together with expert committees and found that it will be essential to harmonise the
requirements included in DACUM with the vocational and examination requirements. The
Ministry of Education is pursuing further consultations to this end.
Component "B". The Secondary Vocational Orientation component for secondary vocational
schools is divided into 13 vocational groups. The development concept for the syllabuses prepared
in the previous World Bank programme set out the importance of continuous updating, and the
teachers who participated in the development worked in line with this. Syllabus correction was
also identified as an objective for the new programme. Simultaneously with the promulgation of
the decree on the issue, introduction and application of framework syllabuses, work started on
framework syllabuses and syllabus correction. This involves of experts selected by tender and
makes use of the accomplishments of earlier vocational orientation activity.
According to the monitoring audit, the introduction of teaching in line with the new vocational
;'raining model entailed problems in half of the schools during the first year, 1998, but these have
llow been resolved. The lack of technical equipment and the procurement of curricula caused
dlifficulties. Half of those questioned cited the need for preparation of homeroom teachers or other
career-orientation experts and the opportunity for regular consultations. Over three-quarters of
school managers are satisfied with the syllabuses adopted but over half of the institutions find that
the coverage of subject programmes by text books is insufficient. According to most respondents,
:he introduction of framework syllabuses has not caused serious problems. Despite the minor
initial difficulties entry to school increased in component "B". All institutions have performed
.heir contractual obligations, and one-third of the institutions have even done more, i.e. launched
rwo or three classes in each vocational group instead of one. In the opinion of school directors
and teachers the competitive advantage of institutions increased a result ofparticipating in the
project.
- 16-



The activities of the career and employment consulting team
The team was established in the framework of component "A" to promote the employment of
students trained in the framework of the programme. Its task is to research and adapt educational
literature and methodology in Hungary and abroad, to develop professional methodology
materials on its own, and to organise and conduct the training courses and lectures that prepare
for the application of these. In early July 2000, during its study trip to Canada, the team studied
the Real Game career building programme and the Blue Print framework programme that contains
the competencies required for gaining employment and career planning. Following this, Hungary
was given the opportunity to test the programmes in three groups of two schools (with the
participation of altogether 35 undergraduates). A report covering the multi-level audit of the
five-week experiment was produced together with foreign experts. It describes feedback from
students, teachers, school leaders and families, from which it emerges that the experiment has
proved the demand for preparation of this kind, since families - due to the lack of experience - are
not able to provide effective assistance to their children. The members of the team put together a
manual entitled "Career building for teachers", which the feedback shows to have filled a gap.
Lectures were held in several cities and institutions throughout the country, and team members
participated in career selection, management and teacher events, describing the new directions and
possibilities for promoting career advice and employment. They also published a guidebook for
career building.
Equipment purchases
Equipment purchases started in December 1998 and have reached their most intense stage in the
programme's current phase of development. IDEX put together the equipment purchase schedule
in 1998, in line with the requirements set out in the Project Implementation Manual, but it
required modification in 1999 due to the rescheduling of the use of state-provided project funds.
In the Oriented Vocational Training for Young People component, the equipment lists were
completed in parallel with curriculum development and formed the basis for starting up work on
actual preparation for, and administration of purchases. The equipment lists checked and approved
by the leaders of the curriculum development teams were received by the middle of October 1999.
The lists included vocation-specific equipment that is regarded as necessary for teaching the
relevant curriculum but is lacking in the particular school. All of the equipment lists had to be
prepared at about the same time, primarily so as to enable the preparation of a sufficiently
accurate estimate of the cost of purchases for the whole project. The available budget -
interpreted as a basis for planning - allowed and allows for providing equipment to each
vocational unit of value around HUF 16 million net. Processing the data from the equipment lists,
preparation of the invitation to tender or other ways of purchasing, and the creation of the
necessary appropriate computer database are the tasks of IDEX INTER-ED Kft. The processing
was completed by the middle of December 1999. The equipment purchase expert of the World
Bank delegated by FAS participated in this exercise.
In the Job Oriented Vocational Training for Young People component, the first international
tender (AT 01) was announced in December 1999, and covered three packages of equipment.
- 17-



Bids were requested for one high-performance digital photocopier and video projector and in
addition to the computer technology equipment approved by the vocational groups, office
equipment for each institution. The bids were evaluated in March 2000 and, with the exception of
office equipment (for which the tender evaluation committee did not find the bids to be
appropriate) the contracts have all been concluded and the equipment has been delivered. The
value of equipment purchased in the framework of the tender - excluding customs duty and VAT
- was HUF 1,176,390,339. All institutions received equipment through this tender, although in
different amounts. The equipment requirements of certain vocational groups (finance, accounting,
business, IT and office equipment) were met in full, and the others to varied extents.
The documentation for the second international tender (AT 02) was prepared in December 2000,
and covered the previously-postponed office equipment and the laboratory equipment for the
environmental protection and the quality assurance teams. This tender was evaluated and
contracts were concluded in May 2001. Deliveries will be completed by September 2001. The net
value of equipment purchase in the framework of this tender is HUF 144,658,612. In addition, the
preparations for equipment purchases for the health care and catering vocational groups started in
2000, and this work will continue for the equipment requirements of the remaining vocational
groups. Bids for purchases (AN 03, Al 01 and AD 01) providing all the equipment required by the
above two vocational groups were evaluated, and the contracts concluded, in April 2001. The
deliveries will be completed in the first week of July. The total net value these three purchases is
HUF 120,740,604.-
In May 2001 the bids for the tender on the equipment for the light industry vocational group (AT
04) were opened but the evaluation did not take place. The specification of equipment for the
machine industry (CNC) vocational group has been completed and the tender was prepared. The
degree of preparation for purchasing the remaining equipment groups differs by equipment group
and is lower than the ones described above.
The schools in the Secondary Vocational Orientation component have already received the
equipment required for teaching general knowledge subjects at a value of around HUF 7 million in
the academic year 1999/2000. The purchases consisted mostly of IT and multimedia equipment.
All 133 schools received equipment that enables them to use computer software for education
and further training purposes, to make independent multimedia demonstrations, to develop their
own education materials, video films, tutorial films, to support PR activities in the school, and to
assist students in their studies.
According to the monitoring audit, 59.3% of schools in the Secondary Vocational Orientation
component are able to fully utilise the uniform package received for teaching general knowledge
subjects, and 40.7% to partially utilise it. In addition to the package, via the options offered,
equipment for general knowledge subjects was provided in 92.3% of schools, and for career
orientation in 90.4% of schools, but schools also indicated that they would like to have even more
equipment. In their opinion, the supply of equipment required for subjects is over 80% on
average. It is for learning centres that schools' equipment expectations are highest, because these
involve a set of equipment that will improve teaching facilities in both general knowledge and
vocational orientation subjects. Deliveries of learning centre equipment to schools started in June
- 18 -



2001.
The component assessed the level of supply of equipment that exists in schools as a result of
equipment development (in 60% of the institutions) in the course of May and June 2000. The
experts selected by application (2-3 persons for each vocation group) put together the teaching
equipment lists for vocational groups with regard to the findings and following the preparation of
the vocational framework syllabuses. An important criterion in the course of the experts' work
was preference for equipment that supports the use of ICT, promotes the application of new
teaching methods and ensures the interactive participation of students. The lists were then used by
the schools to put together priority-ranked equipment requirements for each vocational group they
participated in. In 2001/2002, equipment purchases are planned for the following vocational
groups within the component: agriculture-food (tenders BT 04 and BT 05),
electronics-information technology, engineering-transport (BT 03 and 06), environmental
protection-human resources-chemistry industry vocational groups (BIS 01), and international
purchases aimed at procuring audio-visual (BIS 02) and multimedia equipment (BID 01) that
concern all vocational groups.
The impact of the project as reflected by monitoring
The extemal company conducts its project monitoring in four phases. The first audit was done on
the full sample (250 institutions), in two steps. The first, in October 2000, involved a 10% random
sample (the objective of which was to test measuring tools, and resulted in a correction and a
quick report) and the second, in November and December 2000, the remaining 90% of the
programme's schools. This phase is to be followed by providing schools with the methodology for
testing self-knowledge and tracking students. Monitoring activities will then be concluded by a
closing audit.
In addition to the findings already quoted for development results, it may be said in summary that
the first audit produced the feedback that the project had a positive effect in both components.
Particularly highlighted was human resource development. The fact that the contacts of
institutions were expanded, the relationship with players in the labour market became closer and
the institutions of both components pay closer attention to the expectations of the labour market
than before all indicate the positive effect of the project. Thanks to the project professional
communication and co-operation developed between institutions in the course of development.
The support for the project is good from all parties concemed (institution managers, school
directors, teachers, chambers, parents and employers) in both components. It should be
considered an achievement that steering boards were established in the institutions and started to
operate in 92,1 % of institutions. The situation is the same for consortia. 61% of institutions are
members of consortia, which have six members on average, and half of which come from the
institutions in component "A".
PR activity
Activity goes on at a variety of levels to publicise, propagate and popularise the programme.
Information to institutions and schools participating in the project is provided regularly via
- 19 -



meetings, the Internet, and publications. The communiques and information of the project may be
read on the home pages of NSZI and POSZFI (component "A"). The --National Council for
Vocational Training is also informed on project progress continuously. Each component published
a book containing professional information (component "A" - "Programkorkep" and component
"B" "Programtuik6r"). In 2001, two manuals have been published to present the DACUM method
and to promote the introduction of career building. Under the auspices of project co-ordination a
series of information notebooks publish the events and achievements of the project. To date, 3
books have been published. The World Bank asked the Ministry of Education to organise an
international conference on the topic of career orientation and career building. The conference
talks were later published in a book which had a very positive reception.
Also significant in PR terms has been the activity of the steering boards, comprising
representatives of the social partners, that were established and operated on a mandatory basis in
all institutions of component "A"; the main task of each board is to contribute to raising the
awareness and popularity of the programnme.
Auditing
The financial audit of the programme is continuous and a report is produced each quarter on the
findings of the audit. The programme is audited by an external company, KPMG Kft, which was
selected by tender. Its already-completed report on year-2000 financial activities shows a
favourable picture.
Co-operation with the World Bank
Good co-operation with the consultants of the World Bank was established even in the
preparatory phase of the project, at the conceptual level, based on the successful preceding
programme. The ambitious plan was envisaged as the extension of the mechanism of the preceding
W'orld Bank project in the 1998-2000 period ("B" component), and justified by the more dynamic
development of the Hungarian economy and labour market. The PIM that was developed mutually
with the World Bank consultants and then accepted was a useful help in the organisation of the
work. The changes made subsequently were partly to do with organisational and financial issues
and did not imply tensions in the co-operation between the World Bank consultants and the
Project Management. The Hungarian management of the project judged the occasional
programme evaluations to be useful, particularly for Hungarian vocational training policy. It also
appreciated the fact that the programme significantly opened the communication channels that
were manifested in the study trips made abroad by the teachers and directors participating in the
programme and in the attendance in national and international conferences.
The introduction of auditing was a great boost to programme quality, and included programme
monitoring that was initiated by the Hungarian party, in a form reconciled in advance with the
World Bank consultants. The institution of the professional monitoring, that is planned to follow
with attention the implementation of the programme and its further utilisation on a longer tern in
June 2002 in the first phase and then up to the end of 2005, is originally new in Hungary, but at
the same time it strives to utilise the international references given to us by the World Bank.
A complementary element of the programme was the conference organised jointly with the World
- 20 -



Bank and the European Vocational Training Fund in April of 2000. It analysed at a regional level
the subject of the career orientation as one of the strategic tasks of the Hungarian vocational
training development. Leading consultants from the countries with the world's most advanced
vocational orientation systems took active part in the conference.
In summary: The Hungarian Project Management judges the co-operation with the World Bank to
have been very proper and to have given a long-term orientation to Hungarian developments in
this area .
Tasks related to the implementation of the programme and expected results
1.    Based on the equipment lists compiled in the course of curriculum development and
syllabus correction the purchasing of equipment necessary for training and education should be
continued and completed as soon as possible.
2.    The teachers working in component "A" schools have acquired a training/education
method (modular structure, competency-based, student-oriented) that permits students to learn
the curriculum more successfully than before, thus reducing dropping-out. Teachers of component
"B" learned about new teaching methods and equipment in further training provided in Hungary
and during study trips, which contributes to increasing the standard of education.
3.    Teachers and instructors have to be prepared for applying the new training programmes,
framework syllabuses and teaching aids. The feedback from the monitoring audit indicates that
teachers need preparation programmes and consultation, with special regard to the
methodological aspects of applying the new means, the educational issues related to the
application of framework syllabuses, and the efficient application of the methods and means for
career building consultancy and career orientation. There is also a need for meetings at which
teachers who have attended further training courses can pass on their experiences to their
colleagues.
4.    In the Job Oriented Vocational Training for Young People component, efforts should be
continued at promoting the complete introduction of new training programmes as soon as
possible (and this should be checked in the course of monitoring). When the
labour-market-oriented vocational education courses start in the schools involved in the
programme, they will provide some 6000 young people with skills that are most useful in the job
market, enabling these young people to find jobs and work more easily than hitherto. The schools
in the Secondary Vocational Orientation component have already performed what they undertook
in terms of introducing the new vocational training model and are prepared for the introduction of
framework syllabuses. They need to be given continued support so that they in turn will continue
to support the programme, thus ensuring that at least 6700 students each year will graduate with a
higher level of general education and broad-based vocational orientation, and go on to labour
market-oriented training or to higher education.
5.    Teachers in the schools have became familiar with a methodfor curriculum development
which allows for continuous modernisation of the curriculum and may be adjusted to the needs of
the companies and enterprises working in the region, thus strengthening the relationship of the
school to the economy. As a result of curriculum development, the contents of about 100
vocational qualifications will be reformed. There are already 17 schools participating in the
component on a follow-on basis, and applications for permission have already been received from
- 21 -



companies asking for schools that have a training relationship with them to develop job
analysis-based training material and hold courses for company employees (Monor, Dombovar).
6.     The schools bear an enhanced responsibility for the future of their graduates, and they
have to regularly monitor and assist students' job-seeking efforts. They need methodological
assistance for this task. The institutions may receive a methodology package for keeping track of
students this year, but application use of this guide will require additional consultation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
A. Post Secondary Training
Al Identification and selection of    Completed                             164 sites have been selected on a
approximately 170 sites in private, public, and                             competitive basis while taking into account
non-govemmental institutions, on a                                          local and national labor market demand.
competitive basis and based on local and
national labor market demand,
Al Identification and selection of    Completed.                            The curricula development is completed but
approximately 170 sites which will help to                                 the project was cancelled before all the new
develop, and implement, new specialized                                     course programs could be implemented.
training curricula to support the emerging
market economy.
A2 Provision of modemized modular     Underway                              While the projed was cancelled prior to the
specialized training to approximately 4,250                                 realization of this output, Hungarian officials
young adults a year, which is an approximate                                are confident that more than 4,250
doubling of the number of graduates from                                    young adults will graduate from modemized
existing Regional Labor Development                                         modular specialized training each year
Centers.                                                                    commencing in 2002.
Underway                             It is too early to measure job placement rates
A3 Job Placement rates, or transfer to                                      but the 75% placement rate targets are
higher education, for graduates from                                       included in the agreements with the training
specialized training programs at                                            institutions. Hungarian officials are confident
approximately 75% within 6 months after                                     in reaching this target particularly if those
completion of programs.                                                     who have withdrawn from the labor market
(eg. child birth) are excluded.
B. Secondary Level Training
B1 Identification of approximately 135  Completed                           133 schools have either implemented or are
secondary vocational schools which are                                      in the process of implementing new core
interested and willing to implement the new                                 curricula.
Core Curricula in grades 9-12,
Underway
B2 A 25% increase in the enrollment of                                      Given that the project was cancelled prior to
secondary school students in the new                                        completion it is too early to measure an
programs by the end of the project.                                         enrollment increase.
B3 A reduction in the unemployment rate of Underway                         This indicator was and continues to be
post-compulsor/post-secondary school young                                  measurable only after project closure (four
adults by 20% when students complete the                                    year academic programs are longer than the
new programs.                                                              life of the project). The Ministry has,
however, the administrative systems in place
to monitor this outcome as well as
benchmark data.
Output Indicators:
N.A.                                 N.A.                                   N.A.
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.PotSecondary, Job-Oriented Training             24.92           10.20409
BE. Secondary Vocational Orientation                 31.82           6.09194
Total Baseline Cost                                  56.74          16.29
Physical Contingencies                               0.68
Price Contingencies                                 2.70
Total Project Costs             60.12          16.29
Total Financing Required             60.12           16.29
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00     |    0.00    |    0.00          0.00    | 0.00       l
(0.00)    1 (0.00)   1 (0.00)   1 (0.00)   1(0.00) 1
2. Goods                    33.55          0.00    | 13.28    |       0.00    | 46.83 l
(21.80)      (0.00)        (8.64)        (0.00)       (30.44)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          5.89         0.00         5.89
Technical Assistance         (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.89)        (0.00)       (5.89)
including Training
4. Local Staff Development   0.00          0.00          0.00         7.40         7.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     33.55          0.00         19.17         7.40        60.12
(21.80)       (0.00)       (14.53)       (0.00)       (36.33)
Project Costs by Procuremt Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equival(nt)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         4.00          0.00        0.00
Technical Assistance         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
12. Goods               |     8.57    |    0.00    | 0.26             0.00    | 8.83       l
{                X  ~~~~~~~(6.80)      (0.00)     (0.20)      (0.00)       (7.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         4.15          0.00         4.15    l
Technical Assistance    | (0.00)    | (0.00)   | (4.15)   | (0.00)   |(4.15) |
including Training      l_l_l                            _       l_l_l
4. Local Staff Development   0.00          0.00         0.00          3.30         3.30
I______________________ I (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      8.57         0.00          4.41         3.30         16.28
_______________________ 0 (6.80)          (0.00)       (4.35)       (0.00)       (11.15)
- 24 -



" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component in US$ million equivalent)
A. Post Secondary,        15.55      10.64                 6.46       3.441.5   35.2
Job-riented Training
B. Secondary Vocational   20.81      13.12                 4.70       1.39               22.6   10.6
Orientation
TOTAL                     36.36      23.76                11.16       5.13               30.7   21.6
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/97                       3   Sr. Employment and Training
Specialist, Principal Education
Economist, Procurement
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/97                       3   Sr. Employment and
Training Specialist,
Principal Education
Economist, Procurement
Specialist
Supervision
04/98                        2   Sr. Employment and                 S             S
Training Specialist,
Operations Officer
07/98                        1  Sr. Employment and Training
Specialist
10/98                       4   Sr. Employment and Training        HS            S
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Principal Operations
Specialist, Human Resources
Operations Officer
04/99                        3   Sr. Employment and Training        S            HS
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Principal Operations
Specialist
03/00                                                               S            HS
11/00                       3   Sr. Employment and Training         S             S
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Principal Operations
Specialist
ICR
07/01                       2    Mission Leader,
Procurement and
Implementation Specialist
(b) Staff:
- 27 -



Stage of Project Cycle    ef est Estimate
_____:__ :_________X                  No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   7.0                          27.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                        5.6                          16.3
Supervision                                34.62                        139.64
ICR                                          5.5                          40.0
Total                                      52.72                        223.44
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZK Macropolicies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
I Sector Policies                       * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
M Financial                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
F Gender                         OH OSU*M ON ONA
5 Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FS Private sector development           0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
DOther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  0 U  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z  Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z  G overnmentimplementation performance             O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
M implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  OU  O HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS OU 0 HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoires
Back-to-Office Reports
Staff Appraisal Report
Memorandum to RVP
- 31 -



-32 -



