RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-77
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
January 14, 1970



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMME.NDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMEINT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $5.25 million
to the Republic of Malawi.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of Malawi has requested that the International
Development Association (IDA) and the African Development Bank (A.DB)
finance the foreign exchange requirements of a project comprising the
1970-72 development program of the Electricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (ESCOM). The proposed project first came to the attention of the
Association in June 1966, when the Government of Malawi asked for advice
in drafting terms of reference for consultants to be engaged to prepare a
feasibility study. The study examined several possibilities for hydro-
electric development and a diesel project. The Tedzani hydroelectric
project was found to be the most economic solution. In February, 1968,
the Government requested financial assistance for its construction. An
appraisal mission went to Malawi in May, 1968, but further consideration
of the project awaited an improvement in the overall financial and
economic situation. An economic mission to Malawi in Ju]y, 1969, found
that the position had improved sufficiently to justify renewed consideration
of lending to Malawi and a reappraisal mission, which was accompanied by
representatives of ADB, went to Malawi in August 1969 to update the
earlier appraisal of ESCOM's development program and provide a basis
for parallel financing with the ADB.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in December, 1969.
The Borrower was represented by the Honorable Aleke K. Banda, Minister
of Finance; Mr. C.W. Collins, Acting Secretary to the Treasury: Mr. H.W.
Ord, Chief Economist; Mr. J.N.T. Mpambachulu, Ministry of Finance;
Messrs. C. Barrow, D. Dalton and R. Stamp who are respectively Chairmani
General Manager and Secretary of ESCOM. Mr. H. Khouadja, Assistant
Director of Operations in the African Development Bank, attended the
negotiations as observer and understandings were reached with ADB in
matters of common interest in project administration.
4.        Malawi has obtained five IDA credits totalling $27.5 million.
There have been no Banl loans. The following is a summary statement of
IDA credits as at December 31, 1969.



-2-
Amount (US$ million)
Credit No.    Year         Purpose               IDA      Undisbursed
S-2 >AI       1967    Highway Engineering      0O5              -
102-MAI       1967    Education                 6.3            5.6
112-MAI       1968    Highways                 11.5            5.5
113-MAI       1968    Agriculture (Lilongwe)    6.o           5.5
ll-MAI        1968    Agriculture
(Shire Valley)            3.7           3.6
Total                            28.0
of wzhich has been refinanced  0.5
Total now outstanding                         - _
Total undisbursed                           20.2
The undisbursed amounts are high for various reasons. Disbursement of
the education credit has been slow because of delays in the selection
and appointment of consultants by Government and subsequent changes
in the sites of certain schools. Construction is now under way and
the rate of disbursement should improve accordingly. Physical progress
on the Agricultural Development Projects in Lilongwe and the Shire
Valley is satisfactory; the slow rate of disbursements resulted from
difficulties encountered by Malawi in furnishing the full information
required for disbursement purposes.
5.        There have been no IFC investments in Malawi.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6,        Borrower:                 The Republic of Malawi.
Beneficiary:              The Electricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (ESCOM).



3 -
Amount:                   US $ 5 25 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:                  To help finance the 1970-72 development
program of ESCOM comprising the construc-
tion of a 16 MW hydroelectric power
station at Tedzani Falls on the Shire
river and the addition of a 3 NW
diesel unit at Lilongwe.
Amortization:             In 50 years including a 10-year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments of 1½ of 1 percent from May 15,
1980 thrcugh November 15, 1989, and
of l-z percent from Nay 15, 1990
through Novemaber 15, 2019.
Service Charge:           3A of 1 percent.
Relending,Terms:          Malawi Government will relend the
proceeds of the credit to ESCOM at
7 percent interest with capitalization
of interest for the first 3 years
and amortization in twenty-nine years
including four years of grace.
Associated Financing:     To help finance the related transmission
lines and an extension of the transmis-
sion system to the new Capital at
Lilongwe the African Development Bank
(ADB) has completed negotiations for a
loan to the Republic of Malawi of
$3 million at 7 percent for 20 years
including 5 years of grace with
interest capitalized for the first 2
years. The-proceeds of the ADB loan
would be re-lent by Government to
ESCOM on the same terms.
PART III - THE PROJECT
A report on the proposed project entitled "Appraisal of the
development program of the Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi" (PU-24a
January 9, 1970) is attached.
8.        The proposed project, to which both the proposed IDA credit and
ADB loan are related, constitutes ESCOM's development program for the
three year period 1970 through 1972. The main features of the program are:-
(a) the installation of a 3 M14 diesel unit at Lilongwe
which is required by the end of 1071 to avoid a
power shortage in 1972 prior to the cormissioning
of the Tedzani hydroelectric station;



(b) the construction of the first stage (16MW) of a
hydroelectric station at Tedzani Falls on the Shire
river;
(c) the training of ESCOM personnel;
(d) construction of 66 kv transmission lines--4.5 miles
from Tedzani Falls to Nkula Falls, 28 miles from Tedzani
Falls to Blantyre, and 165 miles from Nkula Falls to
Lilongwe;
(e) extensions and improvements to mains and substations; and
(f) other items such as service line materials, meters, special
transport equipment, office machines, required for general
development.
9.        The total cost of the project is estimated to be $12.4 million
of which the foreign exchange costs would be $8.25 million. The proposed
IDA credit of $5.25 million would cover the foreign exchange cost of items
(a) through (c) listed in paragraph 8 above and the proposed ADB loan of
$3.0 million would finance the foreign exchange cost of items (d) through (f).
10.       The goods and services required for the portion of the project
financed by IDA would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding following the usual IDA procurement procedures. ADB would apply its
procurement procedures to the portion of the project financed by it. ADB
procurement is on the-basis of world-wide competitive bidding but presently
excludes South Africa, Rhodesia, Angola and Mozambique.
ll.       For the design and supervision of the Tedzani Falls power station
and associated transmission and substation works, ESCOM4 has engaged as
consultants two engineering firms, iMessrs. Kennedy & Donkin (Africa) of
Uganda for the electrical and mechanical works, and Messrs. Watermeyer,
Legge, Piesold and Uhlman of United Kingdom for the civil works.  These
firms designed and supervised the-construction of the recently completed
Nkula Falls hydroelectric project, and were jointly responsible for the
Tedzani fea0foility report,
12.       The proposed project would be executed by ESCOM which is a
Corporation established by the Electricity Act (Cap 73.Cl)-for the genera-
tion and supply of electricity. ESCOM took over the staff, assets and
liabilities of its predecessor, the Nyasaland Electricity Supply Commission.
ESCOi'Vs Board consists of a part-time chairman and five part-time members,
all appointed by the Minister responsible for ESCOM (presently the Minister
of Trade and Industry). In this situation ESCOM has less formal independence
of Government than many public utility undertakings financed by the Bank
Group. The Association has accepted the Government's view that a substantial
modification in the legislation applying to ESCOM would be premature at this
stage of ESCON's development and unnecessary in view of the excellent
relations that have obtained between Government and ESCOM.   The Government
has, moreover, given the Association an assurance that the Government



would exercise its powers under the Act or any other legislation relating
to the operation of ESCOM only to the extent necessary to ensure the con-
tinued operation and development of ESCOM on sound commercial lines.
13.       ESCOM is well managed by competent and experienced officers.
However, all the key posts are occupied by expatriates. In order-to assist
Malawians in taking on higher responsibilities in the Corporation, finance
for a training program for ESCOM staff has been included in the proposed
credit.
14.       In order that l4alawi can make-the best use of the large water
resources of Lake Malawi and its outlet, the Shire river, it is
important that Government should take early action to allocate these
waters between power generation and other uses such as irrigation and
water supply. Accordingly, the draft Development Credit Agreement
provides for a study of Malawi's water resources and their appropriate uses
to be made within three years and contains an assurance that, prior to
the completion of the study, the water requirements of the project would
be met.
15.       The demand for power in Malawi has shown a steady increase,
although total installed capacity, 49 MW in 1969 is still quite small.
Prior to independence in 1965, sales of electricity increased at an
average rate of about llG5 percent per annum in the six years 1959
through 1964. An influx of foreign capital following independence was
reflected in an increase in power sales to 25 percent per annum from 1965
through 1967 and about 21 percent in 1968. ESCOM and consultants estimate
that the demand for power will increase on the average by 10 percent a
year for the five-year period 1970 tlhrough 1974, based on a conservative
view of development projects urder construction or being planned.  To
provide for additional generating capacity required to meet such an
increase in demand, ESCOM obtained detailed studies of (a) importation
of power from neighboring countries, (b) thermal generation by steam,
gas turbines and diesel, and (c) six hydroelectric schemes. The outcome
of these studies was that the proposed hydroelectric power station
at Tedzani Falls would generate power at a cost lower than that of any
known alternativeO The incremental financial return on the Tedzani Falls
power development, together with related transmission lines and distribu-
tion, would be at least 11 percent. Provided that major contracts can
be awarded early in 1970, the proposed project at Tedzani would be able
to meet the need for additional generating capacity in 1973.
16.       The accounting system of ESCOM is sound, all accounts are up to
date and arrangements for auditing are satisfactory. Tariffs will be
increased as of February 1, 1970 and thereafter maintained at such a
level as would allow a return of at least 9 percent after taxes, if any,
on ESCOM's realistically valued average net fixed assets in operation.



-6-
PA_RT IV - LEGAL TNSTR IE'TTS MID AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi, the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the proposed Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
18.       The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements follow the
general pattern of other agreements for power projects. The Borrower is
required to relend the proceeds of the Credit to Electricity Supply Commission
of IsLalawi under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association.
Since part of the Project is to be financed by a loan from the African
Development Bank, provisions are included in the draft Development Credit
Agreement to the effect that the Development Credit Agreement will not become
effective until all the conditions precedent to the first disbursement as
provided for in the ADB Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled and that
the Association may declare the principal of the Credit due and payable
immediately if tie ADB loan shall have been declared due and payable in
advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with the terms of tll4 ADB
Loan Agreement.
PART V - ECONOMY
19.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of    -
Malawi" (No. AE-5a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 7,
1970, (R70-1). Although, as the report describes, Flalairi is one of the
poorest countries in Africa and still has to depend upon external aid to
support its current budget, the economy has been growing at the quite rapid
rate of about 7 percent annually in the last few years. That has been the
result largely of a steady increase in exports of its principal agricultural
products, namely, tobacco, groundnuts and tea.  This growth has been greatly
assisted by Malawi's general political stability, which has encouraged a --
substantial inflow of private capital. The Government's policy is to main-
tain rapid growth by emphasizing measures to increase foreign exchange earnings
from agricultural exports, tourism and manufactured goods.
20.       The progress of the economy was partly the result of a substantial
expansion of public investment. In 1966-68, the economy went through a period
of financial difficulty as a result of increased spending on development
projects beyond the availability of foreign financial assistance, with a
consequential serious decline in foreign exchange reserves. In late 1968,
the Government undertook to ensure the use of local resources for develop-
ment would be limited to an amount consistent with stable foreign exchange
reserves. Reserves may well increase this year, as a result of the imple-
mentation of this policy, together with the sharp rise in the inflow of
capital and increases in prices for several of Malawi's exports which have
recently occurred,



- 7 -
21.       Malaii receives an annual grant from the United Kingdom to support
its current budget, but the amount of this grant has declined considerably
over the last few years and the Government has publicly stated its intention
to eliminate the need for this grant by 1975. To realize that intention
requires that the growth of current expenditures, and hence borrowing on
cornventimnal terM i, be held to a bare minimum. Aid to IEalawi should so
far as possible be on concessionary terms.
PAR?.T VI - COMPILIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington D.C.
January 14, 1970



