CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 178 MAI
Project Agreement
(Malawi Power Project)
BETWEEN
*            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 178 MAI
Project Agreement
(Malawi Power Project)
BETWEEN
*            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1970, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIATIoN (hereinafter
called the Association) and the ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COM-
MISSION OF MALAwI (hereinafter called ESCOM).
WHEREAS on the basis of the considerations described in
the recitals to the agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Development Credit Agreement) between
the Republic of Malawi (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower a development credit in various
currencies equivalent to five million two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($5,250,000) on the terms and conditions
set forth therein, but only on condition that ESCOM agree
to undertake certain obligations to the Association as here-
inafter in this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS ESCOM, in consideration of the foregoing has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth, and the term "Subsidiary
Loan" shall mean the proceeds of the Credit relent by the
Borrower in accordance with the terms of Section 4.03 of
the Development Credit Agreement and pursuant to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) ESCOM shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering, management
and public utility standards and practices, under the super-
vision of experienced and competent management.
(b) In carrying out the Project, ESCOM shall employ
engineering consultants and contractors acceptable to, and
to the extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to, ESCOM and the Association.
(c) ESCOM shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and work
for the Project and any modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
SECTION 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in
August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures
supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement and as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) con-
tracts for the procurement of such goods and services shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ESCOM shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to be used exclusively
in carrying out Part A of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and
of this Agreement.


﻿5
SECTION 2.03. ESCOM shall maintain records adequate
to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, to record the progress of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations and financial conditions of ESCOM; shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan,
all other plants, sites, works, property and equipment of
ESCOM and any records and documents relevant thereto;
and shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, the
Project, the said goods and services, and the operations,
administration and financial condition of ESCOM.
SECTION 2.04. ESCOM shall have its accounts audited
annually by an independent auditor or accounting firm ac-
ceptable to the Association and shall promptly after audited
financial statements (balance sheet and related statement
of earnings and expenses) are available, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, not later than four
months after the close of the financial year to which they
apply, transmit to the Association certified copies of such
statements and a signed copy of the auditor's or accounting
firm's report relating to each such statement.
SECTION 2.05. (a) ESCOM and the Association shall co-
operate fully with each other to assure that the purposes
of the Subsidiary Loan will be accomplished. To that end,
each of them shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to: (i) the general status of the Subsidiary Loan;
(ii) the performance by ESCOM of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and the administration, operations
and financial condition of ESCOM; and (iii) other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿6
(b) ESCOM shall promptly inform the Association and
the Borrower of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit or the performance by ESCOM of its
obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 2.06. ESCOM shall not effect any change in the
positions of the General Manager, Chief Engineer and
Secretary of ESCOM or make any change which would
materially alter the responsibilities and functions hereto-
fore performed by said officers except after consultation
with the Association.
SECTION 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree ESCOM shall:
(A) levy a development surcharge equivalent to 3c of
its basic tariff level, not later than February 1, 1970, on
consumers in ESCOM's existing inter-connected system
excluding high density tariff areas.
(B) make no reductions in the level of:
(i) basic tariffs including surcharge levied in ac-
cordance with paragraph (A), and
(ii) basic tariffs and surcharges in respect of any
other operating region of ESCOM
prior to January 1, 1974; and
(C) after January 1, 1974, take from time to time all
steps necessary or desirable to obtain such adjustments
in its tariffs as will provide revenues sufficient to yield an
operating income of at least 97 on ESCOM's average
net fixed assets in operation in order to (i) meet ESCOM's
operating expenses, including provisions for maintenance,
depreciation and interest; (ii) meet repayments of indebted-
ness to the extent that such repayments exceed provision


﻿7
for depreciation; and (iii) finance a reasonable portion of
ESCOM's capital expansion. For the purposes of this
Section:
1. the term "operating income" shall mean the difference
between operating revenue and operating expenses in-
cluding adequate maintenance and provision for de-
preciation on a straight-line basis and taxes, if any,
but excluding interest and other charges on debt; and
2. the term "value of the average net fixed assets in
operation" shall mean for each financial year the aver-
age of the gross fixed assets in operation less accumu-
lated depreciation at the beginning and at the end of
the financial year, and as this value of the gross assets
may be redetermined if : (i) there shall have occurred
any material change in the factors affecting the valua-
tion of such fixed assets of ESCOM, and (ii) the Asso-
ciation shall in consequence of such change have re-
quested revaluation of such fixed assets, in accordance
with methods acceptable to the Borrower, Association
and ESCOM.
SECTION 2.08. (a) ESCOM    shall at all times take all
requisite steps for the acquisition and retention by it of
all such lands, interests in land and properties and all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises as may be neces-
sary or proper for the construction and operation of the
Project and the carrying on of its business.
(b) ESCOM shall not commit any act or omission which
would prejudice its corporate existence and right to carry
on the operations and business.
(c) ESCOM shall at all times carry on its operations,
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, and plan
the future expansion of its electric power system, all in
accordance with sound business, financial and public utility


﻿8
principles and practices and under the supervision of expe-
rienced and competent management.
SECTION 2.09. (a) ESCOM shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satis-
factory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amount as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
ESCOM undertakes that the imported goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be insured
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation and incident to construction and installa-
tion thereof and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by ESCOM to replace
or repair such goods.
SECTION 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ESCOM shall not incur any debt unless ESCOM's
net revenue for the financial year next preceding the date
of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements on all ESCOM's debt (including the
debt to be incurred) in any succeeding financial year (in-
cluding the financial year in which such debt is to be in-
curred). For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all debt, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by ESCOM and maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a con-
tract or loan agreement on the date such contract or loan
agreement providing for such debt is entered into; and


﻿9
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee is entered into but shall be
only counted to the extent that the underlying debt is out-
standing.
(c) The term "net revenue" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of ESCOM's
rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during all or part of the
financial year or twelve-month period to which such rev-
enues relate, less all operating and administrative expenses
and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision cover-
ing depreciation and interest and other charges on the debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirements" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any) interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Bor-
rower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by ESCOM for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
SECTION 2.11. ESCOM shall prepare in consultation with
the Borrower and the Association a program of managerial,
administrative, professional and technical training for its
staff and furnish to the Borrower and the Association
copies of this program not later than June 30, 1970.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the Effective Date.


﻿10
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement and all of the
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate on a
date twenty-five (25) years from the date of this Agreement
or upon termination of the Development Credit Agreement,
whichever is earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified, or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ESCOM:
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
P.O. Box 186
Blantyre, Malawi


﻿11
Cable address:
Electric
Blantyre
SECTION 4.02. No delay in. 6xercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either
party under this Project Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed
to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default;
nor shall the action of such party in respect of any default,
or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any
right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any
other or subsequent default.
SECTION 4.03. ESCOM shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ESCOM, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by ESCOM pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Project Agreement and the authenticated specimen signa-
tur2 of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of ESCOM
may be taken or executed by the General Manager of
ESCOM or such other person or persons as ESCOM shall
designate in writing.
SECTION 4.05. The Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Project Agreement to be signed in their respee-


﻿12
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIATION
By  /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION
OF MALAWI
By /s/ NYEmBA WAes MmKmNa
Authorized Representative


