Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I-ALa. 3 156 2  le-                        Report No. P-5120-TR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
NOVEMBER 21, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US$1.00 = TT$4.25
TT$1.00 = US$0.23
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BWIA             British West Indies Airways
CARICOM          Caribbean Community
CCFF             Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CDB              Caribbean Development Bank
CET              Common External Tariff
CFF              Compensatory Financing Facility
CGCED            Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
CIF              Cost, Insurance and Freight
DFC              Trinidad auid Tobago Development Finance Company
EDC              Export Development Corporation
EXIH Bank        Export-Import Bank
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GNP              Gross National Product
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IDC              Industrial Development Corporation
IFC              International Finance Corporation
IMF              International Monetary Fund
ISCOTT           Iron and Steel Company of Trinidad and Tobago
HIGA             Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
HTBE             Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether
NHMC             National Hospital Management Company
NSR              National (Secondary Roads) Development Company
PSIP             Public Sector Investment Program
RSU              Restructuring Support Unit
SAL              Structural Adjustment Loan
SNC              School Nutrition Company
SOE              State-Owned Enterprises
SSU              Social Sectors Unit
TAL              Technical Assistance Loan
TCL              Trinidad Cement Limited
TELCO            Telephone Company of Trinidad and Tobago
T&T              Trinidad and Tobago
T&TEC            Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission
TTMC             Trinidad and Tobago Methanol Company
UNCTAD           United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
VTEP             Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan
WASA             Water and Sewerage Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHENT LAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUHMARY .......................................         i
PART I. THE ECONOMY.                                                     1
Background                   .1
Economic Performance.                                   2
Government Response to the Crisis.                      4
Key Adjustment Issues.                                  5
PART II.    THE GOVERNMENT' S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM.                      6
PART III.   THE STABILIZATION PROGRAM WITH THE DMP ..............       8
The Stabilization Program .        .....................  8
Collaboration with the IMF ......................      10
PART IV.    THE REVORM PROGRAM UNDER THE PROPOSED SAL .10
A. Public Sector Resource Mobilization
and Allocation   .            .10
- State Enterprises .11
- Public Utilities .13
- Public Sector Jnvestment Program .14
B. Incentive Framewok   .             .15
- Trade Regime .15
- Other Export Incentives .20
- Investment Incentives .21
C.  Social Dimensions of Adjustment   .     .22
PART V.     MEDIUM-TERM  PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS....      24
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects               24
External Capital Requirements .26
Creditworthiness and Risk .27
PART VI.  THE PROPOSED LOAN .28
Loan Amount and Cofinancing .28
Procurement, Disbursement and Audit .28
Benefits and Risks .29
PART VII.   COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS .....      30
A. Bank Group Assistance Strategy and
Operations ................................      30
B.  Burden Sharing ..............................      32
PART VIII.  RECOMMENDATION ......................................      33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfcrtnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatioitI



I.       Economic and Social Indicators, Balance of Payments
and External Debt .................................       34
II.       Status of Bank Group Operations .....................        43
III.       Supplementary Loan Data ............................         44
IV.       Background and Focus of the Hedium-tetm Adjustment
Program        ...........................................  46
V.       Coverage of IMF and Bank Programs ...................        57
VI.       Creditworthiness Analysis ...........................        58
VII.       Statement of Development Policies ...................        61
VIII.       Policy Matrix .............................................. 72
IX.       Production Coverage of Import Negative List .........        83
X.       Summary of Technical Assistance for Program
Implementation .87
MAP         IBRD 20573R



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AMD PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowers                   Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Amount:                     US$40.0 million equivalent.
Term:s                      Payable in 15 years, including a grace
period of 5 years, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Cofinancing:                The Export-Import Bank of Japan is
considering cofinancing the operation. It
is expected to provide US$40 million
equivalent in support of the Government's
structural adjustment program.
Program Description:        The proposed loan would support the
Government's structural adjustment program
by addressing selected areas of policy that
are key to growth. The program aims at
raising the efficiency of public sector
management, removing the allocative
inefficiencies produced by the prevailing
restrictive trade regime, and providing the
social underpinnings for the sustainability
of the adjustment process. Specifically,
the loan would support a reform program
encompassing: (i) public sector resource
mobilization and allocation: state
enterprise restructuring and divestiture,
efficiency improvements and tariff
increases in the public utilities and
strengthening the management of public
sector investment; (ii) improving the
incentive framework, particularly the trade
regime and investment incentives; and
(iii) strengthening the Government's social
sector policies and programs, including
ameliorating the social impact of the
adjustment and maintaining an adequate
social safety net. The loan would be
disbursed against general imports excluding
specific items.
Estimated Disbursements:   The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed
in two tranches: the first of US$20
million equivalent upon loan effectiveness,
and the second of US$20 million equivalent
following a satisfactory review of program
implementation. The review would be
conducted about 10 months after
effectiveness.



(ii)
Risk8s                      The principal ritks affecting the success
of the program are: (i) the social and
political pressures stemming from the sharp
adjustment to date whichb if intensified,
could derail the program -- while the
Government is sensitive to the likely
adverse social impact in the short run, it
has demonstrated a strong commitment to the
adjustment program, and is taking steps to
ameliorate the social impact to the extent
possible; (ii) a lack of implementation
capacity and weak investment response to
the improved incentive environment could
delay the projected supply response --
sdpport through the proposed Technical
Assistance Loan would strengthen
implementation capacity; and
(iii) unexpected adverse international
price developments could intensify the need
for a more rapid adjustment, creating
further social pressures -- current Bank
projections of international prices for
Trinidad and Tobago's exports do not
envisage abrupt adverse changes.
MAP: IBRD No. 20573R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount of US$40 million equivalent to the Republic of Trinidad
and Tobago in support of the Government's structural adjustment program.
The loan would have a term of 15 years including five years of grace, with
interest at the standard variable rate. The Export-Import Bank of Japan is
considering cofinancing the operation. It is expected to provide US$40
million equivalent for the program.
2.       The proposed SAL will be complemented by the proposed Technical
Assistance Loan submitted for your approval under separate cover. Together
they would be the first Bank operations in Trinidad and Tobago (T&T) since
1979. The country was graduated from Bank lending in February 1984. In
subsequent years, the Bank provided non-reimbursable technical assistance.
Largely as a result of falling petroleum output and prices, Bank
projections showed per capita GNP declining below the graduation threshold
by FY90. In response to a request by the Government, the Bank decided to
resume lending in the context of an appropriate macroeconomic framework,
with a view to supporting structural adjustment until such time as the
country's per capita income and access to capital markets improve (ref.
Board Memorandum "Possible Resumption of Bank Lending to Trinidad and
Tobago' of August 5, 1988, SECM88-924).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
3.       An economic report entitled "Country Economic Report, Trinidad and
Tobago" (Report No. 7139-TR, dated April 18, 1988) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 3, 1988. Annex I contains the basic country
data.
Background
4.       The structure and performance of T&T's economy have been linked
closely to the fortunes of oil. Even prior to 1973, the island economy was
dominated by the oil sector, which represented one-fifth of domestic value
added. The economic policies pursued favored an inward-looking type of
development. Manufacturing, other than oil refining, was heavily dependent
on protection and was relatively uncompetitive. Production and consumption
subsidies that fueled domestic demand also supported inefficient production
structures in the non-oil sectors. These policies increased the country's
dependence on and allocation of resources to the oil sector, and
significantly diminished the potential for diversification. On the
strength of its petroleum resources, however, the country was able to
attain a high standard of living, including relatively high levels and
quality of educational and social services. GNP per capita reached
US$6,920 in 1982, ranking T&T high among the upper middle income eeveloping
countries. Since then, however, as oil prices declined, GNP per capita
dropped to US$3,350 in 1988.
5.       T&T has enjoyed a stable Government ever since the transition from
colonial rule.  In 1986, a democratically elected Government took office,



- 2 -
facing an economy with recurring negative growth, burgeoning unemployment
and significant distortions.
Economic Performance
6.       Table 1 below presents a quantitative picture of economic
developments since 1970 and related external and domestic factors. It also
presents the thrust of the adjustment program discussed in Parts II-V. In
1970-73, real GDP growth averaged 3Z annually, underpinned by petroleum
exports. Expansionary fiscal and monetary policies generated balance of
payments current account deficits approximating 10? of GDP. However,
sizeable net capital inflows, primarily on private account, financed these
deficits. During 1974-82, the two surges in oil prices enabled Trinidad
and Tobago to reap impressive gains in incomes, employment, public revenues
and foreign exchange. Real GDP grew at an annual average rate of over 62,
and the increase in oil earnings produced large fiscal and balance of
payments surpluses. Central government savings averaged 18? of GDP and
gross foreign exchange reserves averaged ten months of rapidly increasing
imports.
7.       Fiscal and monetary policies during these years accommodated the
oil based expansion. After an initial cautious saving of surplus earnings
abroad, the Government embarked upon a rapid increase of capital
expenditures in heavy industry and infrastructure, at times with inadequate
assessment of financial and economic returns. In response to a deliberate
policy of spending and distributing what appeared to be, at the time,
continuing and long-lasting gains, nearly half the windfall wound up in
consumption which, encouraged by subsidies, grew at a faster rate than GDP
throughout the decade. The Government's investment and redistributive
policies resulted in an overextended public sector. State enterprises and
other governmental agencies mushroomed and government subsidies and current
transfers grew from 3Z of GDP in 1977 to 16Z of GDP by 1983 (US$110 million
to US$1285 million). The monetary base expanded at a 25? annual rate, 30?
faster than in the pre-boom years, and inflation reached 17?. The
consequent real appreciation of the currency, coupled with a complex array
of subsidies, price controls, import protection and the expansion of the
public sector undermined agriculture, manufacturing and tourism. As a
result, the share of the non-oil tradable sectors relative to non-oil GDP
declined, from 21Z in 1970 to 16? in 1980.
8.       The economic setback began in 1983 when falling oil prices
compounded a domestic trend of falling petroleum output from depleted oil
wells. she petroleum sector's output shrank sharply. Since 40? of
government revenues derived from oil, and since public sector spending
underpinned growth in the non-oil economy, these developments triggered a
dramatic decline in economic performance. Real GDP fell annually for the
next six years, culminating in a decline of about 7% in 1987 and a further
4.6? in 1988. The oil price decline, coupled with the evolution of
international prices and exchange rates, led to a severe deterioration in
the country's terms of trade of about 40Z between 1980 and 1987. The
adverse terms of trade effect was equivalent to annual losses of 3-4Z of
GDP in 1981 and 1982; 7-8? in 1983-84-85, 0l in 1986, and 13Z in 1987.



- 3 -
TABLE It TRINIDAD AND TOA60 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND ADJUSTMENT, 1970-97
Early 70's to
early so's             Early to aid-Bos                     Economic Program
Oil Led     Oil       Setback  Policy   Further   Beginning  Deepening         Full Adjusteent
Growth    Boom                Concern  Setback   Adjustment Adjustment  -------------------
197(-73   1974-82    1983-85   1985       1996       1907-68    1989-90      1991-93  19N4-9?
1. Performance Indicators 1/
Average Growth Rates
GDP. constant prices                          3.1        6.5       -5.2      -4.4     -3.3        -6.0         -1.0        2.3        3.7
Exports, G&NFS (constant TT$)                 4.6        0.8       -2.0      -1.3      0.8         1.1          4.0        2.4        3.9
Petroleus                                150.2        2.9        1.8      11.2     -5.5        -3.6          0.1       -0.4        4.5
Petroleue Products                       -20.1      -3.8         2.2      -1.2    -14.8         0.4         -1.7       -0.4        2.3
Petrochemicals 2/                        -20,3       15.6       38.2      26.6      5.3         7.4          4.6        7.9        3.9
Oanufactured Goods 3/                     -0.2        2.5       -3.5    -13.1      35.8        14.4          7.9        8.0       10.0
lports  G&NFS (constant T111                 6.u       14.1      -13.2    -13.3      -3.2       -20.6          2.3        2.1        5.1
Retail Pnrce Index (annual average)           9.4       14.4       12.6       7.7      7.7         9.3         4.9 12/     4.4        4.4
Average Rate (percent?
Current Account/6DP                          -9.9        4.5       -6.7      -2.5   -15.8         -5.3         -4.0       -2.6        1.0
Year-end Gross Reserves (USSeln.) 4/5/       56.2    1721.3      1420.0   1011.0    395.0        127.2        231.6      291.4      500.6
months of Imports, 6&NFS                      1.2       10.1        5.8       4.5      2.0         1.1          1.4        1.5        2.0
Debt Service Ratio                            3.5        3.7        9.8       9.5     17.7        25.2         22.4       21.7       17.6
Total Investment/GDP                         29.3       27.4       21.9      17.4     23.1        18.7         20.4       20.7       22.4
Gross Domestic Savings/SDP 61                27.2       37.3       20.8      21.1      15.7       23.2         30.0       30.7       31.9
1. External Factors
Current Petroleum Price Growth 11           25.9       24.7       -4.6      -2.9    -38.0        -4.6          7.5        6.4        7.7
Real Pntroleum Prices Growth                 14.5       14.2       -3.5      -4.0    -40.6        -7.2          5.2        1.8        3.2
Net Capital Inflow tUSS million)            108.2      225.4      127.5   -146.5    -50.7         44.0        182.0      206.6        9.8
OECD Growth Rate                              4.4        1.1        3.4       3.3      2.8         3.8          3.6        2.9        3.0
llI.Dosestic Policy
Real Exchange Rate Growth (1976 100) 7/    -0.7          1.1       11.6       4.6    -24.2       -10.1           9/         9/         9/
oney base growth                             18.9       24.9        5.1       2.4     -2.7        -3.3          5.0        6.2        9.4
Total Central Govt Expenditure Growth        15.3       37.0       -7.7      -8.4    -12.6        -5.1          1.1        6.3        8.0
Central Government                                                 *
Overall deficit/SDP                        -4.1        4.2       -8.0      -4.7     -7.2        -6.2         -3.0       -1.5       -0.3
Current Account deficit/GOP                 1.3       18.0        2.9       3.4     -1.0        -2.8          0.6        3.0        5.2
Overall Public Sect Deficit/GDP              -3.4        4.6       -9.0      -5.3    -11.5        -7.5         -3.2       -2.2        2.3
Total Imports/GOP                            36.3       30.6       25.7      29.6     41.8        32.5         32.7       32.6       33.4
Petrolues Sector/GDP  6/                     22.0       38.1       25.9      26.6     22.0        23.7         25.3       24.8       25.0
Manufacturing Sector/6DP 61                   8.7        6.5        6.3       6.7      8.8         8.5          8.7        9.7       11.2
Agriculture Sector/GDP 6/                     5.9        5.9        3.5       3.9      4.0         4.7          5.2        5.2        5.0
Services Sector/GDP 6/                       56.1       49.0       64.3      62.8     65.2        63.1         60.8       60.3       59.8
I/  Growth rates calculated using least-square sethodology.
2/  Includes ammonia, urea, and methanol.
3/  Includes paper products, textiles, metal mfg. furniture, clothing, footware, eachinery, miscellaneous chemicals
and other minor manufacturing.
41  1971-73
5/  Gross foreign exchange reserves peaked at USS 3.1 Billion in 1982.  In 1988 they dropped to 119  54 Million, reaching their
lovest level since 1974.
6/  1997-93 at constant price.
7/  1968-98 end of period.
8/ Negative implies depreciation of echange rate; positive implies appreciation of exchange rate
9/  Assumes maintenance of the prevailing real exchange rate following the 15.3% 1998 devaluation.
10/ For projected years, overall deficit is equivalent to the total net external financing to the public sector.
11/ Average prices for quality Trinidad oil are projected at *16.1, $17.1, $18.2, and *19.3 for 1990-93 respectively.
:             comodity price projections thereafter.
12/ 1989-97: IURD MaNfacturing Unit Value.



- 4 -
9.       The Government initially failed to respond adequately to the
mounting pressures for adjustment. Instead of improving the economy's
competitiveness and promoting the production of non-oil tradeables, it
became increasingly protectionist. Its first line of attack was to
introduce restrictive import licensing and exchange controls in 1983.
These sharply curtailed imports, but with the drop in export earnings, the
balance of payments current account went into deficit. The controls also
limited the availability of imported inputs and raw materials and closed
off the country's market from its regional partners, further shielding
domestic activity from foreign competition.
10.      Fiscal expansion continued in the first years of the economic
setback as the Government attempted to maintain living standards by
stimulating aggregate demand. The public sector registered overall
deficits averaging 9? of GDP in 1983-85 compared with surpluses of about 52
during 1974-82. The deficits were increasingly financed by recourse to the
Central Bank. By 1986, following the collapse of oil prices, all other
macroeconomic variables reflected the deterioration. Unemployment which
had been 10? of the labor force in 1982 reached 182. Government savings
turned from a surplus equivalent to 20? of GDP in 1981 to a deficit
equivalent to 12, severely curtailing capital expenditures, which dropped
from 182 of GDP in 1981 to 6Z. The external current account position
changed from a surplus equivalent to 6Z of GDP in 1981 to a deficit
equivalent to 162, despite a severe compression of imports. The country's
once comfortable cushion of gross foreign exchange reserves was also
rapidly depleted.   The prolonged and deep recession severely weakened the
financial sector. Loan activity of the commercial banks as well as deposit
growth stagnated; and as the banks' loan recovery problems mounted, their
after-tax profits dropped sharply. Large spreads developed between deposit
and lending rates as banks attempted to maintain profits, and stock market
activity dropped.
Government Response to the Crisis
11.      In response to the steady drain on the foreign exchange reserves,
the authorities devalued the TT dollar by 33-1132 in December 1985.
However, this action was not accompanied by complementary monetary and
fiscal policies, and the predevaluation exchange rate was retained for
essential goods. The rate was only unified at the beginning of 1987 when a
new Government took office.
12.      The new Government also began to address the severe fiscal
imbalances. On the revenue side, taxes were increased, and on the
expenditure side, Government suspended cost of living allowances and annual
merit increases for public servants, and reduced production and consumption
subsidies as well as transfer payments to the state enterprises. By 1988,
government subsidies and current transfers had been reduced to 122 of GDP.
The Government also launched in 1987 a number of thorough-going reviews of
the operations of the state enterprises aimed at raising their efficiency
and reducing their dependence on the budget. The work of the Commission
for the Restructuring of the Public Enterprises (Rampersad Committee)
resulted in proposals for wide-ranging reforms. In light of the continued
deterioration of the foreign reserves position, in August 1988, the T&T
dollar was devalued by 15.32 which, together with the depreciation of the
US dollar, contributed to a 6? improvement in the real exchange rate
compared to its 1976 level. The Government also secured financial
arrangements with the IMF (see Part III) under which it adopted a
stabilization program and which enabled it to enter into negotiations on



- 5 -
debt rescheduling witui the London and Paris Clubs. The rescheduling
arrangements are nearly complete, and substantial trade Pnd exchange
liberalization has occurred under the IMF arrangements (para 30).
13.      In an attempt to improve the incentive environment, the Government
reduced the marginal tax rates for individuals, bringing the top rate from
70Z to 502, and reduced the corporation tax on companies as well as the tax
on interest income with a view to stimulating private savings and
'nvestment. Changes were also introduced in 1988 to the petroleum tax
regime, aimed at increasing the incentives for production. Finally the
Government introduced medium-term planning within the context of its Seven
Year Plan, with the stated objectives of resuming economic growth,
restoring fiscal and balance of payments viability, laying the foundations
for diversifying the economy, and ensuring that the burden of adjustment is
shared equitably.
Key Adjustment Issues
14.      The major adjustment issues confronting the country stem from the
dominance and decline of its oil sector and from the distortions induced by
the 1974-82 policies. The evolution of the real exchange rate associated
with the high oil export earnings rendered agriculture and manufacturing
uncompetitive, and the policies adopted to support these sectors fostered
an inefficient agriculture and manufacturing. The current real exchange
rate offers an opportunity for these sectors to improve their performance
and become more export oriented. Given their small size within the
economy, however, it will take some time for them to make a major impact on
growth.
15.      The 1974-82 policies created distortions more pervasive than
indicated by their impact on agriculture and manufacturing. A large and
inefficient public sector was created to redistribute the oil gains. The
accompanying strategy of large subsidies to consumers and state enterprises
fostered a pattern of high consumption; the private sector was not
encouraged to save and invest; and the public investments resulted, in some
instances, in wasted resources. Equally important, uneconomic pricing of
public services and private goods resulted in misallocation of economic
resources.
16.      The Government needs to reLsify these distortions by measures
aimed at shrinking the public sector, cutting subsidies and transfers and
introducing efficiency criteria into the selection of public sector
projects. Such meas..res, focussed on switching expenditure from
consumption to investment and introducing economic pricing, would stimulate
growth through a more efficient allocation of resources. Simultaneously,
the country's development strategy must become explicitly export-oriented
and conducive to foreign investment to bypess the narrow limits to growth
imposed by the foreign exchange constraint and the limited domestic market.
Establishing appropriate incentives for exports and for investment is
therefore a priority to stimulate a resumption of grnwth. At the same
time, the Government needs to ensure that the petroleum resources, which
will remain the principal export earner over the medium-term, are
effectively exploited.



PART II - TUE GOVERNENT'S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM
17.      The Government has formulated a medium-term program which is part
of a longer term planning framework for restructuring the economy. A
realistic exchange rate policy for maintaining export competitiveness and
improved fiscal management represent the heart of the Government's strategy
to correct external and internal imbalances and set the stage for renewed
growth. Ongoing policies in these areas are to be complemented with
improved incentives for private sector investment. Trade policy is to play
a key role in changing the direction of industrial development from inward-
looking to export oriented. The Government believes that the social
dimensions of the adjustment would have to be addressed in parallel in
order to alleviate the short-term impact of the program on the poor and
vulnerable groups and to maintain social cohesion if adjustment is to be
sustained. The background and focus of the program's macroeconomic and
sectoral policies are presented in greater detail in Annex IV.
18.      Measures already taken in the last two years evidence the
Government's resolve to establish a viable macroeconomic framework and
carry out an adjustment program. To ensure attainment of the stabilization
objectives, the fiscal and exchange rate measures described in paras 12 and
13 above were followed in 1989 by a 10 cut in public service salaries and
adoption of an employment reduction program, the Voluntary Termination of
Employment Plan (VTEP), through which the Government expects to shed about
15S of its staff over three years. The authorities have relaxed further
the foreign exchange allocation system with a view to eliminating it in
1990, and have indicated their intention to pursue a flexible exchange rate
policy in order to maintain export competitiveness (see Annex VII, paras 2
and 3). A critical element of the adjustment strategy is reducing the
public sector's command of the economy's zesources. In addition to the
expenditure reduction measures described, the Government has begun this
process by rationalizing the state enterprise sector, closing down some
enterprises, divesting others and subjecting those that remain to strict
financial discipline and acc=untability thus reorienting them towards a
more commercial outlook. W.,.hin the Central Administration also, steps are
being taken to streamline and strengthen the administrative processes,
including adopting a more rigorous approach to formulating and implemetiting
the public sector investment program (PSIP).
19.      The weakening of the petroleum sector has placed a premium en
diversifying the export base. The Government recognizes that the inward-
looking trade policies that served in the 1970s when the country did not
face an effective external constraint to its development have proven
inappropriate in the economic environment of the 1980s. If it is to grow
faster, the economy must achieve a closer integration into the world
economy on a more diversified basis. The program includes a phased
dismantling of import restrictions and a medium-term tariff reform to raise
the efficiency of domestic production and eliminate the anti-export bias in
the trade regime. The authorities will also strengthen export incentives,
with emphasis on enabling exporters to obtain their imported inputs and raw
materials at world prices. The Government is taking further steps to
attract private investment generally, and into the non-oil sectors in
particular.



-7-
20.      While the Government will be reducing its role in the provision of
goods and services, it is taking steps to enhance the business and
investment environment for the private sector. A comprehensive tax reform
is being introduced in two phases during 1989 and 1990. It will simplify
the tax system for both direct and indirect taxes, reduce marginal tax
rates and provide more favorable treatment for dividends, broaden the tax
base by eliminating certain allowances, address equity concerns by
replacing some deductions with tax credits and introduce value added
taxation. Most price controls have been dismantled, the financial markets
are being liberalized (see Annex IV, para 8), and the regulatory framework
for investment attraction is under review. The Government has created a
one-stop shop for prospective investors and will revise the restrictive
licensing requirements that currently apply to foreigners wishing to invest
in T&T. The restrictive Aliens' (Landholding) Act is to be revised with
respect to investment in companies with a view to facilitating foreign
investment.
21.      The Government has also launched a major program of offering new
land and marine blocks for oil exploration by private investors! and it
intends to rationalize the institutional structure of the petroleum sector
by consolidating and reorganizing the eight state-owned enterprises and
several government ministries and other agencies involved. Together with
the incentives mentioned above, these measures are expected to raise output
and exports and increase the efficiency of the industry. The strategy for
the heavy industry sector, which includes petrochemicals and steel, is to
enhance efficiency through programs for financial restructuring and
management strengthening, consistent with the overall state enterprise
reform program, and to reduce Government's involvement.
22.      In the manufacturing and agriculture sectors, the medium-term
strategy depends largely on fostering an appropriate incentive framework.
The devaluations and generally declining activity levels over recent years
have sharply reduced real and nominal wages, increasing the flow of labor
to agriculture as well as the competitiveness and viability of formerly
unattractive activities. In addressing the ills of the uneconomic sugar
industry, the Government has designed a plan for phasing down over five
years the production of sugar by the grossly inefficient sugar company,
CARONI. Highlights of the plan include withdrawing all sugar cane
production from CARONI (leaving it to small farmers) and allocating
portions of CARONI lands to farmers. This program, however, is fraught
with delicate socio-ethnic issues which permeate the very fabric of this
poly-ethnic society, and the Government is proceeding with great caution.
23.      In the search for alternative sources of foreign exchange earnings
and employment, the tourism sector is now attracting greater official
attention than previously. The Government has invested in high return
infrastructure projects for runway extension and a deepwater harbor in
Tobago, the tourist island, and has begun to liberalize airline access to
Tobago. Aruba Airlines is now permitted to make scheduled flights directly
into Tobago.
24.      The prolonged economic decline and the adjustment impact have
intensified focus on raising the efficiency of delivery of social services
and on providing adequately for the needs of the underprivileged and other
vulnerable groups. In some subsectors this would imply a shift away from
expansion of physical facilities in favor of expenditures for maintenance,
better targeting and carefully structured and effective programs of cost
recovery. Accordingly, the Government is considering converting some of



the facilities and resources at the large Mount Hope Medical Complex for
the provision of primary health care. In education, the Government is
interested in extending the vocational training opportunities for school
leavers, as the existing levels of such training are insufficient to equip
the majority of school leavers for the workplace. In the area of housing,
the shortage of dwellings and the growing problem of squatting are major
concerns.
25.      The social sectors exhibit a number of problems that are yet to be
addressed, including the large scale emigration of medical personnel,
especially nurses; the direction and options for the education system; and
concerning housing, policy issues on rent collection and land use. Major
institutional issues relating to the social sectors as a whole also need to
be addressed. The social programs of past years have resulted in a social
policy framework characterized by lack of internal consistency, inadequate
design and inefficient monitoring systems, and by questionable financial
viability.
26.      The issue of the environmen;t receives critical consideration in
the Government's macroeconomic planning framework (e.g. in energy,
agriculture and tourism). A draft report of the United Nations Environment
Program recommends the enactment of environmental legislation supported by
adequate enforcement procedures, institutional strengthening, and public
information and constituency building. The Government announced in
February 1989 the creation of a Ministry for the Environment, and is
developing an approach with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) on
the legislative, institutional and training aspects. Solid waste disposal
and reforestation are among the Ministry's first concerns.
27.      T&T's return to sustained growth, however, is likely to be
gradual, and will have to be mostly generated by external demand and
propelled by foreign investment. Without a sharp increase in oil prices,
which current Bank projections do not anticipate, growth will initially
have to depend mostly on the ability to raise production of petroleum and
its derivatives. There is also scope for expanding the petrochemical base,
but both oil and petrochemical expansion require long gestation periods.
The prospects for improved performance of nontraditional exports are good.
The importance of a competitive environment for these is demonstrated by
the strong growth in exports of nontraditional manufacturing and
agriculture following the December 1985 devaluation. In sum, even with an
improved policy and incentive environment, lead time is required for
restoring adequate and sustained growth.
PART III - THE STABILIZATION PROGRAM WITH THE IMF
The Stabilization Program
28.      T&T sought IMF assistance for the first time in 1988.  The
Government requested both an arrangement under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF) and a Standby arrangement. The IMF Board approved the CFF
in November, 1988 in an amount of SDR 85 million, one half of quota; and
approved a 14-month Standby in January 1989 in an amount of SDR 99 million,
another 50? of quota on an annual basis. The IMF also approved in January
1989 access to contingency financing under its Compensatory and Contingency
Financing Facility (CCFF) up to maximum of SDR 42.5 million (252 of quota)
should adverse external contingencies occur during the period of the
Standby arrangement.



-9-
29.      The economic program for 1989 addresses the fiscal and balance of
payments framework for adjustment and establishes the parameters to be
associated with a strengthened macroeconomic performance. Following a mid-
term review in May 1989, the program was revised in line with recent
(mostly favorable) fiscal and balance of payments developments. The
essential policy components of the revised Standby are:
(a)    in the area of the public finances, the overall public
sector deficit is to decline to 5.5? of GDP (from 6.6? in
1988), and the central government deficit to 3.5Z of GDP
(from 6.7? in 1988). Introduction in 1989 of the first
phase of the tax reform (covering the income tax regime)
and the VTEP are also part of the program;
(b)    in the area of monetary policy - to improve the efficiency
of commercial banking and the structure of interest rates,
the secondary reserve requirement (usually satisfied by
Treasury bill holdings) is to be phased out and the current
relative cost of commercial bank borrowing from the Central
Bank, as a minimum, is to be maintained. Further, the
commercial banks are required to reduce their outstanding
advances from the Central Bank; financial system credit to
the private sector is to increase by 1.52 (compared to
-2.9? in 1988), and the state enterprises whose debt is
being rescheduled are required to deposit the local
currency equivalent of the scheduled amounts into a blocked
account at the Central Bank;
(c)    in the area of incomes and prices policies, public sector
wages are to continue to be frozen, and in some cases
reduced; the Central Government wage bill in 1989 is to
decline as a result of the suspension of acting allowances
and of employment reduction accompanying the VTEP; and the
scope of price controls was reduced as of the end of 1988;
and
(d)    in the area of external sector policies, the negative list
of imports (i.e., subject to specific licenses) is to be
reduced in three stages of US$50 million each: before the
end of 1988, before mid-1989, and before the end of 1989.
This corresponds to about 402 of negative-listed items in
terms of 1986 import value. Exchange restrictions on
import payments are to be substantially liberalized by the
end of the third quarter of 1989 with a view to their
elimination in 1990; and the exchange rate is to be managed
flexibly in order to attain the program objectives and the
target for net official international reserves.
30.      In addition, the program is to be monitored by quarterly ceilings
and targets set for: (i) the overall government deficit; (ii) net
financial system cred-t to the nonfinancial public sector; (iii) the net
domestic assets of the Central Bank; (iv) net international reserves of the
Central Bank; and (v) disbursements of medium-term external credits; and
(vi) stock of short-term external debt. At the IMF mid-term review, the
Standby program was on track. The performance targets for the first
quarter of 1989 had been met, with the exception of the ceiling on
disbursements of external borrowings with maturity of one to twelve years,



- 10 -
which was exceeded because of accelerated implementation of a large gas
project. A waiver was granted. Since then, the Government has completed
the program for trade and exchange liberalization referred to in para 29'd)
above (see para 56 and Annex IV, para 3). A table summarizing the
respective areas of coverage of the IHF stabilization program and the
proposed SAL is provided at Annex V. The Government has indicated its
intention to enter into another standby with the IMF when the current
arrangement expires in February 1990.
Collaboration with the IDF
31.      The proposed SAL has been developed in close coordination with the
IHF. The Fund's mid-term review mission overlapped with the Bank's
appraisal mission; and through discussions and the exchange of information,
Bank and Fund staff have collaborated in the formulation of their
respective programs to ensure that the two are fully consistent and
complementary. The liberalization of the country's exchange and import
restrictions is critical for both programs. The two programs have been
designed so as to address consecutive phases of the import liberalization
program.
PART IV - THE REFORM PROGM  UNDER THE PROPOSED SAL
32.      The proposed SAL would address selected areas of policy that are
key to growth. They fall into three broad categories, (a) public sector
resource mobilization and allocation: state enterprise restructuring and
divestiture, efficiency improvements for public utilities, public sector
programming; (b) the incentive framework: the trade regime and investment
incentives; and (c) the social impact of the adjustment. Prior to second
tranche release, the Bank would make an assessment of the implementation of
the medium-term economic program.
33.      The program for public sector reform envisaged under (a) is aimed
at raising the efficiency of public sector management, and carries
considerable weight in the adjustment process. The present expanse of the
public sector offers plenty of scope for reform, even after the fiscal
improvements registered since 1984. The program of trade liberalization
proposed in (b) is aimed at removing the allocative inefficiencies
engendered under the prevailing restrictive trade regime, and permitting
gains in living standards. Consistent with this strategy, a complementary
policy of exchange rate flexibility has already been agreed under the IMF
Standby arrangement. Consideration of the social dimensions of the
adjustment in (c) will aim to provide the social underpinnings for the
sustainability of the adjustment process. A related issue is the extent of
poverty in T&T. In the absence of recent data, the perception exists that
poverty is 'acreasing, though it may not have reached crisis proportions.
It could, undoubtedly, be exacerbated by the adjustment process. The
program will make provision to assess the dimensions of poverty and to
incorporate measures to alleviate the impact on the poor and vulnerable
groups.
A. PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MOBILIZATION AND ALLOCATION
Background to the Public Sector
34.      The public sector includes, in addition to the Central
Administration, 62 commercial state enterprises (SOEs) with full, majority
or minority government participation; 62 statutory boards and similar



- 11 -
bodies, covering a wide range of organizations including local government
authorities, marketing boards, social, educational and development
authorities; and five major public utilities. The sector is characterized
by substantial overemployment (it accounted for about one-third of the
employed labor force in 1987), operating inefficiencies (losses by SOEs
amounted to US$236 million in 1987, after taxes). and overall limited
institutional capabilities. The latter is reflected most notably in the
absence of effective coordination among agencies with related
responsibilities and in the weaknesses in PSIP formulation and management.
Reflecting the radically changed economic and financial circumstances,
total transfers and net lending to all public bodies from the Central
Government have fallen sharply, from nearly 142 of GDP in 1982 to about 52
in 1988. Current transfers are now largely concentrated in the water and
transportation utilities, and in CARONI.
35.      The Government has taken significant steps in restructuring the
state enterprises and the public sector generally. In particular, it
appointed a number of committees to examine the operations of a wide range
of enterprises with a view to recommending restructuring measures and other
efficiency improvements. As a result, SOEs have faced a hard budget
constraint, managerial improvements have taken place, competition has been
emphasized, cost reduction measures have been implemented, some firms have
been closed, and others have been or are about to be privatized.
36.      Within the Central Administration, the reform program includes
both expenditure control, including reduction in civil service employment,
and administrative reform. The program aims, among other things, to tailor
the overall staffing structures to institutional objectives, and introduce
a program budgeting type framework to create a more responsive, accountable
and financially transparent public administration. The restructuring
measures in the public sector are expected to produce three kinds of
effects: (a) the operating efficiency of individual SOEs and the Central
Administration will have been strengthened; (b) budgetary support to the
SOEs will have declined further, by about 12 of GDP in each of the years
1989 and 1990; and (c) Goverment involvement in the management and control
of the state enterprise sector will have decreased.
37.      The efforts underway --implementation of restructuring and
divestment plans-- constitute a first phase of public enterprise reform,
while a second phase would encompass areas requiring further preparation,
including sector-wide issues (the legal and institutional framework;
pricing, wage and employment policies; the oversight structure) as well as
enterprise-specific reforms such as those for Caroni and the utilities,
particularly public transportation. The proposed SAL aims to support the
first phase. It will also sunport the initiation of reforms in the public
utilities, starting with water and power, and strengthening of the PSIP
process. The proposed TAL will, among other things, provide assistance
related to a social expenditure review and adjustment to staff reduction.
The next phase of public enterprise reform (including public utilities)
would be supported through a possible follow-on Bank loan for Public
Enterprise Adjustment and Private Sector Development (see Part VII). The
TAL will provide assistance for preparation of such further reform
programs.
State Enterprises
38.      The SOEs have been classified into three groups: those to remain
in the public sector because of their strategic national importance
(petroleum, petrochemicals); those to be partially or fully divested,



- 12 -
either immediately or over a period of time because of their financial
burden, need for fresh capital, or potential private sector capacity and
interest; and those to be disbanded because they were a financial drain and
had no prospect of viability.
39.      Of the 45 wholly or majority owned SOEs, 21 are to remain in the
public sector. For most of these, restructuring plans have been formulated
and significant actions taken to strengthen management and increase
operating efficiency. Of six companies slated for disbandment, four have
already been closed and 1800 employees laid off--National Hospital
Management Company (NHMC); School Nutrition Company (SNC), National
Secondary Roads (NSR), and the Meat Processors Company. They have not yet
been legally liquidated, and their assets are yet to be fully disposed of.
Twelve companies have been recommended for divestment, either wholly or in
part; and most of the 16 minority-owned enterprises and the one equal
partnership are also to be divested. No decision has yet been taken on the
disposition of another six companies, one of which is currently under
review. They involve relatively small amounts of Government equity.
Completion of the entire divestment process will extend beyond the time
frame of this operation.
40.      Significant divestment actions have already taken place in five
SOEs. The Government has completed the divestment of 252 of its 512
shareholding in the National Commercial Bank (NCB) through two
shareofferings. It has also reduced its shareholding in the wholly owned
Trinidad Cement Limited (TCL) by 152 and intends to reduce it further; and
with the assistance of the IFC it is in the process of reducing its share
in an expanded equity base in the Development Finance Company (DFC) from
952 to 43Z. Negotiations for a joint venture arrangement for the wholly
owned Trinidad and Tobago Telephone Company (TELCO), which would reduce
government shareholding to 512, are well advanced; and a possible merger of
TELCO with the majority owned (512) external communications company,
TEXTEL, is under consideration. The iron and steel company (ISCOTT) has
been leased. Preparations for divestment of the Crown Reef Hotel and the
Trinidad and Tobago Printing and Packaging Limited (TTPP) are at an early
stage. The general strategy has been to restructure the SOEs prior to
divestment so as to increase their attractiveness to potential investors.
Management has been, or is being, strengthened and employment reductions
are taking place. The financial restructuring of five SOEs prior to
divestment resulted in the conversion of a total of TT$928 million of debt
to equity.
41.      Effective implementation of the restructuring/divestment plans
requires that some central mechanism capable of providing adv-ice, support
and momentum be established. Legal issues have to be clarified, necessary
accounting and financial expertise must be mobilized, coordination with
ministries and other involved agencies must be maintained, and the
implementation status of action plans must be closely monitored. To date
these functions have been carried out by a very small, but high calibre
unit associated with the Rampersad Committee. The Committee's mandate,
however, will expire in the next few months. The gap should be filled by a
new unit with similar functions (the SOE Unit) to be located within the
Ministry of Finance, the shareholder of the SOEs. The SOE Unit would be
designed to facilitate the implementation of the restructuring and
divestment actions supported by the proposed SAL.



- 13 -
42.      Action Program.  The Government has prepared time-phased action
plans to divest partially or fully TCL, TELCO, the Crown Reef Hotel, and
TTPP, and to restructure the Solid Waste Management Company. The
Government has also established a small, high calibre SOE unit in the
Ministry of Finance to facilitate implementation of the SOE action plans.
Prior to the second tranche release, the Government would complete the
liquidation of NHMC, SNC and NSR. In addition, the Government would
prepare for divestment and bring to the market at least three enterprises.
Public Utilities
43.      Though the utilities' share of total transfers and net lending has
declined from US$448 million in 1982 (5.6Z of GDP) to US$66 million in 1988
(1.6Z of GDP), none of them is characterized by strong management and
financial discipline. The Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission
(T&TEC) and the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) exhibit major
shortcomings. Each has incurred a net loss each year since 1975, requiring
substantial government financing to remain solvent. T&TEC's losses have
reached a peak in 1989, and as Government contributions have dried up since
1988, the company has resorted to short-term borrowings to finance a
decreasing investment program. Without increased tariffs, this situation
would continue. Major operating problems exhibited include: the rate
structure is distorted in favor of heavy users; staff salaries are high
relative to the rest of the public sector and, to a lesser extent, the
private sector; the customer/employee ratio needs to be improved; the
company's investment planning needs to be strengthened--T&TEC carries
considerable excess generating capacity; and maintenance has been
increasingly deferred because of lack of resources.
44.      WASA is in critical financial straits.  Its losses over the last
three years averaged TT$150 million (US$50 million). Operated in the past
as a subsidized social service, the utility has major operating
deficiencies. Its large and highly paid work force accounts for about 702
of operating expenses; tariff increases have been rare and the tariff base
is inadequate (based on property value, instead of being related to
consumption); and the billing and collection system is highly inefficient.
Recent cuts in government transfers (from US$140 million, 1.82 of GDP in
1983 to US$19.5 million, 0.5Z of GDP in 1988) have forced WASA to adopt
cost reduction measures including staff reductions and improved
collections. A complete overhaul of WASA's operations is indicated,
including introduction of metering to rationalize water consumption and
discourage waste.
45.      Action Program.  Agreement has been reached with the Government
and the two utilities on the objectives of action plans to be prepared.
These include: (i) financial self sufficiency, including a phased
reduction of transfers from the Central Government to WASA. and overall
sound financial management as measured by targets including rate of return,
net internal cash generation, debt-equity ratio, debt service coverage,
receivables; (ii) administrative efficiency including appropriate
accounting, billing and collection systems; (iii) operational efficiency,
as measured by targets for number of customers per employee; share of
salaries in operating expenditures; technical losses, maintenance levels;
and (iv) in the case of T&TEC, sound investment programming, based on the
principles of least-cost expansion and financial feasibility, and sound
balance between generation/transmission and distribution. Agreement has
also been reached that consultants to assist in formulating the action
plans would be in place by February 1990; that the Government would keep



- 14 -
its account balances current and make arrangements to liquidate its
arrears; and that Government would convert its outstanding loans and
advances to T&TEC into equity. Prior to second tranche release, a
consultant report for WASA would be prepared, financed by an IDB
loan/grant, with time-phased plans and proposals reflecting the agreed
objectives, including a plan for metering large consumers (including heavy
industrial users); proposals for redesigned tariff levels and structures;
and a plan for achieving the following targets: working ratio less than
1.05 by the end of 1991 and 0.95 by the end of 1993; receivables 6 months
or less by the end of 1991, and 4 months or less by the end of 1993, and
reduction of the number of employees per 1000 water connections from 31 to
less than 21 by the end of 1991. The action plan would be adopted and
measures implemented in accordance with the plan. Government arrears would
have been liquidated and its account balances made current. In the case of
T&TEC, a management and operational audit would have been carried out and
an action plan reflecting the objectives mutually agreed. Measures would
also have been adopted, including best efforts to obtain from the
autonomous Public Utilities Commission a tariff increasel in 1990, to
enable T&TEC to achieve a break-even position in 1990; and T&TEC would have
adopted an investment plan in line with the action plan and achieved a
customerlemployee ratio not less than 99 (from the current 97); government
account balances would have been made current, and non-government account
balances reduced to 60 days; and Government would have converted its
outstanding loans and advances to T&TEC into equity.
Public Sector Investment Program
46.      The process for formulation, implementation and monitoring of the
PSIP needs to be strengthened. The composition of the PSIP largely
reflects a stocktake of ongoing projects, some of which would probably not
be initiated if proposed now. It also includes expenditure items which
should be classified as recurrent costs. The absence of a well-developed
pipeline of technically sound and economically viable projects means there
is a tendency for the PSIP to include projects which are at the most
advanced stage of preparation rather than necessarily those of the highest
priority. Finally, the PSIP fails to include all of the investments of the
state enterprises, although the amounts omitted are unlikely to be very
substantial.
47.      The PSIP is not supported by an integrated domestic and foreign
exchange financing plan which has implications not only for financing but
also for priorities. Its foreign exchange requirements are not factored
into the foreign exchange management system of the Central Bank. Under the
existing arrangements, therefore, only those investments with secured
project specific sources of foreign financing can be assured of adequate
funds. As to priority setting, there is no mechanism for ensuring that the
investments of the SOEs financed by public sector borrowing actually
reflect government priorities; nor is there any mechanism that enables
choices to be made between the investments of this kind and alternative
investments by the Central Government or the public utilities.
48.      Institutional arrangements need to be clarified further and inter-
agency coordination improved, especially among the Ministry of Planning and
Mobilization, the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Procedures
1/ T&TEC has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission for
a rate increase of 292 over 3 years, of which 172 would apply in the
first year.



- 15 -
need to be developed to institute a pre-investment review system to ensure
that individual project proposals are linked with agreed sector strategies;
and that stringent tests of economic viability and technical, financial and
environmental feasibility are applied. A 3-year rolling core PSIP and a
reserve list of projects needs to be identified, and a monitoring system
introduced.
49.      Action Proaram.  The Government has prepared a core PSIP for 1989,
satisfactory in size, composition, sectoral balance and financing plan. It
has also agreed: (i) that coverage of the PSIP would include the
investments of Central Government, public utilities and all SOEs where the
Government is the majority shareholder or is funding specific investment
projects; (ii) to exclude recurrent expenditures (e.g. repairs and
maintenance) from the PSIP; (iii) to develop project preparation guidelines
(including environmental impact assessments), project selection criteria
and project approval procedures (including the decision-making powers of
Ministries of Finance and Planning and Mobilization) so that all
investments above an agreed financial threshold of US$1 million are subject
to full analysis and economic assessment before they are included in the
PSIP; and (iv) to strengthen the system for monitoring the PSIP (both
physical and financial progress) in order to facilitate the review of
implementation performance on a quarterly basis. Prior to second tranche
release, agreement would be reached on: (i) the size, composition, sectoral
balance and financing plan of a rolled-over PSIP covering 1990-92, with the
core program for 1990 clearly identified; and (ii) project preparation
guidelines, selection criteria and approval procedures and the
institutional responsibilities and roles of the various agencies involved
in the PSIP process; and progress satisfactory to the Bank would be
achieved in strengthening the PSIP monitoring system. Technical assistance
in this respect will be financed by IDB and the proposed TAL.
B. INCBNTIV FRAMEWORK
Trade Regime
Background to the Trade Regime
50.      The framework for the trade regime is the Trade Act of 1941 which,
sanctioned at a time when the major concern was to avoid goods falling into
enemy hands, provides for a heavily interventionist regime. Trade policies
also reflect the accumulation through time of policy decisions adopted to
conform to the requirements of the regional integration mechanisms of the
Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the regional customs union of which T&T is a
member--i.e., generally inward-looking on a regional basis. Import taxes,
duty exemptions, as well as administrative barriers (licensing and
quantitative restriction) characterize the import regime. Export
licensing, and a general absence of effective export incentives
characterize the export regime. Both import and export regimes are further
hampered by cumbersome and lengthy bureaucratic procedures.
51.      The scope for introducing trade policy reforms in T&T is limited
by the country's membership in CARICOM. Trade among the 12 member
countries is, in principle, unrestricted by any import taxes, and the
members have adopted a common external tariff (CET) vis-a-vis the rest of
the world. In practice, neither of these conditions is strictly met.
Stamp duties and other taxes on imports have been permitted among the
members, and the external tariff is not common for all members, but varies
among groups of member countries according to the stage of development and



- 16 -
other considerations in effect when the common market was established.
Nonetheless, the existing trade arrangements are negotiated arrangements,
commonly agreed. This situation formally implies that a CARICOM member
country has surrendered the right to use tariff policy as a tool of
economic policy, unless it does so in unison with its regional trading
partners. Where structural adjustment calls for tariff reform, the usual
approach is to adopt a medium term timetable to reduce average protection
levels as well as the dispersion in tariff rates. T&T's membership in
CARICOM creates a legal/institutional constraint upon the adoption of this
approach, since tariff protection rates are jointly established in the CET.
Changes in the CET can only be made in agreement with other CARICOM
members. The most that any single member country can do in this respect,
is to propose changes.
52.      A practical constraint also exists in respect of import duty
exemptions, which have been used discretionally as a tool of industrial
development promotion. Most industries benefit from the exemption of
import duties on parts and raw materials. These exemptions are authorized
in the CARICOM agreement, and are embedded in the pattern of intra-re4ional
competition, both regarding the markets for regionally produced goods and
the destination of investments. Duty exemptions are not mandatory; rather,
the Government of each CARICOM member country may or may not award them, on
a case by case basis. Nevertheless, elimination of exemptions could weaken
the competitive position of T&T-based firms relative to firms producing the
same goods in other CARICOM countries, as well as T&T's attractiveness as a
location for new investments.
53.      Discussions are underway among CARICOM members to restructure the
CET. The aim is to rationalize it in relation to the region's current
industrial structure and its industrialization objectives. Raw materials
and final goods are to be classified as competing and non-competing for
purposes of the tariff; and final goods are to be further grouped as to
whether they are basic or non-basic. The number of tariff bands are to be
reduced to 5 or 6, as against the current 17, and a range of 5 to 45% is
being considered for most goods, compared to the present 0 to 45% for over
four fifths of all tariff positions. Duty exemptions will also come under
review. The likely impact of the proposed CET cannot be judged until the
item details of the tariff and the definition of basic and non-basic goods
are known. However, the proposed minimum of 5Z and reduction in the number
of bands, if introduced, would constitute an appropriate first step in
tariff reform for T&T.
54.      The central objective of the proposed trade reform under the
proposed SAL is to modify the structure of incentives in favor of
production for export. It implies moving towards the provision of neutral
status for exporters, that is, creating an incentive environment that
gradually approaches free trade. The relevant policy areas include a two-
stage rationalization of import protection, including the elimination of
import duty exemptions; providing exporters unrestricted access to
imported inputs at international prices; abandoning export licensing,
except where warranted by considerations of national security and public
health, the Government's subsidy program, and protection of the national
heritage and international agreements; and simplifying export and import
procedures.



- 17 _
Restricted Imports
55.        Imports are restricted by the need to obtain a license prior to
the importation of certain goods, and by impor'. and other taxes. Import
licensing constitutes the most important source of protection. The
negative list of imports identifies those products which can only be
imported through a specific import license. Since the collapse in the
international price of oil, the list was expanded, with a number of
products included for balance of payments reasons. Thus, the negative list
which contained approximately 320 products in 1985, grew to about 430 items
in 1988. The negative list and import licensing system amounts to a system
of informal import quotas. Formal import quotas are applied only to a
handful of products (also on the negative list), such as tires, beef and
veal, pre-cure tread rubber, men's shoes, boys shoes and sports shoes.
Preliminary estimates placed the import value of the negative listed items
at US$ 400 million (in terms of 1986 import value). In terms of production
protected by the negative list, it is estimated that products represented
on the negative list accounted for 312 of total production, 402 of
agricultural production and 51X of non-oil manufacturing production (in
terms of 1987 output). The subsectors given the greatest protection
through the negative list correspond respectively to confectionaries and
other food processing; footwear and leather, canvas and plastic goods;
paper goods; car tires; hose; light fittings; electrical appliances; and
batteries.
56.      Action Program.  The first stage of the trade reform will address
the rationalization of the system of import protection, replacing
administrative barriers by tariffs. It would include the elimination of
the negative list based on an agreed time-phased plan. Allowance would be
made for items that need to be controlled because of international
agreements, national security and public health reasons. An initial phase
is being implemented under the IMF Standby [para. 29(d)]. The Government
has eliminated under the Standby, US$150 million of items on the list (in
terms of 1986 import value). In terms of 1987 production, this corresponds
to about 7Z of manufacturing (32 of non-oil manufacturing) production
coverage. The Bank's conditionality applies to the remaining
US$250 million which covers about 292 of total output, 402 of agricultural
output and 492 of non-oil manufacturing output. The CARICOM CET rates
would be applicable to goods taken off the negative list. However, in
order to allow time for adjustment, the Government may wish to provide
temporary additional protection through additional import charges. The
Government has agreed to phase out the negative list affecting the non-oil
manufacturing sector by the end of 1991 and shift to tariff-based
protection. An exception to this schedule is allowed for the products of
the state trading company (specifically, flour and animal feeds) because
the Government uses the surplus from these activities to cross-subsidize
small farmers. The timeframe for the state trading company would be
determined by the results of a study which the Government has agreed to
carry out, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, of the protective
regime affecting the agricultural sector and the state trading company.
The study would take into account the Government's objective of maximizing
the efficient use of local resources. The Government has also initiated a
study of the impact on domestic industries of removing items from the
negative list to determine which cases may warrant additional protection.
It was agreed at negotiations that any temporary additional tariff
protection applied would be such that total import charges (i.e., including
stamp duties and other taxes) would not exceed 1002 of the c.i.f. price,
and be reduced in successive steps to the corresponding CET by the end of



- 18 -
1994. An exception would be made for (i) textiles and garments, to permit
a maximum of 1202 of the c.i.f. price, and (ii) for dairy products, where
the equivalent tariff, which is to be estimated prior to second tranche
release, would apply.
57.      Prior to second tranche release, the Government will reduce the
remaining negative list affecting manufacture by items representing 402 of
the production coverage involved, and agreement will be reached on a time-
phased program to eliminate the rest, with the exceptions noted, by the end
of 1991. In order to allow time for the Government to strengthen its
customs procedures and introduce anti-dumping arrangements, selected items
(i.e., textiles and garments, leather, shoes made of leather, and other
leather goods) which are especially susceptible to smuggling and dumping
may be reserved for removal in this final phase. The Bank would provide
assistance through the proposed TAL for improving the tariff administration
system, including the establishment of appropriate anti-dumping
arrangements. The study of the protective regime affecting agriculture and
the state trading company would also be completed, and the findings
discussed with the Bank.
Tariffs and Other Import Taxes
58.      T&T's tariff schedule is the common tariff employed by the group
of four larger CARICOM countries. It contains both ad valorem and specific
duty rates. Ad valorem tariff rates are generally moderate, with most
rates falling between 0-452; the maximum rate is set at 702 for fire arms,
ammunition, etc. Actual duty rates over 40? apply to only 62 of imports
and 18X of tariff positions. Based on 1987 imports, the intermediate
tariff range (152 to 40t) applies to 39Z of the value of 1987 imports and
432 of tariff positions. However, a large share of imports enter the
country duty-free; and, of the 282 of total imports which is considered
dutiable, the overall ex-post rate of duty paid amounted to 182. Local
manufacturers are granted protection via the negative list, and are also
granted duty exemptions for their imports of parts and raw materials.
59.      Other taxes are collected on imports as they go through Customs.
They are: (a) the purchase tax, a tax levied mostly at ad valorem rates
ranging from 202 to 852 (on selected consumption goods, plastics,
construction materials, wood products, precious stones, steel products,
electrical equipment, etc.); (b) a stamp duty rated at 10? for capital
goods and 202 for other goods; and (c) the alcoholic beverage tax, levied
at specific rates. A consolidated levy of 12.5? was also introduced in 1988
on all imported raw materials not otherwise subject to tax. The alcoholic
beverage tax is not a source of trade distortions since it does not
discriminate between imported and locally produced goods. This is not the
case, however, with the purchase tax. For a group of approximately sixty
products (or groups of products) the purchase tax is levied at higher rates
when goods are imported than when produced domestically. These include
some fruits and beverages, photographic and cinematographic film and
equipment, garments, household goods, appliances, firearms and ammunition,
and a few others. The purchase tax adds an extra 282 on average,
effectively doubling the protection to these products. In the case of some
individual products, protection rates are increased by a factor of four or
five. Thus, even though the element of protection concealed in the
purchase tax may not add much to the average level of protection, it
increases the dispersion of nominal protection rates. The consolidated
levy, if it were effective, would moderate the dispersion of the protection
rates. Numerous exemptions from the levy, however, only serve to increase
distortions.



- 19 -
60.      Action Program.  The second stage of the trade reform will address
tariff reform over the medium term. The Government has agreed on the
following principles regarding the medium term tariff reforms (i) the
objective is to achieve a maximum rate of import charges (defined to
include tariffs, stamp duties and other taxes and charges that discriminate
against imports) equivalent to the CARICOM CET, currently 452 for most
items (or other lower rate that may be agreed within CARICOM), and a
minimum rate of import charges on parts and raw materials of the CET rate
(or other higher rate that may be agreed within CARICOM); (ii) the tariff
reform to be accomplished through annual adjustments in protection rates
over three to five years, ending in 1994; (iii) reduction in dispersion of
effective protection rates; (iv) reduction of the number of tariff bands;
and (v) exemptions from import duties to be kept to a minimum. Prior to
second tranche release, the Government would conduct a study of trade and
associated policies. On the basis of the study, the Government would reach
agreement with the Bank on the medium-term tariff reform program for the
non-oil manufacturing sector. (Implementation of the program would be
supported through a possible follow-on Bank loan for Trade and Financial
Sector Adjustment--see Part VII.)
Duty Exemptions
61.      A large number of duty exemptions are granted for various reasons.
For any particular import transaction, this may be because: (a) the CET
sets a zero duty; (b) the goods originate in other CARICOM countries;
(c) the importer benefits from discretionary incentives either under the
CARICOM scheme for the Harmonization of Fiscal Incentives or as provided by
the CET to promote industries oriented to the regional market--most
industries approved by the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) have
been granted duty free access to their raw materials on the latter count;
or (d) the importer was the object of some other discretional award. Duty
exemptions are granted on a discretionary basis, with the result that a
particular good may be imported under several different regimes, at
different prices. For a large number of tariff positions, accounting for a
significant proportion of imports, the same goods enter the country under
different duty regimes, in some instances duty free, in other instances
dutiable. And in administering a complex system of duty exemptions, the
Government has become the administrator of thousands of transactions
generating economic rents for enterprises and individuals. In 1987 the
group of products that could be imported both duty-free and dutiable
amounted to TT$3 billion, about 68S of total imports. Within this dual
imports aggregate, imports which entered duty free represented 612, while
imports on which duties were paid accounted for the remaining 39%. An
indicator of the relative size of the economic rents generated by the
system of duty exemptions is that 402 of dual-category tariff positions
reflected duty differences in excess of twenty percentage points.
62.      Actiot Program.  The Government has decided to refrain from
granting duty exemptions for parts and raw materials for new industries,
and has initiated a comprehensive review of duty exemptions, with a view to
assessing their practical significance for TMT's competitiveness in CARICOH
markets, and formulating an action plan for their phased removal oser three
to five years. Prior to second tranche release, a time-phased action plan
would be formulated and agreed with the Bank, and measures would be
implemented in accordance with the plan.



- 20 -
Restricted Exports
63,      A negative list is maintained also for exports.  The list contains
approximately 70 items or groups of items which may not be exported except
under specific license. The items include major traditional agricultural
exports suls as sugar, cocoa and coffee, other agricultural products
including a variety of vegetables; cereal and cereal products including
rice and wheat flour; petroleum and petroleum products; and manufactures
such as cement and steel products, as well as items not produced in T&T,
mostly manufactures. These restrictions are the result of piecemeal
decision making over several decades at.d, with limited exceptions, are not
consistent with an export oriented development strategy.
64.      Action Program.  This action program has been implemented.  The
Government has eliminated export licensing requirements, with limited
exceptions such as may be needed because of international agreements,
protection of the national heritage, and security, the Government's subsidy
program and public health considerations.
Import and Export Procedures
65.      The complexity of export and import procedures has been singled
out as a significant obstacle to an export oriented development strategy in
Trinidad and Tobago. Bureaucratic and cumbersome procedures result in
unpredictable delays and increase costs for importers and exporters. A
study financed by UNCTAD identified the number of documents and
bureaucratic procedures needed in connection with several operations
essential to the conduct of international trade. The study also assessed
the extent to which these procedures were unnecessary and could be reduced.
It found that the total number of processing steps required for arrival and
departure of ships, imports and exports of goods could be reduced by 44?
from 81 to 45 steps. A detailed proposal for the simplification of export
and import procedures has been prepared, including draft versions of the
new forms that would be required to satisfy all parties involved and
generate the information needed by various Government agencies.
66.      Action Program.  The Government has agreed to accelerate the
implementation of UNCTAD's recommendations on trade facilitation reforms,
including introduction of the ASYCUDA system (Automated System for Customs
Data). The Bank will provide assistance under the proposed TAL for
implementation of ASYCUDA. Prior to second tranche release, the Government
will have made progress, satisfactory to the Bank in implementing the
reforms.
Other Export Incentives
Access to Imported Inputs at International Prices
67.      No temporary admission regime for imported inputs for export
industries exists in T&T. The Customs Act, however, establishes an in-bond
manufacturing regime in which producers of manufactures for export to third
countries have access to imported raw materials free of any import taxes.
In principle, the system calls for the deposit of imported raw materials in
a designated warehouse under the direct control of Customs. Although the
warehouse is usually located in the plant of the in-bond manufacturing
firm, it is formally and effectively under the custody of Customs officials
and is considered extra-territorial for Customs' purposes. It must remain
locked at all times, and it only can be opened by Customs officials. These



- 21 -
specifications, if strictly applied, could be found to be cumbersome, slow
and costly. In practice, the Customs Department exercises a good deal of
judgment to make the system more flexible, and waives some of the
requirements to businesses in good standing.   Provided Customs continues
allowing flexibility of interpretation to firms that are users of the in-
bond system, this system could accomplish the same objectives as a
temporary admission regime. However, only a few businesses are currently
operating under this scheme. The Government is also in the process of
establishing an export processing zone; the site has been identified and
legislation is in place. However, infrastructure for the site is yet to be
developed Past attempts at implementing rebate schemes have met with
little success. The Government is considering which type of scheme frr
providing exporters with simulated free trade status would be most
effective in Trinidad and Tobago.
68.      Action Program.  The Government has agreed to examine, in
collaboration with the private sector, alternative systems in place in
other countries for providing free trade status to exporters (e.g.,
temporary admission regime, in-bond manufacturing, rebate system for
indirect taxes) with a view to identifying a scheme suitable for adoption
in Trinidad and Tobago. In this connection, agreement has also been
reached on the scope of a study to estimate the quantitative significance
of indirect taxes incorporated directly or indirectly, in the value of
goods exported. Prior to second tranche release, the selected scheme would
be established and functioning in respect of manufacturers who are
primarily engaged in exporting; and a timetable would be developed for
providing a similar facility for other exporters.
Investment Incentives
69.      The existing framework for investment promotion is weak.  It has
been based on an obscure investment code and a highly restrictive Aliens
Landholding Act, and a reactive, not proactive, approach to investment
attraction. Two areas of reform would be addressed under the proposed SAL.
One concerns streamlining the administration of incentives, particularly as
it relates to investment application procedures. While the Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC) had reduced the number of separate agencies a
prospective investor must deal with directly, the number could be reduced
further. There was need to convert the IDC or other agency into a true
'one-stop-shop' with clear, broad guidelines and invested with the
authority to approve projects within those guidelines. The documentation
currently in use is too long and detailed, requiring information of no
direct relevance to assessing the soundness of the proposed investment.
The second concerns the need to attract further foreign investment. To
create an environment more conducive to foreign investment, high priority
must be accorded to the revision of legislation affecting foreign
investment to ensure that its provisions, subordinate legislation and
operating guidelines are made attractive to foreign investors.
70.      Action Program.  The Government has created a "one-stop-shop' in
the IDC for prospective investors, eliminating the need to negotiate with
other agencies during the investment application process; and has shortened
the investment application documentation. Prior to second tranche release,
the Government will ensure the satisfactory operation of the new system and
documentation, and will adopt satisfactory legislation or equivalent
regulations for facilitating foreign investment.



- 22 -
Petroleum Sector Incentives
71.      In 1988, the oil tax regime was revised to provide tax incentives
for increasing petroleum exploration and production. At the same time, a
program of leases for onshore operations has been put in place, and the
Government has targeted as well certain rlrine offshore areas for stepped-
up investment activity. However, a further review of the existing
incentive systems is needed. The present legislation for contractual
arrangements is complex and somewhat outmoded, dating from 1969, and has
been revised, modified, and amended many times, but always in a piece-meal
fashion. The taxation system is also complex, dating from 1981. and has
also suffered many revisions and amendments, again in a fragmented manner.
Both contracting and the taxation system need to be modernized and
simplified, to avoid duality of systems for contractual arrangements, and
to make taxation less complicated by avoiding the coexistence of several
component taxes, which involve lengthy and complex calculations, and to
reduce the impact of the progressive production tax on new fields or on
marginal fields. The structure of the tax incentives introduced in 1988 is
not appropriate for promoting new exploration and production activities,
since the incentives can only be applied to existing production operations.
72.      Action Program.  The Government has agreed to review the petroleum
taxation regime and the general regulatory framework in order to assess
TMT's competitiveness for stimulating increased investments by local and
foreign investors in the petroleum and related sectors. Prior to second
tranche release, consultants would be engaged and progress satisfactory to
the Bank would be achieved in carrying out the review.
Tourism Incentives
73.      Tourism offers the potential for substantial job opportunities
both directly, and indirectly, while increasing the country's capacity to
earn foreign exchange. In the short-term, measures to promote tourism
development will concentrate on intensifying marketing efforts and
expanding hotel capacity. At the same time, steps are being taken to
address the deficiencies in infrastructure that have constrained tourism
development over the years, particularly, the improvement of airport
facilities in Tobago. Increasing tourist arrivals to Tobago depends
crucially on bringing visitors to the island expeditiously. Currently, no
policy-related restrictions are in force to limit entry of domestic
airlines other than the national airline, BWIA, from providing scheduled
service to Tobago.
74.      Action Program.  The Government has initiated bilateral
negotiations for direct scheduled flights into Tobago by international
airlines, and has entered into a bilateral agreement with Aruba to permit
scheduled flights by Aruba Airlines into Tobago. Once the extended runway
at Crown Point is designated an international airport, it is Government's
intention to initiate further bilateral negotiations, within the usual
framework of reciprocal landing rights, for direct scheduled flights into
Tobago by international airlines.
C. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS AND ADJUSTMENT IMPLEMENTAION
75.      The structural adjustment program would impose additional strains
on the country's population in the snort run. It will, therefore, need to
be managed carefully to protect the poor and most vulnerable, and be
acceptable to the society at large. Unemployment is the most critical



- 23-
social issue. While the labor force has grown by almost 43,000 in 1989
from 445.000 in 1982, the economy has lost 23,000 jobs over the same
period. Average unemployment, which stood at around 152 of the labor force
in the mid-1970s, had fallen by 1982, the end of the boom, to about 102.
By the first quarter of 1988 it had increased to almost 232 (or 111,000)
and was concentrated in the young with more than 402 of the unemployed in
the 15-24 age category.
76.      Income has been affected significantly by the deteriorating
economic performance of the past six years. In the private sector, where
the bulk of job losses has occurred, real wages and salaries have declined;
and in some cases (e.g. in the banking industry) nominal wages have been
reduced. In the public sector, the wages and salaries bill shrank by
almost 602 in real terms over the period 1982 to 1988 although the number
of civil servants remained relatively stable. The wages, salaries and cost
of living allowances of civil servants have also been frozen since 1987;
and, in 1989, the Government cut wages and salaries by 102 across-the-
board.
77.      Standards of living have been affected by the sharp decline in the
level of Government investment and services. Since 1982, annual investment
has been cut by more than 902 in real terms; and recurrent expenditure by
more than 502.  In real terms, the overall spending on health and education
has been cut by about two-thirds. The welfare programs, predominantly old
age pensions, social assistance and food subsidies, and the school feeding
program, have remained at about 52 of total recurrent expenditure,
representing a halving in real terms. The same broad sectoral pattern of
expenditures has been maintained over the period, implying mostly a
strategy of cuts across-the-board rather than rigorous priority setting.
The necessity to sharply reduce transfers to public utilities and to
increase tariffs exacerbates the potential for declines in living
standards.
78,      In the short term the country will face a further erosion of
incomes and increases in unemployment. The Government does not yet have in
place a clear strategy to deal with the social costs of adjustment, even
though it has developed some programs to deal with the impact of the
recession. Its past strategy for protecting the poor has been: (i) to
retain about the same broad share (albeit of a declining level) of
expenditure on social safety net type programs; and (ii) to control the
prices of essential foodstuffs, school books, pharmaceuticals and some
other basic items.
79.      Action Program.  The Government has established a Social Sectors
Unit (SSU) and a Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) in the Ministry of
Planning and Mobilization. The SSU would undertake as priority activities:
(a) a review of public sector expenditures on the social sectors to improve
the targeting and effectiveness of existing social programs and the
provision of a desirable minimum level of services, especially to the poor
and vulnerable groups; (b) further development of the social security
system; (c) formulation of a system to monitor changes in living standards
on an ongoing basis to strengthen the design of programs and the targeting
of subventions; and (d) the preparation of an operation for possible Bank
financing to strengthen, inter alia, employment prospects of unemployed
youths, particularly in the context of small business development. The RSU
would assist the implementation of the adjustment measures and would carry
out a number of studies necessary to support the program. Both the SSU and
the RSU are to be supported by technical assistance under the proposed TAL.



- 24 -
Agreement has been reached on terms of reference for the Units and fcr the
major studies. Prior to second tranche release, the Units would be staffed
and functioning, and satisfactory progress made in the studies and in the
preparation/adoption of action programs or proposals in accordance with
terms of reference. Annex X outlines the program of technical assistance,
and lists the studies to be carried out.
PART V - MEDIUM-TERN PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
80.      The country's road to recovery will be long, requiring difficult
adjustments along the way. The growth strategy aims first at exploiting
the oil sector's potential to the fullest extent possible. However,
current Bank forecasts for oil price developments strongly suggest that the
sector's capacity to earn foreign exchange will not soon revert to that of
the 1970s. A significant diversification of the country's economic
structure to reduce its dependence on petroleum will require maintenance of
the economy's competitiveness and will take time, perhaps a minimum of
three to five years. Nevertheless, an appropriate exchange rate policy and
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance imports of inputs, raw
materials and capital goods, together with the launching of new public and
private sector projects as envisaged, will stimulate the expansion of
nontraditional activities and construction,underpinning the recovery
process.
81.      Petroleum exploration and enhanced recovery projects being
initiated currently are intended to yield higher oil output. The gestation
period for many of these projects is, however, between two to six years.
The impact on domestic output and growth would be minimal during the first
years of the adjustment period. The proposed restructuring and upgrading
of the refining sector also has a gestation period of close to three years.
Until the refinery losses are eliminated by these improvements, this
subsector will not be contributing to growth.
82.      Growth prospects for the gas based petrochemical industry are
moderately good over the medium term, provided that the currently high
methanol prices hold up as presently projected, and that the enterprises
carry out their internal restructuring plans approved by Cabinet.
Successful implementation of a second methanol plant under construction
would enhance these growth prospects. The projections assume that a new
methanol plant will come into operation by 1992. The latter would raise
growth in the petrochemical subsector by 1O%-12t per year during 1992-94
following a period of almost no growth in output. Taking the petroleum,
refining and petrochemical subsectors together, value added is projected to
increase slowly during 1989 to 1993. Thereafter, the sectors' value added
is projected at about 4.42 a year through 1997 on the bisis of the impact
of new projects currently in the pipeline.
83.      Agriculture and light manufacturing have benefitted from improved
competitiveness as a result of the exchange rate adjustments. Agriculture
is also benefitting from an increased supply of labor at reduced wage
rates. Light manufacturing is projected to make further inroads into
export markets, both regional and extra-regional and, with improved
cost/price structures facing agriculture, prospects exist for the
development of more efficient and profitable activity. Exports, however,
still contribute one-third of agricultural value added, mostly from sugar,
and are all subject to the volatility of international commodity prices.



- 25 -
Availability of sugar quotas is ar:other uncertain factor. Government
policy calls for a phase-down of the sugar industry, initially to satisfy
only domestic demand, eliminating all exports. The projections assume that
sugar exports would be phased out gradually by 1994. Based on these
assumptions, the agriculture sector is projected to grow very slowly
(average 1.62 during 1990-94) before averaging 32 during 1995-97. Non-
petroleum manufacturing is projected to average 52 per annum through 1993
and then grow at about 82 per year on average during 1994-97 in response to
the improved incentive framework.
84.      On the basis of a planned expansion of hotel capacity and tourist
facilities during 1989-93, tourism has the potential to more than double
the number of hotel tourist arrivals over the next five years. The
additional contribution to foreign exchange earnings from this group alone
would exceed US$40 million, or twice as much as the sector's earnings in
1987. Its current market share and long term potential is significantly
greater than these figures indicate. Full development of a carefully
planned tourism industry would occur over an extended time frame, given the
need to improve the tourism product.
85.      On these assumptions, the decline in real GDP is projected to
bottom out in 1990. An essential factor favoring this outcome is the
increased flow of foreign exchange in 1989 and 1990 from balance of
payments support by multilateral and a very few bilateral donors which
would ease the import constraint so critical in 1988. Thereafter, GDP is
projected to rise gradually from 1.52 in 1991 to 2.5Z in 1992 and to 32 in
1993. Growth is projected to reach 42 per annum during 1995-97.
86.      The composition of domestic expenditure, which fell steadily over
recent years, would have to shift strongly in favor of investment to
support the projected economic recovery. The expected investments in the
energy sector, chiefly exploration and refining, largely private sector,
but channelled through the state enterprises, would be the principal
vehicle of growth in private investment, which is projected to rise to 182
of GDP during the projection period, from 152 in 1988. The programmed
strengthening of public sector operating performance is projected to
improve domestic savings. The improvement would result primarily from loss
reductions in the state enterprises, but also from expenditure restraint in
the Central Government. Central government savings are projected to rise
steadily, reaching 3.52 of GDP by 1993 compared to -22 of GDP in 1987.
With the projected strengthening of the economy in the outer years,
government savings are projected to reach 6.52 of GDP by 1997. Under this
scenario, which emphasizes gains in savings and investment under the
adjustment program, the recent slide in per capita consumption could be
halted only by 1991. During 1991-97, average growth of about 22 per annum
could be attained.
87.      The balance of payments current account would have to narrow
further in view of the prospects of limited net foreign capital inflows,
particularly on the public account. This implies that the resource balance
must improve, as the sizeable factor service deficit reflects largely
obligations to remit the returns from past investments, i.e. dividends and
interest. Export growth is projected to be moderate during 1989-93. Since
the biggest export earner is the petroleum sector, export performance will
inevitably hinge on the output and price prospects for crude oil, petroleum
products and petrochemicals. The medium-term outlook for oil prices is
moderate with prices expected to rise gradually from recent levels of
US$16-US$17 per barrel, reaching about US$20 on a sustained basis only by



- 26 -
1993194, consistent with Bank projections. And little increase in
Trinidad's oil production can be expected in the next three years.
Increased oil production from new petroleum sector projects is expected to
boost exports, however, to about 42 real annual growth during 1994-97.
Nontraditional exports can be expected to increase strongly in the next few
years, provided their competitiveness is supported by an appropriate
exchange rate management policy. Import growth would increase only slowly
at first, while trade liberalization proceeds gradually. Later, to support
output growth, import growth is projected to average 52 per year in real
terms in 1994-97. The current account deficit is projected to narrow
gradually from 4.32 of GDP in 1988 to about 1.2Z of GDP in 1993, and to
generate small surpluses in 1994-97.
88.      Restoring the economy's growth generating capacity will only be
possible if the deep structural constraints on the supply side of the
economy are substantially reduced. The adjustment measures being put in
place are expected to re-establish a basis for diversification and
resumption of growth. Positive results could be expected to occur with a
time lag. Indeed, much stronger export performance could be expected from
the mid-1990s. Only sharply rising oil prices could result in a
significantly more favorable balance of payments outlook over the near
term.
External Capital Requirements
89.      Substantially increased inflows of official capital are required
in the critical years of the program. This arises primarily from the
weight of scheduled debt repayments over the next four years. Taking into
account the need to build a cushion of external reserves, total gross
financing requirements are estimated at US$4,380 million during 1989-97,
approximately US$487 million a year on average. The expected rescheduling
would provide debt relief totalling US$776 million. The financing gap,
after taking into account this debt relief and the projected capital
inflows from medium and long term disbursements, DMP financing and direct
investment, would amount to US$403 million (see Table 2 below). The
identified financing sources include first tranche disbursements from the
proposed loan and cofinancing from the Export/Import Bank of Japan. They
also assume that successive Bank operations, as proposed in Part VII, along
with cofinancing would provide about US$81 million in each of the years
1990 and 1991, and US$58 million in 1992. On the present projections,
unidentified financing gaps remain in 1990 (US$70 million), 1992 (US$112
million), 1993 (US$67 million) and 1994 (US$110 million).   Donor support
would be sought for these amounts under the aegis of the Caribbean Group.
Conmercial sources would also have to be tapped for a portion of the needed
funds. Commercial bank financing could take place in the form of new loans
or as partial rescheduling of obligations falling due.



- 27 -
Table 2s IRDUDAD AND TOBAGO - FUIANCINS PftA, 1909-97
(US$  I Illow.)
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1908  1997   TOTAL
A. Financing Requirements       716   692   510   571   497   465   816   818   810    4880
Current Account Deficit   148   174   172   120    62   -11   -29   -76  -187    428
Total Amortization */     448   468   820   486  417   888   809   848  383    3465
Ro srve Change (non-IMF)   119    62    18    15    18   129    86    41    64       492
8. Financing Sourcee            716   622   490   459   480   846   801   804   810    8977
Long-term Sources
IBRO                      20    43    46    41    82    27    14      0     0      228
Other Multilateral        79   126   116   168   187   121    6o   120   181    1111
Bilateral                 48    66    42    24      8     s     4     0      0     176
Private Creditora        105    so    21    67    79    48    07    29    19    491
- Total MLT Disbursements  247   279   226   299   800   201   151   149   150    2001
- Debt Rlitf             281   266   180    60     0      0     0     0      0     776
- 0ther Long Term         41     0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0       41
- Direct Investment       86    70    85   100   180   145   1SO   1SS   160    1031
IMF Purchass              110    18      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      128
C. Financing Gap                  0    70    20   112    67   110    15      9      0     403
_/   Scheduled.
90.       Total external debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to
increase from US$2.3 billion in 1988 to US$2.8 billion in 1993, and then
gradually decline to US$2.3 billion in 1997. The external debt to GDP
ratio is projected to peak at 62? in 1989, up from 552 in 1988; it is then
projected to decrease steadily to 33? in 1997. In relation to exports, the
external debt would decline steadily from 1442 of exports of goods and
services in 1988 to about 64? in 1997. After an initial decline as a
result of rescheduling, the debt service ratio would rise again to 24? of
exports of goods and services in 1992 because of the expiration of the
period of grace afforded by the rescheduling. It would later decline to
about 16? by 1997. Total interest to GDP would initially rise from 4.32 in
1988 to 6? of GDP in 1989. It would then decline gradually to about 3? of
GDP by 1997.
Creditworthiness and Risk
91.       T&T's current payment problems stem from a bunching of scheduled
amortization in the years 1989-92, coupled with the decline in export
earnings since 1985. The debt rescheduling and a projected strengthening
of exports would alleviate those difficulties by the mid-1990's when
repayments of the Bank's proposed loans would begin. The economy's
openness, of course, renders it highly vulnerable to external shocks.
Further oil price declines and interest rate increases could raise the
financing requirements by amounts up to US$170 million a year during 1990
to 1994 (ref. Annex VI). Current Bank projections do not anticipate such
developments. Were they to occur, however, they would imply heavier
dependence on external assistance in the form of further rescheduling of
the commercial bank debt andlor new loans from commercial sources, as well
as intensification of the adjustment process.



- 28 -
92.      The policy risks lie on the sociolpolitical fronts.  Following an
extended period of economic decline and a series of tough economic
measures, the social costs may become too burdensome and cause the program
to be derailed. Adequate consideration of the appropriate pace of
adjustment and the necessary complement of social programs as proposed in
this operation, could guard against these risks.
PART VI - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Amount and Cofimnancin
93.      The proposed loan to support structural adjustment would be
US$40 million to be disbursed in two tranches of US$20 million each, based
on compliance with agreed policy conditionality. The first tranche would
be available for disbursement following loan effectiveness. Retroactive
financing will be permitted for eligible imports made before the date of
the agreement but not before August 1, 1989 up to an amount of US$8 million
equivalent. The second tranche would be disbursed following a satisfactory
review of program implementation and compliance with specified conditions
stated in Part IV and summarized in the attached Policy Matrix (Annex
VIII). The Export-Import Bank of Japan is considering cofinancing the
operation. It is expected to participate on a one-to-one basis with the
Bank, i.e. providing US$40 million in two equal tranches subject to the
same conditionality as the Bank's tranche releases.
Procurement, Disbursement and Audit
94.      The loan would reimburse 100X of the foreign exchange cost of
general imports, excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco, luxury and tobacco
products, military and hazardous and other goods that are specifically
prohibited in a negative list. A recent Batik review of public sector
procurement procedures in Trinidad and Tobago revealed that they are
regulated by law and are generally consistent with Bank policy. Imports
under existing contracts for the supply of certain goods such as
fertilizers and commodities would be eligible for Bank financing provided
that they were not procured from a single source or under bilateral trade
agreements. A survey of private sector procurement practices determined
that limited bidding among suppliers on approved lists is the normal
procedure. However, in some instances private companies place purchase
orders on the basis of direct negotiations. For the proposed loan,
contracts for general imports to cost the equivalent of US$3 million or
more shall be awarded following simplified ICB procedures.  For all imports
under US$3 million equivalent: (i) public sector agencies and rompanies
will follow the Government's procurement lrocedures which n(rmally require
limited competitive bidding, and which have been found to be satisfactoty
to the Bank; and (ii) ptivate sector firms tcould follow their owl
established eommercial practices, provided that price quotations from
eligible suppliers from at least two countries would be sought, except
where direct contracting is permitted by the Bank guidelines.
95.      The Central Bank would administer the loan and would be
responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation
under the loan. To assist with this work, a qualified Procurement
Specialist would be appointed by Central Bank for the duration of the loan.
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures, except for
contracts valued at US$l million equivalent or more, for which
disbursements would be made against full documentation. The minimum value



- 29 -
for each statement of expenditure submitted would be US$250,000 equivalent,
for which detailed documentation evidencing expenditures would be retained
by the Central Bank and made available for the required audit and also for
review by the Bank. Expenditures for goods procured under individual
contracts with a value less than US$5,000 equivalent would not be financed
under the loan.
96.      The Central Bank would keep separate accounts for all expenditures
under the loan. These accounts would be audited each year by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines,
and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the close of the financial year.
Benefits and Risks
97.      Benefits.  The most immediate benefits of the program will be a
reduction in the role of the public sector in economic activity, and the
adoption of an outward-looking development strategy. In the medium term,
the balance of payments would be strengthened through increased exports and
sustained economic growth. Restructuring and institutional rationalization
of the petroleumlpetrochemical sector, the largest single productive
sector, and furthering the divestment efforts would strengthen the
productive base; and a successful export diversification could reduce the
vulnerability to external fluctuations. The proposed technical assistance
operation would provide the necessary studies and training of officials to
support the implementation of the structural adjustment program. The
program's success should build the confidence of external donors and
investors in the viability of the economy--its growth, balance of payments
and employment prospects. The loan itself will provide quick-disbursing
foreign exchange that will alleviate the current shortage of imported
inputs, intermediate and capital goods which has constrained capacity
utilization and export performance. The financing program would permit
reasonable progress toward meeting the Government's longer term
macroeconomic objectives. Essential import levels would be maintained and
debt service obligations would be fulfilled.
98.      Risks.  The major risks to the policy reform program stem from the
deep social impact of the negative adjustment to date--i.e., prolonged fall
in incomes, employment, imports, investment and services, and shortage of
foreign exchange-- and the consequent political pressure. An
intensification of these pressures could derail the program. A splintering
in the ruling political party led to the formation of another opposition
party; and the 102 cut in public service wages in 1989 significantly raised
the level of disaffection in the society, most vocally from the labor
unions. Further needed adjustments, particularly in the sugar-based
sector, could trigger ethnic disputes.  The next election is due in two
years' time, which allows barely enough time for the adjustment pr(ogram to
begin to take hold and produce discernible positive results. The
Government is committed to pursuing vigorously the full adjustment agenda.
However, it is sensitive to the likely adverse social impact in the short
term, and does not have in place a clear strategy to address the problems.
It is looking to the Bank for guidance on the pace of adjustment and the
necessary complement of social programs, both of which are critical to the
maintenance of the adjustment effort.
99.      In terms of the effectiveness of the adjustment program itself, a
lack of implementation capacity, and failure of domestic or external
investment to respond to the improved incentive environment could weaken or



- 30 -
delay the projected supply response. A drop in oil prices by 102 or an
increase in interest rates by two percentage points would increase the
financing gap in each year during 1990-94 by amounts ranging from US$90
million to US$170 million, implying heavier dependence on external
assistance in the form of debt relief and other assistance from commercial
sources, in addition to intensifying the need for adjustment. Unexpected
adverse developments of this type in the world economic environment--and in
the demand for TMT's exports--and output shortfalls arising from a too
rapid pace of stabilization and import liberalization, with consequent
further rises in unemployment and decreases in real incomes, could create
pressures on the Government to abandon its adjustment program.
100.     There are, however, a number of factors that reduce the above
risks. First, and most importantly, is the strong Government commitment
which it indicated by initiating and intensifying its economic reform
program before seeking multilateral support. Second, support through a
comprehensive TAL should strengthen from the outset implementation capacity
and also technical work required where there is a dearth of local
expertise. Third, the Bank is providing technical assistance through the
TAL for strengthening the Government's social policies and programs for
alleviating the social impact on the poor and vulnerable groups. Fourth,
the Government is committed to maintaining export competitiveness. The
implementation of this policy includes the regular review of the evolution
of the real exchange rate and the follow-up actions to ensure its adequacy.
Finally, the most recent Bank projections on medium-term OECD countries'
growth and international prices for Trinidad and Tobago's exports do not
envisage abrupt adverse changes. Nevertheless, a significant effort to
diversify exports should reduce, over the medium to longer term, the
effects on export performance of changes in the international economic
environment and in the prices of such commodities as petroleum.
I VII. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
A. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
Past Assistance
101.     The first Bank loan to T&T was made in 1961.  Since then, 13 loans
totalling US$93.0 million were provided in agriculture, finance, power and
transportation, education and population. The last Bank loan, for a
highway project, was made in 1979. In 1984, the Bank graduated T&T from
IBRD lending because of its high GNP per capita of US$6,450 compared with
the Bank's graduation level of US$2,910, and because of its then favorable
access to capital markets. Bank assistance was then provided within the
framework of 52 staffweeks per annum on a nonreimbursable basis. The IFC
has continued to make investments in the country. The most recent, in
FY89. assisted the capital restructuring of the Trinidad and Tobago
Development Finance Company.
Proposed Bank Strategy
102.     The Bank is renewing its involvement in Trinidad and Tobago at a
critical point in the country's economic development. The country's
weakened external position has resulted in a severe shortage of foreign
exchange, a constraint currently affecting every aspect of life. Negative
economic adjustment has already taken place. The challenge faced is to
transform negative adjustment--characterized by declining imports,



- 31 -
production and employment--into positive adjustment--reflected in
increasing exports, imports, production and employment. This implies that
other sectors (i.e., manufacturing, agriculture, tourism) that until now
only made modest contributions to foreign exchange earnings, must fill in
the gap left by the petroleum sector and provide a rapidly increasing
source of growth in foreign exchange earnings and employment. Only in this
fashion would the country generate economic opportunities beyond the limits
imposed by the narrow size of the domestic and regional markets. In the
meantime, the country should maximize the opportunities of improving output
and product mix of the petroleum sector and rapidly expand petrochemical'
exports. The Bank's efforts should, therefore, be directed towards
assisting the Government to structure a more efficient and competitive
economy, reducing the size of the public sector in economic activity.
making those activities that remain in the public sector more efficient,
and restructuring and diversifying the sources of medium and longer term
growth. Significant effort should be focussed on increasing foreign and
domestic investment. This, together with rationalizing the petroleum and
oil refining sectors and improving the incentives for investment in
petroleum will be essential for achieving sustained growth. The long
recession has exacted a high social price in terms of employment, income
and standards of living; and further adjustment must occur before there can
be much of an increase in consumption. The pace of implementation of the
adjustment program will need to be geared to the maintenance of social
cohesion and to sustaining domestic support for the adjustment. Social
programs to protect the poor and vulnerable groups should therefore proceed
in parallel.
103.     The Bank's country assistance program will focus on the measures
needed to achieve the objectives outlined above. Accordingly, its main
elements should be to: (a) complement the proposed SAL with a parallel
Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) in order to help the Government:
(i) implement its medium-term adjustment program, (ii) strengthen social
sector policies and programs, including the design and preparation of
programs to alleviate the social costs of adjustment, and (iii) prepare
possible future Bank operations. For this purpose, the TAL would support
the establishment of a Restructuring Support Unit and a Social Sectors
Unit, within the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization, to coordinate the
preparation and implementation of the Government's overall adjustment
program over the next three to five years, and the formulation of
supporting social policies and strategies; and (b) support and further the
reform efforts initiated under the proposed SAL with assistance to
restructure the supply side aspects of the economy. Thus, building on the
advances to be made under the SAL, a proposed Trade and Finance Loan would
deepen the SAL-supported trade reforms with support for a tariff reform
program to reduce the level and dispersion of effective protection; it
would also help to revitalize a financial sector under severe stress by
formulating policies, and legal and institutional reforms to reverse the
present deterioration. In tandem with this operation would be a proposed
Social Sector project. The focus of the project would be youth training
for productive employment. It would aim inter alia at strengthening the
employment prospects for unemployed youth, the group most at risk, in the
context of small business development and youth employment insertion
schemes. Cofinancing would be sought from other multilateral and bilateral
donors.
104.     A proposed Public Enterprise Adjustment/Private Sector Development
Loan would target simultaneously the twin issues of public sector
efficiency and private sector development in terms of the complementary



- 32 -
roles of the sectors and specific issues related to divestment and
deregulation. In addition, a proposed Industry Restructuring and
Development Project would address the needs for financial, management and
operations restructuring of industrial enterprises adjusting to the new
pattern of incentives. Thereafter, focus would shift to more traditional
investment lending, including possibly cofinancing with the IDB a project
in the petrochemicals sector and an operation to support rehabilitation of
the Water and Sewerage Authority.
105.     The Ban.k's assistance program would take into account the ongoing
and proposed assi3tance programs of other multilateral donors.  The IMP
will focus on stabilization and key macroeconomic parameters. The IDB is
designing a comprehensive strategy to address issues and investment
requirements in the petroleum and agriculture sectors. The Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) is considering providing financing for forestry
development and industrial credit. The European Community is expected to
provide this year a line of credit to finance imported inputs for exporting
manufacturers.
106.     T&T returned to the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development (CGCED) as a recipient in June of 1988 but received little
specific financial support from bilateral donors. The bilaterals strongly
supported the Government's reform efforts, but felt that Trinidad and
Tobago should first engage the support of the multilateral donor community.
Bilateral donors would subsequently review the scope for assisting Trinidad
and Tobago, although the still relatively high GNP per capita might
continue to be a hindrance. The EXIM Bank of Japan is considering
cofinancing for the SAL, and possibly the Trade and Finance and Public
Enterprise/Private Sector adjustment loans.
B. BURDEN SHARING
107.     The Bank's exposure in the country is insignificant at this time-
-only 1.52 of T&T's total external debt in 1988. Debt service to the Bank
was about 2.5X of the country's total debt service obligations. The
proposed lending program is projected to change these ratios to about 6.52
and 3.12 by 1993, and to 8.12 and 5.42 respectively by 1997. The financing
plan envisages that Bank lending would provide 5.72 of the gross financing
requirements during 1989 to 1991, and 6.52 during the following three
years. The remainder of the financing is expected from multilateral
agencies, including the IMF, the IDB, the CDB and the European Investment
Bank along with official export credits, commercial financing and some
recourse to bilateral sources. Bilateral sources will thus finance about
72 of the requirements during 1989-91. Bilaterals are however not expected
to be a permanent major source of funding, chiefly because of Trinidad and
Tobago's relatively high per capita income. Multilateral donors will
therefore be major sources over the next three to f-ive years. Including
the Bank, they are expected to provide about 302 of the financing
requirements during 1989-94.



- 33 -
m0os EML FDUNCDA RE_nWI         ,   oMSOV
(US$ ml lI on)
199-9   1992-94  1998-97  1989-97
Multi leterl               480      614      ga1     1U36
*/w: 18IR                  110       99      14       223
Other                  320      416     817      1112
Bi latera                  140       82       4       170
Privet* Creditors          270      480     186       8S8
IMF                        129        0       0       129
Direct Invetment           191      876      486     1031
Debt Reli-                716       60       0       776
Other Long-term             41        0       0        41
Total                19P7    182i      981      4837
(in percent of total)
1999-S1  1M-94  1996-97   1989-97
Multilateral                22.4    87.7    85.8       80.6
s/w: I88R                    5.7      6.s     1.5       5.1
Other                  16.7    81.2    88.8       25.4
Bilateral                    7.8      2.1     0.4       4.0
Private Creditors           14.1    81.6    14.7       20.8
IMF                          6.7      0.0     0.0       2.9
Direct Investment           :0.0    24.7    49.5       23.6
Debt Relief                 87.4      8.9     0.0      17.7
Other Long-term              2.1      0.0     0.0       0.9
Total                 10t.    10Fb    to"7t    1o"
108.     While private sector flows financed the bulk of T&T's capital
requirements up to five years ago, these virtually dried up as a result of
the severe decline in the country's economic situation. However, in 1989
private capital inflow is expected to cover about 152 of the financing
(aside from debt relief), largely in respect of financing for a major gas
project, and to average 222 during 1989-94. An objective of the adjustment
program is to restore T&T's access to the private capital markets. In view
of T&T's current debt service burden, however, renewed borrowing on
commercial terms needs to be carefully managed in the concext of a prudent
management of the external debt over the medium-term.
PART VIII - RECOHHZNDATION
109.     I am satisfied    t the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of e Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 21, 1989



-34-                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
TRINIDAD AND T0BA60 - iEV INDICATORS
Prel is.                               Projections
key indicators                 1987      1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997
6DP Growth Rate                  -7.4       -4.6    -2.0       0.0      1.5      2.5       3.0      3.5      4.0      4.0       4.0
6DP/Capita Growth Rate           -6.2       -5.7    -3.0      -1.0      0.5       1.5      2.0      2.3      2.8      2.7       2.7
Consueption!Capita Growth       -iS.4      -13.3    -7.5    -1.7        0.2       1.2      1.2      1.6      2.7      2.8       2.9
Total DOD  11 in US$1            2238       2325     2405     2543     2661     2792      2847     2841     2697     2507     2277
DOD!XGS  2T                     136.8      144.4    134.2    133.1    129.6    125.6    117.5    106.8      93.0    78.4       64.4
DOD/GDP-                         48.6       54.9     62.3     61.7     60.9     59.7    56.6       52.3     45.7     39.2    32.8
Debt Service fin USS1             418        398      399      432      357       522      547      529      518      543       557
Debt Serviceil6S  2/             25.6       24.7     22.2     22.6     17.4     23.5      22.6    19.9      17.9     17.0      15.8
Debt Service/6GP                  9.1       9.4      10.3     10.5      8.2     11.2    10.9        9.7      9.8      8.5      8.0
InterestlX6S  2/                  9.9      11.2      12.9     11.5     11.3     10.9      9.7       8.0      7.2      6.1      5.0
Interest/6DP                      3.5       4.3       6.0      5.3      5.3      5.2      4.7       3.9      3.5      3.0      2.5
Gross InvestmentiGDP             18.9       18.4     20.3     20.4    20.5      20.6      21.0     21.5     21.8     22.3    22.7
Do3estic SavinqsiGoP             20.0       26.3     29.7     30.2     30.4     30.6      31.1     31.6     31.6     31.5      31.4
National Savings/GDP             12.6       14.1     16.5     16.2     16.6      18.0     19.8     21.7     22.3    23.5       24.7
Governsent Investment/GDP         4.6        3.7      3.5      3.5      4.0       4.5      5.0      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5
Governeent Savings/GDP           -2.1       -3.5      0.1      1.0      2.5      3.0       3.5      4.2      4.5      5.7       6.5
Private InvestaentiGDP           14.3       14.7     16.8     16.9     16.5      16.1     16.0     16.0     16.3     16.8      17.2
Private Savin s/GDP              14.7       17.6     16.4     15.2     14.1      15.0     16.3     17.5     17.8     17.8      18.2
Ratio of Pub/Priv Investnent     32.2       25.2     20.8    20.7      24.2     28.0      31.3     34.4     33.7    32.7    32.0
ICOR  3'                          0.0      -4.1      -9.2      0.0     13.6      8.2      6.9       6.0      5.4      5.5      5.6
Gov't Revenues/GDP  4*            31.4      2m.4     30.3     31.6     31.6      31.8     32.0    32.0      33.0    34.0    34.0
Gov t Expenditures/l6P  4/       37.1       36.1     33.7     34.1     33.1     33.3      33.5     33.3     34.0     33.8     33.0
DeficitH-) or Surplus(+T/GDP     -5.7       -6.7     -3.4     -2.5     -1.5      -1.5     -1.5     -1.3     -1.0      0.2       1.0
Export Growth Rate  5''          -2.8        4.9      a.3      1.7      1.1      2.7       3.3      3.9      3.9      3.9      4.0
Exportsi6DP        -             35.2       38.7     41.9    42.7      42.5      42.6     42.7     42.9     42.9     42.8    42.8
ieport Growth Rate  5i          -27.2     -14.0       3.5      1.0      0.7      2.5      3.0       4.2      4.8      5.6      5.6
Imports/GDP        -             34.1      30.8      32.5    32.8      32.6     32.6     32.6      32.8     33.1     33.6     34.1
Current Account (in USt1         -291       -184     -148     -174     -172     -120       -62       11       29       76       137
Current Account/GDP              -6.3       -4.3     -3.8     -4.2     -3.9      -2.6     -1.2      0.2      0.5      1.2       2.0
Terms of Trade Index            100.0       83.5     87.0     84.4     85.3     87.1    88.5       89.4     89.6     91.5     93.6
1/ Debt outstanding and disbursed.
2/ Exports of goods and services.
3/ One year lag.
'41 Central Governeent
_5/ Goods and Non-factor Services.



- 35 -
ANNEM I
Page 2 of 9
TRINIDAD AND TOBA6  -  BALANCE OF PAYNENTS
(US$ millions at current prices)
Prelim.                        Projections
1987      1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     199w      1997
A.   Exports of 6oods & NFS        1622      1571      1785     1886      2020     2194      2399     2637      2866     3161      3494
1. Merchandise (FOB)            1400       1370     1534      1611     1707      1862     2034      2222     2406      2652     2929
2. Non-Factor Services           222        201      250       275      313       332      365       415      460       510      565
8.   Imports of 600ds & NFS       1572       1465      1560     1684      1771     1895     2038      2217     2426      2672      2942
1. Merchandise [FOB)            1161       1096     1175      1269     1334      1428     1535      1670     1828      2013     2217
2. Non-Factor Services           411        369      385       415      437       467      502       547      598       659      725
C.  Resource Balance                 50       106       225      202       249      299       361      420       440      490       551
D.  Net Factor Income             -301       -253     -344      -344     -386      -383      -383     -363     -359      -355     -348
1. Factor Receipts                14         39        7        25       33        29       23        25       34        36       35
2. Factor Payments               316        292      351       369      420       412      406       388      392       391      388
(interest payuents)           lel        181      232      220       231      243       235      214       209       194      177
E.  Net Current Transfers          -39        -37      -29       -32      -34       -36       -40      -46       -52      -59       -o6
1. Current Receipts                0          0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
a. workers' resittances         0          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
b. other current trans.         0          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
2. Current Payments                0          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
F.   Current Account Balance      -291       -184      -148     -174      -172     -120       -62       11        29       76       137
S.  Long-Term Capital Inflow        66         69       156      208      203       232       185      139         5      -35       -70
1. Direct Investsent              55         26       36        70       65       100       130      145       150      155       160
2. Official Capital 8rants         0          0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
3. Net LT Loans                    8         87        80      138       118      132        55       -6      -145     -190     -230
a. Disbursements              265        304      247       349      244       411      366       310      165       159      150
b. Repayments                 257        217      167       211      126       280      311       315      309       348      380
4. Other LT Inflows (net)          4        -43       41         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
H.   Total Other Items (net)        -4        -43        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..       ..
1. Net Short Term Capital        -26        -20        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..       ..
2. Capital Flows N.E.I.           22         30        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..       ..
3. Errors and bOissions            0        -53        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..        .
1.   Changes in Net Reserves       229        157       -9       -33      -32      -112     -124      -151      -36       -41      -64
1. Net Credit fron the IHF         0        114      110        18      -14       -97     -106       -22        0         0        0
2. Other Reserve Changes         229         43     -119       -52       -18      -15       -1&     -129      -36       -41       -64
(- indicates increase)



- 36 -
AMI= I
Page 3 of 9
TRINIDAD AND TOBAS  -  BALANCE OF PAYNENTS
(US$ millions at current prices)
Prelis.                         Projections
1987      1988      1969      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     1997
Shares of GOP (Current US$:
1. Resource Balance                 1.1        2.5      5.8       4.9       5.7      6.4       7.2       1.7      7.5       7.7       7.9
;  Total Interest Payments          :.5        4.3      6.0       5 3       5.3      5.2       4.7       3.9      3.5       3.0       2.5
3. Current Account Balance         -6.3       -4.3     -3.8      -4.2      -3.9     -2.6      -1.2       0.2      0.5       1.2       2.0
4. LT Capital Inflou (line 6)       1.4        1.6      4.1       5.0       4.6       5.0      3.7       2.6      0.1      -0.5      -1.0
5. Net Credit from the IMF          0.0        2.7      2.9       0.4      -0.3     -2.1      -2.1      -0.4      0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Int'l. Reserves                  145      109.6    205.7    257.4    275.6    290.4    308.2    437.4    473.0    513.7    578.2
2. Gross Res. in Ionths Inpor    z;            0.7       1.3      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.1
Menorandun Items:
GDP (ilns. of Current US$1         4603       4234     3858      4123      4369     4675      5027      5432     5898      6398      6940
Debt Relief                         ...         87      281       255       190       60       ...       ...       ...



- 37 -
ANIEX I
Page 4 of 9
TRINIDAD - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at Current Prices)
Prelim.                         Projections
A. Disbursements                   1987      1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997
1. Public & Publicly Gdar. LT      265        304      247       349      244       411      366       310      165       159      150
Cfficial Creditors            171        161      141       224      204       232      221       153       84       120      131
multilateral                139        141       99       169      162       208      218       148       80       120      131
oft  hich IBRD              0          0       21        43       46        41       32        27       14        0         0
oft hich IDA                0          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Bilateral                    32         20       43        55       42        24        3         5        4         0        0
Private Creditors              94        143      105       125       40       179      145       156       80        39       19
Supoliers                     1          3        2         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Financial harkets            92        140      103        55       20        59       53        30       24         0        0
2. Private Non-6uar. LT              0          0         0        0        0         0         0        0        0         0        0
3. Total LT Disbursements          265        304      247       349       244      411       366      310       165      159      150
4. IMF Purchases                      0       114      11C        18         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
5. Net Short-Term Capital          -26        -20         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
6. Total incl. IMF & Net ST        239        398      357       367      244       411       366      310       165      159       150
D. Repayments
1. Public & Publicly 6uar. LT      257        217      167       211      126       280      311       315      309       348      390
Official Creditors             62         71      190       102       98        54      107        73       75        92      109
Multilateral                 11         20       57        27       29        31       35        44       55        71       88
of hich IBRD                8          7        7         7        7         6        5         6        a        12       15
of which IDA                0          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Bilateral                    52         51      132        75       68        23       72        29       20        20       21
Private Creditors             195        146      -23       109       28       226      204       242      234       257      272
Suppliers                    23         27       27        27       17        17        5         0        0         0        0
Financial Narkets           172        119      -50        82       11       209      199       228      216       215      211



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 9
TRINIDAD - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (continuedl
Prelis.                           Projections
1997       1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
2.Private Non-Suar. LT                  00                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
3. Total LT Repaysents               257        217       167       211        126      280       311       315       309       348        380
4. IOF Repurchases                      0          0         0         0        14        97       106        22         0         0         0
5. Total LT Repay.+INF Repur.        257        217       167       211        140      377       417       337       309       348       380
C. Interest
1. Public & Publicly Guar. LT        161        181       232       220       231       243       235       214       209       166        148
Official Creditors               72         69       110        88        99       112       109        96       100       105       107
Multilateral                  15         19        45        39        52        66        82        86        90        9o       100
of which IBRD               3           3         2         3         6         9        12        14        16        16        15
of which IDA                0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Bilateral                     57         50        65        50        47        45        27        10        10         9         8
Private Creditors                89        112       122       132       132       131       126       118       109        69        70
Suppliers                      12          9         7         5         3         2         0         0         0         0         0
Financial Markets              77        103       115       127       123       123       110        96        78        83        62
2. Private Non-Suar. LT                 0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
3. Total LT Interest                 161         181      232       220       231       243        235      214        209      194        177
4. IOF Service Charges                  0          0         9        18        20        19        11         2         0         0         0
5. Interest on ST Debt                 0           0        -2       -2         -2       -2         -2        -2       -2        -2         -2
6. Total incl. IHF & Net ST           161        181       .40       237       250       260       244       214       207       193       175
D. External Debt (DOD)
1. Public & Publicly Guar. LT    2238          2325      2405      2543      2661      2792      2847      2841      2697      2507      2277
Official Creditors              822        912       863       985      1091      1269      1383      1463      1473      1501      1523
Multilateral                 207        327       368       510       643       620      1003      1107      1132      1160      1223
of which IBRD              41          34        48        85       124       159       186       207       212      200        185
of hich IDA                 0           0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Bilateral                     616        585       495       475       448       449       380       356       340       320       299



- 39 -
AIQU I
Page 6 of 9
TRINIDAD - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (continued)
Prelis.                         Projettions
1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     1997
Private Creditors             1415       1413     1541      1558      1570     1523      1464      1378     1224      1006       754
Suppliers                    116        92        67        41       24         7         1         1        1         1         1
Financial Narkets           1299      1320      1474      1447     1456      1306      1160      961       768       554      342
2. Private Non-Suar. LT               0          0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0
3. Total Long-Term DOD             2238       2325      2405     2543      2661      2792     2847      2841      2697     2507      2277
4. IMF Credit                         0        111      221       239       225       128       22         0         0        0         0
5. Short-Term  Debt                   0        -20       -20      -20       -20       -20      -20       -20       -20      -20       -20
6. Total incl. IMF & Net ST        2238       2415     2666      2762      2866     2900      2149      2821     2677      2487      2257
Percent of Total LT DOD:
1. On Concessional Teros            4.0        3.5      3.0       2.6       2.1      1.0       1.5       1.3      1.2       1.0       0.9
2. With Variable Int. Rates        58.1       56.8      61.3     59.7      58.1      54.3     51.4      48.4      45.3     40.1      33.0
E. Bank and IDA Ratios
-hare of Total LT DOD (D.3)
1. I1RD as I of Total               1.9        1.5      2.0       3.3       4.7      5.7       6.5       7.3      7.9       8.0       8.1
2. IDA as X of Total                0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
3. IBRD+IDA as I of Total           1.9        1.5      2.0       3.3       4.7       5.7      6.5       7.3      7.9       8.0       6.1
Share of LT Debt Serv (B.3+C.3)
1. IBRD as Z of Total               2.5        2.5      2.3       2.3       3.6      2.9       3.1       3.8      4.6       5.2       5.4
2. IDA as X of Total                0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. I1RD+IDA as % of Total           2.5        2.5      2.3       2.3       3.6       2.9      3.1       3.8      4.6       5.2       5.4
F. DOD-to-Exports Ratios (a]
1. Long-Tern Debt/Exports         136.8      144.4    134.2    133.1    129.6    125.6    117.5    106.8         93.0      78.4      64.4
2. IhF Credit/Exports               0.0        6.9      12.3     12.5      11.0       5.8      0.9       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports          0.0       -1.2     -1.1      -1.0      -1.0     -0.9      -0.8      -0.6     -0.7      -0.6      -0.6
4. LT+IKF+ST DOD/Exports          136.8      150.0    145.4    144.5    139.6    130.5    117.6    106.0         92.3      77.8      63.9



- 40 -
ANINE I
Page 7 of 9
TRINIDAD - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEST (continued)
Prelim.                        Projections
1987      1968      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     199k      1997
6. DOD-to-6DP Ratios
1. Long-Tero DebtJ8DP             48.6       54.9     62.3      61.7     60.9      59.7     5e.6      52.3     45.7      39.2     32.9
2. IMF CreditJ6DP                  0.0        2.6       5.7      5.8       5.2      2.7       0.4      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. Short-Tern Oebtl60P             0.0       -0.5     -0.5      -0.5     -0.5      -0.4     -0.4      -0.4     -0.3      -0.3      -0.3
4. LT.IMF+ST DODI6DP              48.6       57.0     67.5      67.0      65.6     62.0      56.7     51.9      45.4     38.9      32.5
H. Debt ServiceiExports (a)
1. Public & Publicly 6uar. Lt    25.6        24.7     22.2      22.6     17.4      23.5     22.6      19.9     17.9      16.1      15.0
2. Private Non-Suar. LT            0.0        0.0      0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. Total LT Debt Service          25.6       24.7     22.2      22.6      17.4     23.5     22.6      19.9      17.9     17.0      15.8
4. IMF Repurchases+Serv.Chgs.      0.0        0.0      0.5       1.0       1.7      5.2       4.8      0.9       0.0      0.0       0.0
5. Interest only on St Debt        0.0        0.0     -0.1      -0.1     -0.1      -0.1     -0.1      -0.1     -0.1      -0.1      0.0
6. Total (LT+INF+ST Int.)         25.6       24.7     22.7      23.5      19.0     28.6      27.3     20.7      17.8     16.9      15.7
1. Interest Burden Ratios
1. Total Interestl60P              3.5        4.3      6.2       5.8      5.7       5.6      4.9       3.9      3.5       3.0      2.5
2. Total Interest/Exports (a)      9.8       11.2      13.4     12.4      12.2     11.7      10.1      8.1      7.1       6.0       5.0
(al  Ratio to 'Exports' with latter receipts from non-factor services, factor services, and workers resittances.



- 41  -                             ~~~~ANNEX  I
-                             ~~~~~~Page 8 of 9
Socia Indicators of Dovelpmnt, 1"99
Trinidad and Tobago
moos                                Neut
25JOV      15.20       Maio 8      Latia                  1gher
Usite ofYdAn                yun       ntbwate    Amria.icome
fleit 29         ago         go         (awe)    Caibea        icome       growp
INCOME AND POVERTY
income
GNP per capia (mfe = 1988)                     us$               770       2.000       3.350       1.940      2.940      17.080
Toalhouseod miaowe
Sha t tp 0%of households              % Ofincome             ..32 
Shar to2O      fhushls4o.
SharetO b4dtra40%owfhue"hol ds                                   ..13 
Shareto b4tm2%ofhueod
Poverty
Absolute povaty income: urban             US$ per pero             .           ..
rural
Pop in absolute poverty urba                % ofjpp......
mud
Prevalence of malnuritimn (uider 5)       % of age group...                              86
EXPENDfrURE
Food                                        %ofGDP                 .           ..
ea, fish. milk, cheese eggs          &u  erctrns              11         28          22        1.4         556        7.6
Food aid mcereals                                                             0
Food productio praia197941=100                                 139.9       139.5        71.6       100.1      104.        102S
Shareofagriculturein GD?        ~% of GDP             8.2         3.3         4.2        11.7       12.3         2.6
Dail aorisp                              calones per persn     2.4697      2,6618      3.0812      2.7,04     2-9810      3.376
Dadyprotein upply                        gramaper peras            46                    8            98                     0
Housin                                      %ofGDP                 .           ..
A"eag household size                   person per. household      ..S.
Urban
fixedinvestmenuthousing                     % of GDP               ..        8.         10.5
Fadland power                               % ofGDP                .           ..
En    cnzpontppt                        kg of oil equivalen   4,492.2    3,524.8     5,173.5      974.1      1,427.7     4,885.1
Urban                                   % of households           ..                  91.6
Rural
Transport dandmrmtnlatiou                  %s of GDP               ....
Pp  lroprasengercar                           eros16                          10          5          16          14      
F=KediWUnvesimou'=tsportequipmentt          %poefGP                ..1.1                 0.8 
Total road length                              km                  .                                  i
opultonmper telephone                        persons              ..15                   10119
INVESTUME IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Medical cam                                 %.of GDP               ...
Population pec physician                     P"19Son           3.813i      2.20         962         933       1.21          53,0
nurse                                              50          20          258         875          0           6
hospital bed                                         ..        200         201
Access to health care                       V of pop.
Immunized (under 12 months) meses           of a&e group                                60.0        52.7
DT                                                            7.         624            ..       82.4
Oral Rehydratio Therap use (under 5)        V. of caseso.                               60.0        33.6
Educain                                     V. Of GDP              .           ..
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary. total                       %of school*age growp      93.0       99.0        95.0       108.1       103.5       101.9
female                                 *               90.0       100.0       96.0       105.2        99.4       101.8
Secondary: total                                               36.0        48.0       76.0        48.8        57.8        94.3
female                                               34.0        51.0       79.0        52.         56.7        93.7
Testiary scaclnineV Of teuiai students                          21.9        28.1        45.3
Pupil-teacherratio: pimr                 pupils per teacher       34         3 1         24          26          2           20
seonay                                           27          39          20
Pupils echinkg grade 4                      V. Of cohort          ..        73.9        88.7       66.         768         97.7
Repeaterrte: prmryV of tota enrollment                             .           .3.5                 17.9       18.1
flteaciyrwtoveui                        %pp(a e5.                 .            .3.9                 16.7        21.8
female                     % of femiale ragel15+)      ...                   5.2        19.0       25.6
Newspaperclraaladsm            ~~~~per hou pop.      108.3       99.1i      144.5        81.2        86.       315.6



- 42 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 9 of 9
Socal Indats of Devdepment, 1969
Trinidad and Tobago
m  Same region I i4Cat gromp   Nex
MossN
25-30      15-20     recent       Laiti                 higher
ye=  Ye=     eab        Amria,                  ncnz
mzeaswe         490          9a a     (Me)                  incom       group
HUMAN"RESOURCES
Slr, grot, sucre of populatn
To'a1unotu( lre .1968)                    dwusands            896       1009       141    416398   424?O6    7828
14 aunderak (V.=lgsof.pop.                                 424          74 69                                        0
15-64                                                       53.9       5&5        62.2       58.6        60.2       666
Age dnncyaio                               uni              0.86       0.71       0.61        0.71       0.65       0.49
Perc    r uban ara                         of  p.           30.0       48.4       66S         72.6       68.8       78.3
Fa_duPr 100 d
Udm nanber .e                                                            ....                 104          .
Ruud
gn whratea                                           13          13         1.6        2.0        1.8        0.5
IJ;bdgb                                     "6.5                        53         3.5         3.2        3.1        0.8
Urban/rulgncwrhdifferntial                difference          72         7.7         5.8        3.7        3.8        03
Pjecd population: 2000                   dtusands              ..          ..      1,429    516.308    521,035    829,402
Stao pun                                                        .          ..      2.012
Deterulmant otpopulail  growth
F-
tbihph ra m                               thou. pOp.        33.4       26.4       25.9        287        26.4       13.7
Totalfetily rae                        thsperwoman          4.33       3.37       2.80        3.59       3.39       1.78
C    Rpveprvalene                       fwome 1549            ..         ..       54.0
U, (0-4) lwan (1549) atios
Urban~p  10wmn                                                ..         ..         ..          .           ..
bR                                   per. 100 women..
rudeath raw.                           per hu pap.           7.6        6.9        6.7         7.5        8.3        93
per tho ive irths     42.2        27.6       20.0       S4.2       46.9         9.6
Undera5mo e '                                                 ..         ..       23.0       65.0        58.4       19.7
life expectan  at birbi overall            yeas             653        67.1       69.8        66.4       67.2       76.0
fema                                    67.4       69.5       72.6        69.2       69.8       79.3
Labwr frce(15.64
Totallaborfare                            thousands           301        364        481     146,446    156,018    365,613
A                     * ellfogce           ~~~~~20.1   14.4         ...
Aricdwm                    S~~~~~V of labor force  34.8     37.2
Femae                                                       284.8      27,8       29.9        266        29.5       37.8
Feles per 100males
Urban                                     number              ..         ..         ..        106
rau:rverllV.88
Pacpanon :ovofelabor force                                   33.6        361        38.6       35.0       38.2        47.S
female a                                       18.8       20.5       23.1        18S        22.1       35.0
FAucalio.a atlalamoa of lsabr forc
Sdcool yam completed:e                      yean                ..        ..          ..          .          ..
male                      n                            ..         ..
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     thou. sq.km         5.13        5.13       5.13     20.396     20.337      33,827
Density                                 pQp.peraq.km          175        197        238         20          20         23
Agriltualland                              oflanda           20.5       24.6        25.5       363        31.6        37.0
Aiuuraldensity                          pppesqkm              853        801        933          55         65         62
Foessandwoodlind                          ho      'am        2.45       2.3         225       9,776      7587        8,S48
Defoaionn rte (nu)                                            -04045 404A                                              0.0
Ac,emtosaewat                              of.po               ..        93.0       98.0       73.2       79.4
Urban                                *                                             3.79  's:8  IN      6290.
Rwd                                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~100.06.
Poputon growth                              Infant mort                           Primary school enrollment
6                                         wMO                                        ta0
ma                                         10
4                                                               5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2                                                               4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0                                                                           ol~~~~~~~~~~~
autyEb    e*70;        mn                  eatymb    eadyft        e                   ary ta    ely7ta      we
. TWai. hZTobw - UidM%Lnea.m



- 43 -
Annex 11
STATUs OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of September 89, 1989
--_-U^SS  Nillon---
Amount
Loan     Fiscal                                                                    (Lose Cancel lotlon)
No.       Year      Borrower              Purpose                                 Bank      Undisbursed
18 loans fully disbursed                                                          93.4           -
Of which hbo been repald                                     76.0
Total Now Outstanding                                         17.4 a/
Amount Sold                                       22.9
Of which has been reopld                          21.6        1.8
Total now held by Bank                                       16S1 a/
Total Undisbursed
B. Statement of XFC InvestAents as of September 80, 1989
Fiscal                                                                           - ----SS Million------
Year    Borrower                          Type of BusTnes                         Loan      Equity       Total
1978    Canning A Co. Ltd.               Poultry                                  1.2         -           1.2
1979    Caribbean Clsea Works, Ltd.      Class ContTiners                         1.2         -           1.2
1987    Trinidad Nitrogen Co. Ltd.       Chemical A Petrochemicl                190.0         -         190.0
1987    Home Mortgage Bank               Money and Capital Markete                            6.4         0.4
1989    Trinidad and Tobago
Development Finance Co. Ltd. Capital Market.                                       6.5         065
Total Grors Coamitment                                                  192.4         0.9       193.3
Lese Cancellotions, Terminations, Sales and Repaymnt.                  1C09          -         160.9
Total Commitments now hold by XFC                                        81.5         0.9        82.4
Total Undisbursed                                                         0.0         O6          6.5
B/ Book value.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSThENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHUT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Initiation of structural adjustment operation: in March 1988. the
Governtment requested the Bank to review Trinidad and Tobago's
eligibility for Bank borrowing in light of the deterioration of
economic performance. Following the review, the Bank decided to
resume lending in FY90, within the context of a viable
macroeconomic framework. The Government later entered into
arrangements with the IMF for a CFF, a Standby and a CCFF; and
requested Bank support through a series of adjustment operations,
the first of which was to be a SAL.
(b)  Preappraisal mission                      November 1988
(c)  Appraisal mission                         April/May 1989
(d)  Completion of negotiations                November 1989
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness             December 1989
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Government's wide-ranging efforts at structural adjustment
have stretched the implementation capacity of an already weak institutional
structure. To ensure timely implementation of the loan conditions, the
Bank will provide technical support under a parallel Technical Assistance
Loan.
Section III - Special Conditions
Effectiveness of the loan, which will permit use of the first
tranche of US$20 million equivalent, is subject to no special conditions
over and above the several policy measures that were adopted prior to Board
presentation. Release of the second tranche of US$20 million equivalent
would be contingent upon significant and satisfactory progress made by the
Government in implementing the structural adjustment program, notably in
complying with the following specific conditions:
Conditions of Release of Second Tranche
(a) Satisfactory implementation of the medium-term economic program
and review of the performance of non-petroleum exports and of the
evolution of the real exchange rate.
(b) Measures to reform the state enterprise and public utilities
sector as follows: (i) complete liquidation of NHMC, SNC and NSR;
(ii) prepare for divestment and bring to the market at least three
wholly or majority owned state enterprises; (iii) in respect of
T&TEC, complete management and operational audit and prepare and



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
agree on action plan reflecting agreed objectives; achieve
specified targets for operating balance including a possible
tariff increase of 172, customer/employee ratio, and arrears in
receivables, and convert Government loans and advances to equity;
(iv) in respect of WASA, prepare consultant report containing
proposals and plan for rehabilitation of the commercial system,
including plan for an initial metering program; for achieving
specified targets for customer/employee ratio, working ratio and
arrears in receivables; and for achieving tariff levels and
structure consistent with agreed objectives; adopt action plan and
implement measures in accordance with plan (paras. 42 and 45).
(c) Agreement with the Bank on a rolled-over, 3-year PSIP for 1990-92,
and a core program for 1990; guidelines for project preparation,
criteria for project selection, and approval procedures; and
significant steps in strengthening the institutional process for
PSIP formulation and monitoring, (para. 49).
(d) The following trade reforms: (i) reduction by 402 (in terms of
production coverage) of the remaining negative list of imports and
quantitative restrictions affecting the manufacturing sector, and
agreement on time-phased program to eliminate the remainder by end
1991, except for a limited set of items agreed with the Bank
(total import charges on items removed from the negative list not
to exceed 1002 of the c.i.f. price, with exceptions for textiles
and garments and possibly dairy products, and be phased out over
three to five years); (ii) study of protective regime for
agriculture and state trading company and discussion of findings
with the Bank; (iii) formulation of and agreement on a time-phased
action plan for removal of duty exemptions over three to five
years; implementation initiated according to plan; (iv)
introduction of reforms to simplify import and export procedures;
and (v) study of trade and associated policies and agreement with
the Bank on a medium-term program of tariff reform incorporating
agreed principles (paras. 57, 60, 62, and 66).
(e) The following export incentive measuress examination of
alternative systems for providing free trade status to exporters,
including estimation of the significance of indirect taxes
incorporated in exports, and establishment of a selected scheme
for major exporters; timetable for establishing a scheme for other
exporters (para. 68).
(f) Satisfactory functioning of the one-stop-shop and the simplified
documentation for prospective investors; and satisfactory
legislation or equivalent regulations adopted for facilitating
foreign investment (para. 70).
(g) Satisfactory progress in reviewing the regulatory and incentive
framework applicable to the petroleum sector (para. 72).
(h) Satisfactory functioning of the Restruct ring Support Unit and the
Social Sectors Unit, and satisfactory progress in studies and in
preparation of action plans or proposals in accordance with agreed
terms of reference (para. 79).



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
TRNIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
BACKGROUND AND FOCUS OF THE MDIUM-TERM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
1.       An appropriate exchange rate policy and improved fiLcal
management, including increased efficiency in the public sector, are the
heart of the Government strategy to correct external and internal
imbalances and set the stage fer renewed growth. Measures in these areas
are to be complemented with reforms to improve the incentive environment
for private sector investment. Trade policy is to play a key role in
changing the direction of industrial development from inward-looking to
export-oriented.
The Foreign Exchange Regime
2.       It is evident from recent export developments that the real
exchange rate is significantly more favorable for non-oil exportables than
over the last 15 years. (Following the 1988 devaluation, the index of real
effective exchange rate showed an improvement relative to the 1976 base of
about 6 percentage points.) The real growth of nontraditional exports
exceeded 201 per annum during 1985-88. The more competitive environment
has been created by the two devaluations coupled with the fall in nominal
wages resulting from the protracted economic decline -- unskilled labor
currently earns TT$ 35-50/day (US$8-12 at the current exchange rate)
compared with TT$ 90-lOOIday (US$38-42) a few years ago. The country has
not yet experienced the full supply response to the exchange rate
adjustments, and the Government intends to adopt additional export
incentive measures along the lines discussed below. In these
circumstances, close monitoring of the evolution of the real exchange rate
would be required. This implies following developments in the foreign
exchange market and in the performance of both exports and imports and,
regarding the latter, progress in the proposed import liberalization
program which will put pressure on the exchange rate in the absence of
adequate financing flows.
3.       The authorities have indicated their intention to pursue a
flexible exchange rate policy in order to maintain export competitiveness.
With this in view, they have considerably eased the foreign exchange
allocation mechanism during 1989, with a view to eliminating it by 1990.
The basis is increased availability of foreign exchange resulting from the
IMF program and other external financing expected. The first step was to
exempt from the allocation process early in 1989 manufacturers who are net
earners of foreigr. exchange, selected tourism activities and oil sector
service industries. These are now allowed to maintain foreign currency
accounts in the local commercial banks. In September 1989, most
agricultural inputs, some raw materials for manufacturing, and capital
goods and spares were made exempt from the ex ante allocation process.



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11
Fiscal Policy
4.       Fiscal policy will focus on bringing expenditures in line with
revenues, thus reducing the public sector's recourse to the banking .ystem
to minimize the Central Bank's reserve losses in the short term and release
financial resources to the private sector. This objective calls for
programs to reduce the dependence of state enterprises and the public
utilities on the budget, and for a more structured approach to budget
reductions than in the recent past when capital expenditure bore the brunt
of budget cutbacks. Current transfers to the rest of the public sector,
which peaked at close to 8S of GDP in 1983 before declining to 31 of GDP in
1988, are to be further reduced by the equivalent of 12 of GDP in 1989.
Towards the objective of progressively increasing their financial
independence, most enterprises are being required to introduce wide-ranging
reforms, including financial restructuring, divestiture and in some cases
closure. Their recourse to the banking system and to foreign borrowing has
been curtailed; and oversight arrangements are to be introduced to ensure
that ongoinF financial improvements are sustained.
5.       The Government wage bill is to be reduced through both wage and
employment cuts. Although an Industrial Court ruled in August 1988 that
the cost of living allowances suspended in 1987 (after 4 years of stagnant
nominal wages) should be reinstated and that a salary increase for 1987 of
21 be awarded, and the Government accepted the decision, Parliament
authorized a postponement of the award. Further the Government announced
in the 1989 budget a 1O0 across the board reduction in public service wages
and salaries. Legislation giving effect to this decision was passed ir. the
Parliament in February 1989. The Government also introduced in 1989 a
Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP) through which it expects to
shed close to 9,600 workers over three years, 152 of its permanent civil
servants.
6.       The system for public sector investment programming is to be
upgraded to improve the efficiency of use of investment funds. To this
end, emphasis is being placed on building a capability in project
preparation, analysis, implementation and monitoring.
7.       The Government has embarked on a comprehensive tax reform to be
introduced in two phases. The objective is to broaden the tax base,
redress disparities In equity and enhance the incentive effects of the tax
system, while simplifying its application. The first phase, introduced in
1989, deals with direct taxes. It reduces the number of bands in the
individual income tax from 11 to 4; lowers the top rate (reduced from 70%
to 502 in 1988) to 45Z; eliminates most allowances, providing tax credits
instead; and'reduces the corporation income tax from 49.52 to 45%. The
adjustments involve a correspondingly more favorable tax treatment for
dividend income aimed at stimulating investment in compan'.s.  In the
second phase of the tax reform, to be adopted in 1990, a value added tax
will be introduced, and lirect taxes reduced further, to a top rate of 35z.
Monetary and Credit Policy
8.       The fiscal measures for containing the Government deficit and the
financing plan for 1989 are directed at limiting inflationary credit
expansion and enhancing the scope for mobilizing financial resources



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 11
through the banking system. Thus the domestic financing requirement for
the year will be diverted to the local bond market. Measures were also
taken, late in 1988, to raise deposit rates and mobilize more financial
resources from the private sector. Since interest rates are market
determined, the Central Bank raised its rediscount rate by 2 percentage
points to 9.5Z, and intends to keep, as a minimum, the present spread of
about 2 percentage points between the Central Bank rediscount rate and the
weighted average interest rate on time deposits in the financial system.
It also established a schedule under which commercial banks are required'to
reduce their outstanding advances from the Central Bank. With a view to
broadening its money markets and raising average yields, the authorities
began to phase out the secondary reserve requirement (treasury bill
holding) applicable to commercial banks. The requirement was reduced from
112 to 92 in January 1989 and further to 72 in May 1989. This measure
would help improve banks' earnings, and facilitate a reduction of the
spreads between their average deposit and lending rates (around 6
percentage points in the last quarter of 1988).
Wage and Price Policies
9.       The authorities have adopted a stringent policy of wage restraint
for the public sector. Recent wage reductions were described in para. 5
above.   The persistent declines in economic activity have also affected
real wages in the private sector. Real weekly earnings in manufacturing
declined by about 4.42 per year on average during 1985 to 1988 and daily
paid unskilled wage rates have fallen by 50-602 in TT$ terms (para 2.
above).
10.      In keeping with the aim to introduce greater efficiency in the
functioning of the economy, the Government has dismantled most price
controls. By the end of 1988, only essential food items, and items where a
substantial amount of monopoly price fixing existed -- school books,
pharmaceuticals and auto tires -- were still controlled. For these
remaining items, 13 in all, the authorities plan to introduce greater
automaticity into the price adjustment process, i.e. the Secretariat of the
Prices Commission is to be given the authority to approve increases within
guidelines established by the Commission, and enterprises in some cases
would be able to adjust prices subject only to ex-post notification to the
Secretariat.
11.      Domestic prices of petroleum products are adjusted to reflect
international opportunity costs. Prices of public utilities, however, are
adjusted only periodically, and require the approval of the Public
Utilities Commission. They have been raised more frequently since 1983
when the Government began to curtail subsidies for public services.
Nonetheless, tariffs of many of the utilities are currently out of line
with the economic cost of their operations. The objective under the
adjustment program is to introduce corrective pricing policies for the
utilities.
External Debt and Debt Management
12.      Trinidad and Tobago experienced debt servicing problems in 1988.
The public and publicly-guaranteed external debt rose rapidly between 1982
and 1987, doubling to over US$2 billion, equivalent to 1372 exports of



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 11
goods and serv'-es. A rising share of the debt was denominated in Japanese
yen and European currencies (602 in 1986). This pattern significantly
increased the debt service burden in terms of US dollars in which the bulk
of exports ore priced. The debt service rose from 7Z to 262 of exports of
goods and services during 1982-87; this ratio reflects also the much
reduced level of export earnings. In the absence of debt rescheduling,
Trinidad and Tobago faced a bunching of debt repayments to commercial
creditors in the next few years.
13.      In the context of its adjustment program, the Government has
nearly completed rescheduling arrangements with its commercial bank
creditors and with its official creditors under the aegis of the London and
Paris Club, respectively. The arrangements would reschedule all
emortization payments falling due from September 1, 1988 through
August 31, 1992. The terms are ten years' maturity and four and a half
years' grace period. This would provide debt relief totalling US$863
million (of which US$281 million would apply to 1989). The effect is to
reduce the debt service ratio in 1989 from 382 of exports of goods and
services to 222. For the medium term, the authorities are adopting a
prudent debt management strategy having the following elements: a more
careful selection of investment projects; an increased reliance on
multilateral or bilateral sources for external finance; and closer
monitoring of the external borrowing of state enterprises, whose external
obligations account for about 402 of the debt expected to be rescheduled.
3. SECTORAL POLICIES
The Hydrocarbon Sector
14.      The discovery of oil in Trinidad and Tobago in 1890 set the stage
for the country's future prosperity and consequent problems. When this
land find was followed in 1908 by marine discoveries and somewhat
thereafter by the construction of an oil refinery, Trinidad was established
early as the leading income earner in the English speaking Caribbean. The
petroleum sector has, however, suffered periodic production declines as old
wells were depleted, leading as recently as 1968-70 to a domestic recession
and high unemployment. The sector is currently in such a production slump.
Existing wells are becoming depleted and drilling them is more costly.
Crude oil production, which peaked at 83.8 million barrels in 1978,
declined to 58.3 million barrels by 1983, a fall of 302 in five years. The
oil price collapse in 1986 stifled a recovery that began in 1984, and in
1988 production reached a 15 year low of 50.8 million barrels. The
Government's strategy is to stimulate higher oil production through more
favorable tax incentives, introduced in 1988. The Government is targeting
further exploration and secondary oil rectvery to increase productiton.
During 1988, it introduced the lease operatorship program for secondary
recovery aimed at reactivating wells currently at low production and not
being drilled by current owners. These latter would lease to private
operators who would qualify for additional tax incentives under the revised
Supplemental Petroleum Tax. Government invited bids for the lease
operatorships and for new exploration acreages. The response to both
programs was good and the authorities are optimistic that over the medium-
term, these and prime new areas to be offered for competitive bidding would
be explored. Further improvements to the incentive and regulatory regime
are, however, needed. The tax revisions of 1988 are applicable strictly to



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 11
existing production operations, not to new ones, and are not geared to
stimulating their production much above 1987 levels. The taxation system
is complicated and the contracting arrangements are outmoded. These issues
are to be addressed under the adjustment program.
15.      While refining has been central to the sector's operations for
many years, accounting for 40-50Z of the sector's export earnings, the
refining industry has not kept up with world-wide sector developments. It
failed to adjust its product lines away from fuel oil for which demand wks
falling to the lighter products, such as gasoline and diesel, in greater
demand. This factor, coupled with the lower crude oil production and the
cancellation in 1982 of a long-term processing arrangement led to a drastic
fall in capacity utilization. With industry throughput averaging only 251
of refining capacity, refinery losses have averaged TT$100 million per
year. For some time the Government has recognized the need to rationalize
and upgrade the subsector. Although the two refineries, at Point Fortin
and at Pointe-a-Pierre, are run by the state-owned Trinidad and Tobago Oil
Company (Trintoc), their refining processes are not integrated, with
respect to the supply and use of feedstock, for example. Overstaffing
afflicts both plants; and because many of the facilities are old, and the
processing configuration is very simple, extensive refinery conversions and
new plant are necessary to change the yield pattern in order to be able to
export more profitable distillates. These problems afflict the Point
Fortin plant, the older and smaller of the two plants, more so than the
other, and the option of closing down operations at Point Fortin altogether
has been proposed. The Government is approaching such a proposal
cautiously because of the considerable social implications -- about 1,000
workers would be added to the already large and rapidly growing numbers of
unemployed, in a company town with no major alternative source of income.
However, it is embarking on an industry rationalization and refinery
upgrading program with IDB support.
Heavy Industry
16.      Trinidad and Tobago had, in the past, embarked on a strategy of
developing energy-based heavy industry as a mechanism to harness its
abundant gas resources and diversify the economy. The petrochemical (urea,
ammonia, methanol) and steel industries launched under this program
beginning in the 1970's offered promise of diversifying export earnings.
Various reasons, including start-up and management problems, as well as
weak marketing capabilities and low international prices, have prevented
them from realizing their potential. The Government, which has full or
majority ownership in most of the enterprises, has covered their losses
over the years.
17.      The Iron and Steel Company of Trinidad and Tobago (ISCOTT)
suffered from market related problems, low capacity utilization, high
costs, and weaknesses in management and technical skills. It required
annual capital transfers of some US$60 million in 1986 and 1987. After
operating under a management contract for about a year, the company was
leased to an experienced international steel producer in 1989. With
required investments and improved management, ISCOTT would be able to
compete effectively in higher-value products and achieve its rated capacity
of 600,000 tons per annum.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 11
18.      In the petrochemical sector, experience has been mixed, primarily
because of the significant influence of international prices on financial
performance. There are four companies in this sector. The Trinidad and
Tobago Methanol Company (TTMC) is wholly owned by the Government.  Federal
Chemicals (Fedchem) is an ammonia plant owned by W.R. Grace & Company.
Trinidad Nitrogen Company (Tringen) is an ammonia producer owned 512 by the
Government and 492 by W.R. Grace & Company and managed by Fedchem.
Fertilizer Company of Trinidad (Fertrin) is owned 512 by the Government and
492 by AMOCO. It is managed by AMOCO, and produces ammonia. A urea line,
wholly owned and operated by the Government is located in the Fertrin
complex. TTMC has been well managed, and with the recent sharp increase in
methanol prices is generating sizable surpluses as against its earlier
deficits. The ammonia companies in which the Government has an interest
have been affected by low ammonia prices, while the 1002 Government-owned
urea plant has been losing money.
19.      Given the abundance of Trinidad and Tobago's natural gas reserves,
expansion in gas-processing industries is a logical step. A number of
methanol proposals have been discussed over the years, and, with the
current prognosis for methanol prices, additional methanol capacity could
be an interesting option, and is under consideration both by the Government
and by private concerns. Downstream conversion of methanol into methyl
tertiary butyl ether (MTBE, an octane enhancer) -- a protect that has been
proposed -- would have to be looked at carefully in light of both MTBE
capacity in the region and the lack of local butylene needed to make MTBE.
Similarly, Government's proposals to build a new ammonia plant to integrate
with the existing urea plant should be examined in the framework of other
options for the urea plant (e.g., sale to Fertrin, where the urea plant is
located). One project under serious consideration by the Government and
which would be carried out with foreign partners is a Natural Gas Liquids'
project (for the separation of liquids from natural gas). The project
would strip the gas of condensables which could be fractionated to produce
propane, butane and gasoline. As the process would not affect the
suitability of the gas for ammonia or methanol production, the project
would effectively enhance the value of currently produced natural gas. The
IFC has been approached about this and other projects in the petrochemical
sector, and would be prepared to consider feasible investments.
Other Manufacturing
20.      The light manufacturing sector consists of food processing, other
resource-based industries such as wood processing, assembly and associated
component industries and apparel. The sector has the typical
characteristics of an industry shielded from import competition over a long
period of time. Assembly of imported parts, frequently in completely
knocked-down form, and mixing and bottling operations of the food
processing industry dominate light manufacturing with about two-thirds of
total value added. These activities have small shares of value added in
sales, operate with weak linkages to the domestic economy and offer little
opportunity for learning by doing. Product quality of the industry has
generally been well below comparable imports; and prices of most
domestically manufactured goods have been substantially above world market
levels.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 11
21.      In line with the overall performance of the economy, the sector
grew rapidly during the boom years. Behind a tight system of non-tariff
protection, annual real growth of manufacturing output (excluding petroleum
refining and petrochemicals) ranged between 72 and 142. However, as growth
of other economic sectors was also high, the share in GDP averaged only
6.5Z during 1974-82, lower than in the early 1970s. With the sharp drop in
the petroleum sector, the share increased to about 92 by 1986. Geared to
the domestic market and boosted by the captive demand in the rapidly
growing economy, the sector had little incentive to export and has been b
large net user of foreign exchange. Exports grew 2.5Z during 1974-82, and
declined in the next three years as import and foreign exchange controls
tightened. The sector's potential, however, is demonstrated by its export
performance in the last three years. Depressed domestic demand and a more
competitive exchange rate stimulated real export growth in this sector in
excess of 202 per annum, albeit from a low base.
22.      The issues and potential in the sector point to the need to revamp
the incentive environment facing manufacturers.  Current industrial policy
relies heavily on non-tariff import protection administered through a
'negative list' of imports, import duty exemptions on imported inputs for
approved industries and an export incentive regime rendered ineffective by
the underfunding of export support institutions and by the dearth of
marketing expertise. The Government recognizes the need to shift emphasis
away from import substitution toward export manufacture, and the medium-
term adjustment program includes proposals to reduce the anti-export bias
in the trade regime and to provide exporters with access to imported inputs
on a simulated free trade basis.
Agriculture
23.      While the development of a strong petroleum export sector rendered
the real exchange rate uncompetitive for agriculture in the past,
Government policy continued to accord that sector a major role in the
economy. It was expected to achieve food security, maintain farm incomes
and be the employer of last resort. The Government put in place a complex
and costly system of protection -- controls and subsidies, sometimes
conflicting -- that did not produce the expected results. Agricultural
output fell some 222 between 1976 and 1981, and over the decade of the
1970's the number of agricultural workers almost halved.
24.      Sugar, the main export crop, contributing 95Z of agricultural
exports, is kept afloat only by massive domestic and foreign subsidies.
Production costs in 1987 were five times the world price and 3-1/2 times
the preferential price obtained from sales in the guaranteed UK and US
markets. The state-owned sugar corporation, CARONI (1975) Limited,
required annual budgetary transfers averaging US$65 million during 1984-87
to cover its operating losses. The Government is now considering phasing
out the production of sugar for export. The minor export crops of cocoa
and coffee suffered from an exodus of labor and severe neglect of the
estates. In sum, the total subsidy to agriculture, large as it was,
attracted only limited resources to a sector that, basically, was
uncompetitive at the prevailing exchange rate.
25.      Increased unemployment, together with the recent devaluations of
the TT dollar, have created more favorable conditions for agriculture.
They have brought an influx of workers into the sector at greatly reduced



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 11
wages; prompted a reduction of Government subsidies; and generally
increased the competitiveness of agriculture. Employment in agriculture
rose by 28Z between 1982 and 1986 from 34,600 to 44,200. All subsidies
except for milk have been scaled back significantly since 1983, from TT$62
million to TTS22 million in 1987. Under those conditions, greater
harvesting and some modest rehabilitation of existing cocoa, coffee and
citrus orchards are occurring. The Government recognizes the need to
dismantle the protective system, and has dismantled most price controls;
and import restrictions are slated for relaxation under the medium-term
adjustment program. The 1988 recent elimination of restrictions against
CARICOM imports is exposing agriculture to a certain degree of external
competition.
26.      The above actions are consistent with a thrust toward export-
oriented development and efficient import substitution. Nonetheless, the
Government has been contemplating major import substituting investments in
rice and livestock production which past experience and preliminary
analysis suggest would be economically unviable. The proposed policy,
moreover, of utilizing the demonstrably inefficient sugar producer, CARONI,
as the vehicle for the Government's agricultural diversification strategy,
including the proposed rice and livestock projects, is inappropriate.
Ensuring that major projects under consideration are subjected to full
technical, financial and economic analysis prior to implementation would
make explicit the costs of the Government's import substitution policies,
and would promote a more efficient use of scarce national resources. Full
dismantling of the price control and subsidy system and shifting away from
quantitative restrictions toward tariff protection would permit the
development of a more efficient and competitive agriculture. These
improved policies are being promoted under the medium-term adjustment
program.
Tourism
27.      Within the twin-island state, Tobago offers the natural endowment
associated with sand and sea type of tourism. Trinidad, nonetheless,
contains nearly three-fourths of the existing hotel rooms catering, for the
most part, to business visitors. Over half the visitors to the country,
however, fall into neither category, but consist of Trinidadians and
friends visiting for local holidays and festivals, who stay in private
homes. Hotel holiday visitors account for a marginal share. During the
boom years government policy toward tourism was at best one of benign
neglect, while societal attitudes towards service-type jobs did not favor
the industry. Trinidad and Tobago became a high price, low quality
destination. In 1986, it ranked behind Aruba in total stayover visitors
and received only one half of the numbers that visited Barbados. In 1987,
while average room occupancy rates in the Caribbean were 60Z, its room
occupancy rates were 442. Average regional length of stay is also double
Trinidad and Tobago's low average of three days. The same low market
penetration exists in the cruise ship passenger market. Cruise ship
passengers to Trinidad and Tobago were one-fourth of those to Aruba, far
lower than any among five competing 1987 regional destinations. There is
therefore considerable scope for short-term foreign exchange and employment
gains from improved promotion efforts.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 11
28.      In the current search for alternative sources of foreign exchange
earnings and employment, the Government is targeting tourism with new
emphasis. The official tourism development policies, however, are
ambitious in that rapid expansion is anticipated within a development
philosophy that places considerable emphasis on regional dispersion. social
balance and environmental protection. Such management will not be easy
given the current limited institutional capacity. The Government also
places emphasis on the high income tourist market. To attain this
objective, Trinidad and Tobago must be perceived as a high quality
destination, with sophisticated and diverse support services and a low risk
of disappointment. There is also a need in Trinidad and, to a much lesser
extent, in Tobago for a national awareness campaign to help foster a more
positive image for tourism within the community.
29.      The Government is considering transforming the Tourism Board into
a commercially oriented Tourism Development Authority with prime
responsibility for promotion, development and regulation of the sector --
an essential step for effective policy implementation. Budget constraints
could, however, limit its critically needed overseas marketing and
promotion activities. However, significant infrastructural development is
underway in Tobago. A new deepwater harbour tn Tobago is expected to be
completed by the end of 1989, and extension of the Crown Point runway in
Tobago to allow direct flights by wide-bodied jets is expected to be
completed by mid-1990. Ongoing private sector investments in hotel
construction and expansion would increase accommodation capacity in Tobago
by an additional 500 rooms for the 1989/90 season; and other reasonably
advanced project and financing plans indicate that these numbers could rise
to about 2000 by 1994/95. It would be important for the regulatory
framework to facilitate the tourism development implied by these
activities. In particular, a policy of liberalization of airline services
to Tobago, permitting direct scheduled and chartered flights into Crown
Point airport in Tobago, would promote tourism growth. The Government has
initiated bilateral negotiations for scheduled international flights. and
recently entered into an agreement with Aruba for scheduled flights by
Aruba Airlines into Tobago. The Government should also review its present
hotel ownership position -- full ownership of the Hilton, and the 52 room
Farrell House, 91Z ownership of the Crown Reef, 66Z of the Chacacabana
Hotel and 35Z of the Holiday Inn -- with a view to eventual divestment to
private sector interests. The funds released could then be used to help
finance tourism-related infrastructure, promotion and training programs.
(The Crown Reef hotel was closed in February, 1989 and Cabinet has approved
a proposal that Government enter into a joint venture arrangement for the
hotel).
Social Sectors
30.      The impact of the prolonged economic decline and adjustment
measures has focused attention on raising the efficiency of delivery of
social services and ensuring that the needs of the underprivileged and
other vulnerable groups are adequately met. In some subsectors this would
imply a shift away from expansion of physical facilities and in favor of
expenditures for maintenance, better targeting and carefully structured and
effective programs of cost recovery.
31.      Public policy on health in the past has emphasized curative more
than preventive medicine, with hospitals accounting for almost four-fifths
of all medical services provided. Standards of hospital services have
fallen and the conditions of some health centers have deteriorated because



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 11
of budget cuts; and the limited public funding of the health sector as a
whole has spurred a wave of emigration of medical personnel, particularly
nurses. Measures are needed to reorient the focus of public health
programs in the direction of primary health care provided at the community
level; to ensure that public expenditures on health are not further
reduced; and to introduce cost recovery on a selective basis.
32.      Expansion of education in the past occurred at the expense of
primary education and the quality of output has dropped, while the
expansion of secondary education has failed to raise the examination
performance of students. The difficulty experienced by school leavers in
finding work has highlighted the lack of opportunities for vocational
training. In this respect, development of training schemes in conjunction
with employers is an option to be considered in preference to increasing
the vocational content of the curriculum, because of the efficiency and the
relatively lower costs per student of the former approach. Pre-school
education also deserves more weight in the education system. At present it
reaches only about 102 of the relevant age-group. Its expansion would
produce the added benefit of reaching some of the most vulnerable social
groups. The Government recognizes the need for a general improvement and
restructuring of the education and training services. An in-depth review
of the sector is necessary to provide sound prescriptions for policy
action.
33.      The present and projected supply of dwellings falls short of the
corresponding demand, and squatter regularization with concurrent provision
of community infrastructure is a major concern. The Government has
instituted a new housing strategy that aims at the development of
settlements that satisfy the need for shelter, education, recreation and
small scale farming. The State is the largest land owner and these issues
are linked with the need for a land reform. Policies affecting state-
rented accommodation also need to be reviewed in light of the ineffective
collection of arrears and unadjusted rents.
34.      The Government wants to accompany the adjustment program with
measures to attenuate the negative social impact of the reforms,
particularly on the poor and most vulnerable groups. Existing social
safety net programs, such as school feeding programs and old age pensions,
are to be protected; an innovative job oriented training program, first
tested in 1987, is to be introduced; and various employment-generation
schemes are in place, or proposed. The Government's proposal to promote
the development of small business by facilitating the delivery of credit
and technical services for such businesses is also an element in the effort
to provide new income earning opportunities. The Government intends to
strengthen its social policies and programs including addressing the social
dimension of adjustment.
Environment
35.      The United Nations Environment Program has recently prepared a
report on an assessment of options for environmental management in Trinidad
and Tobago. The document is still in draft. Focussing on resource
allocation, resource management and pollution abatement as the main problem
areas, it recommends the enactment of environmental legislation supported
by adequate enforcement procedures, institutional strengthening and public



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 11
information and constituency building. Serious pollution problems exist,
such as disposal of industrial effluents, soil erosion and urbanization of
flood plains without the presence of basic infrastructure. The Government
announced in February 1989 the creation of a Ministry for the Environment,
and is developing an approach with the IDB on the legislative,
institutional and training aspects, as well as on solid waste disposal and
reforestation. The Government is aware of the policy dimension of the
environment, and this subject is treated as a critical consideration in the
Government's macroeconomic planning framework, e.g. in energy, agriculture
and tourism.



- 57 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
TRINIDD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTM    LOAN
COVERAGE OF IHF AND BANK PROGRAMS
Macroeconomic             -  IMF:  flexible management of exchange rate and
relaxation of exchange allocation system;
fiscal policy including public sector deficit,
government wages and employment; monetary
policy including reserve requirements, interest
rates and financial system credit to the public
sector; debt management; relaxation of price
controls.
Bank: competitiveness of real exchange rate,
taking into account IMF reviews; and
satisfactory implementation of the medium-term
economic program.
Trade Regime              -  IMFt partial elimination of import
restrictions.
Bank: elimination of remaining import
restrictions and duty exemptions; initiation of
medium term tariff reform; elimination of
export restrictions; introduction of free trade
status for export industries; simplification of
import and export procedures.
Investment Incentives    -  Bank:  improvement of legislation affecting
and Sources of Growth        foreign investment, simplification of
procedures facing prospective investors;
airline liberalization to promote tourism;
review of regulatory and incentive framework
for petroleum sector.
Public Sector             -  IMF:  public sector deficit, government wages
and employment (as mentioned above).
Bank: restructuring and divestment of selected
public enterprises to raise efficiency in
public sector and increase resource
mobilization; improvement of financial
performance of selected public utilities.
These improvements would address problems of
overemployment in the public sector and of
central government transfers to the rest of the
public sector.
Public Sector Investment -  Bank:  development and application of project
analysis and project selection criteria;
institutional strengthening for PSIP
formulation and monitoring; formulation of core
investment program and three-year rolling PSIP.
Social Dimensions and    -  Bank:  technical assistance for strengthening
Adjustment                   development of social sector policies through
Implementation               safety net and information programs; and for
preparation of a proposed social sector
project; technical assistance for implementing
the adjustment program.



- 58 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTM    LOAN
CRBDITVORTHINESS ANALYSIS
Overall Assessment
1.       T&T's current payment problems stem from two sources:  (i) a
bunching of scheduled amortization during the years 1989-92; and (ii)
falling export earnings since 1985. With the debt rescheduling and
projected pickup in exports, these problems are projected to be alleviated
by the mid-1990s when repayments on the Bank's proposed lending program
would begin. This outcome would, of course, depend on the continued
implementation of improved policies, to which the Government appears to be
committed, and to adequate external financing to support the adjustment.
The latter could include follow-up financial arrangements with the IMF and
new commercial money. The principal risks lie on the socio/political
front. The social costs of the adjustment may be too burdensome and cause
the program to be derailed and/or generate political instability. Adequate
consideration of the appropriate pace of adjustment and the necessary
complement of social programs could guard against these risks.
Downside Risks
2.       Policy Slippage.  The present Government received a strong mandate
from the electorate in the December 1986 elections. The tough measures
adopted and proposed by the Government since then have taken a political
toll. They created disaffection within the population and caused a rift in
the ruling party when in September 1988 three Cabinet members, including a
Deputy Leader, were expelled from the party over disagreement about the
direction of economic policy. This faction has since formed another
opposition political party.  A 102 cut in public service wages announced in
the 1989 budget and recently enacted into law has fueled general
disaffection into the makings of dissension, most vocally from the labor
unions.  Real weekly earnings in manufacturing declined by 4.42 per year on
average during 1985-88. A general strike was called on March 6, 1989 and
further demonstrations have taken place. Further needed adjustments,
particularly in the sugar-based sector which has an ethnic concentration,
could trigger ethnic disputes. The Government is committed to a strong
adjustment program, but is sensitive to the likely adverse social impact in
the short term. The next election is due in two years' time, which is
barely enough time for the adjustment program to begin to take hold and
produce discernible positive results.
3.       External Environment.  The economy is highly open.  Though exports
plus imports were some 202 less than GDP in the boom years, the rest of the
economic activity was fueled by the oil revenues. The trade figures
therefore underestimate the external dependence. Since the petroleum
sector will continue for some time to be the leading foreign ex.change
earner, international reserves will continue to be highly vulnerable to
external shocks. A drop in oil prices by 102 would increase the financing



- 59 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
gap by amounts ranging from US$90-170 million a year during 1990-94,
implying heavier dependence on external assistance in the form of debt
relief and/or new loans from commercial sources, in addition to
intensifying the need for adjustment. Proposals under the medium-term
adjustment program will expand the tourism sector and improve the
performance of the heavy industries as well as of manufacturing and
agriculture as a means of diversifying the sources of growth and foreign
exchange earnings. On this score too, the balance of payments would be
vulnerable to a US recession.
4.       Concerning sensitivity to interest charges, the reported floating
rate debt was about 64? of total external debt in 1987. It is estimated
that the share of floating rate debt would be 72? by 1993 and 78? by 1997.
Assuming interest rates exceed current projections by 2 percentage points,
the financing requirements would rise by the following amounts (calculated
on new and rescheduled debt):
1990   1991   1992    1998   1994   1995   1996   1997
USS M.         19     28      88      41     82      87      49      6s
S.       Capital Availability.  There was a bunching of repayment
obligations in the years 1989-92. The rescheduling under the aegis of the
London and Paris Clubs therefore resolves the present short-term financing
problems. For the medium term, an increasing portion of the financing
requirements are to be sought from multilateral and bilateral sources so as
to improve the debt structure. Cofinancing arrangements are being sought
actively in connection with the Bank's proposed SAL and subsequent proposed
policy-based operations in the next two fiscal years. The Export-Import
Bank of Japan is the most likely source for such cofinancing.   Other
bilateral sources in the form of official export credits would have to be
pursued. Cofinancing with the IDB may also become a possibility. However,
new commercial borrowing would be required.
6.       Debt reduction might also become a financing option over the
medium term. The market value of TMT's debt has fluctuated between 55? and
702 recently in a thin and irregular market.
Relations with Creditors
7.       In 1988 T&T entered, for the first time, into an arrangement with
the IMP. It has successfully concluded rescheduling negotiations and
enjoys good relations with its creditors.
8.       The Bank has not lent to the country in 10 years, and its exposure
is modest in relation to other creditors and to the country's export
earnings. The Bank's DOD was US$34 million in 1988, equivalent to 1.5? of
T&T's total debt. Debt service to the Bank in 1988 was 2.5? of the
country's total debt service obligations. The proposed lending program is
projected to change both these ratios to about 6.5? and 3.12 respectively
by 1993, and to 8.1? and 5.4? respectively by 1997.



- 60 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
lank Strategy and the Downside Risks
9.       The most difficult downside risks in terms of the Bank's ability
to respond would be a shortfall in financing. The Bank, as chairman of the
Caribbean Group, intends to use the vehicle of the Tighter Consultative
Group for soliciting and coordinating the resources needed to finance the
projected gap. That gap would be larger if commodity prices, particularly
oil prices, fell below the base case assumptions.
10.      In the case of commodity price declines leading to shortfalls in
export earnings, the IMF is the lender of last resort. Following approval
by the IMF Board in January 1989, the contingency element of the CCFF is
available to cover adverse movements in current account variables that
might occur over the period of the current Standby arrangement, in an
amount up to 25X of quota, approximately US$50 million. (To date there has
been a triggering of the symmetry provision of the CCFF which has resulted
in a higher target for net international reserves). In principle,
additional access of up to 152 of quota is available under the compensatory
element of the CCFF.
11.      In the case of a policy slippage, resulting from factors other
than a lack of commitment, such that the Bank would have to cancel all or a
portion of the SAL, the Bank would attempt, under appropriate conditions,
to formulate with the Government a new structural adjustment operation, and
to prepare the proposed Social Sector Project to be presented to the Board
simultaneously with the new SAL.



- 61 -                        ANEX VII
Page 1 of 11
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
FRUC WIIAtSM fPNANCE  BUJWD(G
ERIC WILLIAMS PLAZA
INDEPENDENCE SQUAIA
PORT.OF-SPAIN
R1: Pl16t 12/11/6                                                    TRDIDAD
........... ... ......... .9.0.1
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
1t19 H Street W.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America.
3ear Mr. Conable,
The Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago requests
the World Bank (IBRD) to provide a loan in an amount of USV40 million
equivalent in support of critieal elements of the Government's
structural adjustment program.
x enclose herewith a statement which sets out the Government's
development policies and strategies for the medium term.
Sincerely your.,
Selby Wilson
Minister of Finance.



- 62 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 11
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJSTMN  LOAN
STAT$MT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
Dackgromd
1.       Between 1982 and 1988, the Trinidad and Tobago economy experienced
six consecutive years of negative growth. Over this period, petroleum
export earnings fell by close to one half, and Government revenues from
petroleum by 40 percent. The unemployment rate more than doubled, from 10
percent to 23 percent, and real GDP at the end of 1988 was some 28 percent
below the level of 1982. In addition, despite a significant reduction in
imports, there was a lose in foreign exchange reserves of some US$2.8
billion between 1982-1988. This severe economic contraction was a product
of both domestic and external factors, the most important of which were:
{i)    the substantial deterioration in the country's terms of
trade consequent upon the weakening and ultimate collapse
of oil prices;
(ii)   the decline in oil production (by a.out 40 percent since
1978) as a result of an inadequate exploration effort;
(iii) insufficient adjustment in domestic demand to the decline
in oil revenues; and
(iv)   the sharp rise in the external debt service burden.
2.       A number of measures, including a significant devaluation of the
Trinidad and Tobago dollar, were introduced in the 1983-85 period to deal
with the deteriorating balance of payments situation. These measures were
inadequate both in terms of their comprehensiveness and their intensity and
in addition the situation was aggravated by further declines in petroleum
prices in 1986.
3.       Soon after taking office in December 1986, the new Government
began to implement a comprehensive approach to stabilization and medium-
term structural change in the economy. In the area of external policy,
steps began to be taken to improve external competitiveness. Thus, in
January 1987, the exchange rate was unified, completing the exchange rate
adjustment begun in December 1985. Later, in mid-August 1988, in order to
correct for the remaining over-valuation of the currency, the Trinidad and
Tobago dollar was devalued further, by 15.3 percent. This action lelped to
reduce the real effective exchange rate index to a level about 6 percent
below that of 1976.
4.       To address fiscal imbalances, action began to be taken in 1987 to
reduce the wage and salaries bill of the Central Administration through the
temporary suspension of cost-of-living allowances and merit increases.
This measure resulted in fiscal savings equivalent to 3 percent of GDP.
Also, in the context of both the 1987 and 1988 budgets, transfers to the
state enterprises and several of the statutory authorities (including the



- 63 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 11
main public utilities) were substantially reduced as a result of the
closing down of some enterprises, and the introduction of cost-cutting
measures, including employment reduction. Some temporary tax measures were
also introduced to strengthen the Central Government's revenue performance.
At the same time, however, the Government was undertaking work on a
comprehensive tax reform programme which aimed at simplifying the tax
system, broadening its coverage and generally reducing direct taxes so as
to provide greater incentives for savings and investment.
5.       As a result of the measures introduced in  1987-88, the overall
deficit of the public sector was reduced from the equivalent of 11-1/2
percent of GDP in 1986 to about 7 percent of GDP in 1988; over the same
period, the external current account deficit was reduced from approximately
16 percent of GDP to roughly 4 percent of GDP. Economic activity, however,
continued to decline during these two years.
The Stabilization Programme for 1989
6.       In the second half of 1988, the Trinidad and Tobago Government
unveiled a planning framework for restructuring the economy. This
framework incorporates a comprehensive Seven-year Macro-economic Plan
(1989-95), a Public Sector Investment Programme (1989-91) and a Medium-Term
Economic Programme (1989-91). The principal aim of the medium-term
economic programme is to restore the economy to a positive growth path in a
context of reduced external and internal imbalances.
7.         The stabilization programme for 1989 was set within the
framework of this medium-term strategy. The specific objectives of this
programme were to reduce domestic and external imbalances further and to
begin to set the stage for the turnaround of the economy. Under the
programme the Government adopted measures designed to raise public sector
savings, improve the functioning of credit markets, relax controls on trade
and payments ard improve incentives to the private sector. The programme
was supported by a 14-month Stand-by Arrarngement with the Fund approved by
the IMP Executive Board in January 1989.
8.       The 1989 budget, which forms an integral part of the economic
programme, aimed at reducing the Government deficit from 6.7 percent of GDP
in 1988 to 4.1 percent of GDP in 1989 largely through action to r.rtail
government expenditures. To effect this, the Government postponea
implementation of a pay award, handed down by a Special Tribunal of the
Industrial Court, which called for the restoration of cost-of-living
allowances and a 2 percent salary increase with effect from January 1,
1989. In addition Government introduced a 10 percent cut across the board
to the wages and salaries of employees in the central administration, the
local authorities and the statutory boards (including the public
utilities). This wage cut resulted in expenditure savings (net of reduced
taxes) of the order of 1.3 percent of GDP. The budget also provided for a
reduction in current transfers and subsidies to be facilitated by the
continued rationalization of employment in the public utilities and by
increases in prices charged by certain state enterprises (including
domestic sugar prices and domestic air fares), and by restructuring
measures in other enterprises. In 1989, Government introduced a Voluntary
Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP) which includes an early retirement
scheme for employees aged 50-60 years and a voluntary severance scheme for



- 64 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 11
emplcyees under age 50. The savings to the budget from this scheme are
expected to accrue as from 1990.
9.       The expenditure measures have been complemented by the
implementation of the first phase of a tax reform programme which took
effect in January 1989. In this phase, the income tax system for
individuals has been simplified through a reduction in the number of tax
brackets from 11 to 4, several income tax preferences have been eliminated
and the highest marginal tax rate for both individuals and corporations
have been reduced to 45 percent from 50 percent and 49.5 percent
respectively. In the second phase of the tax reform programme, to be
incorporated in the 1990 budget, a value-added tax will be introduced to
replace a whole range of existing indirect taxes. Further reforms in the
system of direct taxation for individuals and corporations are expected in
1990.
10.      The fiscal adjustment described above is being supported by
monetary and credit policies geared to protecting the balance of payments
and containing inflation while at the same time ensuring that sufficient
credit is available for productive activities in the private sector.
Greater interest rate flexibility is being fostered by new operating
procedures in the Treasury bill market which will ensure that treasury bill
yields are more responsive to market conditions. The Central Bank
rediscount rate was increased by two percentage points in late 1988 and the
Bank plans to continue to adjust the rate so as to ensure that an
appropriate differential is maintained between the rediscount rate and
commercial banks' deposit rates. These measures, combined with a phased
reduction in the Secondary Reserve Requirement applicable to commercial
banks, and steps to reduce commercial bank's reliance on advances from the
Central Bank, should greatly increase competition in financial markets.
11.      The economic programme for 1989 also includes measures geared to
improving resource allocation in the economy. The system of price controls
has been substantially dismantled, except for a small group of basic food
items; and Government has initiated a phased reduction in quantitative
import restrictions. As of September 1989, items valued at close to US$150
million were removed from the Negative List. The foreign exchange
allocation system was liberalized early in 1989 and again in September 1989
when most agricultural inputs, some raw materials for manufacturing and
capital goods and spares were made exempt from the ex-ante allocation
process. The foreign exchange allocation system is scheduled to be totally
liberalized in 1990.
THE MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC PROGRAMME
12.      The Government's medium-term programme anticipates a levelling off
of real GDP in 1990 and a gradual increase in growth to 4 percent by 1995.
The growth projections are predicated on an increase in crude oil
production (which has declined steadily since 1978) as a result of the
implementation of additional incentives and investment projects; the
upgrading and expansion of the energy-based industries; and increased
activity in manufacturing, agriculture and tourism. Fiscal performance is
to be improved through efforts on both the revenue and expenditure sides to
achieve current savings of about 1 percent of GDP in 1990, compared with
-3.5Z in 1988. Government would undertake additional measures to improve



- 65 -
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 11
savings performance further, over the medium term. Aided by prudent
monetary and exchange rate management, the external current account balance
is expected to remain at about 4 percent of GDP in 1990-91, then improve
significantly over the medium term, achieving small surpluses in 1994-97.
Public Sector Reform
13.      Achievement of the growth objectives rests heavily on the ability
to improve resource allocation, including reducing the demands of the
public sector on the economy's resources. Government participation in
industrial and commercial enterprises grew considerably up to the mid-
1980's. By 1986 Government owned or had majority participation in about
sixty companies operating in virtually every sector. In many cases,
government companies operated inefficiently and suffered heavy losses.
This led to heavy reliance on the Treasury by several of the larger
enterprises to cover their operating deficits as well aa to finance
investment. Over the period 1979-84, total loans, advances and subventions
to state enterprises amounted to US$2.4 billion. The larger state
enterprises also borrowed extensively on the international capital markets.
The external debt outstanding of the state enterprises at end 1988 was
US$786 million, equivalent to almost 40 percent of the country's total
external debt.
14.      The present Government has already begun to rationalize the state
enterprise sector with a view to reducing the crippling burden on the
central government finances. In general, Government will seek to reduce
its role in directly productive activities and instead concentrate on
providing an appropriate environr3nt, conducive to the effective operation
of private initiative. As much emphasis will be placed on the expansion
and/or upgrading of physical infrastructure, along with the provision of
the necessary incentives to assist the private sector in the establishment
of new industries.
15.      The Government has embarked on an active policy of encouraging
private foreign investment in order to promote national economic
dev'lopment. Such investment can be valuable where it is associated with
access to specialized skills, expertise, markets and finance. Joint
ventures between local and foreign investors provide the most efficient
route for mobilizing foreign investment, although in very special cases
--for example where leading edge technology is being contemplated -- full
foreign ownership of local enterprises may be allowed. State investment,
with or without local private investment, is often the vehicle required to
attract the private foreign investor and in appropriate cases the State
will participate in such joint ventures.
16.      As mentioned earlier, the rationalization of the state enterprise
sector is already being actively pursued. Committees were appointed to
examine the operations of a wide range of state enterprises and three broad
approaches were decided upon for the rationalization of the sector:
(a)    the winding up of those companies which have no real
prospect of becoming commercially viable and whose
continued existence cannot be justified on the basis of
social considerations;



- 66 -
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 11
(b)    the reduction of shareholding in those enterprises where
there are obvious benefits from foreign or local private
sector participation; and
(c)    the restructuring of the capital base and improving
management systems and practices in those enterprises
which, because of their strategic national importance, have
been chosen to remain under state ownership and control.
17.      In accordance with these guidelines the National Hospital
Management Company, School Nutrition Company, National Secondary Roads
Company and the Meat Processors Company have been closed. The Iron and
Steel Company has been leased to a foreign concern and there has been
partial divestment involving the Trinidad and Tobago Cement Company, the
National Commercial Bank and the Development Finance Company. Negotiations
are nearing completion for another sale of shares of the Cement Company and
the partial divestment of TELCO, the Crown Reef Hotel and the Printing and
Packaging Company. Restructuring and cost-reduction measures have been
taken in a number of enterprises including the methanol, urea and
fertilizer companies, the Agricultural Development Bank and the Development
Finance Company. The Solid Waste Company is also to be restructured.
Within the next year, Government intends to complete the liquidations of
the entities that have been closed down.
18.      Those enterprises which, by virtue of their strategic importance
or because of their overriding socio-economic benefits, are to be retained
by the State will be required to achieve and maintain a very high level of
efficiency and to operate, as far as possible, without financial support
from the Treasury. Accountability of Boards and Executive Management will
be stressed. The Boards will be expected to take the necessary steps to
ensure that the human resources available within the organization, at all
levels, are properly trained and equipped to support the required level of
efficiency. As indicated earlier, the levels of financial support to the
State Enterprises, Public Utilities, Statutory Boards and Local Government
Bodie3 were reduced in 1988-89. Further reductions are earmarked for the
next few years. Procedural guidelines have been issued to these entities
requiring that:
(i) the strategic plans for state enterprises and public
utilities be brought in line with the approved budgetary
allocations;
(ii) the approval of the Ministry of Finance be sought before
approaching the market for new credit or drawing down on
existing credit lines;
(iii)  all necessary steps be taken to settle outstanding claims
among themselves and with the Central Government;
(iv) strict financial and management principles be adhered to
with a view to promoting greater self reliance; and
(v) all income tax liabilities and national insurance
contributions be remitted when they fall due.



- 67 -
ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 11
19.      Implementation of the rationalization measures has been greatly
facilitated by the Co ordinating and Monitoring Unit of a Select Cabinet-
Appointed Committee. With the imminent expiry of the Committee's term, the
Government has established a unit of high calibre in the Ministry of
Finance to co-ordinate and monitor implementation activities, as well as
assist in mobilizing necessary expertise to facilitate implementation of
the restructuring and divestment programme.
20.      Government is soon to initiate a review and restructuring process
for the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) and the Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commission (T&TEC). Consultants will be engaged to assist in
the formulation of action plans for these enterprises that.are geared
towards achieving financial self-sufficiency and administrative and
operational efficiency. The plans would include agreed targets for
relevant indicators such as the working ratio, the net internal cash
generation, the customer/employee ratio, and the level of receivables. In
respect of WASA, the action plan will be designed to achieve by end 1991 a
working ratio of less than 1.05, receivables 6 months or less, and a ratio
of employees per thousand connections less than 21, from the present 31;
and by end 1993, working ratio less than 0.95, and receivables 4 months or
less. In respect of T&TEC, in 1990, adjustment measures, including a
possible tariff increase, will be taken to achieve a break-even position in
the company's operating accounts and a customer/employee ratio not less
than 99 (from the present 97). Government will take measures to eliminate
its arrears and those owed by local authorities and Statutory Boards to
WASA and T&TEC and, in addition, will convert residual loans and advances
to T&TEC into equity. Government's account balances to these entities will
be kept current, and T&TEC's non-governmental account balances, including
those of state enterprises, will be reduced to 60 days. To facilitate the
timely preparation of the action plans, Government will ensure that the
consultants are in place by February 1990.
21.      Reforms are also being adopted within the Central Administration.
An administrative reform programme will address long-term efficiency of the
administration. A complementary exercise is the Government's programme to
strengthen its capability to formulate and monitor the public sector
investment programme. Technical assistance is being sought from the IDB to
improve project-cycle management. The exercise will assist the Government
in establishing project selection guidelines and criteria, including
environmental impact assessments, and institutional procedures for project
approval and review; will provide training in techniques of project
analysis and project preparation; and will establish project monitoring
procedures. Government prepared a core capital programme for 1989 and
intends to institute the system of a three-year rolling PSIP.
Incentives for the Private Sector
22.      It is Government's objective to stimulate the economy by improving
the conditions for growth in private investment and exports. Achieving
these goals requires reforms in the foreign trade regime as well as
measures to enhance investment incentives including reform of the tax
system. The issue of membership in a foreign investment guarantee scheme
such as HIGA is directly relevant for attracting foreign investment and
Government is considering its options in this area. Government recogniizes
the importance of the maintenance of international competitiveness to



- 68 -
ANNEX VII
Page 8 of 11
further its export thrust. Such competitiveness depends on exchange rate
policy, on wage and salary developments and on other factors (such as
technology and management) which bear on productivity and costs in the
export sector.  Thus, Government is committed to a flexible management of
the exchange rate to maintain export competitiveness and will keep under
constant review the performance of non-traditional exports.
A. Trade Policy and Export Incentives
23.      Government is seeking to redress the balance in the structure of
incentives so as to favour production for the export market. The ongoing
programme of policy reforms has the objectives of moving the domestic price
structure closer to international prices; making the protection system more
transparent; and reducing, over time, average protection levels and the
variability of protection across sectors. In pursuing this course of
action to eliminate anti-export biases, the Government is conscious of the
many non-tariff barriers to trade imposed by industrialized countries, the
widespread practice of dumping and the maintenance of protection of
selected industries in the economies of many industrialized countries. The
Government strongly supports the efforts of the international organizations
to convince the industrial countries to reduce trade barriers.
24.      Government's policy will be directed towards reducing import
protection; the ultimate elimination of import duty exemptions except where
they are absolutely needed to maintain competition with other CARICOM
producers benefiting from such exemptions; abandoning export licensing;
assuring exporters unrestricted access to imported inputs at international
prices; and simplifying export and import procedures.
25.      Trinidad and Tobago's membership in CARICOM places certain limits
on the scope for introducing trade policy reforms. One constraint is
legal-institutional, and is related to the existence of a common external
tariff (CET) vis-a-vis third countries. In effect, by virtue of the
existing agreement CARICOM countries have no independent authority to
adjust tariffs. Another constraint is based on the practical consideration
that import duty exemptions, authorized under the CARICOM Agreement, are an
integral part of the intra-regional competition for investment and export
markets. Unilateral elimination of these exemptions could place Trinidad
and Tobago's industry at a competitive disadvantage with other CARICOM
countries.
Import Protection
26.      The reform of the import protection regime is to be implemented in
two phases. Phase One seeks the immediate rationalization of protection of
the manufacturing sector to make it transparent, replacing administrative
barriers to imports (largely quantitative restrictions), by tariffs. This
involves the gradual elimination of the Negative List of imports affecting
manufacturing, with exceptions for some goods on the basis of international
agreements, public health and national security. As noted earlier, there
was a significant reduction in the Negative List in 1989. During 1990, the
Government plans to reduce the list further by excising items representing
40 percent of the production coverage involved. The Negative List
affecting the manufacturing sector will be eliminated by the end of 1991,



- 69 -
ANNEX VII
Page 9 of 11
subject to the exceptions noted, and the fact that the time frame for
excising items produced by the state trading company is to be determined
after study. In principle, the items removed from the Negative List will
be eligible to receive tariff protection not exceeding 100 percent of the
c.i.f. price, except for textiles and garments where the maximum would be
120 percent of the c.i.f. price, and dairy products where the equivalent
tariff would apply. The applicable tariff will be reduced in successive
steps to the corresponding CET by end 1994.
27.      Phase Two will focus on the Medium-Term Tariff Reform and will be
based on the following general principles:
(i) to achieve a maximum rate and a minimum rate (on parts and
raw materials) of import charges no higher or lower than
the CARICOM CET. This objective is to be accomplished
through annual adjustments in protection rates over five
years ending in 1994;
(ii) the reduction of the dispersion of effective protection
rates and of the number of tariff bands; and
(iii) exemptions from import duties are to be kept to a minimum.
28.      A study of trade and associated policies, including quantitative
estimates of effective protection, will be undertaken to define the medium-
term tariff reform programme more precisely. Also, the World Bank will
provide assistance, financed through the proposed Technical Assistance
loan, for improving the tariff administration system, including the
establishment of appropriate Anti-Dumping arrangements.
29.      The agricultural sector will remain under import licensing during
the period of the SAL. However, the Government will undertake a study of
the impact of the trade regime on the development of the sector, and of the
state trading company, taking into account the Government's objective of
maximizing the efficient use of local resources.
Duty Exemptions
30.      Government will seek to eliminate over time import duty exemptions
subject to the need to maintain the competitive position of Trinidad and
Tobago producers vis-a-vis their CARICOM partners. As a first step,
Government has decided to refrain from granting duty exemption for new
types of industries, except for capital equipment. A review of existing
duty exemptions has been initiated, with a view to assessing their
practical significance for Trinidad and Tobago's competitive position in
CARICOM markets and formulating an action plan for their phased removal
over three to five years ending in 1994.
Export Restrictions
31.      Government believes that exports should not be hindered by any
administrative restrictions and has therefore eliminated all export
licensing requirements, with limited exceptions such as for goods covered
by international agreements, and for the protection of the national
heritage, items relating to public health and national security and for
subsidised commodities.



- 70 -
ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 11
Access to Imported Inputs at International Prices
32.      The international competitiveness of Trinidad and Tobago's exports
would be enhanced by guaranteeing exporters access to imported inputs
unrestrictedly and at internationally competitive prices. A reformed trade
regime, based on low and relatively homogeneous tariffs, should go a long
way towards realizing this guarantee. Various mechanisms have been
employed in other countries to provide exporters with unrestricted access
to imported inputs at international prices. Among the most common have
been the Temporary Admission Regime (TAR), the In-Bond Manufacturing System
and a system of rebates from indirect taxes. Government plans to initiate
shortly, in collaboration with the private sector, an examination of
alternative systems in place in other countries for providing free trade
status to exporters with a view to identifying a suitable scheme.
Government will implement the selected scheme during 1990 for manufacturers
engaged primarily in exporting activities, and will seek to establish a
similar facility for other exporters.
Simplification of Import and Export Procedures
33.      Excessively cumbersome export and import procedures, increase the
transaction costs of international trade and, consequently, adversely
affect competitiveness. A study on trade facilitation in Trinidad and
Tobago found considerable scope for simplifying import and export
procedures. Government will accelerate implementation of these
recommendations regarding trade facilitation reforms, including
introduction of the ASYCUDA System (Automated System for Customs Data) with
financing under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
3. Other Incentives
34.      Government intends to take steps to improve the institutional
arrangements for processing investment proposals. A one-stop-shop has been
created, and the investment application documentation has been shortened.
Government also intends to revise the legislation affecting the
facilitation of foreign investment.
35.      The petroleum sector continues to be the key productive sector in
the economy, and steps are being taken to place it on a more secure
footing. In the 1988 Budget, the oil tax regime was revised and a
temporary scheme providing tax incentives for increases in oil production
was introduced, with the understanding that the system will be modified
with effect from January 1, 1992. The oil tax regime, as well as other
aspects of the regulatory framework will be reviewed in order to assess
Trinidad and Tobago's competitiveness for encouraging increased investment
by local and foreign investors in the petroleum and related sectors.
Government will draw upon resources to be provided under the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan to engage expert technical assistance for this
purpose.
36.      Tourism development offers the potential for substantial job
opportunities both, directly and indirectly, while increasing the country's
capacity to earn foreign exchange. In the short run, measures to promote
tourism development will concentrate on strengthening institutions and



- 71 -
ANNEX VII
Page 11 of 11
intensifying marketing efforts. At the same time, steps are being taken to
address the deficiencies in infrastructure that have constrained tourism
development over the years. Thus, work has begun on the improvement of the
water supply and the construction of cruise ship facilities both in
Trinidad and in Tobago, and on the extension of the runway at the Crown
Point Airport in Tobago. Increasing tourist arrivals to Tobago depends
critically on being able to bring visitors to the island expeditiously.
Recently, the Government entered into a bilateral agreement with Aruba to
permit scheduled flights by Aruba airlines into Tobago. Once Crown Point
is designated an international airport, it is Government's intention to
initiate further bilateral negotiations, within the usual framework of
reciprocal landing rights, for direct scheduled flights into Tobago by
international airlines. Domestic air service to Tobago, remains
unrestricted by any governmental policies towards local airlines. Under
present arrangements, private local carriers are permitted to operate
scheduled flights between Trinidad and Tobago, provided they satisfy the
Licensing Authority in respect of their proposed schedule of operations,
technical competence, etc., and obtain Cabinet approval.
Social Dimensions of the AdJustment
37.      The measures outlined above for effecting the Government's medium-
term programme for stabilization and adjustment will inevitably imply some
short-term welfare loss for the population. Government is considering
various approaches for ameliorating the hardships on the population.
Employment generating and training schemes would assist the unemployed and
the young to acquire the skills and other requirements for self-employment
or other employment; or, in the case of youth training programmes, would
postpone entry into the labour force. In this regard, an area which has
been targeted for attention is the strengthening of the Youth Training
Employment Programme, while a Small Business Start-up Scheme is under
consideration. Government will also review its welfare programmes to
improve the targeting of the needy.
38.      Government plans to establish a Social Sectors Unit in the
Ministry of Planning and Mobilization to develop the necessary data and
help design relevant social programmes. The Unit would review public
expenditures on the social sectors and review the social safety net
programmes, identifying target groups, analyzing targeting mechanisms,
delivery systems, etc.; and it would introduce a Living Standards
Measurement Survey System to monitor the effects of the adjustment
programme on the poor and vulnerable groups and facilitate the development
of better targeted interventions. A Restructuring Support Unit will also
be established, in the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization, to assist in
implementing the adjustment programme. The two units would work closely
together. Studies to be carried out by the units are to be funded through
the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Ara              Mej or Zesures Taken
Obl ctlyves/lissues            by u id89   :               Summary         Further Measures Taken   Second Tranche Measures
I. Macro Economic
Objectlve - viability of   Government transfers    Maintain appropriate                             Favorable Bank
economic progrma.          and subsidies reduced   macroeconomic                                    assessment of the
by 2.8% of GOP In       fraework and                                     imploemntation of the
Overemployment and         1988; Gvorment           impleeent medium-term                           medium torm economic
operating inefficiencies   salaries cut by 10% In  economic program.                                program and its
In pubilc sector were      1989; employment                                                         sustainability.
supported by government    reduction program
transfers.                 introduced; public
sector overall deficit
reduced by 1.73 of GODP
In 1988.
II. Exchange Rate
Objective - Improve        TTS devalued 8a.8% In  Monitor International   Performance of non-       Review performance of
international              1986, and 15.83 in      competitiveness.        petroleum exports and   non-petroleum exports
competitiveness.           1988.                                            evolution of real       and evolution of real
exchange rate           exchange rate.
Export earnings reduced                                                     reviewed.
by 1/8 because of oil
price decline.
III. Public Sector
(a) State-owned        Five review committees  Continue                Time-phasod action      Complete liquidations
enterprises.       established'            Implementation of       plans prepared to        for MHC, SNC and NSR.
restructuring and cost restructuring and        divest partially or
Objective - improve        reduction masures       divestment plans.        fully an agreod list   Propare for divestment
tesouroe mobilization and  taken for SOEs to be                            of enterprises (TCL,    (including by
efficiency of resource     retained in public                              TELCO, Crown Reef,       liquidation, mergert
allocation.                sector and initiated                            TTPP) and to             joint venture or long-
for SOEs to be                                  restructure Solid       term lease) and bring
Weak management,           divestod; 4 SOEs                                 Waste.                  to tho market at least
ovoremploymant, lack of    closed; 4 SOEs                                                           three enterprises.                      w
accountability lod to      partially or fully                              Unit established In                                              0
poor financlal             divested.                                       Ministry of Finance,
performance by many SOEs.                                                  to be supported with
technical assistance                                              -
under the TAL, to                                                  1-4
facilitate
Implementatlon of
agreed action plans.



IRDEIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL AJUSTdENT PR10MM
POLICY MATRIX
Pollcy Ar.              Major  enasures Token
Oblect slte acu                by a_id-1989               Suin  ry         Furthr Measures Taken  Second Trencho Measures
(b) Public Utilities                             Water Authority
Objective - Improve        Reduction In transfers Eliminate government    Agreement with the        Consultant report
reo_roe mobillzation and  from USt140 million in  arrears and formulate   Government and Water   prepared including:
efficienc  of resourcn     1S86 (2.9S of GDP) to   action plan to           Authority on the        (1) plan for
ellocetion.                USS66 millon In 168B  strengthen financial,  objectivs of an            rehabilitation of
(1.69 of GDP)           adinistrative and       action plan to be       commercial system;
High operating costs,                              operational              prepared and carried    (e.g., billing and
particularly labor,                                performance.             out by the Government  colltcton, census of
uneconomic pricing and                                                      and VSA. These          all water and sewerage
poor manogemnt of deand                                                     objectives includo:     connections and plan
led to poor financial                                                       (1) financial self-     for metering large
performance and wasteful                                                    sufficiency (including  consumers, lncluding
use of water *nd                                                            phsed reductIon of      heavy Industrial
eletiity,                                                                transfers from Central users); (it) proposals
*overnment) and         for tariff levels and
overall sound           structure in line with
financial management   agreod objectiveo;
as  easured by targets  (l;t) plans for
includin  working      achieving the
ratio and receivables;  following targets by
(TT) administrative     end 1991 - working
efficioncy Including    ratio leso than 1.05;
appropriate             recelvables 6 months
accounting, billing     or less; and
and collectlon          employees/1000 water
systemo;                connections reduced
(TTT) operational       from 81 to less than
efficiency ,as          21; and by ond 1I98-
measured by targets     working ratio less
for number of           than 0.96, and
customers per           receivablos 4 months
employee; share of      or les.
salories in operating
expenditures; number    Action plan adopted
of metered              and measures
connections;            Implemented in In
maintenance lovels.     accordance with plan.
Government agreement                                                H
that consultants would
be Tn place by
February 1990.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Area             Major Measures Takon
Otj*ct1;i7r*/I"s4              by ild-I989                Summary          Further Meosures Taken   Second Tranch. Measures
Government co   itment  Arreors of Government
to koep Its account     and Its agencies
balances end those of   liquidated and account
Its agencies currnt,  balances made current.
and to make
arrangements to
liquidato arrars.
Power Company
Formulate and           Agreement with the      (i) Management and
Implement action plan   Government and tho      operational audit
to strengthen           power company on the    carried out, and
financial,              objectlivs of an        action plan reflecting
administrative and      action plan to be       objectives formulated
operational             prepared and carried    and mutually agreed;
performncen   adjust    out by the Governmont   (action plan to
tariff lovoel and       and the power company  Include targets,
structure, and          (bseod on the           tming, and means of
eliminate arrears.      management and          achieving targets);
operational audit to    (il) measures adopted,
be financed under the   including best efforts
TAL).  Theso            to obtain tariff
objectives Include:     adjustment, in order
(t) financial self-     to achievo  break-even
sufficioncy and         position In 1990;
overall *ound           (iii) Investment
financial management    progrs adopted In
as meaured by trgets  line with action plan;
Including rate of       (IV) customr/employee
return, net internal   ratlo of not les  than
cash generation, debt- 99 (from current 97)
equity ratio, debt      achiovd.
service covorag,
raceivables;
(ii) administrative
efficiency Including
eppropr ists 
accounting, billing
and collection                                                  
systems;
1-.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROOBAM
POLICY MATRIX
Polic ay Alea           Ualor Measures Taken
Objectives/Issuse              by mid-In9                 Summary          Further Measures Taken   Second Tranche Measures
(i I) operationsl
effIietncy, as
measured by targets
for number of
customers per
employee; share of
salaries In operating
expenditures;
technical losses;
maent0enance levels;
(Iv) sound investmnt
progrsaing based on
the principles of
least-cost expension
and financial
foesibility. Sound
balance betweon
generation/trars-
mission and
distribution.
Government areement
that consultants would
be In place by
Fobruary 1990.
Government coiitment  Non-government account
to keep Its account     balances reduced to 60
balances and those of   days; arrears of
Its agencles current;   Government and its
and to make             agencies liquIdated
arrangements to         and soccunt balances
Itquidate arrears.      made current.
Government commitment  Loans and advances
to convert its          converted into equity.
outstanding loans and
advances Into equity.
4
I-'



TRINIDAD AND T08AGO - STRUCTtRAtL ADJUSAMENT PROGRAM
POLICY IATRIX
Pollcy Area             MJor Measures Taken
ObjectRdiUr5e!!ue!             by aid-r      -            Su_mry          Further Measures Taken   Second Tranche Measures
(c) Public Sector
Investeunt
Progrm
Objective - develop        Throe-year rolling      Strengthen investomnt   Agrements                Agreement on:
capacity to formulate,     PSIP prepared for       programing,
liplement *nd monitor      1989-91.                Implementation and       (1) on the size,        (l) size, co2position/
PSIP.                                              monitoring.             composition/sectoral   sectoral balance and
balance and financing   financing plan of a
Institutional *rrangement                                                  plan of a core PSIP      rolled over PSIP
for project oslection and                                                  for 1909;                covering tho period
PSI? formulation and                                                                                1990-92, with the core
monitoring aro  eak.                                                        (Ii) that coverae  of   program for 1990
Measures required to                                                       the PSIP would laclude  clearly identified
strengthen capability.                                                     the investments of       (project development
Central Government,    will be assisted
public utilities and    throuh the TAL).
all SOEs where the
Government is the       (ti) project prepara-
mjorlty shareholder   tion guideline", eel-
or Is funding spocific  ection criteria and
lnvestment projects;    approval procedurs
nd the linstitutional
(iI) that current       roles and responsibil-
expenditures would be   ities of the variou
excluded from the       agencies Involved In
PSIP,                   the PSW process;
approprlie
(Iv) to deelop          coordination
project prparation      mecheniem  and a
guidelines (including  formal project pro-
environenta itmpct    selecion proces.
assessments) nlcluding
an lysiu of recurrent
cost lpiliations of
Investmt projects,
selection criteria and
priojet approval S
procedures (including                                           u x
decision making 
powers) to ensure that                                           m
al1 projects above a                                              3-
financial threshold of
USh1 million ore
subject to full
technical, economlc
and financial analysis
before thoy are
included In the PSIP.



TRINDAD AD TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Po ll Ae              Major Msures Taken
O-bI    S/                    by mId___ _               Surmary         Further Measuree Taken  Second Tranch. MIasures
(v) to strengthen the   (111) satisfactory
system for monitorlng   progress in
the PSW  (both        strongtheni ng the PSP
physical and financial monitoring system.
progrss) In order to
facilitate ehe review
of Implementatlon
performance on a
quarterly asis.
IV. Incentives Frameorkq
(a) Trade Regime
Objeative - reduce anti-  USING, million worth   Reduce negative list   Agreement to phase out hgotive list
export bia In trade       of item  rmoved from  (i.e., Import            negative list          affecting the (non
regime.                   negative list of       Itcensing and QRs).    affecting the           oil) manufacturing
Imports froe Dec. 1988                        mnufacturing sector   sector reuced by
Restrictive regime        to June 198.                                   by end 1981 and shift  Ite  representing 40X
features specific                                                        to tariff-basd         of the production
product licnsing                                                         protection (with       coverage nlvolved; and
for Imports and                                                          limited exceptions       reemnt on time-
export. in addition to                                                   such as may be         phaed progrm to
impor duty exemptions                                                    required bcaus of    eliminate the rest by
and cwmbersom  iort and                                                  International          ond 1991 (textiles and
export procedures.                                                       agreements, national   gaet te, leather,
security and public    shoe. made of leather,
health). Tmefram       and other leather
for Items produced by   ood   to be rmoved
state trading company  in this final phase).
subj0ect o result. of
Zr1ricul study
proposed below.
Agrement that total
Import chargs !/ on
itaes removed from the
negative list would
not exceed 100l of the                                        0
c.I.f. priee (except
for textiles and                                              Ch
garments where the                                           0o-
mximm would be 120X



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Pollcy Area              Major Measures Takon
by______ aid-Insg_              Sumary           Further Measures Taken   Second Tranche Measures
of c.l.f., and dairy
products where the
equivalont tariff to
be estimated, wouid
apply); and be redueod
in succsive steps to
the corresponding CET
by nd 1994.
(Technical assistance
will be provided under
the TAL for
strengthening
tar ff/custos
administration and
anti dumping
arrsngmnts.)
Agreement to conduct a  Study of the
study, under TOR         protective re gime
agreed with the Bank,  affecting agriculture
of the protective        and the state trading
regime effteting        company completed, and
agriculture end the      findings discussed
state trading company,  with the Bank.
taking into account
the Govornment's
obJective of
maxioising the
efficient ue of local
resources.
Study Initiated of the
imwet on domestic
industries of removing
items from the
negative list.
Initiate elimination    Agreement to retrain                                             CrM
of import duty           fro granting duty
exemptions,              exemptions for new
industries.                                                     0 
'-4S



TRDNIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRtCTIMtAL ADJUSTMENT PROOUAM
POLICY MATRIX
Poe IIArea              Major Measures Taxkn
Object]v s/I-Lues              by mii-1i9w                Summry           Further Measures Taken   Second Tranche Messures
Review Initiated of     Time-phased action
existing duty           plan formulated and
exemptions with a view mutually agreed;
to assossing their      Implementation in
practical signitfcane aecordance with action
for T & T's             plan.
competitiveness In
CARICOM markets and
formulating action
plan for their phased
removal over threO to
five years.
Initiate modiur-term    Agreement on the fol-  Study conducted of
tariff reform to        lowing prlnciples of   trade and associated
reduce level and        the medium-term toriff  policies, to be
dispersion of           reform:  (1) the ob-   financed under the
effective protection.   j.ctive is to *chleve   TAL; and agreement on
a maximum rate of       the design of the
Import charges, /       medium-term tariff
equlvalent to tha       reform program for the
CARICOM CEr, currently  (non oil) manufactur-
45X for most items (or  ing ector.
other lower rate that
may be agreod within
CARICOM) and a minimm
rate of Import chargs
on parts cad raw
mterials of the CET
rate (or other higher
rate that may be
agreed within
CARICOM); (It) the
tariff reform to be
accomplished through                                            'u
annual adjustments in
protection rates over                                          e
three to five years                                               X
ending In 1994;
(iil) reductlon In                                              O
dispeorson of                                                     '
off ct1v  protection
rates; (v  reduction                                            P
of the number of
tariff bends; (v)
exemptions from import
duties to be kept to a
minimum.



TRIN IDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSENLT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Polleey r               MaJor Measures Taken
____by _     _d-19_ _          Sum_ry          Further Moasures Taken   Second Trancho M.asuroe
Eliminate oxport        Export licensing
licnsing.               requirements
eliminated, with
limited exceptions as
needed bMeau o.f
i nternati onal
*gresonte, national
security and
government sublidies,
or for protoection of
national heritage and
public health.
Simplify Import and     Agroeent to             Satisfactory progrss
export proceduree.      aceelerato              In lmplementing the
lmplementtion of        reforms and tho
UNCTAD s                ASYCUDA system.
recommendations                                                       0
reaprding trade
facilitation reforms,
including Introduction
of the ASYCUDA system
with fInancing under
the TAL.
(b) Export Incentives
Objectlve - Improve        Export Doevlopment      Provide free trado       Agreement to oxamine,  Selected scheme
incentives for exporting   Corporation             statu, for exportors,   In collaboration with   estabitshed and
by creating simulated      estabilshod with                                 the private sector,    functioning for
free trade status for      objectives to provide                            alternative systems In manufacturers
exports.                   information and advice                           plaeo In other          primarily engaged in
and assist exporters                            countries for           exporting; timetable
In penetrating foreign                          providing freo  trado    for providing similar
markets; and to                                 status to exportors      facility for other
givefinaneial                                   (e ., temporary         exporters o.
assistane and provide                           admission regime, in-                                           0
insurance facilities                            bond manufacturing,
to exporters.                                   rebate syst   for any
Indirect taxes) with a                                         
view to Identifying a
scheme suitablo for
adoptton In Trinidad
and Tobago.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - STRUtTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Ara              !jbr Measures Taken
Oblectiles/_s_ues              by a_ d-______             Summary          Further Measures Taken   tocond Tranche Measures
Agreement on scope of
study, to be financed
under TAL, to estimate
direct and indiroct
content of lndiroet
taxes In domestic
exports.
(c) Investment
Incentives
Objective - increase       Committee formed In    Streamline procedures   'One-stop chop' for       Satisfactory operation
incentives for investment  ZDC as initial stop     for investment          new investors croeted.  of new system and
particularly foreign       towards simplifying     application review.      Investment *pplication  documentation.
investent.                 inv tment application                           documentation
proe dures,                                     simplified and
shortened.                                                              o
Adopt _meures for                               8stisfactory
facilitating foreign                            legislation or
investment,                                     equivalent regulations
adopted for
facilitating foreign
Investment.
(d) Petroleum Sector
Incentives
Objectivo - Stimulate      In 198, Potroleum       Improve regulatory and Agreement to review,   Consultants ongaged
tncreased private          Taxes Act amended to    Incentive framework,    with assistance          under agree  TOR;
Investment in the          provide for a                                   through the TAL, the    satisfactory progress
petroloum sector.          modification of the                              petroleum taxation      In conducting reviws.
petroleuo taxation                              regime and the general
regim. New land and                             regulatory frameork
marnon  blocks opened                           to assess Trinidad and                                          OF 
to bids for                                     Tobago s
exploration, and                                competitiveness for
aards made.                                     oneour0<ing lac    ed 
Investment by local                                             o 0 
and forelgn Investors                                          0% 1-
In the petroleum snd                                            -
rolated sectorsF.



TRINIDAD AND TOSADO - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PRORAM
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Amz              Ibr Mbasures T ken
O9woctl] r_   biy mid_19_9                                S_uury           Further Measures 'akon   Second Tranche Measures
te) Touris
Incentve
Objective - lcre ^ er       Wa nd strengthened    Liberalize airline        Bilatoral nreotiations
touriet arrival.           Tourism Authority       services.                Initiated for direct
estblshd  and                                   scheduled flight  to
related infrastructure                          Toao by
investment onoing.                              international
airlines.
V. Social Dimtions
i1_I iont"o
Objective - stre     n                             Establish coordinating  Social Sector Unit and  Unite st ffed and
te  Government's                                   units to manage the      Restructuring Support  functioning;                                   c
institutlonal capacity                             design and              Unit estabilsh d in    sattstactory progress
to: (1) amllorate the                             lplea-ntation of         the ministry of         In studies and in
socIal costs of                                    agreed studies aimed   Planning and              preparation/adoption
adjustment; and                                    at Improving the         Mobilization,           of action programs *nd
(i) Implement the                                  provision of social     Agreemnt on TORe for   proposals par TORs.
adJ ustenmt progrm.                                services and             studies to be carried
factIlItatng the        out by these unite and
Implementation of the  financed under the
adjustment progra.      TAL  lncluding, in
adition to the SAL-
related studies
studies on public
expenditures In the
socala sectors, living
tndrds m       ret,
ocal security, and
preparation of a
Social Sector pojct.
Defined teo Include tariffs, stamp duties and other taxes and charge thot discriminate against Imports.
F1dC



- 83                        ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 4
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHT LOAM
PRODUCTION COVERAGE OF DMPORT NEGATIVE LIST
This Annex describes the data sources and methodology for deriving
the production coverage of items on Trinidad and Tobago's negative list of
imports (i.e. the list of imports requiring import license), and explains
how the analysis is to be used to monitor the import liberalization
process. The analysis has been performed using the World Bank SINTIA-T
softwarel and data provided by the Government.
A. Data Sources
The following data were obtained from the Governmentt
(i)    value of 1987 production by 4-digit ISIC classification.
the finest detail available (Central Statistical Office);
(ii)   a consolidated list of items requiring import license, i.e.
the negative list of imports, as at May 1988, with a
mapping between Ministry Code, CCCN and SITC codes. The
list identified items that had been removed from the
negative list under the IMF program, i.e.. in the period
December 1989 to June 1989 (Ministry of Industry.
Enterprise and Tourism).
B. Methodology
The SINTIA-T program was used to make a correspondence between the
negative list by CCCN code and production value by 4-digit ISIC (see
attached Table --detail is presented for the manufacturing sector only,
which is the focus for the first stage import liberalization under the
SAL). The analysis is performed using three definitions of manufacturing
(see lines a, b and c of Table.)
(i)    Each item on the negative list corresponds to a subset of
CCCN observations, column (2), within the 4-digit ISIC,
column (1);
(ii)   the relative frequency of these observations, column (3),
is a measure of the extent of protection provided to the
corresponding subsector by the negative list;
(iii) to obtain the inputed production covered by the negative
list, i.e., column (5), the ratios in coluum (3) were
applied to the corresponding 1987 production value in
column (4) for each 4-digit ISIC;
(iv)   the sum of the results (line a, b, or c of column 5) taken
as a ratio of total 1987 manufacturing production (line a,
b, or c, of column 4) produces the production coverage of
1/ SINTIA-Ti Software for Industrial, Trade and Incentives Analysis,
Tariff and Nominal Protection Analysis, World Bank Software



- 84 -                     ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 4
the negative list, with respect to the manufacturing
sector, for either of the three definitions, i.e.,
Coverage Ratiot  (ni * VHJ
VMT
where n3 is the percentage of CCCN observations represented
on the negative list in subsector j (i.e. column 3); VMJ is
the value of 1987 manufacturing production in subsector j
(i.e. column 4); and VMT is the total value of 1987
manufacturing production. Following are the results on
production coverage of the negative list:
Sector                           Coverage Ratio
(a)  Total Manufacturing                     30.72a/
(b)  Non-Oil Manufacturing                   *8.5Z'
(c)  Adjusted Non-Oil Manufacturing          48.02
(i.e., excludes items covered
by international agreementsb/)
(v)    Columns (6) and (7) show, in percentage points, how each
group of items represented on the negative list, classified
by 4-digit ISIC, contributes to the total production
coverage. Column (6) deals with non-oil manufacturing;
column (7) deals with non-oil manufacturing adjusted for
items covered by international agreements. Each group's
contribution is calculated as the ratio of the
corresponding value in column (5) to the total (or non-oil,
or adjusted non-oil) manufacturing production, i.e.,
VMT
For example, the first number in column (7), 2.9, is to be
interpreted as follows: items on the negative list that
correspond to the meat preparation industry account for 2.9
percentage points of the total 48? production coverage of
the negative list affecting the adjusted non-oil
manufacturing sector.
C. MonitorinR
The derived data on contribution to coverage ratio (column 7) will
be used to monitor the removal of items from the negative list. Column (7)
includes an adjustment of total non-oil manufacturing production to exclude
ISIC 3115, 3118 and 3710 because the items on the negative list
corresponding to these categories are covered by international
agreements.bl
al Corresponding figures on production coverage of the negative list
before reductions under the IMF program are 38? for total manufacturing
and 51? for non-oil manufacturing.
b/ The CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement, the Lome Agreement and the
Voluntary Restraint Agreement with the United States.



-85-                                    ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 4
TRINIDAD: PRODUCTION COVERED BY QUANTITATIVE RESTRICTIONS
()  (2)     (8)            (4              5 (6)- --                -- (7') - 
IMPUTED     CONTRISUTION   CONTRIBUTION
X ITEMS                     PRODUCTION    TO COVERAGE   TO COVERAGE
COVERED         1987         COVERED BY        RATIO    RATIO (EXCL.
t OF    WITH      BY         PRODUCTION         QR'S        (EXCL. 8512   8512, 8580
SECTOR               OBS LICENSES LICENSES          ('000)         ('000)          a 8580) 8116,8118,1710)
(Adj.)
TOTAL ECONOMY            2720      796       29X   112,690,843.0 a
AGRICULTURE             195       78       401      8776,540.6
MINING                   54         1       2X   38,925,282.0
a. MANUFACTURrNG          2471       719       29X   17,186,470.4    82,198,679.9
b. MANUFACTURING (EXCL.
Petrol A Ferti.)                                  34,212,870.4    82,048,262.8
c. MANUFACTURING (EXCL.
Petrol, Ferti, V.g.Oil,
Sugar, Iron/Steel)                                18,840,980.1   8l,608,765.8
8111  Meat Preparation      61        89       64%      $158,146.0       397,918.0            2.83           2.9%
8112 Doiry Products          19        6       82x      1206,947.8       $86,861.8            1.d6           2.0%
8113 Fruit/Veg Conning      55        S1       981       896,040.0      8#i,126.0             2.1X           2.61
8114  Fiah Canning          28        12       62X       825,876.6       518,501.8            0.81           0.41
8115  Veg/Animal Oils       60        43       72X      8278,788.8      8190,215.8            4.71           n/.
8116 Grain Mill Products   88          9       27X      8184,453.8       350,806.6            1.21           1.65
8117 Bakery Products         7         5       71X      n188,869.7      *11U,885.5            8.11           3.93
8118 Sugar Refining          11        7       64x      8190,231.0      8121,0S6.1            2.91           n/a
8119 Confectionery          18        14       781       878,884.7       857,088.1            1.43           1.7X
8121  Food Products n.e.s.   71       84       49X       827,849.8       $18,U86.8            o.8x           0.4X
3122 Animal Feed             7         4       57X      8217,628.6      8124,299.1            8.0%           8.71
8181 Distilling Spirits     15         8       58x       878,81$.6       889,867.8            0.9X           1.21
8182 Wine Industries        10         0        0o       817,857.1            $0.0            0.0%           0.0O
8188  Malt Bev.rang          9         4       44X      8180,718.6       871,428.8            1.7X           2.11
8184 Soft Drink,             4         4      100%      8180,358.7      8180,858.7            4.x1           5.4X
8140 Tobacco                 5         0        0%       1800,880.0           80.0            0.01           0.01
8211 Spinning,Weaving      107        29       27X                            80.0            O.OX           n/a
8212 Textiles               23         8       8Sx       82,565S.8        89,240.8            0.2X           0.81
8218 Knitting mills         88        84       95X       l17,662.5       816,678.8            0.4X           0.65
8214  Carpet., Rugs         11         0        OX        82 060.2            80.0            O.OX           0.01
8216 Cord and Rope          18         6       283          #C80.4          8134.0            0.03           O.OX
3219 Textiles n.e.s.        0o         0        OX          8295.2            80.0            0.01           O.OX
8220 Wearing Apparel       107        78       781       872,348.6        158,100.9           1.81           1.63
8231  Tanneries             11         0        01           859.2            80.0            O.OX           O.O0
8232 Fure, Dyeing            1         0        O3                            80.0            0.01           n/a
8288  Leather Products       i8        7       543          $582.4          8286.7            O.OX           O.OX
8240 Footwear               10        10      100X       866,242.7       866,242.7            1.63           2.0X
8811 Sawmill.               84         5       15X       $18,642.1        $2,447.4            0.11X          0.1
U812 Wood Container.         5         1       20X           328.1            *4.6            O.OX           0.01
8819 Wood, Cork n.e.s.      24         8       18X        1867.292          8170.9          .KO.0O           0.01
8820 Wood Furniture         10         8       801       342,406.8         88,989.4           0.8X           1.01
8411  Pulp, Paperboard      27         4       lX                            80.0            001X           n/a
3412 Paper ContaInerr        6         4       80X       857,872.4       845,897.9            1.13           1.43
8419 Paper Prod n.-.o.      25        14        6x       888,248.2       821,419.0            0.6X           0.61
3420 Printing               18         C       281      8122,224.9       888,961.4            0.8X           1.01
3611  Industrial Chmicals  116         1        1X       825,600.2          8222.6            0.01           0.01
8512 Fertil/Pesticides      84         0        o0       8868,400.0           80.0            n/a            n/a
8S18  Synthetic Product.    84        12       8sx                            80.0            o.OX           n/a
8521  Paints, Vernishes     19        15       79x      8107,868.9       884,764.9            2.01           2.51
8522 Drug.,Medicine.        29         0        ox       819,666.0            80.0            0.01           0.01
8528  Cosmetic*             28        1o       8e1       e84,676.6       828,170.2            o.6X           0.71
8629 Chemical. n.o.c.       77         7        sx       818,887.2        81,217.0            0.01           0.01
8580 Petrol Refineries      41         a        7X   82,055,700.0       8160,417.1            n/a            n/a
8540 Petrol/Coal Product.   18         0        OX        82,768.0            80.0            O.OX           0.0o
8551 Tire,Tube Industries   19        11       6Sex      87,178.6        844,100.6            1.0X           1.8x
8559 Rubber Productn n.e   21          2       lx           8872.4           8856.6           O.OX           O.OX
5680 Plstic Products n.e   16          8       50X       878,465.6       889,227.8            0.9x           1.2X
8610 Pottery, Ceramics      24         9        881       81,490.7          8659.0            0.01           0.01
820 Clas. Product.          8s         0        ox       860,599.8            80.0            0.01           o.0x
8691  Structural Clay       18         4       813       882,099.1        39,t87.6            0.2%           o.8x
8692 Cement, Lime            9         4       443       881,186.5       886,062.9            0.sx           1.1X
8699 Non-motal n.e.6        19         a       lx        685,504.1       85,606.9            0.13           0.21
8710  Iron Steel 8-Metale   60        16       8o0      8407,420.5      8122,226.2            2.91           n/a
3720 Non-ferrous Metale     74         4         a9                           80.0            o.0x           0.01
U611  Cutlery, Tool.        s8         2        ax        82,556.8           886.1            0.01           0.01
U612  Metal Furn/Fixtures    1         1      1001        89,487.7        89,487.7            0.2X           0.81



-86-                                      ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 4
TRINIDAD: PRODUCTION COVERED BY QUANTITATIVE RESTRICTIONS
- ( i(1)    (2)   -(a)         (4)            (5)             (0)          (7)
IMPUTED    CONTRIBUTION   CONTRIBUTION
X ITEMS                     PRODUCTION    TO COVERACE   TO COVERAGE
COVERED         1887         COVERED BY       RATIO    RATIO (EXCL.
* OF  * WITH      BY        PRODUCTION         QR'S      (EXCL. 3612   8612, 8530
SECTOR               OBS LIt.INSES LICENSES        ('000)         ('000)         a 8580) 8l16,811,8;710)
3818 Structural Metls        8        2       25S      $83,817.7        *8,344.2            0.21          0.21
8619 Fabricated Metal n.-  95        19       20X       190,007.6      818,001.6            0.4X          0.61
8621 Engine, Turbine*       28        0        OX          8692.9           30.0            O.OX          O.OX
S822 Agoric Machinery       26        8       12X          8592.9          871.1            0.0%          O.OX
8828 Mtal/Wood Machinery  80          0        01                           80.0            O.0          0.01
3824  Industriol Machinery  62        a        61                           a0.0            0.0%          0.01
8825 Office Machineny       17        0        OX                           80.0           O.OX           0.01
8829 Machinery n.e.s.       90        6        61       a74,788.8       34,162.1            0.11          0.1%
8681 Elec Indus Machinery  81         1        8X                           10.0           O.OX           0.01
882 Radio, Telecoumun       46       19       40X       321,986.2       86,683.1            0.2%          0.81
8688 Electrical Appliance  17         2       12X                           30.0            0.0          0.01
8689 Elec Machinery n.e.   16         4       265       885,572.8       86,W89.1            0.21          0.81
8641 Ship Building          15        6       401        32,728.1       81,089.2            0.01          0.0%
8842 Railway Equipment      10        0        OX                           80.0            0.01          0.OX
8a48 Motor Vehicle.         38       19       50%      8165,778.2      $82,866.6            2.01          2.51
a844 Motorcycle.             2        0        OX          3488.7           30.0            0.01          0.01
8846 Aircroft Manufacture  12         0        OX                           80.0            0.01          O.OX
8849 Transport Equip n.o   12         5       42X                           80.0           O.O1           0.01O
8861 ScientIfic Equip      a8         0        OX          8784.1           80.0           0.0%           0.01
8852 Photo/Optical Equip   22         0        O       #1,442.2            $0.0           0.01           0.01
P853 wtch"., Clocks         14        0        01        39,176.4           20.0           0.0X           0.01
8901 Jewelry                22        0        01       S36,808.1           80.0            0.01          0.0%
8902 Musical Instruments   12         0        01                           80.0            0.01          0.01
8908 Sporting Goods          6        0        01       $12,646.9           80.0           0.01           0.01
3909 Other Manufucturing  100        12       121        38,776.8       31,053.1           O.OX           0.01
Total Manufacturing Production Coverod by g os:                             80.7%
Manufacturing (Excl. Petrol .Related Activities) Covered by QR's:           48.61
(Excludes Soctors 858O and 8512)
Manufcturing (Excl. Petrol.Rolated Activities A Intn'l Agreements)          48.01
(Excludes sector. 8650, 8512, 8115, 8118,8710)
Note: *Total Production also Includes sectors 5000 (8819,900.0), 6100 (S247,800.0), 6200 (U6,100.0),
and 7715 (8289,800.0).
Source: Ministry of Industry (License); Centrol Statistical Office (Production).



- 87 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.       This Annex summarizes the technical assistance to be provided
under the companion Technical Assistance Loan to help the Government:
(i) carry out the structural adjustment measures under the
proposed SAL, as well as other aspects of the
Government's adjustment program;
(ii) strengthen social policies and programs including the
design and preparation of programs to cushion the
impact of adjustment; and
(iii) prepare future projects for Bank support.
Restructuring Support Unit (RSU)
2.       The TAL would finance about 55 man-months of short and long-
term consultants, equipment and training to assist the RSU in its
functions of facilitating and coordinating the implementation of the
medium term adjustment program, as well as in contracting the
consultants who will assist in the areas described below.
Social Sectors Unit (SSU)
3.       The TAL would finance about 80 man-months of consultants
services, equipment and training to assist the SSU in strengthening
social sector policies and programs, including the design and
preparation of programs to alleviate the social impact of the
adjustment.
Public Enterprises
4.       A State Owned Enterprise Unit (the SOE Unit) established in
the Ministry of Finance will provide critical support for coordinating
and monitoring the Government's program for restructuring, liquidating
and divesting inefficient and loss-making state enterprises. About
20 man-months of consultant services would be provided under the TAL.
Public Utilities
5.       The TAL would finance a management and operational audit of
T&TEC, the power company, which would fuc.s on achieving financial
self-sufficiency, improving administrative and operational efficiency,
improving investment programming and rate setting capacity. About 40
man-months would be provided.



-88-                        ANNEX x
Page 2 of 2
Public Sector Investmest Program (PSIP)
6.       The IDB is providing assistance to help the Government in the
development of project preparation guidelines, and to improve the
project selection process. However, at present the PSIP pipeline is
thin, and the TAL would provide about 40 man-months of consultant
services to supplement IDB assistance by preparing specific priority
projects.
Trade Regiam
7.       The TAL would provide about 27 man-months to:  (i) carry out
a study of trade and related policies, including the impact on
domestic industries of removing items from the negative list and the
practical significance for T&T's regional competitiveness of the
existing duty exemption regime; and for measurement of the direct and
indirect content of indirect taxes in exports; (ii) assist in the
establishment of the Automated System for Customs Data and the
strengthening of tariff administration and anti-dumping arrangements;
and (iii) carry out studies for the preparation of possible trade and
finance and industrial restructuring operations.
Petroleum Sector
8.       The TAL would provide 12 man-months ox consultants to review
legislation affecting concession licensing, contracts, royalties and
taxation to help the Government assess the country's competitiveness
for encouraging increased private investment in the sector, and to
make recommendations for improvement, where necessary.



MAP SECTION



cum   CN                          _        30_ _                              *O
HAWIII
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
RI NI)DAL  TCAAC()( Io. Rod
Y  VNEZURA                                                                                       TO W                                "        4wPortt
Mor~~~~~~~~~ ~~SSondWay Pork
- nS ~ n*1W                                                                                                                        -    NI.    C
n1W0a 4 |--i 6- N
n**e_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 09 S9                 _TW,,
e. ~~~~~~ __ d b                                C,-   5-0                                       ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Oil Rfi"
_ d lTh WW.W a" adat                                                                                                                      s pi.--s
1 v -dn n Wr natliesU
__s_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~s
o     lb      T    uunomom
VENEZUELA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.44 rOMM
6. AbU.E&
E. owM &.~A
10,00'
co-.oS' ,oi.<)a
co                                                 61r'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gs                                    00



