Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22283
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-24903)
ON TWO
GRANTS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION EACH
TO THE
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
FOR
THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO
06/20/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 5 April 2001)
Currency Unit = DM
DM = US$ 0.4580
US$ = 2.1835 DM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPK                  Banking and Payments Authority
CFA                  Central Fiscal Agency
DFID                 Department for International Development
EAG                  Economic Assistance Grant
EBRD                 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC                   European Community
FRY                  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FYROM                Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
HLSG                 High Level Steering Group
IAC                  Interim Administrative Council
IMF                  Intemational Monetary Fund
JIAS                 Joint Interim Administrative Structure
KTC                  Kosovo Transition Council
LODP                 Letter of Development Policies
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NTM                  Non-Tariff Measure
TA                   Technical Assistance
QR                   Quantitative Restrictions
UNMIK                United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
USAID                United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT                  Value Added Tax
WLSG                 Working Level Steering Group
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Kyle Peters
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marina Wes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOSOVO
Budget Support Trust Fund for Kosovo
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       9
9. Partner Comments                                                                     10
10. Additional Information                                                             11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    16
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       17
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P071114                                       Pro ect-Name: Economic Assistance Grant H|
Team Leader: Saumya Mitra                                 TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 20, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Economic Assistance Grant 11                   L/C/TF Number: TF-24903
Country/Department: KOSOVO                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/15/2000                              E,ffective: 02/26/2001
Appraisal:  12/18/2000                                MTR:
Approval:  01/10/2001                              Closing:
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK)
Other Partners.
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Counnny Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:      Kyle Peters                                Kyle Peters
Team Leader at ICR:   Saumya Mitra                              Saumya Mitra
ICR Primary Author:   Marina Wes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact. SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrowi'er Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This Interim Completion Report (ICR) analyses jointly the first and the second Economic Assistance
Grants (EAG) [P069469 and P071114]. The joint objective of these two single-tranch grants was to
support Kosovo's economic reform program through providing financial resources to the United Nations
Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK). This reform program has centered on: (i) the establishment
of key public institutions; (ii) the provision of essential public services; and (iii) the adoption of clear
govemance policies as well as policies facilitating the transition to a private market based economy.
A single ICR has been presented for these two EAG operations in view of their shared objectives, close
similarities in the structure of the operations, including conditionalities, and the short period between their
disbursements. These two separate one tranche type operations can be seen as supporting a policy reform
effort that spans the period from early 2000 to early 2001.
When UNMIK entered Kosovo, there were no respresentative institutions. The withdrawal of all Serb
public administrators at the end of the conflict combined with a decade of ethnic Albanian absence from the
management of public institutions left a complete institutional vacuum. Hence, one of the main challenges
facing UNMIK was to start rebuilding from scratch governing institutions and public agencies, at both
legislative and executive levels.
This setting formed the background for the first Economic Assistance grant. Reestablishing a budget and
budgetary management practises were essential to getting public services functioning again, especially in
the areas of health facilities, schools and utilities. Moreover, the institution established, the CFA, had to
meet the highest possible standards of management, transparency, sound accounting and auditing, where
none existed before, because of the demands and usage of donor funding. Therefore, the two EAGs had
highly similar goals. Specifically, the first Economic Assistance Grant (EAG I) supported:
(i) the creation of a fully functioning and effective budget management system within the interim
government of Kosovo (the Central Fiscal Agency), with modem standards of public expenditure
management, transparent fiscal operations and accounting and audit;
(ii) the establishment of a fully functioning and effective bank licensing and supervision capability (the
Banking and Payments Authority), with a view to stimulating banking activities in a safe and sound
manner. After the conflict, commercial banking operations also effectively ceased and transactions through
the local payment bureau system dwindled to a negligible level.
The second Economic Assistance Grant (EAG II) built on the achievements under EAG I and supported:
(i) the adoption of a sound budget for Kosovo for the year 2001 that represents a significant step
towards sustainability through increased reliance on local tax revenues, improvements in the quality of
fiscal expenditures, with greater cost recovery in public utilities, and institutional strengthening of the
budget management system; and
(ii) the establishment of a fully liberal trade and customs regime with all external tariffs to be set at zero
upon the introduction of a VAT regime planned for mid-2001.
Against the background of a lost decade of growth, and the institutional challenges outlined above, UJNMIK
policy priorities were designed to help stabilize macroeconomic conditions in order to provide an
- 2 -



appropriate climate for reconstruction and recovery. Both economic assistance grants supported this as an
overriding objective. Permitting the use of the DM in all transactions without disturbing the legal status of
the dinar helped to lay one of the fundamental conditions for macroeconomic stability. At the same time, it
placed the onus of macroeconomic policy on fiscal policy. In this context, the economic assistance grants
supported reform in the fiscal areas, with reforms centering on the creation of a functional and responsible
fiscal agency, implementing sustainable budget policies, and stimulating bank activities in a safe and sound
manner. The Bank's budget support grants also played a critical role as an indicator to the rest of the donor
community. The Bank has guided other donors through its assessment of the budget and its implementation.
Utmost importance was placed in the design of policies and institutions to ensure continuance and
sustainability when UNMIK withdraws and local representative authorities take its place. From its
inception as the interim government of Kosovo under resolution 1244, local Kosovar experts and political
leaders have been extensively consulted in policy and institution formulation. Early on, the Kosovo
Transitional Council was formed with high level local representation. The Joint Interim Administrative
Structure established in early 2000 has strengthened and formalized local Kosovar participation. Twenty
administrative departments were created (akin to ministries), each with UNMIK and local Kosovar
co-heads. Kosovar experts have played an increasingly promninent role in the management and
administrative role in the functioning of these and other public administration bodies. Following the
municipal elections of October 2000, a Council of Ministers has been created, a formal grouping of the 20
local department co-heads.
The project objectives were clearly articulated and highly relevant to Kosovo's post-conflict policy reform
and institutional development priorities. Building government institutions and policies from scratch
constituted the first steps in a medium term program of reforms of economic institutions in Kosovo that is
being developed by IJNMIK and the local political and technical leadership. The operations were envisaged
under and constituted important elements of the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo and its Progress
Report, discussed in the Board on 7 October 1999 and on 25 July 2000 respectively. The focus and
conditions of the grants also had substantive underpinnings in supporting economic work (see Annex 7 for
details). The Kosovo Education and Health Finance project, which provided technical assistance and some
material support to help rebuild and restructure the governance, finance and administration of Kosovo's
education and health systems, was complementary to these budget support operations.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The grant objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The components of the reform programme supported by these operations were described in section 3.1.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The operation was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
The Region's assessment is that the quality at entry of the operation was satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The grants have supported the establishment of a fiscal system, and have helped to provide basic services in
a post-conflict setting. They have also contributed to laying the foundations for establishing a climate for
- 3 -



banking, and they have supported the design and implementation of a functioning trade and tariff regime,
providing substantial revenues. Budgetary self-sufficiency is increasing and a climate of macro-economic
stability has prevailed.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The creation of a fully functional and effective budget management system, with modern standards of
public expenditure management and transparent fiscal operations, accounting and audit.
Given Kosovo's unique circumstances (legacy of destruction related to the conflict, withdrawal of all Serb
public administrators, and a decade of ethnic Albanian absence from the management of public
institutions), UNMIK had to start from scratch in designing a tax system, developing a budget, and creating
the institutions to implement its policies. Initial fiscal spending upon the establishment of UNMIK in 1999
was
organized in an ad-hoc fashion, outside the context of a fiscal framework and budget planning process. It
was directed to financing the stipends of some health employees and judges in an effort to quickly address
urgent needs. In response to this situation, the establishment of a Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) with the
functions of a finance ministry was identified as a first priority.
The Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) was established by regulation 1999/16 at the end of 1999. Its main
divisions for budget, treasury, tax policy and tax administration became operational in 2000. In 2000 the
CFA made extremely good progress in designing, implementing and managing the local Kosovar budget.
The development of budget management institutions also made very significant strides. With the support of
the EAG I, the CFA is now performing important functions including: (i) budget preparation and
monitoring; (ii) execution of budgetary transactions through the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and their
financial control; (iii) formulation of tax policy and the management of tax and customs revenues. UNMIK
has developed a sound structure for processing expenditure requests within realistic budget constraints. The
culmination of this is the 2001 budget.
The Central Fiscal Agency has also built a reputation as an important instrument, providing assurance for
the prudent and transparent use of funds. The CFA has hired and trained many local staff who are
performing key routine tasks in the budget and treasury divisions, as well as a large number of tax
inspectors.
In spite of the very considerable progress, further challenges remain. In 2001, the donors will look to
UNMIK to strengthen fiscal sustainability by carrying out the reduction in the bloated workforce in the
education and health sectors and in the electricity company as well as raise significantly cost recovery in
utility payments. The introduction of a modified VAT system, of a wage tax and a sustainable scheme for
social assistance payments are also important policy commitments for 200 1. Further institutional work is
currently under way: the establishment of intemal audit capability, moves towards a full integration of the
current and capital budgets, and strengthening of sector policy analysis capability.
This output is rated as being achieved in a satisfactory manner.
The establishment of afullyfunctioning and effective bank licensing and supervision capability, with a
view to stimulating banking activities in a safe and sound manner.
After the conflict, commercial banking operations in Kosovo effectively ceased. Transactions through the
local payment bureau system dwindled to a negligible level. To facilitate the modemization and the
- 4 -



development of payment services and a commercial banking system, two regulations were passed in
November 1999, establishing of Banking and Payments authority of Kosovo (BPK), and legislation for
bank licensing, regulation and supervision. The unfettered use of the deutsche mark in all transactions
without disturbing the legal status of the dinar, the large inflow of diaspora funds, the fiscal stance, and the
creation of a bank licensing supervision capability at such an early stage have all contributed to the
macroeconomic stability that has characterized Kosovo since the end of the conflict.
The BPK has been assigned responsibility for fostering an efficient and safe system for domestic payments,
and the liquidity, solvency, and efficient functioning of a stable market-based banking system. More
specifically, the BPK is responsible for providing: (i) an appropriate inventory of clean DM banknotes in
the needed denominations; (ii) clearing and settlement services to banks in DM; and (iii) a full range of
banking and payment services to the government; (iv) the licensing and supervision of banks and non-bank
financial institutions. On a temporary and emergency basis, the BPK was also authorized to provide
deposit and payment services to enterprises and to the general public until banks were able to do so.
The BPK has developed considerably since its creation. At end-February 2001, the BPK was operating
with a local staff of some 350 people plus some 10 intemational staff. As a result of UJNMIK financial
regulation and BPK rules, three new commercial banks have been fully licenses. Micro Enterprise Bank
was licensed in January 2000, and was partly capitalized by the EBRD and IFC. It operates in Pristina and
in a number of regional centers.The New Bank of Kosovo was licensed in February 2001, and the Bank of
Private Business in March 2001. Five other banks have been offered preliminary license approval, but none
of them have yet met the requirements for a final license (raising capital, formulating realistic business
plans, selecting fit and proper owners and managers). The BPK is also responsible for licensing, regulation
and supervision of non-bank micro-finance institutions; in March 2001 nine such institutions had been
registered, mainly operating outside Pristina.
Despite the very significant progress, a number of challenges remain. The payments system needs to be
developed further, and an interbank payment system should be established. The IMF has been advising
BPK on an appropriate sequencing for commercial banks to take over more of payment services from the
BPK. The introduction of the euro in the cash-based economy of Kosovo will also constitute a new
challenge, not only for the BPK but for UNMIK and the Kosovar economy as a whole. The BPK's
supervision function needs to be extended to insurance companies that are operating in Kosovo, but that are
currently under UNMIK's Motor Vehicle Administration. Finally, with more than 350 employees, the BPK
is overstaffed.
This output is rated as satisfactory.
The adoption of a sound budget for Kosovo for the year 2001.
- 5 -



As noted above, particularly noteworthy progress has also been made in the areas of tax policy, tax
administration, and budget preparation and execution. A basic tax system, mostly relying on tax collection
and administration at the border, has been introduced from scratch. A large number of tax administrators
and a customs administration support the implementation of tax and customs policy. UNMIK has also
developed a sound structure for processing expenditure requests within realistic budget constraints. The
2001 budget is a culmination of this process. The budget revenue target is attainable. Planned expenditure
levels are not excessive, either in view of the considerable social and economic needs, nor in comparison
with levels in low-income countries. As a result, UNMIK has kept its commitment to reduce Kosovo's
dependence on donor support for the budget. Grants will finance only one third of spending in 2001
compared with over a one-half in 2000.
Nevertheless, UTNMIK must still do several important things to reduce risks to the budget. As mentioned
above, on the tax side, it is essential to broaden the tax base by implementing the VAT and introducing a
wage tax. Continuing efforts to strengthen tax administration and train local tax supervisors are also a
priority. On the expenditure side, while the overall wage bill is not large by the standards of transition
economies, the over employment in the health and education sectors should be scaled back. Also, stronger
efforts should be made to reduce staffing in public utilities and improve bill collection in order to eliminate
the high subsidy cost to the budget. More generally, UNMIK needs to resist pressures to raise budget
wages-wage levels are not low when related to Kosovo's development level-and continue to resist
pressures to extend industrial subsidies, a mistake made in other transition economies.
This output is rated as satisfactory.
The establishment of a fully liberal trade and customs regime.
In mid- 1999 soon after taking office, UNMIK introduced a simple, neutral trade regime in Kosovo to
replace the highly distorted and discretionary tax regime that was in place in FRY before. This was
considered to be important in stimulating private sector led economic growth and reconstruction, and in
creating the conditions for healthy exports. Moreover, in the absence of adequate administrative machinery
to collect taxes on consumption and incomes, UNMIK saw the introduction of the customs/external trade
regime as the major source of revenue for the local recurrent budget of Kosovo.
The key characteristics of the trade regime are: First, a uniform tariff structure of 10 percent was
introduced. This tariff structure is commendable in its simplicity and the low rate involved. Second, the
foreign trade regime is devoid of non-tariff measures (NTMs) and quantitative restrictions (QRs). Third, a
further advantage of the system is that its registration procedures of traders (exporters, importers and
forwarding agents) and licensing are non-discriminatory and transparent. There is no state trading and
foreign trade activity is open to all firms. There are no non-automatic licenses and the existing regime
offers limited, if any at all, opportunity for bureaucratic micro-management of foreign trade.
Although the Kosovo foreign trade regime has the right institutional design, and low and almost uniform
tariff rates, a number of policy concerns arise. For instance, an important weakness of the trade regime
stems from the recognition of the preferential trade agreement between FRY and FYR Macedonia. The
preferential status to FYR Macedonia has distorted trade flows and led to revenue losses for two reasons:
FYR Macedonia has been traditionally an important trading partner of Kosovo; and a considerable portion
of total imports into Kosovo transit through FYR Macedonia. The latter has provided opportunity to
falsify certificates of origin. There have been delays in closing this fiscal loophole.
UNMIK initially planned to repeal the tariff on all imports upon the adoption of the VAT. It is now
- 6 -



reassessing this commitment, primarily because of revenue concerns. UNMIK is analyzing the revenue loss
associated with the repeal of the customs tariff and whether it could be offset by fixing the rate of VAT to
achieve a revenue-neutral result. This policy change would permit all goods regardless of origin to be
taxed at the rate set for the VAT. Hence, the distortions and revenue losses associated with the special
trade arrangement with FYR Macedonia and with goods entering from Montenegro and the rest of Serbia
would be removed.
But, the UNMIK authorities have agreed on a VAT rate of 15 per cent, based partially on political
considerations, which would likely be insufficient to achieve revenue neutrality, so it is reconsidering
repealing the tariffs upon the introduction of the VAT. This is a precautionary measure to ensure that
significant revenues are raised to ensure sound budget management during the initial period of the
implementation of the VAT. UNMIK is aware of the negative incentive effects of retaining the tariff at the
time of the introduction of the VAT, and the positive effect that eliminating the tariff would have in closing
'gaps' in the tariff regime. Currently, UNMIK is of the view that revenue predictibility considerations are
predominant at this time, but it remains committed to repealing the tariff as early as feasible.
This output is rated as satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retlurn:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institiltional development impact:
Institutional development was an important objective of these operations and the two economic assistance
grants have provided substantial support to the authorities in their effort to strengthen institutional capacity
for managing finances. Setting up new institutions and policies for economic management were urgent
post-conflict tasks, and the Bank provided very important assistance in this area. Two critical institutions,
the CFA and the BPK, were rapidly established, supported by significant technical assistance from the
Bank and the IMF. As outlined above, both institutions are now functioning effectively following
implementation of policies and systems to support fiscal management and the banking systems.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Aside from the inherent political and social risks prevailing in Kosovo today, there are substantial risks
associated with the implementation of the economic reform effort itself. The long period of exclusion from
civic life of the majority of the population and the legacy of the conflict have led to erosion of skills, sense
of civic reponsibility, tolerance and adherence to the rules of the game. This deterioration has occured on
top of already existing weak, even corrupt, standards of governance and banking that characterized the
Yugoslav system. The long period of exclusion from civic life of the majority ethnic population and the
legacy of the conflict has led to erosion of skills, sense of civic responsibility, tolerance, and adherence to
rules of the game. Conditions of political unrest and violence and deep distrust between the ethnic
communities of Kosovo resulting in political and civic non-cooperation are clearly factors hampering
reconciliation and the emergence of a firm foundations for structural reforms.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to government control:
There are various risks of policy implementation. Despite impressive advances in institutional
development, budgetary systems and mechanisms, including tax administration and collection, are still at a
-7 -



formative stage. In addition, significant gaps in tax coverage exist and the willingness of the populace to
pay taxes, given recent history, is still uncertain although developments so far are encouraging. Strong
pressures also are being felt to raise wages, maintain over-manning in public services and utilities and
increase overall spending to amounts that would not be sustainable in the medium term.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agency control:
Whereas the CFA is an integral part of the Kosovo interim government, the BPK is an autonomous public
body. The reforms pertaining to the BPK were and are under its control. The BPK has received external
technical assistance in implementing reforms. It has improved its technical and professional capacity
greatly. It suffers, however, from over-staffing. Moreover, given the highly distinct nature of its two
responsibilities -- operation of the payments system and banking supervision -- with little synergies between
these two tasks, it is a challenge to maintain focus. It appears that two separate bodies for these functions
(as advised by the Bank) might have been a better institutional outcome.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Not Applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the reforms supported by the grants appears likely. The policy and institutional
measures implemented provide a basic framework for establishing credible fiscal management and
strengthening the capacity of key institutions to carry forward more complicated reform programs. The
CFA is well-established, and good progress has been made in a number of areas, including budget
formulation and implementation procedures, the integration of the capital and the recurrent budget, the
intensified dialogue between CFA and the spending departments, continuing reform in the tax structure, and
the integration of locals in technical and policy tasks. In the case of the BPK, good progress has also been
made, including with the accumulation of experience in bank supervision, the licensing of three banks, and
the development of the payments system and the introduction of the euro. The simple, transparent, and open
trade policy has facilitated the reintegration of Kosovo into the region.
Going forward, it remains to be seen to what extent the high standards of transparency and integrity will be
preserved once the Kosovarization deepens. In this context, risks are mitigated by the increasing
involvement of Kosovars in policy making and execution, and the on-the-job training and assistance that the
present structure provides. The new Constitutional Framework for Provisional Self-Government and the
Kosovo-wide elections to be held in November 2001, will be important steps in taking further the process
of Kosovarization. A particular risk relates to fiscal decentralization, and the extent to which the high
standards of the CFA on budget planning, monitoring and implementation can be transferred down to the
regional level. Nevertheless, UNMIK and the local Kosovars alike recognize the importance of strong and
accountable institutions and good governance. They remain committed to continue working with the Bank
and other donors to deepen reform efforts. Additional funding to be provided by donors would help support
sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. Project preparation was thorough, and the
- 8-



measures and activities identified were realistic. The design of the operation was highly relevant to the
circumstances of Kosovo and the objectives of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo. The
grants provided much-needed fiscal support to UNMIK within an agreed budget framework and
appropriate burden sharing with other donors. In this context, there was close coordination with the IMF
through joint missions and complementarity in TA, with bilateral donors, and with the Working Level
Steering Group (WLSG) for Southeast Europe. The conditionalities of the grants were also grounded in
supporting economic work (see Annex 7 for details), and it was formulated in a highly collaborative
process with the interim administration in Kosovo.
There was high staff continuity during project preparation, and staff had extensive experience in Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina and post-conflict environment. There was continuity and consistency between the
previous economic work done and project preparation. This high level of continuity has helped to ensure a
good working relationship with the counterparts and in the substance of advice.
7.2 Supe?vision:
Bank missions have visited Kosovo regularly to assess economic developments and review progress in key
reform areass. A constant dialogue has taken place between the administration and the Bank. Supervision
was used to deepen dialogue on fiscal policy (e.g. anti-corruption, tax structure, fiscal decentralization),
and findings during supervision missions have informed and triggered further TA work, for instance on the
budget. The Bank is also undertaking work on social assistance as well as a poverty assessment, which will
help with targeting budgetary social assistance.
7.3 Overall Bank perfornmance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory for all stages of project development and supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The authorities' performance during preparation was satisfactory. UNMIK made significant progress
towards completion of key legislative and institutional measures and took important policy actions prior to
the release of the grants.
7.5 Governnment implementation performance:
The ability of the officials of the interim administration to effect wide-ranging institutional and policy
reforms within a short period of time, despite limited institutional capacity, was commendable.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The BPK has made progress, particularly in the banking supervision area, in a short period of time.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornmance:
Overall performance of UNMIK is judged satisfactory. Nevertheless, there have been some issues
regarding implementation of policy commitments under EAG II. In particular, there is still uncertainty
about the implementation of agreements on abolishing the tariff and on staffing reductions in the health
sector. This has represented some reconsideration of priorities in response to evolving circumstances, some
lack of coordination across pillars in the UNMIK administration and some equivocation on policy goals
and objectives. These issues regarding EAG II implementation have required the Bank to maintain a close
and constant dialogue with UNMIK and to monitor quite closely performance.
8. Lessons Learned
The Bank can play an important role in providing budget support in post-conflict situations, when domestic
- 9-



revenues are clearly insufficient. In many post-conflict situations donor funding for the budget falls short of
what is needed, making the emergency/transition phase even more difficult. The Bank's role (advisory to
UNMIK, financing, and guiding other donors who provide budget support through the assessment of the
budget and its implementation) has been critical. It also implies that such operations require intensive
supervision to ensure that adequate progress is being made towards policy objectives and that the donor
community is informed of developments. This has been facilitated by the HLSG/WLSG framework for
South Eastern Europe, which is co-chaired by the World Bank and the EC.
Ownership by the authorities and selectivity in conditionality have been important in the success of the
operations. The Bank and UNMIK concentrated on a few key policy areas essential for immediate recovery
while laying the foundations for longer-term sustainability, in particular the probity of public finance and
mechanisms and measures to kickstart the banking system and trade flows.
EAG II has highlighted that the technical details of the operation need to be negotiated carefully when the
authority is segmented. It has also highlighted both the flexibility provided by single-tranche operations as
well as their shortcomings, in particular monitoring implementation of the commitments in the Letters of
Development Policies (LODPs).
Frequent, close, and intensive consultation with donors, and the dovetailing of the Bank's work and that of
principal donors (USAID, DFID, EC) was critical. The Bank had to play an important role in judging the
areas of the greatest needs, and in providing signals to donors accordingly. The Working Level Steering
Group as well as informal bilateral contacts were important implementation tools. Close cooperation and
good relations with the IMF had a high payoff.
Especially in the early months of UNMIK's existence, the Bank played an important role in helping to set
priorities in economic policy. Through economic and donor reports, and key advisory pieces for UNMIK,
the Bank can play an important role in providing a strategic vision in a post-conflict setting.
In the context of Kosovo, a number of more specific lessons can also be learnt. For instance, and with the
benefit of hindsight, it is now clear that it would have been better to keep the functions of banking
supervision and payments operation in separate institutions - as indeed the Bank had advised; it would have
been better to start with fewer or no tariff exemptions; and an earlier focussing on municipal financing
issues would have been recommendable.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This section presents the comments from the borrower:
"UNMIK appreciates the strong support, both financial and technical, of the World Bank in its
efforts to establish strong and sustainable budgetary and banking institutions in Kosovo.
We note the discussion on the trade regime and particularly the aspect of removal of tariffs, to
which there is a commitment in the EAG II agreement and on which we continue to hold
discussions. UNMIK is currently actively considering the steps that can be taken to move towards
the commitment to remove all tariffs in a manner agreeable to the Bank.
There have been other lessons learnt from the last two years of institution building to which we
- 1 0 -



would like to draw attention. The first is that inevitably it is a slow process. It is clear that the
institutional void in Kosovo was very deep. While under the EAGs there has been considerable
progress, even now there is still a significant human capital deficit that needs to be addressed. In
particular we consider that more attention must be given to technical assistance related to specific
needs of the future leaders of Kosovo and the paucity of modem management skills resulting from
a decade of exclusion. This should reinforce the basic rules of good governance that underpin
the two Grants under discussion as well as other major capital investments made by donors in the
past two years. While there has been considerable investment in international expertise on the
ground in Kosovo, the role many played in actually being members of the Government rather than-
advisers as in more traditional transitional economy assistance may have meant that less attention
has been given to the high intensity support and direct involvement of the local staff that is needed
to address the skills deficit. It is clear also that in undertaking the role of Government, the Mission
has taken some time to accept that precedent and practices established over 50 years are not
necessarily appropriate in the particular circumstances of Kosovo.
The support of the Bank, both as a donor and an adviser has been a vital component of the
achievements to date.  We look forward to a continuation of both modes of support."
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 11 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The operation did not include output impact indicators. A table indicating objectives and achievements is
instead included below.
Objective                                   Output/Achievement
Creating a functioning and                  The CFA has performed well. Treasury payments are managed effectively
effective budget management system.         and transparently. Budget planning and allocation mechanisms continue to
be improved, and steps are being undertaken to integrate the recurrent and
capital budgets.
Establishing a functioning and effective bank  The BPK has been established. Proper supervision over banking has been
licensing and supervision capability, with a  established and three banks have been licensed.
view to stimulating banking activities in a safe
and sound manner.
Adopting a sound budget for 2001 that      The 2001 budget, adopted prior to the release of EAG II, marks a significant
represents a significant step towards      step towards sustainabiliy. A sound budget for 2001 is being implemented.
sustainability.                             However, it is unclear at this stage whether the reductions in public sector
employment that were initially envisaged will be implemented.
A simple uniform trade regime to be         Preparations for the introduction of the VAT were underway. At present, the
implemented: all external tariffs will be set at zero   authorities are considering delaying the abolition of the tariffs because of
upon the introduction of a value added tax regime   revenue predictability considerations.
planned for July 2001.
- 12-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Pro_ _  Cost By Component        _      US$ milr ion    USS milion
Economic Assistance Grant I from the Trust Fund for    5.00            5.00
Kosovo
Economic Assistance Grant 11 from the Trust Fund for   5.00            5.00
Kosovo
Total Baseline Cost                                    10.00          10.00
Physical Contingencies                                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.00            0.00
Total Project Costs              10.00           10.00
Total Financing Required               10.00           10.00-1_             _
- 13-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-14 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                 ___   _
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Perfor      Ratnc X 
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                            gObjective
Identification/Preparation
EAG 1                        3    1 macro economist, I fiscal           S                S
consultant, I financial sector
economist
EAG II                       3    1 macro economist, 1 fiscal           S                S
economist, I trade economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
EAG I                        3    1 macro economist, 1 fiscal           S                S
economist, I financial sector
economist
EAG II                       3    1 macro economist, I fiscal           S                S
economist, I trade economist
Supervision
EAG 1                         2   1 macro economist, 1 fiscal           S                S
economist
EAG II                        2   1 fiscal economist                    S                S
ICR
EAG I                        I    I macro economist                     S                S
EAG II                       I    1 macro economist                     S                S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (200)
Identification/Preparation           40 (EAG I)
30 (EAG 11)
Appraisal/Negotiation                12 (EAG I)
12 (EAG II)
Supervision                          25 (EAG I)
12 (EAG II)
ICR                                   1 (EAG I)
I (EAG II)
Total                                78 (EAG I)
55 (EAG II)
- 15 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
[ Financial                               OH  *SUOM   ON  ONA
N Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specifv)                   OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 16-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU   OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperfornance                              Rating
X Preparation                                        OHS OS  O u   O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS Os  O  U  0 HU
X Implementation agencyperformance                    O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U  O HU
- 17 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo. The World Bank. October 1999.
Transitional Support Strategy for Kosvo Progress Report. The World Bank. July 2000.
Kosovo. Building Peace through Sustained Growth: The Economic and Social Policy Agenda. The World
Bank. November 1999.
Toward Stability and Prosperity: A Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo. The European
Commission and the World Bank. November 1999.
Kosovo, FRY. Memorandum of the Country Director to the Regional Vice-President on a Proposed
Economic Assistance Grant to the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo for the Benefit of
Kosovo from the Trust Fund of Kosovo. World Bank Report No. P. 7369. March 2000.
Kosovo Budget 2001. UNMIK. December 2000.
Kosovo, FRY. Memorandum of the Country Director to the Regional Vice-President on a Proposed
Economic Assistance Grant to the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo for the Benefit of
Kosovo from the Trust Fund of Kosovo. World Bank Report No. 21740 KOS. January 2001.
Kosovo, FRY. Economic and Social Reforms for Peace and Reconciliation, World Bank Report No.
21784-KOS, February 2001.
Kosovo 2001-2003 from Reconstruction to Growth. A Preliminary Assessment by the Departnent of
Reconstruction. Department of Reconstruction, UNMIK. February 2001.
Kosovo: Macroeconomic Issues and Fiscal Sustainability, IMF, 2001.
- 18 -



