             Document of
          The World Bank

      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                  Report No: 61419-CN




       RESTRUCTURING PAPER

               ON A

 PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                 OF

SICHUAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

           LOAN NO. 4838


           August 11, 2006


              TO THE

    PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA


           August 18, 2011
2
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

2RR      Second Ring Road
EA       Environmental Assessment
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FM       Financial Management
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ISDS     Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MPMO     Municipal Project Management Office
MSCIC    Mianyang Sanjiang Construction Investment Co., Ltd.
MSEPIC   Mianyang Science and Education Pioneer Investment Co., Ltd.
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NDRC     National Development and Reform Commission
NPV      Net Present Value
OP       Bank Operational Policy
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPMO     Provincial Project Management Office
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SEDZ     Southern Economic Development Zone
SUDP     Sichuan Urban Development Project




             Regional Vice President:            Mr. James W. Adams
                    Country Director:            Mr. Klaus Rohland
                      Sector Director:           Mr. John Roome
                      Sector Manager:            Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez (EASCS)
                                                 Mr. Vijay Jagannathan (EASIN)
                   Task Team Leader:             Mr. Paul Procee

                                             i
                                       CHINA
                        SICHUAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                      P083322

                                                    CONTENTS


                                                                                                                        Page

A.   SUMMARY ................................................................................................................ 1
B.   PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................... 1
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ............................................................................................ 1
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY ......................................................................................... 2
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ......................................... 4




                                                             ii
iii
                   SICHUAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                               RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY
1.      On May 12, 2008, the Wenchuan Earthquake hit the province of Sichuan. It was
the most damaging earthquake since the 1976 Tangshan Earthquake and resulted in
almost 70,000 causalities, extensive damage and economic losses across the province.
Among the 4 cities of the Sichuan Urban Development Project (SUDP), Mianyang was
the most affected by the earthquake. As a result, the Mianyang Municipal Government
received substantial support from the national government for recovery and
reconstruction activities. Land use plans were changed to accommodate affected
population and economic activities. Domestic funds were used for infrastructure
investments originally proposed under the SUDP in both the Southern Economic
Development Zone (“SEDZ?) and Pioneer Park. The Mianyang Government is proposing
to allocate the unused SUDP funds, totaling US$ 11.8 million, to infrastructure
investments in the Xinglong Area of Pioneer Park. The changes will not affect the overall
PDO, but will require some adjustments to the project result indicators. The changes will
not affect the closing date of the project.



PROJECT STATUS
2.       Significant implementation progress has been achieved after delays as a result of
the 2008 Earthquake. Most contracts have been awarded and works are progressing
according to schedule. By the end of 2010, disbursements total US$ 100.1 million,
around 55% of the total loan amount of US$ 180 million. Regarding civil work contracts,
26 out of 34 contracts have been procured. Among these 26 contracts, 4 contracts have
been completed and the remaining 22 are progressing without major issues. There are
still 8 civil works contracts to be procured. All civil contracts, except those related to the
proposed new investments in Mianyang, are expected to be completed by the end of
2011. According to the current schedule, the single new contract related to the Mianyang
restructured component is expected to be completed by early 2013.



PROPOSED CHANGES
3.      The project development objective will remain unchanged as: assisting the
Borrower’s Sichuan Province in facilitating rational urban development by removing
identified infrastructure problems that impede land development, efficient transport
movement and environmental protection. It is proposed to change the scope of the
Mianyang Component (Part A.1 of the project) as follows:
                                              1
       (a) Construction of the section of the Second Ring Road from the interchange
           with Yingbin Avenue to the boundary of Pioneer Park (Part A.1 (b) in
           Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement) will be removed from the project, as these
           have financed through domestic funds, as well as all related obligations.
       (b) As a result of land use changes to SEDZ and national support for
           reconstruction efforts in Mianyang, selected road and landscaping contracts in
           SEDZ will be dropped from the project.
       (c) Investments in the Xinglong area (a new development zone within Pioneer
           Park) involving about (i) 4.60 km of roads, (ii) 9.3 km of storm pipelines, (iii)
           6.1 km of sewer pipelines, (iv) 1.1 km of drainage channel, and (v) slope
           protection, landscaping, lighting and traffic signals will be included under the
           project, and will utilize savings of $11.80 million arising from (a) and (b)
           above.

Results/indicators

4.     Indicators related to investments on the Second Ring Road and in SEDZ will be
dropped. The results and outcomes of the new investment in Xinglong area will be
captured under existing land related indicators 4 and 5 for Pioneer Park (roads built,
sewerage built, area of land sold, average sale price, etc.). The targets have been adjusted
and are reflected in the Results Framework and Monitoring Table in Annex 1.

Financing

5.      There will be no change to the overall Project Cost due to the restructuring, and
the overall amount for civil works contracts within the Mianyang Component (Category
1a) will remain the same. The financing plan and disbursement arrangements will remain
unchanged.

Procurement

6.      Project agencies have furnished an acceptable Procurement Plan for the
restructured project, which is available at the Provincial Project Management Office, the
Project’s database, and on the Bank’s external website. It will continue to be updated on
an annual basis, or as required to reflect project implementation changes.

7.     The International Competitive Bidding (ICB) threshold for the Procurement of
Goods applicable to this project will be changed from US$500,000 to US$1 million.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$ 1 million may
now apply National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.



APPRAISAL SUMMARY
Economic and financial analysis


                                             2
8.      The economic analysis of the infrastructure investments in the Xinglong Area,
using the same methodology used at appraisal of SUDP, indicate that the investments will
have a Net Present Value of RMB 99,457,100, and an Economic Rate of Return of
17.63%.
.

Technical

9.     Feasibility study report for the new investments in Xinglong Area was prepared
by a well known design institute. The final designs will be reviewed by the local experts,
the PPMO and the Bank to ensure they are technically sound, are based on good
engineering practice, and represent least cost alternatives.

Social

10.     The proposed investments will require land acquisition and resettlement. A
resettlement action plan (RAP), acceptable to the Bank, has been prepared after surveys
and public consultations and has been disclosed. The original Mianyang RAP included a
RPF (Annex 3) to ensure that any linked projects and subsequent resettlement activities
in Mianyang would follow Bank procedures. The new RAP is based on this RPF and
adopts the same compensation, livelihood restoration approaches, measures and standards
as the original Mianyang. The existing agencies in Mianyang responsible for SUDP
resettlement implementation in Mianyang will also be responsible for the implementation
of this RAP. The relocation of private graves and tombs are an integral part of the
resettlement process, which are carefully compensated and relocated during the process
and in accordance to family’s wishes.

Environment

11.     The proposed investments will actually improve sewerage collection, drainage
and traffic flows in the area and have an overall positive impact on the environment in the
area and Mianyang. The Environmental Category of the project will remain unchanged
at Category A. The revised EA includes along with an associated EMP, for the Xinglong
Area in Pioneer Park, acceptable to the Bank has been finalized The EA did not identify
any serious long-term negative environmental impacts as a result of the investments in
the Xinglong Area.

12.     The EMP for the proposed investments is based on the current EMP of the
project; it specifies appropriate mitigation measures, supervision and monitoring plans,
appropriate institutional arrangements and training, and cost estimates. Major mitigation
measures include control of construction practices; contractor management; analysis of
alternative alignments, materials, and designs; and installation of noise insulation and
barriers at sensitive receptors.




                                            3
                                                                    ANNEX 1:
                                                        Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                    CHINA: SICHUAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Project Development Objective (PDO): No change.
                                                                             INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Result (Mianyang Component): Pioneer Park
      Revised Intermediate Result                   D=Dropped                                        Cumulative Target Values**                                               Responsibility
                                             Core


      Indicators                                    C=Continue   Unit of                                                                                Data Source/
                                                                           Baseline                                                       Frequency                             for Data
                                                    N= New       Measure                                                                                Methodology
                                                                                          YR 1         YR 2    YR 3     YR4       YR5                                          Collection
                                                    R=Revised
1.    2nd Ring Road (S.W University via                 D                                                                                             Project Progress       PPMO/ MPMO /
      2RR to Pioneer Park – Yingbin                                                                                                         semi-     Report / Municipal     Science and
                                                                                                 -         -        -     2.6      2.6
      Avenue / 2RR interchange), length                                                                                                    annually   Statistics / Science   Education
      of roads built (km)                                                                                                                             and Education          Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                             Investment Co.,
2.    ƒ   Travel time at peak (min)                                              26                                         6         6
                                                                                                                                                      Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                             Ltd.
3.    ƒ   Reduction in travel time at peak              D          Min                           -         -        -      77        77
                                                                                                                                            semi-     Investment Co.
          (% reduction of the baseline)                                        (100)                                                       annually   Annual Report
                                                                                                                         (23)      (23)

4.    Length of service roads built (km);                                                                                                             Project Progress       PPMO / MPMO /
                                                                                                                                            semi-
      cumulative                                        R          km                 -          -         -      9.2    18.5       23                Report / Municipal     Science and
                                                                                                                                           annually
                                                                                                                                                      Statistics / Science   Education
5.                                                                                                                                                    and Education          Pioneer
      Length of sewerage built (km);
                                                                                                                                            semi-     Pioneer                Investment Co.,
      cumulative                                        R          km                 -          -         -      9.2    18.5       23
                                                                                                                                           annually   Investment Co.         Ltd.
                                                                                                                                                      Annual Report
Southern Economic Development Area
15.   Length of service roads built (km);                                                                                                   semi-     Project Progress       PPMO / MPMO /
      cumulative
                                                        R          km                 -       4.94       6.3      9.3    11.0     11.0                Report / Municipal
                                                                                                                                           annually                              Sanjiang
                                                                                                                                                      Statistics/ Sanjiang      Construction
16.   Length of sewerage built (km);
                                                                                                                                            semi-     Construction            Investment Co.,
      cumulative                                        R          km                 -       4.94       6.3      9.3    11.0     11.0                Investment Co
                                                                                                                                           annually                                 Ltd
                                                                                                                                                      Annual Report




                                                                                          4
5
