Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3280-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LIMA    A
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
LIMA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World b  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and
currency equivalents in 1981 and as of March 31, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981               March 31, 1982
US$1               S/. 426.60                   Si. 575.284
S/. 1              US$0.0023                    US$0.0017
SI. 1,000          US$2.34                      US$1.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
COFIDE      -  Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Bank)
ESAL        -  Empresa de Saneamiento y Alcantarillado de Lima
(Lima Water and Sewerage Company, now SEDAPAL)
ERP         -  Economic Recovery Program
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
IRR         -  Incremental rate of return
lps         -  liters per second
M3          -  cubic meters
MVC         -  Ministry of Housing
PSU         -  Project Supervisory Unit                                                 t
SEDAPAL     -  Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima
(Lima Water and Sewerage Service, former ESAL)
SENAPA      -  Servicio Nacional de Abastecimiento de Agua Potable
y Alcantarillado
(National Water Supply and Sanitation Service)
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
LIMA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima
(SEDAPAL).
Guarantor:           Republic of Peru.
Amount:              US$40.6 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.6 million.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
11.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The project's main objectives are to expand the capacity
of the Lima water supply and sewerage system; to increase
the system's population coverage by end-1986 from 76 per-
cent to 86 percent for water supply and from 67 percent
to 79 percent for sewerage; and to strengthen SEDAPAL,
the Lima Water and Sewerage Service. The project would,
by end-1986, provide 370,000 mainly low-income persons
with direct access to water and sewerage service and
include wells that, with complementary private invest-
ments, would allow another 610,000 persons to be
connected to SEDAPAL's water supply system.   The project
is based on a water and sewerage master plan and includes
the following major components: (a) extension of water
supply and sewerage systems to low income areas;
(b) development and improvement of groundwater resources;
(c) improvement in the operation of the water distribu-
tion system and reduction of unaccounted-for water; and
(d) provision of technical assistance for a survey of
water and sewerage connections and for better water
resource management.
The project faces no special risks except for possible
delays in the timely increase of tariffs.  However,
revenues are not expected to deviate significantly from
those projected, since the largest share of the tariff
increases projected are in 1982 and are already being
implemented, and since the projected tariff increases are
well within the capacity of Lima's population to pay.
The project presents no hazard to the environment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
Estimated Costs:                                          Local  Foreign  Total
-----US$ millions-----
A. Water Supply and Sewerage Works                    18.7    12.1    30.8
(i) Water supply                                 6.9      7.5    14.4
(ii) Sewerage                                    11.8      4.6    16.4
B. Groundwater Development                             5.6    10.2    15.8
(i) New wells                                    4.0      6.3    10.3
(ii) Well Rehabilitation                          0.9      2.6      3.5
(iii) Infiltration Galleries                       0.7      1.3      2.0
C. Metering Program                                    4.6      5.3      9.9
D. Equipment                                           0.4      3.1      3.5
E. Technical Assistance                                4.3      1.5      5.8
(i) Users' survey                                1.1      0.5      1.6
(ii) Groundwater management                       0.5      0.5      1.0
(iii) Engineering supervision                      2.7      0.5      3.2
Base Costs
(excluding local taxes)           33.6    32.2    65.8
F. Physical Contingencies                              4.5      4.4      8.9
G. Price Contingencies                                 9.4      8.7    18.1
Total                                47.5    45.3    92.8
H. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                           -       0.6      0.6
Total Financing Required             47.5    45.9    93.4
Financing Plan:                                           Local  Foreign  Total
----US$ millions-
Bank                                   -      40.6    40.6
Co-financing                          2.4      5.3      7.7
SEDAPAL                              45.1       -      45.1
Total                          47.5    45.9    93.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                          1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
-------US$ millions by Bank FY---------
Annual                1.8 1/ 7.2   12.4   11.2    6.4    1.6
Cumulative            1.8    9.0   21.4   32.6   39.0   40.6
Rate of Return:       About 16 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 3744a-PE of April 14, 1982.
1/    Includes US$0.6 million as a capitalized front-end fee.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LIMA (SEDAPAL)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
LIMA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima (SEDAPAL) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$40.6 million to
help finance a Lima water supply project. The loan includes a capitalized
standard front-end fee and would have a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions.  Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru increased domestic oil production almost threefold between
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the  Petroleum
Refineries Engineering Project President's Report of March 3, 1982
(Report No. 3230-PE).



- 2 -
1976 and 1979 to about 190,000 barrels per day and became a net exporter of
about 60,000 barrels per day. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors (see para. 18) and the response has been positive. The
Government strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected
to increase in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 barrels per day.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbaniza-
tion process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popula-
tion has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is currently esti-
mated at about 17 million. It is expected that population growth will fall
only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. over the next 20 years, unless an
effective population control policy is adopted. The Government is conscious
of the need to slow down Peru's demographic growth rate and is now developing
a primary health care program which would contain a family planning compo-
nent. The urban population is increasing at 4.3 percent p.a., and about a
quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima area. Given the structure of
Peru's population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess of 3 percent
per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.         Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only between
individuals but also between regions. The pattern of asset ownership in the
economy changed drastically through nationalization and a sweeping land
reform. The Government took direct control of key economic sectors and
imposed complex legislation to control the private sector. Many of the
policies carried out after 1968, had an excessive cost and their implementa-
tion was inefficient.
8.         Between 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments followed expansionary
fiscal and credit policies.  As a result, aggregate demand considerably
exceeded aggregate supply resulting in strong inflationary pressures and
widening external gaps. Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in
1970 to 38 percent in 1977.  Interest rates, however, remained substantially
negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating
capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant
between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
9.        The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of pay-
ments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at
almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to
two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual exports of goods and
non-factor services.



- 3 -
10.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion, during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment and underemployment rose to
almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during the
early 1970s.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
11.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope with
Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic crisis had
reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation approaching
100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level
of US$800 million.
12.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program. Peru's
debt outstanding to the IMF as of December 31, 1981 amounted to SDR 578.9
million.
13.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
14.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stablization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource
allocation in the private and public sectors. These policy changes --
together with a declining domestic market because of the recession --
resulted in a major reorientation of industrial development, with a large
increase in the value of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in
1977 to the US$750-800 million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about 8
percent of output). The Government also drew up a public sector investment
program that aimed at redirecting investment towards projects of clear
economic priority and with positive effects on production and employment. In
support of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May
1979.
15.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with
consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports, and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade, contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance



- 4 -
of payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about 4 months of imports.
Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral and
international sources, thus improving the structure of its external debt.
Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however, growth
dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Moreover, because of a relaxation in fiscal discipline,
the public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level -- 59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
16.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation. These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing),
combined with a rigid expenditure structure which did not leave much margin
for any significant reallocation of funds to these and other high priority
areas; a balance of payments situation which showed a substantial surplus,
but which was partly due to high commodity prices and to the fact that import
levels were depressed; and, finally, deteriorated income distribution over
the past several years resulting in increased social unrest.
17.       The Government named an economic team committed to economic effi-
ciency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in parti-
cular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
18.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
19.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made progress
in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly reduced
and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to international
levels. The marketing of agricultural products was liberalized, and public
utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing
-- an effort that was supported by a Bank sponsored Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981.



- 5 -
20.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
21.       In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 lagged behind expectations. GDP grew only at about 4 percent and
employment generation was also sluggish. The balance of payments
deteriorated substantially as a result of declining export prices, high
interest rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid
expansion of imports. The loss in net reserves is estimated to have amounted
to over US$700 million, equivalent to about 3 percent of GDP. A major factor
in the deterioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector
deficit which is estimated to have reached about 8 percent of GDP. On the
positive side, some progress was achieved in reducing inflation: while
inflation on a December 1980-December 1981 basis reached 73 percent, during
May-December 1981 it decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent,
mostly because of the openness of the economy and the price dampening effects
of an increase in imports. The Government is aware that this level is still
too high, however, and is following actions which it expects will result in a
further drop in inflation in 1982.
2-2.      Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the deficit is
mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is drawing up a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. It is also expected that the
Government will trim the public investment program in line with its
investment priorities. The Bank has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the
Peruvian Government on these issues. Moreover, it is expected that the IMF
will consider a sizeable EFF in the near future to support Peru's
stabilization efforts.
23.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance. Taking the above factors into
account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering around the 30
percent mark and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
24.       The Bank has approved 46 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,058.7 million, net of cancellations. About 35 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports),
17 percent for agriculture, 16 percent for the energy sector, 17 percent for
mining and industry, about 4 percent for education and urban development and
11 percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$440 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. About
US$44 million was disbursed on project loans in FY80 and US$70.5 million
during FY81. This compares with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5
million during FY77-79.
26.       The main objectives of Bank lending-to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strenghening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (iv) the improve-
ment of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank
lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power
sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly
productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture and industry--to help Peru
to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also
grown and will be further stepped up in the future. As part of its assis-
tance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on
May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing for its public
investment program. The next operations that would be ready for the
Executive Directors' consideration include projects in petroleum production,
power and agricultural research and extension. These would be followed by
projects in rural development, health, education and housing. The Bank is
also considering a loan to help strengthen public sector management.
27.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 5.8 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980, and
absorbed about 2.6 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1980. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, *and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.



28.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1982 were US$37.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$18.9 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1982 is
presented in Annex II. The IFC is now considering assistance for a palm oil
project and a venture capital company.
29.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1981
were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares of
public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale
irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
(
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTORS
Water Resources and Population
30.       Peru's water resources are abundant but the major rivers flow east
from the Andes into the Amazon Basin. About 46 percent of Peru's population,
on the other hand, is concentrated west of the Andes, where desert conditions
predominate. Most of the country's major cities including Lima, the capital,
are located here. Their water supply comes from small rivers flowing to the
Pacific and from groundwater. River flows, however, fluctuate greatly
throughout the year, and while groundwater resources have not been fully
assessed, preliminary studies indicate that in a number of cities the
aquifers are being used at close to their safe yield and are probably being
depleted in Lima. With an urban population growth rate of 4.3 percent, the
provision of an adequate water supply for the coastal cities is a difficult
and costly task.
31.       Lima is Peru's major city with a population of 4.6 million, growing
at about 3.8 percent yearly. It accounts for almost one-half of the
country's urban population. Moreover, its relative economic importance is
greater, accounting for two-thirds of Peru's industrial output and employ-
*         ment.
32.       About half of Lima's water supply (about 18 M3 per sec) is provided
*          by the Rimac river, with the rest coming from groundwater and other small
rivers. The Water Supply and Power Engineering Project (Loan S-11-PE of
1978) discussed in para. 43 below, has financed water resource management
assistance for SEDAPAL, preparation of a water development master plan for
Lima and the feasibility study of the Mantaro Transfer project. The water
development master plan laid down the framework for choosing the best
investment alternatives to satisfy Lima's water and sewerage needs.  It was
based on a water optimization study that explored the possibilities for
stretching existing surface and groundwater resources. Its main results were
that improved management of the presently available water resources could be
expected to satisfy Lima's needs until the late 1980s.  Beyond that date,
water from the Mantaro river, on the eastern slope of the Andes, would be
transferred to Lima via a transandean tunnel and canal system at a high
cost.



-8-
Service Levels and Past Investments
33.       In 1981, about half of Peru's population had access to potable
water and 40 percent was connected to sewerage systems. This was little
different from the shares of a decade earlier and below the Latin American
average.  In urban areas, coverage was about two thirds for water supply and
60 percent for sewerage; coverage in Lima was 76 percent for water supply and
70 percent for sewerage.  Conditions in rural areas were much worse; less
than 20 percent of the population had access to potable water (only two
percent through house connections) and very few people had access to
sewerage.
34.       Between 1971-1980 water and sewerage investment averaged only
US$33 million per year (in 1981 prices) and over 80 percent of it went to
urban areas. This represented an annual per capita expenditure of less than
US$2 dollars and was one of the lowest in Latin America. The resultant slow
progress in extending service coverage stemmed mainly from inadequate
sectoral financial policies, which limited the resources available for
investment, and the weakness of sector institutions, which had a limited
capacity to prepare and implement projects.
35.       The slow development of the water and sewerage system has been
partly responsible for the relatively low health standards and high mortality
rates in Peru. Li-fe expectancy is estimated at 58 years compared to an
average of 64 for Latin America. Infections, parasites and respiratory
diseases remain the principal causes of deaths and there are indications that
the incidence of infectious diseases may have increased during the 1970s.
Government Objectives and Strategy
36.       The Belaunde Administration has given a high priority to expanding
coverage of water supply and sewerage service. Its strategy aims at
resolving the most urgent short term supply problems, while laying down the
institutional basis necessary to raise the coverage and quality of water
supply and sanitation services throughout the country. Its quantitative
goals for 1990 are;
(a)  to provide potable water for 90 percent of Lima's population, 85
percent-of the population of other urban areas and 50 percent of
the population in rural areas; and
(b)  to provide sanitation services for 85 percent of Lima's population,
75 percent of the population of other urban areas and 30 percent of
the rural population.
In order to achieve these ambitious goals, which will require annual invest-
ments about ten times higher than in the past, the Government has embarked on
a program of institutional improvement and financial strengthening designed
to deal with the sector's principal problems.
Institutional Reorganization
37.       In September 1981, the Government reorganized the water supply and
sewerage sector to increase efficiency.  A new public institution, the



-9-
National Service for Water Supply and Sanitation (SENAPA) was set up to plan,
coordinate, and provide technical assistance for all urban areas. Although
the Government is endeavoring to expand the role of the private sector in
Peru (see para. 17), it did not consider private participation in water
supply because of the social sensitivity of this activity. SENAPA will
construct and operate local systems on a selective basis depending on the
capability of local institutions.  The water companies of the largest cities
(Lima, Trujillo and Arequipa) are now subsidiaries of SENAPA, but have
financial and administrative autonomy. Companies in medium-sized cities will
be created and become independent when they develop acceptable technical and
administrative capability. As their capacity increases, these companies are
expected to extend their jurisdiction to smaller cities within their region.
Although its operational role should shrink in the future, SENAPA will retain
the responsibility for defining sector policies, establishing priorities and
defining and setting financial and tariff policies.  It will also continue to
provide water supply and sewerage services in small cities where the creation
of independent companies is not justified. SENAPA has good top-level
management and is now in the process of building its organization and staff.
38.       In September 1981, the Lima Water and Sewerage Company (ESAL) was
also reorganized and renamed the Lima Water and Sewerage Service (SEDAPAL).
While it remains a public enterprise, it has been given greater operational
flexibility, particularly in regard to setting salaries. SEDAPAL is
responsible for planning, constructing and operating all water supply and
sewerage facilities in the metropolitan area. It also has been given full
authority to manage and charge for water consumption from private wells,
which many industries now use to tap Lima's groundwater resources. SEDAPAL
is governed by a six-member Board of Directors appointed by the President of
Peru. As the parent company, SENAPA must approve SEDAPAL's investment and
tariff policies.
39.       In the past, ESAL's performance was seriously constrained by a
variety of problems. Because of inadequate salaries, it had difficulties in
retaining qualified managers and technical personnel. Conversely, it was
overstaffed with low level and unskilled employees (8.1 per thousand
connections in June 1981 compared to 5.6 in Bogota and 3.7 in Santiago).
Deficiencies in technical and commercial operations resulted in about half of
the water produced not being accounted for (about two-thirds because of
illegal connections or deficient meters and one-third because of physical
leaks). SEDAPAL tariffs were insufficient to generate the resources
necessary to maintain the system and undertake the most urgent investments.
Finally, SEDAPAL lacked a master plan that identified a least-cost expansion
program.
40.       During the last year, action has been taken in all these areas.
Based on the recommendations of a management consulting firm, SEDAPAL has
been reorganized. Salaries have been increased and the general manager and
other top managerial positions have been filled with qualified personnel.
The Board is committed to continue improving managerial salaries in real
terms. Overstaffing is being reduced and SEDAPAL now aims at having 5.7
employees per thousand connections by 1986, which would be a satisfactory
level.  SEDAPAL has also completed, with financing from Loan S-11-PE, a draft
master plan for its investment program over the next decade, which provided
the basis for the proposed project.



- 10 -
Financial Policies
41.        In the last quarter of 1980, the Government began increasing water
and sewerage tariffs in real terms throughout the country. SEDAPAL's tariffs
were increased by 30 percent in September 1980 and by an average of 5 percent
per month thereafter. During 1982, SEDAPAL's tariffs have been increased by
five percent in January and by 15 percent in March. As a result of these
tariff increases, the average revenues per M3 sold increased 17 percent in
real terms between 1979 and 1981. In 1981 a new service improvement fee
(indexed to the Lima minimum wage) was approved and implemented essentially
replacing the negligible connection fee that existed before. With these
measures, SEDAPAL covered all its cash operating and maintenance costs in
1981, and generated about US$10 million for investment (see paras. 59-66 for
a discussion of SEDAPAL's financial situation).
Bank Role in the Sector
42.        The first involvement of the Bank in the water supply and sewerage
sector was through the Urban Sites and Services Project (Loan 1283-PE of
1976). The project included a US$13 million component (of which the Bank
financed half) to provide about 7,200 water and 11,300 sewerage connections
in poor areas of Lima and Arequipa. SEDAPAL is executing the Lima part of
this component. After a slow start, the project is now progressing satisfac-
torily and is expected to be completed before June 1982.
43.        The first Bank operation directly with SEDAPAL was the 1978 Water
Supply and Power Engineering Project (Loan S-11-PE), which aimed at streng-
thening SEDAPAL and preparing it to better meet its medium and long term
goals. In addition to a master plan for Lima and preparation of the Mantaro
Transfer project to satisfy Lima's long-term water needs, the project
included an organizational study, a pilot survey to detect leaks and illegal
connections, and a program to install new meters. After a slow start because
of delays in selecting consultants, all components of Loan S-11-PE are being
implemented satisfactorily. SEDAPAL is in compliance with all loan cove-
nants.
44.        The Bank supports the Government's new emphasis on water supply and
sewerage, and the strong measures that it is taking to mobilize financial
resources and to make sector institutions more efficient.  The proposed loan
would support the most urgent programs for water generation and distribution
in Lima, with emphasis on institution building and service to low income
areas. The Government is now preparing another project for Bank considera-
tion to strengthen SENAPA and support programs in smaller cities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.        The project was identified by a Bank mission in January 1981, and
was prepared by SEDAPAL with the help of consultants and Bank missions. The
project was appraised in September-October 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. on March 23 to 30, 1982 with a Peruvian delegation led by
Mr. Juan Orellana, President of SEDAPAL. The appraisal mission report,



- 11 -
entitled, "Staff Appraisal Report - Peru Lima Water Supply and Sewerage
Project" (No. 3744a, dated April 14, 1982) is being distributed separately.
Annex III contains a supplementary project data sheet.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The proposed project would expand the capacity of the water supply
and sewerage system in Lima and help attain the Government's coverage expan-
sion targets (see para. 36). The project is based on the water and sewerage
master plan mentioned in para. 40. The production aspects of the project
will focus on expanding the capacity and improving the management of Lima's
groundwater resources. The distribution component of the project would
expand coverage in Lima's low-income areas. To make possible the attainment
of the production and distribution goals, the project provides for extensive
technical assistance in water management and project execution, and for
continuation of the leak detection and metering programs begun under Loan
S-11-PE.
47.       The project includes the following major components:
(a)  extension of water supply and sewerage systems in low-income areas;
(b) development and improvement of groundwater resources;
(c) improvement in the operation of the water distribution system and
reduction of unaccounted-for water; and
(d) provision of technical assistance for a survey of water and
sewerage connections and for better water resources management.
48.       Water Supply and Sewerage Works.  The largest component of the
project (47 percent of total costs) would consist of expanding the coverage
of the water supply and sewerage systems in low-income areas. The water
supply works would include the construction of: (a) about 450 Km. of water
distribution networks, about 20,000 M3 of storage capacity, and installation
of 43,000 house connections to serve about 70 low-income settlements; (b) a 5
Km. water main and 200 lps pumping station at Canto Grande, a poor area of
Lima with a population of 120,000 now served by standpipes and watertrucks;
(c) about 7.5 Km. of transmission pipeline from the Lima distribution system
to improve water service in two of the largest low-income settlements, Comas
and Carabayllo.
49.        Sewerage works would include the construction of about: (a) 430
Km. of sewage collectors and 46,000 house connections; and (b) 10 Km. of
sewage interceptors to serve an area of 3,000 ha at Canto Grande.
50.       Groundwater Development.  About 24 percent of project costs would
be for development of groundwater resources to increase water production by
4.4 M3/sec and would allow more efficient operation and maintenance of exist-
ing wells. The additional output would improve water service within the
city's densely populated areas and would allow for expansion of service to
low-income areas. New wells would be drilled in high-yield aquifers and near
high consumption zones, and existing wells located in such areas would be
repaired. The construction program would include: (a) drilling and



- 12 -
equipping 76 wells and repairing 80 existing wells; and (b) building about
one Km. of infiltration galleries along the Rimac River and rehabilitating
the existing galleries to increase yield by about 1 M3/sec.  These works
would consist of widening, leveling and building small dikes across the
streambed of the Rimac River.
51.       Metering Program.  This component would absorb about 15 percent of
project costs and aims at doubling meter coverage from 35 percent in 1981 to
70 percent by 1986. The metering program, combined with the leak detection
and repair program, would be expected to reduce unaccounted-for water to
about 30 percent by 1986, a level that would compare favorably with other
Latin American water companies. This is an ambitious but realistically
achievable target.
52.       The metering program includes:  (a) the installation of about 180
master meters in existing wells and main pipelines; (b) the purchase and
installation of about 164,000 household water meters and the repair of about
136,000 damaged meters; and (c) the improvement and expansion of the meter
repair shop.
53.       Equipment.  About five percent of project costs would be for
expanding laboratory facilities at Lima's water treatment plant and purchas-
ing essential equipment and vehicles. About 190 new pick-ups and trucks
would be purchased, including spare parts and vehicle shop equipment, to
replace SEDAPAL's old fleet (85 percent more than eight years old). In addi-
tion, radio communication equipment would be purchased to cover operation and
maintenance needs.
54.       Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component would
absorb about nine percent of project costs and focus on reducing
unaccounted-for water and on better management of the water resources. A
pilot house connection survey was financed under Loan S-il-PE. This would
now be followed by a complete survey of Lima to identify connections not yet
registered and provide the basis for planning SEDAPAL's metering program.
The technical assistance for groundwater management would focus on:
(a) planning and managing the joint use of ground and surface water
resources; (b) organizing a data collection system and installing monitoring
indicators for wells; (c) recommending procedures for transferring private
wells to SEDAPAL's management; (d) updating groundwater modeling techniques;
(e) reviewing the designs and specifications for deep wells and for the
rehabilitation of existing wells; (f) recommending a well operating and main-
tenance plan; and (g) recommending techniques for supervision of well
construction.
Project Execution
55.       SEDAPAL would carry out the project.  The Project Supervisory Unit
(PSU), created to coordinate and monitor project execution under Loan
S-11-PE, would be charged with supervising the execution of the proposed
project. While the PSU has gained considerable experience in project imple-
mentation, it is being reorganized and strengthened with more professional
staff to enable it to oversee execution of the project recommended in this
report (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). SEDAPAL agreed during the
negotiations to provide the funds, facilities and other resources that the



- 13 -
PSU may need (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The reorganiza-
tion of the PSU, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the appointment of
its manager and deputy manager, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank,
expected to be completed by June 1982, would be conditions for loan effec-
tiveness (Sections 3.02, 3.05 and 8.01(b) and (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). By the end of March 1982, final designs for investments
representing about 40 percent of total project cost had been completed by
SEDAPAL, with the help of outside consultants.  Completion of all final
designs and tender documents is expected by September 1982; this should
ensure a fast start-up of the project.
56.        SENAPA will be a party to the loan agreement since it has responsi-
bility for approving SEDAPAL's tariff policy and investment program.
Project Cost and Financing
57.        --te Lotal estimated cost of the project is US$92.8 million,
excluding taxes and duties (see para. 62) but including contingencies. Of
project costs, an estimated US$45.3 million (49 percent) would be in foreign
exchange with the balance (US$47.5 million or 51 percent) for local costs.
Cost estimates are based on recent bids for similar civil works, materials
and equipment, updated to March 1982 prices. The average allowance for
physical contingencies is 13.5 percent, varying from 10 percent for well
defined components-to 15 percent for works at the design stage. Price
contingencies are based on a 4.5 year construction schedule. International
inflation is forecasted to drop from 8.5 percent in 1982 to 6 percent in
1986. Domestic inflation rates applied to local components are projected to
fall gradually from 50 percent in 1982 to 20 percent in 1986. Variations of
the exchange rate were assumed to compensate for the difference between the
local and international inflation rates.
58.        Total financing required for the project is US$93.4 million,
including a US$0.6 million capitalized front-end fee. The proposed Bank loan
of US$40.6 million would cover the US$600,000 capitalized front-end fee and
would finance 88 percent of the estimated foreign exchange costs. In
addition, US$7.7 million of parallel financing is being sought by SEDAPAL to
cover the costs of construction of 50 deep wells. On February 28, SEDAPAL
invited international bids for the financing and construction of the 50 wells
(bids will be judged on both price and financing terms offered). SEDAPAL
would provide the remaining US$45.1 million in local costs.
Financial Analysis
59.        The projections of SEDAPAL's finances for 1982-86 reflect the
objective of substantially improving its financial condition in preparation
for a major investment program. Average water and sewerage tariffs would
increase by about 28 percent in real terms during 1982-86 (from about US$0.11
per M3 in 1981 to about US$0.14 per M3 in 1986, at 1981 prices). The
recently approved service improvement fees and charges on private wells (see
paras. 38 and 41) should increase revenues by an additional 15 percent.
SEDAPAL's operating ratio is expected to drop from a high 0.87 in 1980 to a
satisfactory 0.55 in 1986 and thereafter. SEDAPAL's capital structure is
expected to remain conservative with the debt-to-total-capitalization under
35 percent. The debt service coverage ratio is projected to drop from a hig!h
16.4 in 1981 to 5.5 in 1986.  The estimated debt service does not include,



- 14 -
however, payments on the long-term borrowing to be secured to complete
SEDAPAL's contribution to the Mantaro Transfer scheme and to finance sewage
treatment and disposal investments scheduled for 1984_and thereafter.  To
ensure that debt service does not place an excessive burden on SEDAPAL's
finances, during the negotiations it was agreed that SEDAPAL would obtain the
Bank's concurrence before incurring any long term debt if its net revenues
before interest and depreciation are less than 1.5 times its maximum future
debt service requirements (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). During
project implementation, SEDAPAL would also exchange views with the Bank every
year (not later than August 31) on its investment plans for the subsequent
five years (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       SEDAPAL's current investment program for 1982-86 would total about
US$444 million, including the cost of the proposed project, additional sewage
treatment and disposal investment, and its estimated share of the Mantaro
Transfer project. Since the Mantaro Transfer project would provide water for
urban consumption and for power generation, present arrangements are for
SEDAPAL to pay half of the costs of the common elements of the project
(excluding the power generation facilities) and for ELECTROPERU (the National
Power Company) and ELECTROLIMA (the Lima Power Company) to pay the rest.
61.       The feasibility of carrying out this investment program and meeting
the financial targets discussed above depends critically on adequate tariff
policies. To this end, a revenue covenant was agreed during the negotiations
(Section 5.04 of draft Loan Agreement), under which SEDAPAL would take all
steps necessary to produce revenues from tariffs, service improvement fees
and charges on use of private wells to cover operating and maintenance costs,
taxes, and debt service (or depreciation charges whichever is larger) and to
provide an adequate contribution toward its capital expenditures. The
contribution would be determined on an annual basis and expressed as a
percentage of the sum of SEDAPAL's revalued average net fixed assets,
including work in progress, and SEDAPAL's revalued average accumulated
contributions toward the capital costs of the Mantaro Transfer project.
Based on the recently completed revaluation of fixed assets, the percentages
agreed during the negotiations would be 2.0 in 1982, 3.5 in 1983, and 4.0 in
1984 and thereafter. This contribution should allow SEDAPAL to generate
sufficient funds to attain a rate of return of 6 percent starting in 1985
and to cover during the construction period its working capital requirements
plus about 40 percent of the cost of its investment, including about 20-25
percent of its estimated share in the Mantaro Transfer project.  SEDAPAL
would revalue its fixed assets and its contribution to the Mantaro Transfer
project annually using methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank (Section
5.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, SEDAPAL would submit to SENAPA
and to the Bank before August 31 of each calendar year a proposed schedule of
tariff adjustments for the following year to enable it to achieve the agreed
revenue target for that year (Section 5.04(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Until 1980, SEDAPAL was exempt from taxes on income, equity and on
surplus on asset revaluation, but it is currently subject to taxation.
Legislation is now being considered to continue SEDAPAL's tax exemption and
the financial projections have been prepared on the basis of a continued tax
exemption. The timing of action on this exemption, however, is uncertain.



15 -
63.        SEDAPAL's tariff scale is not sufficiently progressive.  Consumers
in the lowest consumption levels pay a lump sum tariff, while intermediate
and high level consumers pay progressive tariffs based on the amount of water
they use. As a result, consumers in the lowest consumption levels tend to
pay a higher unit price for actual consumption than consumers in the inter-
mediate consumption levels. At the same time, water and sewerage services
are not charged for separately, so that consumers benefitting from only water
are required to pay for both. During the negotiations, it was agreed that
SEDAPAL would prepare not later than March 31, 1983 a comprehensive tariff
study (under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank) and a timetable for
its implementation not later than July 1983 and that, after review by the
Bank and SENAPA, SEDAPAL would implement the recommendations of the study
(with such changes as may be reasonably requested by the Bank or SENAPA).
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The terms of reference of the
proposed tariff study would also include an analysis of how SEDAPAL's finan-
cial targets and requirements relate to estimated long-run marginal costs.
64.       SEDAPAL's billing process and the collection of late payments has
been slow and inefficient in the past. As of June 1981, accounts receivable
from water sales amounted to a high 4.5 months of sales. SEDAPAL is now
introducing a new billing system that includes a policy of water shut-offs
and of charges for late payments that should help resolve this problem. It
was agreed during the negotiations that the ratio of accounts receivable to
average monthly sales would be reduced (by end-year) to 3.5 in 1982 and 2.5
in 1983 and thereafter (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       SEDAPAL's insurance coverage has not been reviewed in many years
and may be inadequate for its present requirements. During the negotiations
it was agreed that SEDAPAL would prepare before December 31, 1982 a compre-
hensive insurance program which, after review by the Bank, would be put into
effect not later than June 30, 1983 (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
66.       Finally, given SENAPA's authority over SEDAPAL's tariff and invest-
ment policies, during the negotiations it was agreed that SENAPA would:
(a) approve periodic tariff adjustments as required to enable SEDAPAL to meet
its undertakings to the Bank (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) allow SEDAPAL to keep the share of profits necessary to carry out its
five-year investment program (Section 6.03 of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(c) exchange views with the Bank on the recommendations of the tariff study
discussed in para. 63 and authorize SEDAPAL to implement them with due regard
to the Bank's recommended changes (Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       All contracts (except for the 50 wells mentioned in para 58) would
be awarded under international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank guidelines, except for civil works contracts of less than US$1.5 million
and equipment contracts of less than US$200,000 each. These smaller
contracts would be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures, which
permit the participation of foreign bidders and which are satisfactory to



- 16 -
the Bank. In the aggregate contracts awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding would not exceed the equivalent of US$6.0 million.
Contracts for goods and services under US$50,000, subject to a maximum aggre-
gate of US$500,000, would be procured directly on the basis of a minimum of
three price quotations.  In the evaluation of international bids, both
domestic and regional preferences would apply. Local suppliers would receive
a margin of preference of 15 percent or the prevailing duty whichever is
lower. For purposes of comparison among foreign suppliers bids from
suppliers from countries which are members of the Cartagena agreement (or any
other such regional trade agreement acceptable to the Bank) would be accorded
a preference representing the difference between the prevailing duty actually
applicable and the duty applicable to goods imported from non-member
countries, or 15 percent, on the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.  Civil
work contracts are expected to be won mainly by local contractors and most
equipment supply contracts by foreign firms.
68.       Engineering and other consulting services for the PSU, for assis-
tance on management of groundwater resources and for the user's survey, are
estimated to require 2,766 staff-months, of which 616 would be for profes-
sional and technical staff and 2,150 for support staff.  The average cost per
staff-month (including salaries, international travel and subsistence) is
estimated to be US$10,000 for expatriate technical staff (76 staff-months),
and US$2,380 for locally hired professional staff, including salaries and
administrative costs (540 staff-months). All consultants provided under the
project would have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and would be hired
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
69.       Loan disbursement is projected to take up to six years running from
mid-1982 through mid-1988, somewhat faster than the average eight-year
disbursement period for previous Bank supported water projects in Latin
America (which is eight years). However, since final designs are advanced
and since no unusual implementation difficulty is expected, this estimate is
reasonable. Loan disbursements would be made against: (a) 36 percent of
total expenditures for civil works (excluding the retentions for performance
guarantee) representing the estimated foreign exchange component; (b) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 54 percent of local expenditures for
materials and equipment; (c) 100 percent of total expenditures for consulting
services for the PSU; and (d) 40 percent of total expenditures for consulting
services for the management of groundwater resources and for the user survey.
70.       Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after April 30,
1982 on the Canto Grande project component up to a maximum of US$500,000,
would be provided. Canto Grande is a poor and densely populated area of
Lima where water is severely rationed. This is resulting in a serious health
hazard and there are periodic epidemics. The Government, therefore, wants to
proceed urgently with the construction of a proposed water transmission main
that would resolve the problem.  The estimated cost is US$1.6 million, of
which the foreign exchange component is US$1 million.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
71.       The project would, by end-1986, provide 370,000 persons with access
to potable water and sewerage service. The wells that it would provide
would, with complementary investments, allow an additional 610,000 people to



- 17 -
be connected to SEDAPAL's water supply system.  SEDAPAL's sewerage system
would, with only minor additions, be sufficient to accomodate this additional
population with sewerage services. Service coverage in Lima would then
increase from 76 percent to 86 percent for water supply and from 67 percent
to 79 percent for sewerage.
72.       The project would benefit mainly the lower income groups of Lima.
About 38 percent of the project beneficiaries earn less than one-fourth of
Peru's GNP per capita and about an additional 20 percent earn less than one-
third the GNP per capita. The impact would be particularly large in the
first group where service coverages would increase from 50 percent to
76 percent for water supply and from 31 percent to 62 percent for sewerage.
Most families would pay less for safe water with the project than they now
pay for unsafe water. Therefore, they would be able to afford the monthly
payments without difficulty and would see their welfare improve markedly.
73.       The incremental rate of return (IRR) on the project as a whole is
conservatively estimated to be 16 percent. Since most of the incremental
population to be served would receive both water supply and sewerage service,
a combined IRR was calculated for these two project components. This calcu-
lation is based on total project costs, including components designed to
improve SEDAPAL's efficiency such as metering and technical assistance.  In
addition, the cost of minor complementary investments to be undertaken by
SEDAPAL during the project construction period were estimated and included in
the calculations. Expected revenues were used as a proxy to value economic
benefits. The IRR was calculated by comparing the costs and benefits of
water consumption and sewerage services "with the project" and the situation
"without the project."  Two-thirds of the increase in water consumption due
to reduction in unaccounted-for water was excluded from the calculation of
benefits since it is estimated that it corresponds to water already being
consumed, although not paid for.  Since positive externalities (such as
better health) and consumers' surplus are not fully reflected in revenues,
the resulting rate of return is bound to underestimate the project's economic
benefits.
74.       Another major benefit of the proposed project would be the insti-
tutional strengthening of SEDAPAL. As noted above, the lack of an adequate
institutional structure and inadequate financial policies were the principal
causes for the unsatisfactory development of the sector. If the institu-
tional objectives of the project are achieved, SEDAPAL by 1986 should be an
institution capable of servicing most of the population of Lima efficiently,
at a low cost and without depending on Central Government subsidies. More-
over, the development of SEDAPAL may serve as a model for institutional
development in other cities in Peru.
75.       Sensitivity analysis shows that the IRR would still be equal to the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Peru (about 13 percent) even if one
of the following events occurred: operating costs increased by 48 percent,
construction costs increased by 20 percent, incremental demand was 16 percent
lower than expected, water and sewerage tariffs were 12 percent below the
projected level, or project benefits were delayed two years.
76.       The project does not face any special risks of execution, except
for possible delays in the timely increase of tariffs. However, revenues aye
not expected to deviate significantly from those projected, since the largest



- 18 -
share of the real tariff increases projected are in 1982 and they are already
being implemented, and since the projected tariff increases are well within
the capacity of Lima's population to pay. Project works are conventional in
design and well within the implementing capacity of SEDAPAL and the local
construction industry. The substantial technical assistance included in the
project will minimize further the implementation risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, SEDAPAL, SENAPA and
COFIDE (the State Development Finance Bank, which under Peruvian law must be
a party to all external loans to public enterprises), the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for
water supply and sewerage projects. The main features of the draft Loan
Agreement are discussed in Parts III and IV of this report. Special
conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. A condition
of effectiveness is that SEDAPAL complete, to the Bank's satisfaction the
reorganization of the PSU and appoint its manager and deputy manager
(para. 55).
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Director approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 22. 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  230.0        410.0     730.0  *             1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      436.3        691.8     736.9                1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0       13461.0   17149.0
URBAN PUPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3          57.4      66.5                  64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        28.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KRH.                        7.9         10.5      13.3                  34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      33.0         44.0      54.6                  94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                          43.6         44.3      42.8                  40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         51.8      53.6                  55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4          3.9       3.6                   4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH EATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.8       2.7                   2.4                       1.5
URBAN                               5.1          5.0       4.3                   3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.4         41.8      37.8                  31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.7         14.5      11.1                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.0       2.6                   2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           96.0        10Z.0      86.0                 108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
lEQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         99.0      97.0                 107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         61.0      59.0                  65.8                      92.5
OF wHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         25.0      24.0                  34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.5         19.6      13.7                   7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7          53.5      58.0                  64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
IHOUSAND)                              *-        122.0/c    86.0                  70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              14.6         35.0      48.3                  65.7
UKBAN                              30.2         58.0      60.0                  79.7
RURAL                               0.8          8.0      25.0                  43.9
ACCESS TU EXChETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         36.0      34.0                  59.9
URbAN                                ..         52.0      51.0                  75.7
RURAL                                ..         16.0        ..                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2011.7       1904.9    1545.1                1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2205.0/d      738.0     745.0                1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             425.1/e      469.6     542.7                 471.2                     262.3
UKBAN                                ..        524.8     430.1                 558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                ..       3055.3    5747.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         19.0      23.0                    ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          4.8/f
URbAN                               4.8          4.916/f
RURAL                               4.9          4.61ff
AVERAGE NUMBER UO PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.3          1.9/ff
URBAN                               2.0          1.7/1.
RURAL                               2.7          2.4        ..ff
ACCESS TO LLECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              26.0         32.1/ff
URBAN                              50.7         54.3/f
RUKAL                               4.2          2.7/f



- 20-                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  2  of  5
PERU -'SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 83.0        103.0      112.0                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0         111.0     116.0                  103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                71.0         96.0      106.0                  101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   15.0        30.0       50.0                   35.3                      66.3
MALE                   18.0        34.0       53.0                   34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                13.0         26.0       46.0                   35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  20.0            17.0       16.0                  30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         35.0       40.0                   29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           12.0          17.0      29.0                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          61.0         72.5/f    79.7                   80.0                       75.4.
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0          17.1      18.5                   42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         108.0        135.1      135.4                  215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2          29.3      50.8                   89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        123.3      51.0                   62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..                   3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3193.9       3896.8    5079.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.1         20.7       22.8                   22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0          44.8      37.8                   35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.1       20.0                   23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RAIE (PERCENT)
TDTAL                                  31.4         28.9       29.6                  31.8                       42.3
MALE                                   49.6         45.8       45.6                  49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                 13.2         12.0       13.6                  14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.7        1.6                   1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39..                         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4Zi         61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/g           1.9/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.07(           7.07?       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                 ..            ..     180.0                  187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     293.0                  513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     200.0                  362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      49.0
RURAL                                  ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-75;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita shown in the 1981 Bank Atlas is
$930 (at 1978-80 prices) and the 1980 population is estimated at
17,625,000.
May 1981



-21 -                                                                           ANNEXI
_____________                                              P~~~a-ge    ~3 o f   5
DEFINITIONS iF SOCIAL ISDICATORS
Notes: Although the data are dran from  soures genraly judged the nest auhrtaiead reliable,it should also be notd that they may out be inte-
thress  usfl  odesrb    reso               etd,I -diu    ererds, cod ohur-t-i-e  oetutu mejor differences bnte.e... atrie..
She rearru   toos  raIl   hesameconrygr. I -eh  subo                       ..o.ty and C) orounty 0orop lith smwa  higher  vetage  ' too-  that the ounotry group
of th  sujoLcueyocp  forCapto  Stories Eli Enroeee"  roP   en"Mtdie    Nos  Noth lItihe  ud Middle  ut  isohen                                   -hnous  of etrosgar
uoi-urrlufinidtianl.  ft11 therferen-  group dat   he  regeae  ouaincith-ed arithoeti  near  for eh ioi-utor and shunt only  hon
suoiyof  htheoanIen  oar p bun data fr  thusidtuo.lie   he  oeeeo  router1 Inusi"                             th   nittr  dprlso   ho ivelabl ity ofd-t
nod Ineaootforf-,  -etionsuot bnnanrtiued iottlaitogu.t.uf-ofnn-  Lodictct_ oon.-   Thuanafs  ureluotltesao                                                bheae
or .tdioter at a time. u..ughterentry aed  efrteo   trop.
LAND ARE7. (ohoutaud sq.km.(                                                                      Popautiro per houpitol led - total, -rbur, and rura  - Popolatior (.totl,
Total - Tr-I  -sfaoc urea  -ptin-e  land are  cod inland eaes                                      ra. ad rorL1) divided by thier reepnrtivt subhe  of huapltel hadsL
Aric-ltarl - lesioate of otiolerlm   cued t-oporarily or permanenly                               arilublo So~ publir ord private t.nen.LIand speoilalud huspituItdre
fer crept, puatura  marker end kitoe gh reno  to tie fallo.; 1978 data.hoi-itt-o  cr.atr.  Hfespitela arc estblishmen ts praetly stffnd
Ay at leant .no physician. lEtublish .enos providing prinoipally canto-
ISP Pit CAPITA (POl) - CSf por tepila  -siateuutaetre            -k-he  prie, cal-                  dial -or  ro. ta  -lorlded.  total hospitals, however, inlude health
oulared by seine coeeriotmethod as World lank Atlan (1977-79 hesie); 1960,                        and medioul  -orer  nor permanently  teafgediby apyIon   (barb.
1970, and 19(  dta                                                                                redicel asui.r-n,  _oa, sd_ft, err.)whio  offer in-patient  cotd--
da tior  t,d.provIde a. limited Congo of medical fecitin.  fori-        t
ENERGY CIONS'TIIN Pill CAPITA - Anal ...    ns...mpties of          -eerio   gegy I(oa              tital paroe   _rhe bpitale  itnolde WttO. princirn/  . 11h llgeeel upoi,
and lint,petroleum,.  ..rra Io  ood ,Iydee-,  -uc:eurd geetheral.ele-                             ad r-ou  hospitu, loa  on. rota-l hospitls cod ad        did ladmaent
Orlity) Io kilograue rf ca   qiuetprcpt;lo,11, d 1919                                            onere   ipeoiali-ed haP tnalo  Lor  included oly ndertui
data.                                                                                           Adnisse.s Per Honpite1 led - Total nube  of adninioos to or di-oh-nge
run. h-spi-al  divided by the rushe  of bed.
POPULATION bAll VITAL STATISITCCS
Tetal Populetios, Mid-Poor (thoes..ode) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1919                 HOUSING
date.                                                                                         Averag  lIen of Ho.sehold (poroeta   eshod;) - tonal, urban, and rural -
rbatPrlte   Rpre.Lf oa)-Ptioof arbao to tonal popnletion;                                        A  esbl   onnsof a    T geu  of loi Iio              h.a ther   iig-ot
dffero- degititoe   of orb en  .e... maaafc   opraiiyo aasd theirtsit scle   A hoarde  or lodger may or may 000 be inoded In
aog rauntries; 1960,  97,D  and191  data.                                                     tho ho..e.bhod for  taInoayrpn.
Population Projettiots                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~Arereg nenb   o   pernos .pe   rom tota, urban, and rual.  - avego am
Praaio   nyur10   Curren  population pr-eci-e-  ar  hbad en 19t0                              her of reos..s Per rune ialurc,adeoltupdt ntionl-
Projootioo Parste...nt Eon mortality r-sos  -anyise of three "levlssen                         ..o..apied parts.
log life  npret...cy at birth Ioora.siegoith ot-tryt par caPita.eom                        icoesa to fle-triof    fpeoeot of d-Irlitos) - total, rbs.t and rrL.-I
level, and feouloilife eapretnooy stabilieleg at 77.5 y-ur.  The peru-                        Ceorejonivl d-ellinge with ol1t-irity So living quarer  au Paans..tage
aresto  ferIigy  -ta  also have thre  I-avlsa.....ing deoline ie                         of rural, arbat, aod rura  doe1lingo respectively.
friiy trrIegi   on  levelI and punt Easily PIl.naingprfnuno
E..b o..ttry Is the  usignad one of rI-nu    obies                 fmoraity              EDUCATION
,ard  friiyted faprjoin uponn.                                                             Adjustd Euorleen ..SeRties
Sooi-try popaleri0  - In atotiooar   popeltien tharo In no grooth o.oe                        Primarjy sohbeolf-.natal, male ad ftln-Cross atrtel, silo aed temelo
the birth rage In equal to the death rate, ead also thoagestru1"tturer-                         os _lo t of I ages at the primary level uspr-tugen of renpeotIve
sutscoeot   Ibis In a-hievd  alp after fortilIry rtes. decine.to                                primary n-b-l-age pepeIlu.oo; normally in_luden thildregod 6-11
tha replacemen t level  of otitetv-pr-d-aioo  rate, obeo eeh generation                         your  hu   dutd   - oriffrea t lengths of primary ed-ct; frr.
of no ne  ro toisl    tattlp.  The sttoeyppltinar   n                                            onti-s ole  en_irenlsaoto    orla   na   and11peroone
ntimated. onthe basis aI rh rjce    harletertios of the pepulanit                              0100  noec pupils are beo   oraov-heofIta ehelg.
to the yar lII  eel the rto of  decLin  of fertility rune no replete-                          ec-adury soel-ttl   u    o   eae-Cempued en above;  eoc...dop
sent level.                                                       eduoution requires at Taunt faur pears of approved primuep lenoroothan;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ",t  l"  .   of.P
Tou g-ti-try Porn1-iati    In me-bed - Th. Yea  ebe. .arai-ny popaluti.a                          provides genero, vo..tasoru, or tru.thr trais.-   ioret ian  foe pupil,
sian bun beet~.. mahod,                                                                         usually of 12 to 11 pear  of ago; aerrenpeede... ..earse  are ge-erlly
Population Dessaty                                                                                   ooladad.
Per at. be..    iY -tlyerpapu.l..ttot pe  square kile...tar (1tO hoettern) of                   Peoutil enrol...men..t (p.roenI of  -aondery(  - Vooutioa ..      ai.   oot
total ara;1960, 1970 -ed 1979 data.                                                             iacladarerhuiral, industrial, or other pvagrs  hrioh aper-  indepeod-
Par So. ha   grtltrled- Computed us above foragiclurl  ad                                         anpo   sdprmnso   eode                      ttnug
ollp; lOti, 1970 aod 1978 data.                                                               Pui-ec     Lrrtio-_rrimarr. ad-i seoodurv- Tora   tndonts enrolled in
Popelaiu. Age Stouct.r  (poetr-L  -_Childre  (0-14 pears), -tooing-age (15-                         primary and secndryleel d.       ivided by sambere of toacherst In the
64, petre, cud retired (65 peer  and ave) as peroetagee og mid-ysae Popo-                           reospondieg levels.
lariat; lYI,  1970, and 1979 dare.                                                              Adult linor-y vto. fpero..c) - literate adults fable to read add ovine)
PouainGot Eats fr-o.r.t) - t-t1 - Adenau  gtroth r.ate  ef total aid-                      usparrte..tge of total adelt popelottt aged 11 years  -d ever.
year popultia for 1910-if,  1960-If, end 1970-79.
Popnlatioe Growth tat  (roo..ront)     " - a -Au..ul granth brutes ot urban pope-             CONSUMPTION
laioa  o  1950-60, 1960-10, and 1970-79.                                                 P..m..nR- Cern (m- lbo..s..d rerulatian) - Passeger datra comprise mano
Crude Oith Eao   rev thousand) - Aannua   Ive bithe Par th-ouad of mid-pear                       oars . seagtn  loan eh.. sgsPoso.n; nooldes ambel-no, hraos and
1popolaiot;loAf, 1970l, and 1979 da.                                                            milltarp vehirie..
Erudo Ueeth tat  leer th.usud) - Aatual deaths Per theeseods of mid-yuer                        Radio Reeivers (per thouand roean.. foet-  - all types of recivmnfor radi
popalatiun;' 1960,H 1910, aod 19 79 data.                                                       broudous.teogeea  peblia pee thoeued og ~paPILtion;  sledenl em-
Erase Eovradn_tl  Pato-Avrag    ember of deaghtera a  oa   ill beer In                            IIte...ed r..ceIVroioetinad to yeeat  whe.                 -t reitaino adio
her norma  roptadrtive perIodif she ropertesoc1 pro....e ate-Nproif in for-sts was In effoot; data for  reot Year  Ya Lo   ernueiei
tilityr"Ill;t1aealy fiv-pea  avrten. oding Ir 1960, l97t, en  1979.                             mon tanoins abolished l nig
family  1 1         Platte-tt _Aru    .o..a  ) thousads) - itAu..l oubor of enptepro            TI Rmosivers (Pat thoasand Potaatias)  - TV ro-iv-r  f- orhrodoat to
ofb  Ir-otrtl d-rtoe  toder oaapio_of at  uione  faiYplnigL prgmam.                           general poblit Per thsn..nd papalutirn; nuldstlitr.sed TV  -eoiter
faIyPoa c-ar  (eto   Emried e-nee    - Prst.ge ofmried                                         in  -ooreud In yearswlhoa retPisteti-a of TV setswsi  sff-t.
woe  o   hild-beaing age (15-4A yearn) who see bi-htb-oot-o  dori... noteore  itlsln(e   hoesod ppieti.o_)-Sham  the overge  iir-
all ouriid -rona  it sam  ale grou.p.                                                           onainof "daily genera  itrr..n nesae"  defioedatperiodioul
psblitatius devted ptia,uily to ro...eding ge-erl anon   In Ia a..nidtere
FOOl ANDS WTCRITION                                                                                  to be "doily" it it appnars at mea.t four tisen.nee...k
Itden of Pood Prodn-oi- ror Capita (1909-71W10O) - Indon of Per .upita annual.                  CInem  A-Iou  Ante.d.so. per Capita perY Tour-Based em the number of
prod-otit of all food  condnis    rdtotino  -so ld en seed end feed and                         tickets sold during thu yaur, imoluding Admission  to dmiv-iu cicem
is  n eloar  earbais,  Censdlitlontv-r primary goods (e.g. -egar-n                        end mobile  -its..
insteed of uogar) oihaeeil  and  aotinnrient  (e.g. coffee and
te  uro noolufed).  Agregate pr-d-totInof otLh tou.ntry Is buse.d on                      LABOR FORCE
naiorul  voroga p-od-oe  prica ouighta; 1961-65, 19Pi, end 1979 dana.                       lana  Labo Port  thessufa)-  oEsoa-LuIly active per.son, inoludieg
Per capita oprlr of o-lories frpro-s of req.taioont-   - Competed from                          armdtraednepndb hat ouledilg hou-uiv-, atudeetg,  t00.
ruorgpnqoivolnttofoot food sapplies avilable Ie -outey per I "Pita                           o-r-ill popolatien of all ages.  Defiaiti...n I i-veio.s.outrieur.
per day.  Available  _eppl ien   _topise domntic pruduottio, imports Inns                     no    . eparablo; 1960, 1910 end 1919doe
nepors, ad ohaugo   intoh.  Net napplies erld  aia  feed, seeds,                      Fnmal  fopeet,-   - Feminlbofro  as. peema of total labor forte
quuiteusd In food pro..enatag, end Iosnin distribution.  q.eqire-                        Arolue(pnret.-) - Labor furt  It farmig, fo...nnry, hantint end
none  were e tamrd bp FAO baea on phys LIooita ..I.-dn for ..-Iu soti-                        fisheg as p-ert.otags of total labor forte; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.
vity end heulth toneideriegenaViro-ctul tmeatr,body wuihtbs, age                            Ind.tey freemen) - Labor forc  En mining, rostr-ci-n, sofuoturiag
aedar  diutribuion of populsotoi.  end alI1-leg 10 percet Ear ca-r  at                       and0.elnenricity, weter sed genus. perntago of totel labor form; 1960,
hotobldIl-vol  1961-65, 1970, utd 1971 dat.-                                               1970sd 1910 Iota.
Par caita "ePy of proei  (grams. per day) - Prtelin cotort of per repine                      P-riiptimio  Rtat  (portent) - total, male, and famale - Purttiipation or
aoapy1y of food pIne fY.  Net nepply of food Is dfi mod an abova.  Rs-                      rtiVityprune..r..ospnted us tonal, male, and feo..e l.abot foreeaa
S                           qoiromettn fur ~~~~all o-uetens established by USDAI provido far minimum                      peroetago  of total, male  ed feal  popultion oE oil aTgn  reepartiveIy;
alooro  oP figreof total protein per day eud10gasoanmlod                                         19h0 ,17, eaf 1919 dana.  Th...aI: hanp    n19sprttpto   ue
pul   Protein.1, of whioh 10 tran  shoel  be -nisul protoi..,   Th-aussand-                   ref l.rt eg  gag-seo orat    of the papsiutios, end long time trend.  A
_d  tra loon  thunthose of 75 grams of tota  protein and 23 gran  of                          fee esimts  r  from nato             . ....es
aIml-  prtoeio en an averago for the world, pr.opred by PAf It the IbirdI2d l oiolp nfety Rutio- Ratio of papoletion aedar 15 and 61 ued over
World Food Survey; 19h1-il, 1010 ead 1971 fate,                                               to  the tal  laIbor forts
Per 5.. taprs .ronsd sepei Eros eima and pels  - Protot I oypi  of fodo-
dye.d f-o  rima1s and pui.. Ie groo  per day; 1961-6~5, 1910 atd 1911 fa.ts.             INCPOIE DISTIIBLTION
Child (agen 1-4) Mota.lity Rate (ear thoos.nd) - AnnuaI d-haeh  perthoosed in                   Percentst goo  Prirato In-ona florA iooubhnd bind) - Roooivd by riohos
ago  .roop 1-A yearn, to otildre- in this agE grrup; for moa  developiNg tot-Spoat,icnt2  perct, pooret  20 percenL, and porstA  peret
orion data derived from lifa tables; 1960, 1970 aol 1979 data,                                  of bou...bolds.
HEALTHO                                                                                         POVERTT TARGET GROUPS
Life Eupetano en Birth (vers  - An-go  .omher oi year  of life remining                         The follrite esimate  ate very appromimaeommoe  of poet   nae,
at Sirob  190, 1970 aed 1979 data,                                                              and thotld be interprotod wIth ro...ideruhie t..tiot.
laen Notuity Rate fret thousand) - Aouul d-she of i.f.-t  under ... pea                     Intimatd Ahuolote Pev-t Ynom l        oeot              pipe    et.) - oeba end rcr- 
Ao.ens to SaftatrproroEru in- tooal, urban, end rural - Nu-                                       tortcul   dqaefa   lneseta   o-o    earmeoi   v
her of pvoplr (total, orhu, eud ra..al) nith ...noa-ble  res  osE                               of fued_ahi ..  l daatditp.....t1
senor supply  fe datreate   nefun waer to uttrotad hat  ....nsemisoted                        lut-tsote  Releni-s Poverty Iry          Level (US Patpe   ..Pia   -uban and otal 
seorseh.,as thut from  prtuneo   btehorhoots,  .pi           .. ad  aitary w-11o)a          tuRureatv   poverty iret level In oss-thirf ofuneePer ccytt
g.  1b.L L..p.tiV.  .p.l.t-..  1.-  -b..t.. .  .blitPeroa i...               omeI oE the country.   rus level is derived from  rho rual
..ututin or stafpont lootef ad 1 mare na thI neor0 fo at  I        ha..a may be               loVe1 eith adjontoot fro bigh-or a reto  lvn   i   raner
dtonsidered us hiag withbia reasonable  co    of thus house.  In  .. ral. ome                 IsrIiruo                 I-uaie o     Aborleta Povety (eoalvl(orot.          ru
romeoabir attes staid imply thitn S.he hasoiffe or menbors  f the houehlded rerol -pPo:tounta                                                     ..pp.rirlra  adrrl  a-c are"uauon
dost have to speed a dispvrporioa  at  of tho_t       day Inftohieg the
Atoesero Esorot  Dluoual (re-tes  of ooruIatloa  -           1total , ara..ed ear- 
Number of people (total. arbue, an url  served by e--e  disP,-a, as
paro_ootaguof theiri respective.   pueuitno.   Ec           isoa   map      t inolud-
the oolnotien  nd disosal, wth or wghat  ofumet                                                                         E,hmn  ort  fcro   and  utua    atui:t
and  tsecte      -ywte-bone  ypste    to thaus   of Pi piviesan  aimi                                                           Ernai      anyIa  ed    J PrjcLeo  Dop-roa-
eioeqalifie-d Iron ameical sohaul en uoivorsityp1 be.
Porulanice oar suri   Peso- Populutiun divided by  -tmh- of pr-itintg
male aod female grad-atesare, pranioul  -.u.sa .. ad ansissanewrsn



a



V                                                                                                              -                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - - -  - - -  -
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .-                                             -  .                                                              I               



10  (0 HCCC   -'CC         C-C010CC  'CC  P10000  C'CI H  CCC           C   CHCC  C Pu CCHC   u-,o'CC  -
O   0  u000   DoC          COIDI-'             D'00u  010      OuC    CC    01100  10 -OOOOuOOCIDC   OC
00000  100  0-O.Du  --00    H  10Coo-D,o o  0   CCCCC   DC  IC  00-C          H   0 '00  tI   0CCDCCCOCO   'H
00u   00  0021111   COO    0  0000 CCC    (0 - CCC    DOuuC10 -  j00   Cl C0000000000
0CCCCt-OCD,CC0OC 0 0  CCO0C 1010 10.00  'DC  IDCCCCOOCoCCOIDODI C
02110       COO)   CC       0   CD  0'C  ID   DID0D  (DC         IICt-  'OH                                    --C
no'o  r   'OCCO   0O    I-  0CC    0  0   -  COlD                  CCC             0      C       OOIDDDCC 10 CC
C000 ID  00.0-u. DO CHCOOOIDC   CCC10 00- ID   0  CC  OCCOCO                                                DOD
0CC   D1'u Ct-'"'   0       0   OCODI       010  >0000   DC        ''''C   100-   0010'-   CCCOCH    000    C
CO. 0   ID   CCC  C 010  '1  uC 00           tDC  OCCCC   CC  0  uO 0   CCC'-luOCuu   u DID    0  0  001
100-100CC   C         C    C      00         10 OID,'.(DID    C ID  CC     CCC   IDD(D0  C  Ou  000    -tH,-tC Cl
ID   CCC        010  o.uOuO   000   Cut-'   CC    CC             C - C-' 0      Ct   C
CC  00-DDCD  Dtl C      CCC          IDIDCC  CCCCID           000   CC
C   C   0    C   Co              H  CICOCID   10    COD         C       0CCCCH                 u   CC
C       uCOC  (DC       C       0       OC  00  0    DC        C  C      C   0000   C'         0CC
C CC    CO  DOCCO  CD        0     CC       C 10 CCC       C H     C  .      0   00.00   C          0      000
COon  DC  OCCO   C           C      CO        010  uC  0    Dl       CO       10  CD       C         OH    0,-C   -
COOC 0- 0CC 00 0 ut- - 0 DC D0C 00 C C 0 0
011000  DC  100CC   0-0      C      00         10           OC      '0-DC     10   0                 GD    CHO
DCOu  uC  OC         'CC     0-    I0       1010  10       CC        ow      C   C                  CO      CC  C
Cu  C    C  CC        0      C      00       OH  C            C       CC      C   0        C           0   '--0
ID  CO  C   CCO       C      C      0-       CC  C          000       'C                   '0        H      000-
CO  H       t-'CC     ID   Dl       0         IDOD           CC         C     10   0                       0    
CCC    C   *C         0             0-                                0       C                        F
C   C                      0         0                               '01  C       C'        0            C
C    C                     0         0-                       -       (Ho                    C
C   C'                                                        0       .10                    0-           0
C I 0-CC  .. . C
C (CCC  P C       CCC10        CCCC0-CC 101010
C     0-    10 10         CCC       C(CCC  '0
CC'    0tH  10101010    C   CCCC10C 'DC  C   CCCCC  10   10(0-C>  (C  C
1010 1010CC  C.            .         C              C   j... (10
C    C  C0-0-CCCC  C   C'DCC'C  10         -        CC:
C  CCC  I C       CCO'C        C'10 CC0-CCCC C    '0
CCC    CC' C0-CC        C   C   CC        10 -         CC  C   D  . D . IC         100-CC       CCCCCCCCCC
CCC  0-H 1010CC  'D  C                                           . . . IC 010 . . . ...C'
C    C   100-    10 (000      I CCC      CCCuO        CO  C'->>         C CCCC'DCC10 C
C                 C        CO
(C                   CCC C C 'DCCC C   C
10CC-CC       C   C   CC        CCC               PC                     0-10CC        CCCC0-CCCCC
C             PC                                                        C
C  CCC  PCO                      C       C  C      H
I      0 C(D                101010  10101010  10  H
CCC    CC  1010CC       10                                       C 1101010  100 C    CCC        0-C CCCCC C  C   C
C CC    CC  100-C C     C   C                                              10 C   1010CC        C-CCCCCCCC    CC
0- Cot-' CO
101010   CC  1010CC     10                                       C  10100- 'DID.
CCC    CC  C'CCC        10                                       10 CCC  CD                         CI      C  C     -
CCC    1010  OOt'DtC    '0                                       10110100          1000-10      CCCCCCCCCC    C   C
CHCC C CCC                   C                   1' . . . ..           .             C
000010    1010101010101010  C                    C  10CICC       0-CCCCCCCCC    '0
CD'ID0-C    CH              C                   C
H  (tIODO '0    CCC                                C
C  H  OC  DC    101010                   .   . .  C  010
10 10101010   C      0-    C   HO)            CC  C   10 100-10   'DOn                    C       C  C
C   0  HID      H      CC101010  10              0010                1010100101010100-
C  00-  0     1010    101010100-  10             00    CC-CC         0-100-0-CC 1010CC   10
0   CC    C                                   CC    1010CC       0-10101010100-101010   10
DO) CC C                          C  (C  . . . .                       .             C
CO  DID   10                      10 0-100- IC  0   1010100-     1010CC 101010CC>   C
100    C                          
0-CC    CC  1010100-    10    CO  IDC
DC  C                0-10CC
IDO  10            10                                                C       C  C      C
CC  0              CCCCC    H                  C                 1010101010CC  C       C
0  C                         C            100DD               0-10101010 CCCCCCH
CO 0 10 (CCC 0 0-C0-C CCC 100-101010CC CC
C   C                                (..-      0   1010100-      C0-CC10CCCCC    CC
C (CCC ChIC                    DDDD.100-
1010CC                                                           C    1010CC       CCCCCCCCCC            H
CC ICC
10 10 CCC  CC         CCC         CCCCCCCC10CC 10
I     C   1010CC                                               10100-CC ID         CCC        100-101010101010CC    C'-.
CCC CC 100-CC (C D . . . 10 0 CCC C10CCCC0-0-C10 CC
CCC  CC 10100-C  I 10                                            10 101010 C    . ..CO
0-CC    1010  1010100-    PC  C          C   C                                                                        10
10 101010 'DC  10101010                          0
100-CC                      0   ID                  .    .  . .    C
C  1010CC     C                     ID                                                 I       I          10
C  CCC'D      C                     0                                 (C                                  C
ID                                C
0                                 10
101010CC          C                  C  CC    C   DO                                     10
10 10100-100-   H                    10 101010  10  10                                    C
C        C  0-1010CC      CC                   .  .  .  C                                          H
10101010    10                 00                   10 CCC    C '(C                                    CC
1010101010  1010CC      10                  Cu                               00(0                CI    C            10
100-10   CC  CCC C      C                                                    0ID'H               CC'COCCCC OC    CC
C                                                   CIDDO                                   CC
CCC    CC  10101010                                                          C  C                                   CC
I                                                                       0-100-010100-0-010    C.
CCC      10 'DCCC       (C                                                                                          CC'
CCC      C  10C1010     I C                                                                      CCCOC100-COC    I         CC
(C                                                                                          C      00
CC    CC-C      C  10101010                                                                                                      1010
on                                                                                   C                                           002
010                                                                    10 110CC  C0
-. . .  (CO
CCC CCCC 10 0210(1"
C1010C101010C010-10i0[C



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1982)
---US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
Number      Year           Borrower             Purpose          Bank    Undisbursed
27 loans fully disbursed                                         409.2
949        1973    Republic of Peru         Education            24.0         1.9
1196        1976    Republic of Peru         Transport            76.5        22.0
1215        1976    Republic of Peru         Power                35.6         4.9
1281        1976    CENTROMIN               Mining                39.7         4.7
1283        1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.           21.6         9.6
1358        1977    COFIDE                   Industry             35.0         3.9
1403        1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          25.0        21.3
S-li        1978    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment         8.8         2.5
1771        1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation           56.0        51.1
1806        1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5          27.0
1812        1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.           15.0        14.4
1888        1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment         7.5         5.1
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU                Technical Asst.       5.0         4.7
1963        1981    CORPAC                   Aviation             58.0        57.6
1968        1981    COFIDE                   Industry             60.0        60.0
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU              Power                25.0        25.0
2064        1981    Central Reserve Bank Industry                26.0        26.0
2091        1982    Republic of Peru         Transport            93.0        93.0
2117        1982    PETROPERU                Industry              5.3         5.3
Total                                                    1,058.7
of which has been repaid                                 183.5
Total now outstanding                                      875.2
Amount sold                             18.3
of which has been repaid             18.3                _
Total now held by Bank                                     875.2
Total undisbursed                                                      440.0



- 25 -
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of
Year                 Obligor                        Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Industrias Reunidas, S.A.           Home Appliances   0.2         -       0.2
1960         Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.        Bricks              0.3       -       0.3
1960         Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials           0.3       -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers              4.1       -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.                 Cement              2.3      0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo            Cement              1.1      0.5      1.6
1975         Southern Peru Copper Corp.          Mining             15.0       -      15.0
1978         Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining               2.0      0.5      2.5
1980         Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.               Mining              2.7      0.5      3.2
1981         Sogewiese                           Leasing             3.0      0.1      3.1
1981         Consorcio Energetico de             Power
Huancavelica                     Transmission        4.5       -       4.5
Total gross commitments                               35.5       1.8    37.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              18.0      0.4    18.4
Total held by IFC                                      17.5      1.4    18.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                                8.2       -       8.2



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year, and
disbursements now stand at about US$22.1 million.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced.  The mine-water treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$12.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower -- the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -- agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems            4
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is gaining momentum. The implementation of most of
the Bank-financed components of the project has begun or is in the process of
being started.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility report for
the phosphate fertilizer project is being reviewed.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU..
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:     Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date:  February 25, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of
Effective Date:                     ; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on December 8, 1981. It is
expected to be signed shortly.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of
Effective Date:             ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This loan was approved by the Board on February 16, 1982 and is
expected to be signed in the near future. Prequalification of consultants and
constructors is being done.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
Effective Date:                  ; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on March 25, 1982. It will be
signed shortly. Selection of consultants is now being done.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country
to prepare project:              9 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                SEDAPAL with assistance from
the Bank and outside consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  January 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  September 21, 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:        March 30, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   August 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   SEDAPAL would:
(a) strengthen the Project Supervisory Unit (PSU) with more
professional staff, provide all the funds and other resources it
may need and, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan,
reorganize the PSU in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and appoint
its manager and deputy manager with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank (para. 55);
(b) obtain the Bank's concurrence before incurring any long term debt,
if its net revenues before interest and depreciation are less than
1.5 times its maximum future debt service requirements and exchange
views with the Bank every year during project implementation on its
investment program for the subsequent five years (para. 59);
(c) take all steps necessary to obtain the rate adjustments suffi-
cient to produce revenues that would, in addition to covering
expenses, produce a contribution to SEDAPAL's capital requirements
expressed as a percent of the sum of average annually revalued net
fixed assets, works in progress and SEDAPAL's contribution to the
Mantaro Transfer project. These percentages are equivalent to 2.0
percent in 1982, 3.5 percent in 1983 and 4.0 percent in 1984 and
thereafter (para. 61);



31 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) revalue its fixed assets annually using a method of valuation
acceptable to the Bank (para. 61);
(e) submit to SENAPA and to the Bank before August 31 of each calendar
year a proposed schedule of tariff adjustments for the forthcoming
year and prepare, a comprehensive tariff study (under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank) the recommendation of which,
after review by the Bank and SENAPA, would be implemented
(paras. 61 and 63);
(f) reduce the ratio of accounts receivable to average monthly sales
to 3.5 in 1982 and 2.5 in 1983 and thereafter (para. 64); and
(g) prepare before December 31, 1982 a comprehensive insurance program
which, after receipt by the Bank, would be put into effect not
later than June 30, 1983 (para. 65).
B.   SENAPA would:
approve periodic tariff adjustments submitted by SEDAPAL, allow
SEDAPAL to keep the share of profits necessary to carry out its
five-year investment program and exchange views with the Bank on
the recommendations of the tariff study and authorize SEDAPAL to
implement them (para. 66).



__   _ - _t-_ ~ - - - ~ - - -     -    -    -                                                                                                                             > -   __                 MARI:-,
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A;                                      -Ar                                                                             I-
Q                                                                       III~~~~~~~~~~>                      -  ,
"A'~ ~~ ~   ~               ~ A 5                                                                                                 t_'   /                                     L-                             S:                                                  'Ri
i t a.XyrA'   '>A'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0  E                     -    s    SC 0  iS,  jt
'~ ~~~A                                      A& ,;, .> .--i;                                                                                                                                                                                                                             II Qg  i    EIs 
I =2s, ___f __ r _ - ., _ __ _ ___, __ __ _ . ___ .............. . _ _ _____ ................ 
~~~~A~~~~~~L~~~~~~~A~~~~~~AA  A ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~-
[ ___________________________________________________  _________________________   _________________________  -



