DOCUTS           LOAN NUMBER 2139 PE
Loan Agreement
(Lisa Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLABO
DE LINA - SEDAPAL
and
SERVICIO N&CIONAL DE ABASTECIMIENTO DR AGUA POTABLE Y
ALCANTARILLADO - SENAPA
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO S.A. - COFIDE
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2139 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREFMENT, dated              *               , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 'ECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcan-
tarillado de Lima-SEDAPAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
Servicio Nacional de Abastecimiento de Agua Potable y Alcan-
tarillado - SENAPA (hereinafter called SENAPA).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign-exchange cost of the project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter called the
Project by making the Loan to the Borrower as hereinafter pro-
vided);
(B) SENAPA, sole owner of the Borrower, in consideration of
the Bank's providing the aforesaid financing, has agreed to
undertake certain obligations as hereinafter provided;
(C)   Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo S.A. - COFIDE
(hereinafter called COFIDE) has participated in the negotiation
of this Agreement and has represented to the Bank that it has
discharged all of its other responsibilities as financial agent
of the Borrower pursuant to Republic of Peru's Decreto Legis-
lativo No. 5 published in El Peruano on December 31, 1980; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Engineering Project" means the project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan agreement between the Guarantor and the
Bank dated December 22, 1978, as amended from time to time;
(b) "Charter" means the Guarantor's Legislative Decree No.
150, as published in El Peruano on June 15, 1981, whereby SENAPA
has been established as an enterprise under the form of a public
law corporation and as the parent company and sole owner of the
Borrower, and the Borrower, formerly Empreea de Saneamiento de
Lima, has been transformed into a wholly owned subsidiary
corporation of SENAPA;
(c) "SENAPA's By-laws" means the By-laws of SENAPA as
approved by the Guarantor's Supreme Decree No. 038-81-VI, dated
November 6, 1981, and registered in the Registro Mercantil de los
Registros Pdblicos de Lima on March 3, 1982 under number 38595 of
the Commercial Companies Book;
(d) "SEDAPAL's By-laws" means the By-laws of the Borrower
as approved by the Guarantor's Supreme Decree No 048-81-VI, dated
December 15, 1981, and registered in the Registry mentioned in
the preceding paragraph, on March 2, 1982, under the number 38644
of the Commercial Companies Book;
(e) "Lima Metropolitan Area" means an area which includes
the cities of Lima and El Callao, and smaller communities located
in river valleys, all within the jurisdiction of the Provinces of
Lima and Constitucional del Callao;
(f) "Original Price" means the nominal price of a contract,
and the term includes any automatic monetary correction to such
price provided for in such contract;
(g) "Sol" means sol in currency of the Guarantor;
(h) "Contribution   to   Service  Improvements"  means   the
customer contribution charged by the Borrower in accordance with
its Board Resolution No. 126-986-81;


﻿-3-
(i) "Long-term debt" means all indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms one year or more after the date on which it
is originally incurred; and
(j) "Debt-service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges in respect of long-term debt.
ARTICLE II
The Joan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty nillion six hundred thousand dollars ($40,600,000).
Scction 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.       The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to six hundred
thousand dollars ($600,000).   The fee shall be payable in such
currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify.    In the event
that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the fee by
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified for the purpose.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering and public utility practices.
(b) Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall use
its best efforts to obtain for its benefit other loans or other
financing under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank from
sources outside Peru and to apply the proceeds of such loans or
financing to meet expenditures required to carry out Part B (4)
of the Project and not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Part D of the Project and to enable the Borrower to
comply with its obligation under Section 3.05 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall employ engineering and management consultants
or experts, as the case may be, whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 and in Part E of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
make adequate provision f Dr the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incidental to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly  upon  their preparation, the    plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The-Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the prog-ess of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out -f the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals, not less frequent than semi-annual, all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-6-
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05 (a) The Borrower shall: (i) reorganize the unit
it created in 1979 to, inter alia, supervise the carrying out of
Part A of the Engineering Project, and hire therefor the services
of a Project Manager, a Deputy Project Manager and, as required,
long-term experts with functional responsibilities and short-term
consultants for Project supervision; avd (ii) expand the respon-
sibilities of such unit so as to include coordination of consul-
tants' services in respect of Part D (2) of the Project, and
supervision of overall Project activities, particularly, supervi-
sion of consultants' services, physical construction under the
Project, and control of monitoring indicators and preparation of
reports required under this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain the unit referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section until all payments (other than debt
service payments) in respect of the carrying out of the Project
have been made and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs


﻿-7-
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, and
furnish to the Bank not later than December 31, 1982 for comment,
a comprehensive insurance program which shall be put into effect
not later than June 30, 1983.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each Subsidiary that
may be created by the Borrower in accordance with Article 49 (c)
of SEDAPAL's By-laws to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not, unless the Bank and
the Borrower have otherwise agreed, sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its assets which shall be required
for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to t:, Bank such other information


﻿-8-
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall from time to time take all such steps,
including those referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section and
those necessary or desirable to obtain adjustments in the rates
it charges for the services it supplies or for the use of
groundwater resources, as shUll be required to earn annually
relevant revenues sufficient to cover the sum of: (i) operating
and maintenance costs; (ii) taxes; and (iii) the greater of
depreciation expenses or Debt-service requirements of Long-term
debt, both for the year in question, and in addition, to provide
a contribution to the Borrower's capital requirements. Such
contribution shall be expressed, in respect of each of the fiscal
years set forth below, as a percentage of the sum of the net
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation plus the value
of the Borrower's share of the Mantaro project capital require-
ments. The percentage in question shall be as follows: two per
cent (2%) for fiscal year 1982, three and one-half of one per
cent (3-1/2%) for fiscal year 1983 and four per cent (4%) for


﻿-9-
fiscal year 1984 thereafter. Any shortfall in relevant revenues
shall be compensated in the next following fiscal year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "relevant Aevenues" means the revenue
generated by the application of the rates the
Borrower charges for the provision of water and
sewerage services, including, without limitation,
Contributions to Service Improvements, cdnores,
connection fees and other charges that may be
applied by the Borrower from time to time for such
services and for the ust of groundwater resources;
(ii)  the term "net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
in operation" means the average sum of the gross
value of fixed assets in operation at the begin-
ning of the year in question plus the sum of the
gross value of fixed assets in operation at the
-end of such year less the related accumulated
depreciation, all as revalued in accordance with
paragraph (c) of this Section and registered on
the Borrower's books; -nd the term also includes
the average value of works in progress at the
beginning and at the end of such year revalued in
accordance with the aforesaid paragraph (c); for
purposes of this paragraph, "accumulated depre-
ciation" means straightline depreciation, based on
the useful life of the asset in question, revalued
in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section,
as accumulated at the end of the year in question;
(iii) the term "taxes" means the aggregate amount of all
taxes payable by the Borrower accrued during the
year in question less any rebate on such amount
granted by the Guarantor and any portion of such
taxes which are charg2d -by the Borrower to the
cost of its fixed or capital assets acquired
during the year in question; and
(iv) the term "Borrower's share of the Mantaro project
capital requirements" means the average of the
accumulated value of the contributions made by the
Borrower for purposes of the carrying out of the


﻿- 10 -
Mantaro project at the beginning and at the end of
the year in question, expressed in terms of Soles
revalued as indicated in paragraph (c) of this
Section, but only to the extent the Borrower is
obligated to make such contributions under the
contract between the Borrower and ELECTROPERU and
ELECTROLIMA dated September 30, 1981 and approved
by the Guarantor's Decreto Supremo 031-81-EM/DGE,
as such contract may be amended from time to
time.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) revalue the gross value of its
fixed assets in operation, works in progress and the share of the
Mantaro project capital requirements annually, to such extent as
shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time of each
such revaluation, the current value thereof, in accordance with a
sound and consistently applied method of valuation acceptable to
the Ba.k; and (ii) register, annually, the results of such reval-
uation on its books.
(d) The Borrower shall, not later than August 31 in each
fiscal year, file with SENAPA a proposed schedule of tariff
adjustment to be applied by the Borrower in the next following
fiscal year.   Such schedule, a copy of which shall be furnished
to the Bank upon the filing thereof, shall be aimed at enabling
the Borrower to comply with paragraph (a) of this Section
and shall take into account all relevant factors therefor,
particularly the investments scheduled, as part of the Borrower's
five-year investment plan, for such fiscal year, any revenue
shortfalls to be compensated, if any, during such year pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section and the amount of taxes to
accrue during such year.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall conduct a study,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (which will
include the definition of a timetable of steps to be taken to
put into effect the recommendations of such study starting not
later than July 1, 1983), on the Borrower's tariff structure
and other revenue sources, and shall, not later than March 31,
1983, furnish to the Bank the findings and recommendations of
such study and a timetable for putting into effect such recom-
mendations which will adhere substantially      to  the timetable
defined by such study.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary or desir-
able to put the recommendations of the aforesaid study into
effect, in accordance with the proposed timetable, with the
changes to such recommendations which may have been reasonably
requested by the Bank or SENAPA.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any Long-term debt, unless its
internally generated funds for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less than
1.5 times the maximum Long-term debt-service requirements, for
any succeeding fiscal year, on all Long-term debt of the Borrower
(including the Long-term debt to be incurred).
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "internally generated funds" means gross
revenue from all sources less all operating and
administrative expenses of the Borrower (including
adequate maintenance) and taxes, if any, but
before provision for depreciation of assets and
social benefits, and before payments on interest
and other charges on Long-term debt are made; and
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agree-
ment or other instrument providing for such debt;
provided, however, that in the case of guarantee
of debt, debt shall be deemed to be incurred on
the day the agreement guaranteeing such debt has
been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall from time to time take all steps necessary or
desirable to ensure that, at the applicable fiscal year's end,
the proportion between the Borrower's accounts receivable and
month-sales for fiscal year 1982 and each fiscal year thereafter,
shall not exceed the coefficient stipulated below in respect of
each respective fiscal year:
1982                3.5
1983 and
thereafter          2.5.


﻿- 12 -
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, (i) the
amount billed by the Borrower on account of services shall be
divided by 12, and (ii) the quotient so obtained shall be divided
into the value of accounts receivable for the year in question.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section, the term
"services" means water and sewerage services provided by the Bor-
rower in the year in question.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
August 31 on each year and until all payments (other than debt
service payments) in respect of the carrying out of the Project
have been made, exchange views with the Bank on each five-year
investment plan to be taken into account for purposes of Section
5.04 (d) of this Agreement; and (ii) during the twelve-month
period next following such exchange of views, exchange views on
any subsequent change to such investment plan.
ARTICLE VI
Obligations of SENAPA
Section 6.01. SENAPA shall take all such steps as shall be
necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with all of the Bor-
rower's obligations under this Agreement, particularly, by means
of approving, to the extent they are required by the Borrower to
comply with its obligation under this Agreement, all requests by
the Borrower for the adjustment of the rates referred to in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.04 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. SENAPA shall exchange views with the Bank on
the recommendations of the study to be conducted by the Borrower
in accordance with Section 5.05 of this Agreement and take all
action on its part to authorize the Borrower to put into effect
such   recommendations  with   the  changes   thereto   reasonably
requested by the Bank or SENAPA.
Section 6.03. (a) SENAPA undertakes not to transfer to the
Fund provided for in Title II of the Charter and in Articles 71
through 73 of SENAPA's By-laws any amount of Borrower's surplus
in any of the Borrower's fiscal years, to the extent that such
amount will be required by the Borrower to carry out the invest-
ment program approved by the Borrower's Board of Directors in
respect of such year and the next following four fiscal years.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SENAPA shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants, agreements or obligations under this Agreement;
(b)  the Charter or SENAPA's By-laws or SEDAPAL's By-laws
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect
materially and adversely the carrying out or operation of the
Project or the financial position of the Borrower;
(c) the Borrower shall have failed to make any payment
required under the subsidiary loan agreement entered into between
COFIDE, on behalf of the Guarantor, and the Borrower for purposes
of the Engineering Project;
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of SENAPA
or for the suspension of its operations, or
(B) SENAPA or others shall have taken any action
which may lead to the suspension of its
operations.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Guarantor establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that other legal entity or entities,
acceptable to the Bank, has or have been assigned
functions, powers and responsibilities equivalent
to those set forth in the Charter with respect to
SENAPA and in SENAPA's By-laws; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been


﻿-14-
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposeti of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or in
paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b) any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(c) any of the events specified in paragraphs (d) (i) or
(e) (i) (B) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur, sub-
ject, in the case of paragraph (d) (i), to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph (d) and, in the case of
paragraph (e) (i) (B) to the proviso of eubparagraph (ii) of that
paragraph (e).
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section  8.01.   The  following  events   are  specified   as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 15 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement have
been duly registered by Direccion General de Cr6dito Pdblico of
the Guarantor's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce;
(b) that the unit referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement has been reorganized and expanded pursuant to such
Section, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) that the services of the Manager and Deputy Manager of
the unit referred to in (b) above have been hired.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower and the
Guarantor,  namely,   that  this   Agreement  and  the   Guarantee
Agreement have been duly registered by Direccidn General de
Cr6dito P5blico of the Guarantor's Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Commerce.
Section 8.03. The date %VC-'\CkLA -        is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-16-
For the Borrower:
Servicio de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado de Lima
Calle Monterrey 281
Chacarilla del Estanque
Santiago de Surco
Lima, Peru
Telex:
20057PE LIGHT
For SENAPA
Servicio Nacional de Abastecimiento
de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
Domingo Cueto 120-70 Piso
Jesus Marfa,
Lima, Peru
Telex:
25158 PE
MINVICON
Section 9.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SENAPA may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and SENAPA shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto and COFIDE in the
role described in the Preamble to this Agreement, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 17 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/                ~        ~        da
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO
DE LIMA - SEDAPAL
By              UA
Authorized Representative
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE ABASTECIMIENTO DE AGUA
POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO - SENAPA
By
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO S.A.
- COFIDE
By{u thried Rereenatv
Authorized Representative
By           ~          K\4~& OVAA
Authorized Representative
I


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                 % of
(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Materials and            15,000,000              100% of for-
equipment (other                                eign expendi-
than for Part B                                 tures and 54%
(4) of the Proj-                               of local ex-
ect)                                            penditures
(2) Civil works              17,000,000              36% (repre-
(excluding                                     senting the
amounts with-                                   estimated
held as per-                                    foreign ex-
formance guar-                                  penditure
antees) for the                                 component)
Project other
than for Part B
(4) thereof
(3) Consultants'              2,000,000
services:
(a) Management                                  100%
staff of, and
short-term
consultants
to, the unit
referred to in
Section 3.05 of
this Agreement
(b) Part D of the                               40%
Project


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent       to be Financed
(4) Fee under Section           600,000            Amount due
2.05 of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated               6,000,000
TOTAL         40,600,000
2.   Fi,r the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guaranc . or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent


﻿-20-
of $500,000 may be made in respect of expenditures for Part A (2)
of the Project on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after April 30, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Provision of water and sewerage services to low-income
areas in Lima Metropolitan Area by means of:
(1) Construction of about 450 kilometers of water dis-
tribution networks and about 20,000 cubic meters
of storage capacity, and installation of about
43,000 house connections to serve about 70 low-
income settlements.
(2) Construction of a water main about 5 kilometers
long and one 200 liter-per-second pumping station
to continue improving the supply of water to the
Canto Grande area.
(3) Construction of about 7.5 kilometers of trans-
mission pipeline from the Lima distribution system
to improve the supply of water in the Comas and
Carabayllo low-income settlements.
(4) Construction of about 430 kilometers of sewage
collectors and 46,000 house discharges.
(5) Construction of about 10 kilometers of sewage
interceptors to serve about 3,000 hectares in the
Canto Grande area.
Part B:   Development and   improvement of water    resources  to
increase the water production of the Lima Metropolitan
Area's water supply system by about 4.4 cubic meters
per second, and to allow more efficient operation of
existing wells, by means of:
(1) Building of about 1 kilometer of infiltration
galleries and rehabilitation of the existing
galleries, along the River Rimac. These works to
include widening and leveling of, and building of
small dikes across, the River streambed so as to
allow water spreading.


﻿- 22 -
(2) Rehabilitation of about 80 existing wells.
(3) Drilling and construction of, and provision of
equipment to, about 26 new wells.
(4) Design, drilling and construction of, and pro-
vision of equipment to, about 50 new wells other
than those included in (3) above.
Part C:   Improvement in the operation of the Lima Metropolitan
Area's water supply system and reduction of unaccounted
for water produced thereby, by means of:
.(1) Provision and installation of about 180 master
meters   in  existing  wells   and  in  the   main
pipelines.
(2) Acquisition   and  installation  of about   164,000
house meters and rehabilitation of additional
136,000 house meters.
(3) Improvement and expansion of the Borrower's meter
repair shop.
(4)  (i) Expansion of laboratory facilities at the
Atarjea plant and acquisition, and utilization, of
additional equipment and instrumentation thereof;
(ii) acquisition and utilization of auxiliary
radio communication equipment, about 190 pick-ups
and trucks, spare parts and automotive shop
equipment.
Part D:   Strengthening of the Borrower's operations and finan-
cial condition by means of:
(1) Execution of a user's survey of water and sewer-
age connections with a view to incorporating
unregistered connections into the Borrower's com-
mercial system and permitting better planning for
the expansion of the provision of services by the
Borrower.
(2) (i) Gathering of data and information on which to
base sound methods of management and control of


﻿- 23 -
water resources, including groundwater recharge
and operation and maintenance of deep wells, and
(ii)  development   and  execution   of   programs
therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1987
through   January 1, 1999                  1,560,000
On July 1, 1999                                  1,600,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years                           2.05%
before maturity
More than three years but not                       4.10%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                         7.50%
more then eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     10.25%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                            11.60%
before maturity


﻿-26-
SCEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   Civil works contracts, and materials and equipment contracts
shall be grouped to the extent possible in contracts estimated to
cost each of them, the equivalent of not less than $1,500,000 and
$200,000, respectively.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in


﻿- 27 -
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Peru or in a country which is a party to the Cartagena Agreement
or to any other regional trade agreement acceptable to the Guar-
antor and the Bank (the Cartagena Agreement or any such other
regional agreement hereinafter called the Regional Agreement),
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following four groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Peru if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Peru equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country other than Peru which is a party to the
Regional Agreement.
(d) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 28 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group
C and D bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated
bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C and D bid, for the purpose
of this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-
exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or the group C bid
in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
5.   If, as a result of the further comparison under para-
graph (4) above, a bid from group D is the lowest, and provided
there are taxes actually payable for the importation of goods
offered in the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined
under paragraph (3) above, all group D bids shall be finally com-
pared with such lowest evaluated bid from group C, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each
group D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an
amount equal to the smaller of (i) the positive difference, if
any, between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which would actually be payable for the importation of goods
offered in such group D bid and for the importation of goods
offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. price of
goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest
bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as
determined under paragraph (3) above, shall be selected for the
award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(1) Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of less than $1,500,000 and contracts for materials and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000,
may be procured under competitive bidding procedures locally
advertised, to the extent that such procedures are satisfactory
to the Bank and that the aggregate cost of the contracts so
awarded does not exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000; and
(2) Contracts for civil works or goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 or less, may be awarded to


﻿- 29 -
contractors or suppliers, as the case may be acceptable to the
Bank after obtaining quotations from not less than three of such
contractors, or suppliers, as the case may be. The aggregate of
contracts so awarded will not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Part A thereof.
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after


﻿-30-
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the Original Price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement of Consultants or Expert Services
1.   Consultants or experts whose services are to be employed
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall be selected
after inviting proposals from a short list of firms or
individuals. Such short list will be sent to the Bank for
approval and the invitations to be issued will, in each case, set
forth the criteria to be taken into account for the selection of
the individual or firm to which the contract will be awarded.
Such criteria will be determined from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower and will, inter alia, take
price into account in accordance with methods and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Since under certain    circumstances, as described in the
Guidelines referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the
Bank may sympathetically consider the possibility of asking
proposals to a single firm or individual, the Borrower will,
under such circumstances, do so. However, extended lists will
not be used for asking proposals.


﻿-31-
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "and SENAPA" are added to paragraph 11 of
Section 2.01 after the word "Borrower".
(2) The words "or SENAPA," are added after the word
"Borrower"  and   the  word  ", respectively"   after   the  words
"Guarantee Agreement", all in paragraph (e) of Section 6.02.
(3) The word ", SENAPA" is added after the word "Borrower"
after every instance in which the latter occurs in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of Section 9.01, and in Section 10.01; and the words "nor
SENAPA" are inserted between the words "Borrower" and "nor" in
Section 10.01.
(4) The words "or SENAPA" are added after every instance
of the word "Borrower" in Sections 10.02 and 11.03.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  L &&, 198jZ.
FOR SECRETARY


