Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16389
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2811-CHA/CREDIT 1792-CHA)
March 11, 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1987 (appraisal)    $1 = Y 3.72
1988              $1 = Y 3.72
1989              $1 = Y 3.76
1990              $1 = Y 4.78
1991              $1 = Y 5.32
1992              $1 = Y 5.53
1993              $1 = Y 5.76
1994              $1 = Y 8.60
1995              $1 = Y 8.50
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =      3.28 feet (ft
I kilometer (km) 2                 0.62 mile (mi)
I square meter (m )  2      =      10.76 square feet (ft)
I square kilometer (km      =      0.4 square miles (mi)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 km    =      2.47 acr5s (ac) = 15 mu
I mu                        =      666.7 m = 0.0667 ha
I kilogram (kg)             =      2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
1 metric ton (t)            =      2,204 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP      -  Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP      -  Ninth Five-Year Plan
ADT       -  Average Daily Traffic
BTTE          Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway
BTTEUC  -  Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway United Corporation
DF        -  Diversion Factor
E&M       -  Electronic, Electrical and Mechanical
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -  Financial Rate of Return
HPDI      -  Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI          Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR       -  Implementation Completion Report
MOC       -  Ministry of Communications
PMS       -  Pavement Management System
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
VOC       -  Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President            Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director                : Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief            Richard Scurfield, EA21N
Staff Member              Otto Raggambi, Highway Engineer,
Consultant, EA21N



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................................                                                 iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................. 1
A. Project Objectives and Description                          .......................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................................... 18
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                      19
E. Bank Performnance .........................................................                           20
F. Borrower Performance                          ................................................ 22
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                       23
H. Future Operation .........................................................                            24
I. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                         24
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .........................................................                            27
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .........................................................                 27
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................................................   28
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                     29
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ......... 29
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................... 30
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 30
Table 7: Studies included in Project .........................................................              30
Table 8a: Project Costs .........................................................                        31
Table 8b: Project Costs .........................................................                        31
Table 8c: Project Financing .........................................................                    32
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................... 32
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................    33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................... 34
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................................... 34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................  34
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION ............................. 35
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 54
ANNEX 3: SUPERVISION/ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ....................... 65
MAP: Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway-IBRD 19661R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2811-CHA/CREDIT 1792-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Beijing-Tianjin-
Tanggu Expressway in China for which Loan 281 1-CHA, for $25.0 million, and Credit
1792-CHA, for SDR 98.9 million ($125.0 million equivalent), was approved on May 12,
1987. The credit and the loan were closed on December 31, 1995, and the last
disbursement from the loan account was made on January 26, 1996.
The ICR  was prepared by Messrs. Otto Raggambi (Highway Engineer,
Consultant) and Han-Kang Yen (Research Analyst), and Ms. Alla Weinstein (Transport
Specialist, Consultant) in the Infrastructure Operations Division, China and Mongolia
Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region of the Bank, and reviewed by Messrs.
Richard Scurfield, Chief, EA2IN and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor, EA2DR. The
borrower's implementation evaluation summary for the project is annexed to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began in April 1995, and an ICR mission had discussions
with representatives of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the Beijing-Tianjin
Tanggu Expressway United Corporation (BTTEUC) in July 1995. Further consultation
was held between MOC, BTTEUC and Bank personnel regarding the preparation of the
ICR in Beijing in November 1996. The ICR is based on discussions held in the field,
materials available in the project file and additional data provided by BTTEUC.
BTTEUC also submitted to the Bank a copy of its evaluation report for the expressway
and other project components.






- v -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2811-CHA/CREDIT 1792-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The Chinese economy, which started accelerating in the early 1980s, greatly
increased road transport demand. To address the problem of road transport constraints,
the Chinese Government had decided to accord high priority to increasing road capacity
on the heavily trafficked segments of the national and provincial road networks. The
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway (BTTE) reflects this priority, along with the
project's much needed transfer of technology to municipal/provincial transport
departments through acquisition of modern equipment and staff training, and addressing
broader subsectoral issues, such as highway finance, better use of local bitumen and
management of tolled highways.
2.    The project's objectives were to assist the Government in meeting the road
transport needs in one of the most important and congested corridors in China, and in
increasing the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the highway subsector. To achieve
such objectives the scope of the project was formulated as follows: (a) construction of a
high-standard tolled expressway (143 km) and two connecting roads; (b) technical
assistance for improving the planning, development and maintenance of the highway
system by setting up a road data bank on the highway network; (c) the undertaking of
studies on (i) methods of financing the expansion and improvement of the highway
network; (ii) upgrading the quality of local bitumen to be used for high-class road
pavement, and (iii) identifying appropriate procedures for operating and maintaining the
expressway; (d) staff training in the area of transportation planning; and (e) continuing
assistance in highway-related research and modernization of design, construction and
materials specifications, and civil works contract documentation.
3.    The major component of the project aimed at reducing congestion and travel time
for road traffic in the key corridor between Beijing and Tanggu, through Tianjin, one of
the largest industrial centers in the country, by the construction of a tolled expressway on
a more direct route than available along the sections of the arterial road network. The
project's other components reflected the broader institutional priorities for the highway
subsector, which conformed to the strategy of the Central Government and the assistance
strategy of the Bank Group.



- vi -
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project's key objective of constructing a new tolled expressway between Beijing
and Tanggu was achieved but with a substantially higher cost and a marginally higher
economic rate of return (ERR) than originally estimated. More specifically: (a) the
economic cost in the ICR, at December 1995 constant prices, is about 116 percent higher
than the SAR estimate due to quantity variations, design changes and price escalation; and
(b) the ERR increased from the appraisal estimate of 14.5 percent to 15.7 percent, indicating
that the higher benefits, generated by the higher-than-forecast volume of traffic using the
BTTE, more than offset the higher than estimated investment cost.
5.    Originally, the construction of the BTTE was scheduled to start in October 1987 and
to be completed in about 38 months, by December 31, 1990. Although the construction of
the Expressway commenced at the end of December 1987, with a slightly less than two
months delay, it was completed only in April 1995. However, civil works were completed
in September 1993, which allowed the opening of the expressway to traffic over its full
length. The implementation schedule of the civil works was adversely affected by (a)
delays in land acquisition and the removal of obstructions from the right-of way, (b) a
variety of design changes, some of them substantive, (c) exceptionally heavy rainfalls
during 1988, and (d) poor subsoil conditions, particularly on the Tianjin-Tanggu section of
the BTTE. Also, in mid-1990, resources from other sections of the Expressway were
transferred to the Beijing-Tianjin segment in order to assure that this section could be
opened to meet the transport needs of the Asian Games in September/October 1990. Such a
measure was disruptive, and contributed to the overall delay to the execution of the civil
works. However, the major delay in full completion of the BTTE was caused by the
protracted preparation and procurement process for supply and installation of the electrical
and mechanical (E&M) works, covering tolling, telecommunications, traffic monitoring and
lighting systems for the BTTE. The Bank, in recognition of the implementation difficulties
encountered, extended the loan/credit closing date by three years from December 31, 1992
to December 31, 1995.
6.    In addition to the above impediments there have been other factors which adversely
affected the implementation of the BTTE, particularly in its initial phase: (a) deficiency of
engineering design and technical specifications, (b) the poor performance of the contractors,
and (c) the lack of experience of the employers, contractors and most of the supervision
staff in the construction of high-class highway with magnitude, complexity and
administrative and technical requirements similar to that of the BTTE. As a combined
effect of such shortcomings, the execution and the quality of works were not controlled
effectively, and a substantial portion of the civil works carried out in 1988 failed to meet the
technical specifications. However, the Bank Group, in recognition of the seriousness of the
situation initiated the introduction of remedial measures in early 1989, following
consultation with the Borrower. It was agreed that MOC would: (a) sign a formal contract
agreement for supervision services with each of the three Resident Supervision Units; (b) ensure
that the units would be operating fully independently from the municipal/provincial authorities
and report directly to the Engineer's Representative, (c) insist that contractors prepare realistic



- vii -
work programs and submit those to the Engineer for his consent, and (d) keep the Bank fully
informed about the progress of works and compliance with quality requirements and other
conditionalities under the contracts. Furthermore, it was agreed that no disbursement requests
would be submitted to the Bank Group until the Office of the Engineer's Representative certified
that, after a complete reassessment of the quality of the works executed during 1988 and in early
1989, all substandard works had been rectified. Also, MOC, BTTEUC and the supervision units
took steps to strengthen the supervision organization through employing additional staff,
extensive staff training, acquisition of transport vehicles and the provision of test laboratories.
The defective works carried out during 1988 were subsequently remedied and the Bank Group's
disbursement resumed in the second half of 1989.
7.    Although quality problems emerged throughout, the effectiveness of such
measures resulted in a gradual but substantive improvement in contract management and
quality control by the construction supervision units. From 1989 onward an acceptable
modus operandi emerged in the course of the execution of the BTTE, within the
constraints of the ability and preparedness of the employers, contractors and construction
supervision units. While it would be unrealistic to assume that all elements of the works
on the BTTE were executed without quality shortfalls, the BTTE may be regarded as one
of the best major highways constructed in China to date.
8.    In retrospect, there are a number of mitigating circumstances regarding the delays
and the deficiencies encountered during the implementation of the BTTE. It is apparent
that the contracting period of 30-36 months for civil works was too short, considering the
complexity of the engineering requirements, and the generally poor sub-soil conditions
along several section of the Expressway's alignment over which the embankments
constructed required a minimum of 12 months to settle. Regarding the E&M component
of the BTTE, it could be argued that a much earlier start on the preparation of this
component could have preempted the excessive implementation delay of the BTTE and
the project as a whole. In this regard, it may be noted that this was the first time that such
kind of E&M works had been undertaken in China. The complexity of the task,
combined with the overall management requirements for the implementation of the BTTE
civil works, to which a higher priority had been given, understandably led to the delay
encountered in the completion of the E&M component. Overall, considering that the
BTTE was the first high-class highway project applying principles of international project
administration, and despite the delays and other difficulties during implementation of the
civil works, the satisfactory completion of the BTTE has been a commendable
achievement. It provided an excellent opportunity for acquiring technological and
managerial experience for a large group of highway engineers and technicians, and,
furthermore, the very satisfactory performance of the Expressway during several years of
service is good indication of the successful outcome of the efforts of all the entities
involved in its implementation.
9.    The procurement of equipment for the operation and maintenance of the BTTE,
and the staff training program were accomplished satisfactorily, although some
adjustments had to be made to the type and quantity of equipment procured and the areas



- viii -
of training, compared to the original stipulations in the SAR and the Minutes of
Negotiations. The changes made were well considered and regarded as appropriate.
10.  It was intended that assistance would be provided under the project to support the
development of a road data bank in Beijing Municipality. However, sufficient progress
had already been made by the Beijing Municipality Road Administration on this prograrn
by the end of the 1980s, and it was not considered expedient to get involved in the
program. Therefore, the Bank agreed instead to provide assistance for the establishment
of a pavement management system specifically designed for the BTTE, which now forms
an integral part of the overall BTTE Management System.
11.   Three broader road transport subsectoral issues were addressed through three
studies:  (a) identifying alternative sources for financing highway development;
(b) analyzing the potential for the utilization of local bitumen for high-class road
pavements; and (c) formulating a management system for the operation of the BTTE, as a
possible pattern for the management of other major toll highways in China. The
outcomes of these studies have been mixed. The highway finance study would have
benefited from a better-focused policy framework prior to its launching or, at least, from
a more persistent follow-up of the study's recommendations. The study of local bitumen
was useful, but there has been a lack of coordinated effort by the Borrower to obtain
greater benefits from following up the study's finding and recommendations. The
Management System for the BTTE is in place and it functions satisfactorily.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Notwithstanding the difficulties, substantial delays and quality deficiencies
encountered during the implementation of the BTTE, the key component of the project,
as well as the minor components of the project, were implemented satisfactorily. The
ICR estimate of the ERR confirm that the project's development objectives have been
achieved, and that the condition of the project civil works facilities and the benefits
emanating from the investments made, as detailed in Annex 1, are sustainable and are not
expected to be exposed to substantial future risks.
13.   The Financial Analysis presented in Annex 1 shows a rate of return of 5.2 percent,
and also confirms that the toll revenues are expected to be more than adequate to cover
the repayment of financial obligations and the expenses required for the satisfactory
maintenance of the BTTE.
14.   All prerequisites are in place to ensure that the physical condition of the BTTE is
sustainable through regular routine and periodic maintenance. Furthermore, the BTTE
United Corporation (BTTEUC) is a well-established entity and regarded to be capable of
ensuring that the BTTE will be satisfactorily operated and maintained. An Operation
Manual for the BTTE under preparation is designed to define the appropriate
performance parameters, which should help ensure that the operation of the BTTE is
monitored effectively at regular intervals.



- ix -
15.   The implementation of the equipment and staff training components of the project
was also satisfactory. While the efforts put into the highway finance and local bitumen
studies were adequate, lack of follow-up on the findings and recommendations of the
studies by the Chinese entities and the Bank Group render the outcome less than fully
satisfactory.  BTTEUC, through a study, achieved a satisfactory set up for the
administration of the BTTE.
16.   The following lessons learned are relevant to the still ongoing and future Bank
Group-financed highway projects in China:
(a)   The noted deficiencies of the civil works design and technical
specifications highlighted the urgent need for the revision, improvement
and consolidation of engineering design and technical specifications into
national standards for the construction of high-class highways in China.
(b)   The late start and the slow progress made on the preparation of the E&M
works  for  the  BTTE,  covering  tolling,  traffic  monitoring,
telecommunication and lighting systems, added about two years to the
implementation period of the project.  In the future, E&M  design
documentation should be an integral part of the overall design
documentation for major highways, and the designated executing agencies
and the Bank Group should ensure that the design and technical
specifications for the E&M works are ready at the same time as the design
and technical specifications for the highway civil works contracts.
(c)   The contractors and almost all of the supervision staff had been affiliated
with the same transport divisions of the two municipalities and the
province involved in the construction of the BTTE. Such an arrangement
created difficulties in adhering to the principles of the general conditions
of the contract according to which the Employer, Supervision and
Contractor should be separate and independent entities. While over the
years the administrative and financial independence of the contracting
entities evolved quite extensively, the staffing of the supervision units is
still predominantly provided from local highway administration units.
Assuring the impartiality of the construction supervision units is
imperative, and, therefore, the creation of an independent construction
supervision industry in China should be pursued as a matter of high
priority.
(d)   Preparation and follow-up to the recommendations of studies are
frequently deficient, and the Bank Group's participation in and guidance
to ongoing studies have often been inadequate. Since, in most cases,
studies are included in the projects at the Bank Group's initiative, Bank
Group staff should put much more effort into identifying the rationale and
appropriate timing of the studies, and the extent of the borrower's interest



- x -
in the subject through more substantive consultation with the borrower and
the beneficiaries in the project preparatory phase. Moreover, it is seldom
that sufficient provision is built into the studies regarding a follow-up
mechanism to the likely implementation phase of the studies'
recommendations. The above observations are pertinent to the Highway
Finance and Local Bitumen studies carried out under the project.



- 1 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2811-CHA/CREDIT 1792-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    China joined the World Bank Group in 1980 and lending operations began soon
after. However, Bank involvement with highway infrastructure only began in April 1983,
with the identification of the first Highway Project (Loan 2539/Credit 1954-CHA). The
project provided funding for the improvement of provincial roads and the construction of
critical missing links in nine provinces, particularly those that constrained interprovincial
road transport. Although the involvement was limited, this initial step helped familiarize
the Bank Group with the highway subsector issues in China and identify subsectoral
priorities in subsequent projects. It became apparent that the shortage of capacity in
heavily congested corridors of the national and provincial road networks constitutes one
of the major impediments to accelerated development of the country's economy. In
recognition of the need for urgent initiatives to address this issue, the Chinese
Government accorded high priority to providing adequate capacity in key road transport
corridors under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90, 7FYP) and subsequent Five-Year
Plans. The Bank Group supported such government objective, as reflected in the Bank
Group's lending strategy for the development of the highway subsector from the mid-
1980s onward.
2.    The Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway (BTTE) project was the first of the
major Bank-financed highway projects that aimed at addressing the capacity constraints
on the particularly heavily trafficked sections of the interprovincial arterial roads linking
Beijing, Tianjin and Tanggu. Thereafter, between 1985 and 1996 the Bank Group
approved the financing of another 16 highway projects as listed in Part II, Table 2 of this
report. To date, six of the highway projects have been completed, and a Project
Completion Report (PCR) and three ICRs were issued for the first Highway Project
(August 1992), Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project (June 1996), Jiangxi Provincial
Highway Project (January 1997) and Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project (January
1997). Although, with the exception of the first Highway Project, the projects listed
commenced later than the BTTE, they were smaller in scope and were finished within the
originally envisaged implementation period. The construction of the BTTE was a major
undertaking and its implementation was delayed by three years.
3.    The project's primary objective was to provide urgently needed road traffic
capacity expansion in the important transport corridor between the national capital of



- 2 -
Beijing, Tianjin and the port city of Tanggu in Tianjin Municipality. At the time of
project preparation, traffic between Beijing and Tanggu had to pass through 10 cities and
townships of varying sizes and 7 railway crossings, and had to intercept at grade more
than 20 other roads and some 100 pedestrian and animal-drawn cart traffic paths on 166
km of arterial road links. By contrast, the BTTE was designed as a 143 km fully access-
controlled expressway with 8 interchanges and 2 connecting roads (11.2 km) to provide
easy access to the Expressway.
4.   In addition to financing a highway capacity improvement component aimed at
easing capacity constraints, provisions were made also under the project to help expedite
the transfer of advanced technologies through the provision of modem equipment for the
operation of the BTTE and a diversified staff training program. Three studies were
undertaken to promote policy, technology and management initiatives: (a) exploring
alternative modes for financing the expansion and improvement of the highway network;
(b) upgrading the quality of local bitumen to be used for high-class road pavements, and
(c) identifying an appropriate way to operate and maintain the expressway. Moreover,
the project was intended to support the Beijing Municipal Highway Bureau's program for
establishing a road data base and introduce methodologies for evaluating road conditions
and applying comprehensive road maintenance management systems to facilitate the
improvement and upgrading of the national and provincial road networks in the
Municipality.
5.    The Bank loan and IDA credit for the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project
were approved by the Bank Group in May 1987. The above-outlined scope of the project
was in line with investment priorities for road network development of the local
governments involved, and it was also consistent with the Central Government's policy
and the Bank Group's assistance strategy for the development of the road transport
subsector in China.
6.    The Ministry of Communications (MOC) was designated to take full
responsibility for the execution of the project through its Highway Administration
Department. However, since the alignment of the BTTE traverses the Beijing and Tianjin
municipalities and Hebei Province, it was agreed at negotiations that MOC would enter
into a Project Implementation Agreement with the three local governments to form a
United Corporation to exercise the day-to-day executive functions for the implementation
of the BTTE.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    Project objectives were substantially achieved as indicated by the following
review of the various components.



- 3 -
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway
Civil Works
8.    The Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway project component comprised the
construction of a 142.7 km four-lane dual carriageway, access-controlled tolled
expressway. The expressway traverses 35.00 km, 6.84 km and 100.85 km of Beijing
Municipality, Hebei Province and Tianjin Municipality, respectively. The alignment
starts at the southeastern part of the fourth ring road in Beijing and ends at the Hebei
Road in the Tanggu District of Tianjin Municipality (Map). In addition, as agreed at
negotiations, two four-lane divided connecting roads were constructed, under local
financing, to facilitate access to the Expressway: a 3.1 km link between the third and the
fourth ring roads at the Beijing end, and an 8.1 km link extending from the southeastern
end of the Expressway to the port of Tianjin (Xingang) through the Tianjin Technical and
Economic Development Area and Tax-Free Zone.
9.    The Expressway complex includes 8 interchanges, 4,913 m of twin viaducts, 48
bridges, 27 overpasses, 9 toll stations, 1 traffic control center, 3 road service areas and 3
maintenance/operations management stations. The pavement of the Expressway consists
of stabilized subbase and road-base layers, and three asphalt concrete layers (only two
layers were placed in soft-soil settlement areas between km 86 to km 142; the wearing
course will be placed, under local financing, after the consolidation of the embankment
reaches the required limits). Road furniture comprises guard rails, road markings, traffic
signs and boundary fencing.
10.   Feasibility Study and Engineering Design. The preliminary engineering and
feasibility study were prepared by the Highway Planning and Research Institute (HPDI)
and reviewed by Bank Group staff. The engineering design was prepared by the First and
Second Survey and Design Institutes of MOC and HPDI, with the involvement of the
Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI) and the Chongqing Highway Research
Institute. The design documentation was reviewed by a foreign consultant firm, a service
financed under bilateral aid.
11.   Despite the seemingly thorough design efforts, the documentation did not meet
normally accepted international standards. Numerous design deficiencies were identified
in the course of implementation. Some design details were omitted, and there were
contradictions, errors and impractical stipulations in the design documents and the
technical specifications. Although the skill of highway design institutions have improved
considerably over the years, it is understandable that at the time the design for the BTTE
was prepared there was a lack of experience in designing high-class highways in China.
Also, there has been excessive time gap between the completion of the design and the
commencement of works, and field conditions changed during such an interval. It
became, largely, the task of the supervision staff to identify and remedy the design
deficiencies, although at times, local design institutes were also called upon to complete



or modify some elements of the design. The detection and correction of such defects
contributed to implementation delays.
12.   The majority of the variation orders issued were for relatively minor changes
involving an increased number and changed location of drainage structures and
underpasses. However, major design changes also occurred, which included: (a) the
substantial redesign of a railway underpass on the Beijing section of the BTTE; and
(b) the redesign of the service building structures since the contract drawings provided
only outline designs that were inadequate for construction purposes, and conceptual
changes had also been introduced, which contributed to cost increases.
13.  In addition to the design changes due strictly to technical reasons, several
modifications had to be introduced due to the initial lack of information on future land
use and transport generating investment plans. Also, it seems, that consultations with
authorities at district, township and village levels may not have been adequate during the
planning and design phases of the BTTE. The more notable adverse effects of such
shortcomings were:
(a)   In the vicinity of Tianjin City the original design included two twin
viaducts (1,777 m and 1,000 m) that were connected by a 980 m
embankment section. This scheme was changed to a 3,710 m long
continuous twin viaduct, incurring a cost increase of about Y 17.42
million, of which Y 10.0 million was financed by the Tianjin
Municipality, against which Bank Group funds were not disbursed. The
change became necessary to avoid conflicts with major road crossings,
existing buildings/factories and zoning regulations of Tianjin
Municipality.
(b)   The layout of the toll station and the interchange at Jinzhuang Road were
also radically changed because urban development proceeded beyond the
limits envisaged at the time the alignment of the expressway was defined.
(c)   In order to comply with the Beijing municipal building code, it was
necessary to relocate the Traffic Control Center from the original site
adjacent to the expressway to Fangzhuang, a suburb of Beijing near to the
starting point of the BTTE. Also, the original size of the building was
increased, and, therefore it was agreed that about one third, i.e., about
Y 9.0 million, of the Center's cost would be financed by Beijing
Municipality, against which Bank Group funds were not disbursed.
14.  Implementation. The procurement of civil works was carried out following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Each of the four civil works
contracts was awarded to a local/foreign joint venture. The principal local contractors
were contracting units of the respective municipalities and Hebei Province, although the
contractor for the Tianjin Viaduct was an engineering corporation of MOC. The role of
the foreign joint-venture partners, three from Japan and one from France, was confined to



- 5 -
on-site technical advisory services, with only limited influence on the contractors' overall
performance. The compensation of the foreign personnel on three of the civil works
contracts was based on person-month fees that, together with mobilization and
accommodation expenses, represented insignificant portions of the total contract
amounts. Thus, the involvement of foreign firms in the contract was more of a technical
cooperation-type arrangement than a joint venture in the conventional meaning of the
term. The participating foreign firms did not provide plant, equipment or any other
physical and financial resources, the provision of which remained the responsibility of the
local contractors.
15.   Originally, the construction of the BTTE was scheduled to start in October 1987 and
to be completed in about 38 months, by December 31, 1990. Although the construction
commenced at the end of December 1987 with a slightly less than two months delay, the
Expressway's civil works were completed only in September 1993, in 69 months, which
allowed the opening of the expressway to traffic over its full length. However, the
Expressway was completed progressively, and it was opened to traffic in the following
sequence: From 0 km (Beijing end) to 72 km in January 1991, (36 months), to 98 km in
December 1991 (48 months), and to 109 km in October 1992 (58 months). The first 72 km
section was opened temporarily between during September 12 and October 24, 1990, to
accommodate traffic in connection with the Asian Games. The BTTE was closed for traffic
when the Asian Games ended for full completion, and it was reopened again in January
1991.
16.   All civil works were completed within the extended time for completion granted
under the contract. Justification for awarding time extensions included the recognition of
the problems related to land acquisition delays, obstructions within the rights-of-way,
problems encountered with design documentation, frequent issuance of variation orders due
to design changes, exceptionally heavy rainfalls in 1988, and increased quantities of works.
Also, in mid-1990, resources from other parts of the Expressway were transferred to the
Beijing-Tianjin segment in order to assure that this section could be opened to meet the
transport needs of the Asian Games in September/October 1990. Such a step disrupted and
adversely effected the progress of works on the other sections of the Expressway, and
contributed to the overall delay in completing the civil works. The longest completion
delay occurred on the last section of the expressway toward Tanggu, which required soft-
soil treatment. Delays also occurred because of the employer's commitment that fill
materials from borrow pits be delivered to the site by farmers, which, as it happened,
limited the contractors' access to fill material in a timely manner. However, regarding
delays, it should be noted that stipulating 30-36 months construction periods under the civil
works lacked sound engineering judgment. Such timing was too tight for the complexity of
the task. Also, an extensive length of the Expressway's alignment had poor sub-soil
conditions over which the embankments constructed required a minimum of 12 months to
settle.
17.   Performance of Supervision Organization and Contractors.  The overall
responsibility for contract administration and construction supervision of the civil works



- 6 -
rested with MOC. The Director of the Department of Highway Administration was
appointed as the "Engineer," with the powers and responsibilities laid down in the FIDIC
conditions.  The construction was supervised by a joint local/foreign team.  The
organization in the field was based on a three-tier hierarchy of responsibilities: (a) Office
of the Engineer's Representative, located in Tianjin, was set up by MOC to undertake
supervision tasks on behalf of the Engineer, with staff members provided by the First
Survey and Design Institute of MOC in Xi'an; (b) Offices of Senior Resident Engineers
were established in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin; and (c) Offices of Resident Engineers
were established for each construction contract. The Chinese supervision staff for the
BTTE civil works totaled about 220 professionals, i.e., about 1.5 persons per km. Five
foreign engineers were attached to the supervision organization during most of the
construction period; one Senior Resident Engineer on each of the four construction
contracts and one Chief Resident Engineer at the Office of the Engineer's Representative.
The foreign supervision input amounted to 207 person-months of long-term engineers. In
addition, there were six short-term visits by experts covering such technical disciplines as
soft-soil engineering, traffic management, electronic data processing and asphalt concrete
technology. This level of staffing made it possible for the foreign engineers to involve
themselves in all significant project matters and play a meaningful role in the contract
administration and construction supervision. The foreign supervisors were jointly in
charge of contract administration and involved in technical decisions. Their signatures
were required on payment certificates and other contractual documents. On-the-job as
well as formal training of Chinese staff were important elements of the duties of foreign
supervision personnel.
18.   While such an organizational structure seemed appropriate, it took considerable
time and effort to make it sufficiently effective. Since the internationally accepted
conditions of contracting were largely unknown within the highway sector in China at the
outset of the BTTE project, it is not surprising that the requirement for independent
supervision of construction was not well understood by the executing agencies and the
contractors. During the Bank's first and second site supervision missions in October
1988 and January 1989, it was noted that municipal/provincial supervision units were not
independent from the local governments. It became also apparent that the Chinese civil
works contractors: (a) had little appreciation for the requirements according to which
works were required to be inspected and tested by the construction supervision units;
(b) had no internal quality control system; (c) were not well prepared and equipped for
meeting the requirements of the technical specifications under the contracts, and (d) had
no experience in the preparation of work programs and routine monitoring of
performance. It was not uncommon that unqualified subcontractors were mobilized and
insufficiently guided by the principal contractors and thus were unable to execute the
works satisfactorily.
19.   As the combined effect of the poor performance of the contractors, and the
inexperience of the supervision units in the initial phase of implementation, the execution
and the quality of the works were not controlled effectively, and, consequently, a
substantial portion of the works done in 1988 failed to meet the technical specifications.



As an outcome of the late 1988 and early 1989 Bank Group missions' findings, it was
agreed that MOC would take remedial measures in the interest of enhancing the
effectiveness of the supervision organization through (a) signing a formal contract
agreement for supervision services with each of the three Resident Supervision Units;
(b) ensuring that the units would be operating independently from the
municipal/provincial authorities and report directly to the Engineer's Representative,
(c) insisting that contractors prepare realistic work programs and submit those to the
Engineer for his consent, and (d) keeping the Bank Group informed about the progress of
works and compliance with quality requirements and other conditionalities under the
contracts. Furthermore, it was agreed that no disbursement requests would be submitted
to the Bank Group until the Office of the Engineer's Representative certified that, after a
complete reassessment of the quality of the works executed during 1988 and in early
1989, all substandard works had been rectified. The defective works carried out during
1988 were subsequently remedied and disbursements resumed in the second half of 1989.
Also, MOC, BTTEUC and the supervision units took steps to strengthen the supervision
organization through employing additional staff, extensive staff training, acquisition of
transport vehicles and the provision of test laboratories.
20.   Although the performance of contractors indicated gradual improvement, the
underlying causes for poor workmanship were not entirely overcome, and there was a
recurrence of quality defects to various degrees during the entire period of implementation,
as documented in the monthly reports issued by the Office of the Engineer's Representative
and also noted and reported by Bank Group supervision missions. However, as the local
supervision staff gained more experience and became more independent, firmer and
decisive in their handling of the contractors, the effectiveness of supervision improved.
This, combined with the substantive contribution of foreign supervisors, increased
sufficiently the performance and effectiveness of the supervision organization to handle the
emerging problems and assured that the defective works were rejected and redone and that a
generally acceptable work quality was achieved overall.  The satisfactory overall
performance of the BTTE after several years in service is a good measure of the successful
outcome of the efforts of those involved in the implementation of the Expressway.
Electronic, Electrical and Mechanical (E&M) Works
21.   Implementation and Supervision. The design of the E&M  works and the
preparation of bid documents for the BTTE was carried out by HSRI. The drawings and
technical specifications were confined to the presentation of an outline of the system's
configurations, leaving the detailed design to be proposed by the contractors. The overall
system comprised the supply and installation of electronic, electrical and mechanical
equipment for (a) traffic surveillance (closed-circuit television, ultrasonic detectors);
(b) traffic control devices (variable message and speed limit signs); (c) communications
network (roadside emergency telephones, cable and radio communication network)
(d) toll collection module (toll facilities, vehicle registration, control center with
computer graphics and map display and operations console); and (e) provision of
overhead lighting at interchanges and toll plazas.



- 8 -
22.   Bids were called in October 1990 and opened in April 1991 according to ICB
procedures. The package had been divided into four separate subsystems (Traffic
Detection and Management, Integrated Communications Network, Closed Toll
Collection Facilities; and Roadway Lighting) and four contracts covering the subsystems
were awarded in August 1992, 18 months after the bids were opened, at an aggregated
contract amount of Y 106.59 million. Works commenced in late November 1992, with
an implementation schedule for 24 months except for the lighting component, which was
to be completed in 18 months. There was a two- to five-month delay in completion, and
the most delayed contract was completed in April 1995. The final payment of Y 111.45
million in aggregate was only marginally higher (4.5 percent) than the original aggregate
amount of the contracts on account of variation of work items. The contracts did not
provide for price escalation. All works were completed within the extended time for
completion granted under the contract. The reasons for the award of time extension were
mainly related to problems encountered during system  integration.  Overall, the
performance of the contractors involved was satisfactory.
23.   Since this was the first time that an E&M system for expressway operation was to
be installed in China, the preparation of design, bidding documents, evaluation and award
of bids took considerably longer time than originally assumed. The bids were called only
in October 1990, which was close to the originally scheduled target for the completion of
the BTTE, including E&M works. The evaluation of bids took about 18 months, because
of the unexpected complexities of technical details and procurement issues. Although the
delay in the completion of civil works on the last 34 km section of the BTTE warranted a
one-year extension of the loan/credit closing date, the subsequent two one-year
extensions were granted almost exclusively on account of the substantial delay in the
preparation and installation of the E&M component of the project.
24.   The supervision team included one foreign Senior Resident Engineer and two
local Deputy Senior Resident Engineers. More than 20 Chinese staff participated in the
technical supervision and contract administration, which were carried out from two
offices, one in Tianjin and the other one in Beijing. The supervision arrangements were
appropriate.
25.   Being the first integrated traffic operation and management system  for
expressways in China, there were, understandably, deficiencies in all three major areas of
implementation, such as contracting, supervision and the employer's administrative
functions. The separation of the E&M works into four subsystem contracts was done in
the interest of reducing the overall cost.  Although this objective was achieved,
difficulties emerged between the independent contractors in the coordination of
interrelated technical systems, especially during the systems-integration phase. Such
experience combined with the findings of a Bank-initiated study, financed from
Consultant Trust Funds, under which more recent E&M  contracting practices for
expressway traffic operations and management were reviewed, have helped formulate a
better-focused approach to the execution of traffic operations-related E&M works on toll
highways in China. Consequently, E&M works for tolling, traffic operation and



- 9 -
communication systems under more recent Bank-financed highway projects have been
contracted under one contract to a single firm or a joint venture, with the prime contractor
taking responsibility for coordinating the inputs of the joint-venture partners. Also, the
procurement process has been modified to follow a two-phased approach under a new set
of the Bank's standard documents.
26.   Environmental Protection. An environmental impact assessment for the BTTE
was carried out between September 1989 and August 1990 by personnel of a group of
local institutions experienced in environmental assessment. The evaluation focused on
the potential adverse impact of the Expressway on the atmosphere, noise levels, soils and
vegetation. The assessment identified no major environmental risks in any of these areas.
However, after completion of works, deficiencies were noted at some underpasses, where
the elevation of the underpass as constructed did not allow permanent solutions for
adequate drainage. BTTEUC has been gradually dealing with such situations, partly by
assuring that the accumulated water is pumped out expeditiously after heavy rains.
27.   In July 1995, a group, comprising the State Environmental Protection Bureau, the
Environmental Protection Office of MOC, the Environmental Protection Bureau of
Tianjin and the Environmental Protection Bureau of Beijing carried out a comprehensive
inspection of the BTTE with regard to environmental protection. The conclusion was
that (a) the noise levels on both sides of the expressway are within the required
environmental standards, (b) the tidying up of earth borrow pits used to obtain fill
material had been satisfactorily accomplished, and (c) the landscaping along the highway
is complete and pleasing. The group consented to the environmental acceptance of the
BTTE in a document titled "Environmental Protection of BTT Expressway." However, it
was pointed out in the document that with increased traffic the noise levels are expected
to rise and there will be a need for the regular monitoring of noise levels, and taking
appropriate measures to protect noise-sensitive zones. Also, more stringent measures will
be required for controlling vehicles carrying hazardous materials. The responsibility for
actions on these matters rests with BTTEUC.
28.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement.  The land and resettlement-related
information gathered during the preliminary design of the BTTE was subsequently
discussed with local governments at county, township and village levels, and provided
the baseline data for the land acquisition and resettlement. The local governments of the
two municipalities and Hebei Province had the responsibility for administering the land
acquisition and resettlement process according to national laws and national and
municipal/provincial regulations. Such regulations conformed to the Bank's guidelines
and requirements with respect to involuntary resettlement. The information on the area of
land and houses and attached structures was verified and corrected based on final design
data. Village representatives participated in the quantification and the overall assessment
process, which provided the basis for the compensation payments.
29.   Due to design variations, appreciation of property values and inflation, the
originally estimated cost of land acquisition and resettlement increased from the original



- 10-
estimate of Y 81.82 million to Y 235.39 million. The Bank's Resettlement Review
Mission held discussions with representatives of the two municipalities and the Hebei
Province in November/December 1994. The mission confirmed that the resettlement
actions, in general, were carried out satisfactorily and in line with Bank Group policies
and procedures. However, the mission noted that some of the affected people may have
experienced temporary difficulties in restoring their standard of living. Notwithstanding
this, the BTTE project has brought considerable benefits to the people through the major
investments made in the corridor of the Expressway.  Such investments, mainly
commercial enterprises, created many job opportunities and contributed to increased
income levels, which helped offset the adverse impact of the resettlement on those who
initially had been handicapped.
30.   Construction Costs. The SAR cost estimates for the expressway's civil works
and E&M supply and installation works was Y 890.60 million (Y 771.85 million and
Y 118.75 million, respectively), including physical and price contingencies. The final
cost based on certified payments to the contractors amounted to Y 1,479.0 million
(Y 1,367.55 million and Y 111.45 million, respectively), representing a cost increase of
about 66 percent in current prices, which resulted from cost overruns on civil works
contracts as there was a slight saving on the E&M mechanical works that was absorbed
by the higher cost of civil works. Of this amount, 58 percent was due to greater-than-
expected physical quantities and extra works carried out through variation orders issued
to the contractors and 42 percent was due to price escalation. In addition, as indicated in
para. 8, two connecting roads were constructed at both ends of the BTTE under local
financing at a cost of Y 196.13 million, and the two municipalities and Hebei Province
also financed civil works, which were related to the impact of the Expressway on the
adjacent secondary and tertiary road networks and other public facilities. The extent of
the associated expenses, which had not been taken into consideration at project appraisal,
were quite substantial and amounted to Y 243.00 million. This amount, together with
commonly considered cost items, such as land acquisition and resettlement, engineering
design and construction supervision, and some other minor items as listed in Table 2B of
Annex 1, increased the overall financial cost of construction of the BTTE to Y 2,221.95,
corresponding to a cost increase of about 139 percent over the SAR estimate of Y 928.04
million, in terms of current cost.
31.   Economic Evaluation. The ICR's economic evaluation is presented in Annex 1.
It shows an estimated ERR of 15.7 percent, compared to the SAR estimate of 14.5
percent. The reestimation was based on final cost of investment, revised shadow prices,
corridor traffic data and traffic projection based on actual split of traffic between the
existing arterial road and the new highway from 1990 to mid-1995, and revised traffic
forecasts from mid-1995 onward, and updated vehicle operation costs (VOCs). The
reestimated economic cost of the BTTE, in 1995 constant prices, is presented in Table 2A
of Annex 1. The evaluation took into consideration the phased opening of the various
sections of the BTTE to traffic. Although the SAR and ICR estimates of the ERR differ
only marginally, the cost and benefit interrelations have changed significantly. The
increase in investment cost has been offset by the substantially higher-than-expected



- 11 -
increase in corridor traffic, a large portion of which diverted to the BTTE. More
specifically: (a) the economic cost in the ICR, at December 1995 constant prices, is
about 116 percent higher than the SAR estimate, and (b)the 1995 Beijing-Tianjin-
Tanggu corridor traffic, compared to SAR traffic forecast, on one section quadrupled, on
two sections more than doubled and on the remaining two sections increased by about 60
percent above SAR forecast, and (c) the proportion of the corridor traffic that diverted to
the Expressway has been higher than assumed at project appraisal, except on the first
section of the BTTE southeast of Beijing and between Tianjin and Tanggu.
32.   The proportions of traffic that are diverting to and generated by the Expressway
are different to that anticipated in the SAR (para. 4 of Annex 1). The reasons for the
differences are difficult to identify, since the SAR projections were made with
insufficient data base for forecasting traffic growth and distribution between alternative
routes in a rapidly expanding urbanized environment with sustained high economic
growth. In addition, the development of the arterial road network was different to that
expected. Following the appraisal, a high-standard, all purpose ring road was built
around Tianjin City, and the section of the arterial road between Tianjin and the Tanggu
District was also upgraded. Actual traffic growth in the corridor has been much higher
than expected, and the rate of diversion to the BTTE has been similar to that expected,
except on the first (Beijing) and last (Tanggu) sections. Diversion at the Beijing end has
been lower than expected partly because entry and exit for trucks between the BTTE and
at the third and fourth Beijing ring roads are restricted by regulations. It has been low
over the Tianjin-Tanggu section because the existing arterial road provides a shorter route
between Tanggu and the eastern and central part of Tianjin city than the BTTE.
33.   Financial Evaluation. Based on the data (as of November 1996) provided by
BTTEUC, the financial analysis carried out indicates that the financial rate of return
(FRR) on the BTTE investment is estimated at 5.2 percent, as detailed in Table 6 of
Annex 1. This level of FRR indicates that the BTTE is expected to generate sufficient
revenues from tolls to cover not only maintenance and administrative expenses but also
all financial obligations, including the repayment of the Bank loan and the IDA credit.
34.   Tolling. The Development Credit Agreement stipulated that the level of tolls
charged on the BTTE should not exceed 30 percent of the financial VOC savings.
Following a preliminary analysis carried out by BTTEUC, toll rates were established in
January 1991 when the first 72 km section of the BTTE was opened for traffic. The toll
rates were revised in 1994 and are still in force. As detailed in paragraphs 16-18 of Annex
1, an approximating analysis was carried out to deternine the relationship between the
prevailing toll rates and the VOC savings for the BTTE. The conclusions of ICR's analysis
are as follows:
(a)  on the average for the Expressway, 1996 toll rates for vehicles in all
categories, except that for tractor-trailers, exceed 30 percent of the financial
VOC savings;



- 12-
(b)  on those sections of the Expressway where the travel distance is
substantially shorter than on the alternative road network, the 30 percent
VOC savings are close to or even higher than the toll rates for the various
categories of vehicles;
(c)  wherever there is no travel distance saving for the traffic using the
Expressway or it is not significant, the 30 percent VOC saving falls below
the toll rate, indicating that the user of the Expressway is likely to be
overcharged in relation to the benefits gained by using the Expressway;
(d)  a uniform, per-km-based toll rate is inequitable because of the high
sensitivity of the VOC savings to travel distance/time savings; and
(e)   a comprehensive origin and destination survey-based study would be
required for reaching more reliable conclusions regarding the determination
of a reasonable balance between toll charges and vehicle operating cost
savings.
35.   As recorded in para. 6 of the Agreed Minutes of Negations dated March 20, 1987,
the Chinese Delegation and the Bank Group team agreed that the expressway operating
organization's monitoring unit would update origin and destination matrix data for the
BTTE, and that a refinement of the vehicle operating cost would to be done jointly by
MOC and the Bank Group prior to the opening of the Expressway. Furthermore, Section
4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement stipulated that the VOC savings were to be
calculated in a manner agreed between the Borrower and the Association. Since these
conditionalities were not fully complied with during the implementation of the project, it
is recommended that MOC, BTTEUC and the Bank Group rectify this omission in the
near future in the interest of establishing a methodology for the determination of toll
rates, which could set a pattern for nationwide application.
Equipment Procurement
36.   Provisions were made under the project for the purchase of basic highway
maintenance equipment, such as trucks, loaders, motorgraders, asphalt and concrete
mixers, asphalt and milling machines, pavers and rollers. In addition, the list also
included patrol vehicles, heavy-duty tow trucks and ambulances needed for the operation
of the expressway and for clearing broken down vehicles and dealing with emergencies in
case of accidents. The budget for equipment acquisition under the project was $6.0
million, including physical and price contingencies.
37.   The original list of equipment, which was attached to the Minutes of Negotiations,
had to be revised substantially, partly because of the underestimate of the cost of
equipment acquisition.  Also, because of a restriction on importing vehicles, the
acquisition of some type of vehicles would have not been possible under the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Eventually, 14 types of highway maintenance and operations
equipment, comprising 48 units, were procured at a cost of $6.96 million.



- 13 -
38.   As stipulated in the loan agreement, about 75 percent of the equipment, in cost
terms, was to be procured through ICB procedures. However, some of the items to be
purchased were available from only a limited number of suppliers, and only a few units
were required at relatively low cost; the Bank waived the ICB requirement for some of
the items and agreed that about 65 percent of the total cost of purchase be done through
ICB and the rest through international and local shopping. The equipment procured is
regarded as appropriate in type, quality and number to meet the anticipated maintenance
and operations needs of the BTTE.
Road Management
39.   As indicated in the SAR, it was intended to set up a computerized road data bank
for the Beijing Municipality, although there was no elaboration on how it should be
pursued, and no funds were earmarked for this purpose under the project. Furthermore,
by the time the implementation of the project got under way, good progress had already
been made on the establishment of a Pavement Management System (PMS)-oriented road
data base, which was the forerunner of the PMS system designed by the Beijing Highway
Bureau. This system, which was well advanced by the end of 1988, was one of the pilot
systems that contributed to the development of the Chinese PMS in HSRI. For the above
reasons, it was not considered expedient to get involved with the Beijing Municipality's
road data bank development under the project.
40.   However, it was considered appropriate to formulate a PMS that would meet the
specific requirements of the BTTE in the framework of the BTTE's Management System.
An agreement to formulate a PMS for the BTTE was signed between BTTEUC and HSRI
in November 1991. During the system's preparation, a group of personnel involved
visited some of the eastern states of the United States, and the information gathered
regarding expressway operations was particularly useful for PMS's computer hardware
selection and software development. HSRI submitted the data system to BTTEUC for
testing at the end of 1992, and the system's development was completed in May 1993.
The cost of the assignment was $200,000, including expenses for hardware and software
needs, which was financed from the proceeds of the loan/credit.
41.   The PMS software has been installed in each of the three Expressway
Management Offices (Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin), and BTTEUC intends to establish a
computer linkup between the three offices and the Traffic Control Center. Independently
from this system, the PMS has been operational in the Beijing Municipality since the
early 1990s, covering 2,260 km of the national and municipal highways. A HSRI-
developed PMS is also operational in Tianjin Municipality and covers 1,665 km of the
network. The PMS being applied in Hebei Province covers 9,765 km of the network.
Studies
42.   Financing Highway Development. In recognition of the increasing financial
resource needs for the expansion, improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
highway network, it was considered appropriate to carry out a study to help identify



- 14-
alternative sources of financing for highway sector development in China during the last
decade of the century. In particular, the terms of reference stipulated that the study
should determine: (a) the financial needs of the road sector (in terms of recurrent and
capital cost), broken down by administrative classification of the network (i.e., national,
provincial and local) during the 1990s; (b) the required levels of user revenues;
(c) alternative tax instruments that could be applied, and their proportion of the total level
of revenues; and (d) a tax structure, for the various category of vehicle groups (cars,
buses, trucks of different sizes etc.).
43.   The study was carried out by HSRI during 1990 and 1991 under the guidance of
MOC and with the support of one foreign expert. Key members of the study team visited
Mexico and the United States during this period to examine highway financing practices
in these countries. The study report, released in June 1991, provided a comprehensive set
of information on the present systems of road financing and future financial needs. The
key conclusion and recommendation of the study was that the bulk of revenues for the
road sector should be raised through taxing fuel. However, traditionally, transport fuel
taxation has not been a revenue source in China, and when a few years earlier a proposal
was made for its introduction as an alternative revenue source, it was not endorsed by the
Government. Fuel taxation is regarded as a major policy issue in China, which would
require that the proposal for its acceptance be considered at the highest level of the
Government. In light of its rejection before, the concerned ministries of the Central
Govermment were reluctant to pursue this matter any further.
44.   The Bank Group, in light of the standoff at Central Government level regarding
the fuel taxation issue, and considering that highway financing is primarily a municipal/
provincial responsibility, decided to pursue the highway funding issue at the provincial
level under the Bank-financed Guangdong Provincial Highway Project. The final report
of the provincial highway finance study, completed in March 1995, identified 19
potential sources for financing highway-related expenditures, which subsequently were
narrowed to four new sources of financing options that are presently being pursued by the
Province: (a) issuing of stocks and bonds; (b) exploring possible overseas financing
windows for raising capital; (c) selling operational rights of existing toll facilities to
private investors; and (d) investigating build-operate-transfer arrangements for
expressway projects. The Province and the Bank is maintaining a dialogue on the
development of these alternative modes of financing.
45.   Local Bitumen. The locally produced bitumen in China was regarded to be of
inferior quality, particularly for the pavement of high-class highways. The study's main
objective was to carry out comprehensive testing of local bitumen produced in selected
refineries using crude oils of different characteristics to deterrnine whether, through
changes in refinery processes, the quality of local bitumen could be improved to the same
level as that of imported bitumen and, thereby, could lead to reduction of the quantity of
imported bitumen needed for the construction of high-class road pavements.



- 15 -
46.   The study was carried out jointly by HSRI of MOC and BTTEUC during
1987-91. The study provides comparison of the properties of domestic bitumen, obtained
primarily from heavy-crude oils in the refineries of Shanjiasi (Shandong Province),
Huanxingling (Liaoning Province) and Karamay (Xinjiang Autonomous Region), with
the properties of bitumen produced by refineries in Albania, Japan, Singapore and the
United Kingdom from various crude oil sources. Some field studies were also conducted
to compare the performance of asphalt pavements made with local versus imported
bitumen. The investigation of the feasibility of utilizing local bitumen for the BTT (in
part), Shenyang-Dalian (whole), and Shanghai-Jiadine (whole) expressways was also
completed.
47.   The report provides good coverage of the physical and mechanical properties of
the domestic and imported bitumen, and it affirms that such properties of the domestic
bitumen derived from heavy-crude oils compare well with that of imported bitumen. An
exception relates to durability; the asphalt layers made with domestic heavy-crude oil
bitumen appear to be somewhat less durable than asphalt layers made with imported
bitumen but possibly within acceptable limits. On the other hand, test results of domestic
bitumen derived from light crude oils have confirmed that such bitumen is, in many
respects, inferior to bitumen derived from heavy-crude oils, and its use in road pavements
would, normally, lead to accelerated pavement deterioration.
48.   The final report of the study, completed in June 1991, concluded that some
domestic bitumen could meet the requirements of high-class highway pavements and
dependence on imported bitumen could be reduced. However, the choice of suitable
crude oil and adjustment of processing techniques will be essential to the production of
satisfactory quantity and quality of the bitumen. Presently, only the three refineries
referred to above have such potential. Unfortunately, since 1991, the heaving crude oil
supplied from the Shengli Oil Field to the Shanjiasi refinery has been mixed with light
crude oil of high wax content, and, at present, the bitumen from this refinery does not
meet the specifications as a high-grade bitumen.
49.   There have been some beneficial impact of the study on a limited scale: (a) the
Huanxingling bitumen has been widely adopted for expressway pavements in north and
northeast China, including Liaoning Province and Beijing Municipality; and (b) the
Karamay bitumen is being used in Shanxi and Yunnan provinces and Xinjiang
Autonomous Region, although the use is not yet widespread due to transportation
constraints. Furthermore, MOC has assured the Bank Group that efforts are continuing to
introduce new technologies to expand the use of local bitumen for high-class highway
pavements.
50.   As a whole, the local bitumen production is still far from meeting the needs of
high-class highway construction in China, either in quantity or in quality. Therefore, it
will be necessary to continue to import a considerably large quantity of bitumen. Any
major impact through the production of local, high-quality bitumen in greater quantity at
a competitive price would require substantial efforts and investment, and the major



- 16-
obstacles to achieving such objectives are: (a) the refineries using heavy crude oils, a
prerequisite for higher-grade bitumen production, are located in relatively remote areas of
the country (Liaoning Province and Xinjiang Autonomous Region), and high
transportation cost to most locations in China increases price levels to that of imported
bitumen; (b) the transportation systems and methods for transporting liquid bitumen in
bulk are not in use, and supply time is unreliable; (c) producing bitumen as a well-
controlled derivate, and not as a by-product of the refinery process, is costly and it
requires the reduction of production quantities of some more profitable derivates, such as
gasoline and diesel fuel.
51.   The Bank Group in its comments on the study highlighted the significance of
utilizing domestic natural resources, achieving foreign exchange savings and extending
the life of road pavements. Such benefits could be achieved through the production of
improved-quality  local bitumen.   The Bank Group suggested setting up an
interministerial committee to formulate a plan of action for addressing the multiplicity of
issues involved in improving local bitumen production, transportation and marketing.
However, there has been no indication that such initiative was pursued by MOC at such a
level, neither has been follow-up action taken by the Bank Group.
52.   Organization of Expressway Operation and Maintenance. At the time of
formulating the project, there was no experience in operating and maintaining tolled
expressways in China. The primary objective of the study was to identify and then
establish a suitable organizational structure for administering the BTTE. This objective
was pursued through studying the organization patterns of corporations in countries with
extensive networks of tolled highways, and blend such practices with local requirements
and regulations. The study was completed satisfactorily and a report titled "A Research
Report on the Organization and Management of BTT Expressway" was issued in October
1991. By that time, the implementation-related organization structure of BTTEUC was
already in place. Therefore, the report covered mainly the management of the operational
aspects of the BTTE, including: (a) the organizational structure and delineation of
management responsibilities; (b) tolling strategy and determination of toll levels;
(c) financial management; and (d) administrative procedures and regulations. After
reviewing the report, both MOC and the Bank Group considered that the report's
recommendation on staffing was excessive, which view was accepted by BTTEUC. A
supplementary report was released in May 1992 with a revised organizational structure
and staffing for the Corporation.
53.   The study was an important undertaking for formulating the structure and
functions of BTTEUC.  The Corporation established for the implementation and
operation of the BTTE is representative of a corporate body under the recently promoted
economic management system in China. Such an arrangement is a breakaway from the
traditional administration pattern and the strict region/province separating practices under
the planned economic system of the country. BTTEUC, after initial difficulties, managed
the implementation of the BTTE reasonably well, and is well prepared for administering
the operation and maintenance of the Expressway.



- 17-
Staff Training Program
54.   As outlined in the SAR, the objectives of the staff training program were to:
(a) provide training equipment and material, such as audiovisual training aids and
laboratory, computer and photogrammetry equipment and technical literature, ($85,000);
(b) arrange visits of foreign academic experts to lectures on selected topics to municipal/
provincial institutes in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei on selected technical topics (six visits,
$30,000); and (c) organize short- and medium-term training courses and study tours for
staff of entities associated with the project to cover the following topics: transport
planning, transport economics, soils and materials engineering, highway maintenance and
equipment management, construction management and supervision, new construction
materials and technology, financial management and accounting and technical
interpreting (360 person-months, $445,000). The program was scheduled to commence
in November 1987 and be completed by June 1992.
55.   The training program implemented comprised training courses and study tours
abroad in Australia, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Japan and the United States.
A total of 42 persons participated in the program, involving about 140 person-months at an
overall cost of $800,000, i.e., $5,700/person-month. The program covered the following
topics: administration system for the operation and maintenance of expressways, scope of
E&M works for traffic operations (tolling, telecommunication and traffic surveillance
systems), maintenance management for roads and bridges, soft-soil treatment for highway
embankments, data base for expressway performance monitoring, preappraisal and
postevaluation of highway projects and financial management and accounting. The first
training course was conducted in July 1990 and the last one in November 1994. In addition
to the above listed program, the training of about 450 local supervision personnel in
construction supervision and contract management was undertaken during December 1988
and March 1989. Such training was carried out by the foreign consulting firm contracted to
provide supervision services, and the cost associated with this program was covered under
the consultant services contract. There were also extensive on-the-job training programs for
local supervisors during the various phases of the construction of the BTTE.
56.   The training program as executed differed from that originally planned, for various
reasons: (a) loan/credit proceeds were not used for acquiring training tools because such
materials and equipment became available on the local market and were well within the
means of the institutions involved to purchase them with local funds (b) the training
program was delayed and some groups, unfortunately, missed the opportune time for
training, such as English interpreters, despite the recognition of its benefits; (c) the original
training plan lacked components for expressway operation, management and service,
which were added as important areas of training; (d) some training topics, such as
transport planning and transport, were dropped on consideration of having lower priority
than some others; (e) contrary to the expectation that some courses would be conducted in
China, almost all were organized abroad, which added travel costs, and used consultants for
providing training services and organizing and facilitating study tours. In some instances,
courses were arranged through state road authorities at relatively low cost.



- 18-
57.  It is considered that the areas of training were well chosen, and provided the staff as
well as the institutions involved with both immediate and long-term benefits. The training
group members were professional staff with technical or financial management
background. On the whole, the program exposed the participants to advanced technologies
abroad, which were pertinent to the priority needs of the executing agencies. The study
tours abroad widened the vision of the participants and enhanced their knowledge.
Despite the relatively high person-month costs, which point to the need to explore more
efficient ways to conduct training courses, the training program under the project can be
regarded as highly successful. Notwithstanding this, less costly training programs with a
mix of training abroad balanced with courses/seminars organized through local institutions
with selective involvement of foreign experts in areas where local expertise could be a good
alternative approach in the future, as this would provide opportunity for training more staff
resulting in even greater benefits to the institutions.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
58.   The major factors that adversely affected the implementation of the BTTE were:
(a) the poor quality of the engineering design and technical specifications; (b) the
executing agencies, the contractors and supervision staff had no previous experience in
implementing highway projects of similar magnitude, complexity and technical
requirements, and also lacked contracting practices under international contracting
conditionalities; (c) poor performance of the contractors. The negative effects of such
shortcomings were particularly apparent and detrimental to the quality of works in the
initial phase of implementation and also contributed to the implementation delays.
According to the SAR schedule, the project was expected to be completed by mid-1992
with a closing date of the loan and credit on December 31, 1992. However, the project
was completed only in mid-1995, and the loan/credit was closed only on December 31,
1995, three years later than originally expected.
59.   The implementation of the project was delayed for a number of reasons.
Although a 72 km section, i.e. 50 percent of the BTTE, was completed, more or less, on
time, the rest of the civil works proceeded more slowly mainly because of frequent design
changes, requiring the issuance of variation orders, and some major deviations from the
original concept of the design, such as the construction of a major viaduct near Tianjin
instead of an earth embankment. There was also a transfer of resources from other
sections of the BTTE to the Beijing-Tianjin segment in mid-1990 to ensure the opening
of that section for the Asian Games. Such regrouping of the labor force slowed the
completion of civil works, particular of the Tianjin-Tanggu section of the BTTE. Thus,
the civil works of the BTTE were completed fully only in September 1993, although
some sections of the expressway beyond the first 72 km section had been opened to
traffic earlier (para. 15). However, the delay in the completion of the BTTE and the
project, as a whole, was mainly caused by the protracted preparation of design for, and
the slow procurement of, the E&M supply and installation works, covering tolling,
telecommunications, traffic monitoring and lighting systems for the BTTE.  The



- 19 -
execution of this component commenced only in November 1992 and was completed in
April 1995.
60.   The Bank Group's recognition at the end of 1988 of the high risk of proceeding
with the project without insisting on full compliance with contract conditionalities paid
off, and there was a gradual but substantive improvement in contract management and
quality control by the construction supervision units.  Although quality problems
emerged through out, the effectiveness of supervision has improved within the constraints
of the ability and preparedness of the employers, contractors and construction supervision
units, and from 1989 onward an acceptable modus operandi emerged in the course of the
execution of the BTTE. Overall, considering that the principles of international contract
administration were hardly known before, and that the BTTE was the first high-class
highway project in China, the implementation of the civil works, despite its
shortcomings, has been a commendable achievement, and it provided an excellent
opportunity for acquiring technological and managerial experience, even if some price
had to be paid for the learning process. Also, in retrospect, the contracting periods of 30-
36 months for civil works have been too tight on account of the poor sub-soil conditions
along several section of the Expressway alignment, over which the embankments
constructed required a minimum of 12 months to settle. Regarding the E&M component
of the BTTE, it could be argued that a much earlier start on the preparation of could have
preempted the excessive implementation delay of the BTTE and the project as a whole.
In this context, it is important to note that this was the first time that such kind of E&M
works had been undertaken in China. Such a novelty, combined with the overall
management requirements for the implementation of the BTTE civil works, to which a
higher priority had been given, understandably led to the delay encountered in the
completion of the E&M component.
61.   Two of the minor components of the projects, such as procurement of
maintenance equipment and staff training, were executed with some modifications,
without deviating from the original objectives of these components. The road data base
component for the Beijing Municipality road network was substituted with a PMS
component for the BTTE because the road data base and PMS development were already
satisfactorily addressed by the Municipality itself. The execution of the three studies on
highway financing, local bitumen usage and the development of a management system
for the BTTE proceeded according to their respective terms of reference. However, the
first two studies have had only limited impact on the policy issues covered by the studies.
The management system for the BTTE is in place and functions satisfactorily.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
62.   The physical condition of the BTTE has shown no signs of adverse deterioration
since it has been in service, and BTTEUC is well organized and equipped to meet the
anticipated routine maintenance requirements of the BTTE. The increase in corridor
traffic is expected to continue in line with the trend of the economic development in the
influence area of the Expressway. There is no discernible risk to steady growth in toll



- 20 -
revenues, and the necessary funding for maintenance, loan repayment, and, thus,
achieving the overall development objectives of the project seems to be well assured.
63.   The maintenance and operation equipment fleet acquired under the project should
provide adequate long-term service, since operators have been trained, sufficient stock of
essential spares have been purchased and maintenance facilities have been provided along
the BTTE.
64.   The PMS, as an integral part of the Management System  for BTTE, is
functioning, and represents an important tool for maintenance decisions. It is expected
that the system with regularly collected input data will be operating satisfactorily, and the
output information of the system will be used for maintenance decisions in terms of the
timing and the nature of the technical solutions.
65.   The information from the staff training program, despite the involvement of a
relatively small proportion of staff, has filtered through the organizations involved and
helped in the formulation of administrative and technical decisions that are reflected in
the operation of the BTTE. The effect of the training has also benefited the Beijing and
Tianjin municipalities and Hebei Province, as well as MOC, beyond the strictly BTTE-
oriented impact of the program.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
66.   The project was consistent with the sectoral investment priority of the Beijing and
Tianjin Municipalities and Hebei Province, the development objectives of the Central
Governnent and the country assistance strategy of the Bank Group. The identification of
the components, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the project were satisfactory.
Although, partly through hindsight, the following weaknesses have been noted:
(a)   It could be argued that the Bank Group could have been more alert to the
quality of design and technical specifications. However, since a review of
the design documentation prepared by design institutions was checked by
foreign consultants engaged under bilateral aid, it is understandable that
Bank Group staff felt assured that the risk of design deficiencies had been
substantially reduced. Less-than-satisfactory engineering design was not
an isolated case, and the Bank Group had similar experience with some
other Bank-Group-financed highway projects in China. Since the Bank
has no resources to undertake in-depth review of designs and technical
specifications, from 1991 onward the Bank Group mobilized Consultant
Trust Funds and involved consultants in the preparation phase of the
engineering design and technical specifications, working jointly with local
design institutions. Such an approach was aimed at improving the quality
of design documentation through participation in the design process, rather
than reviewing already completed packages, in which case there had been
a reluctance to introduce changes once the documentation had been
completed. Recently, the Bank Group achieved the same objective



- 21 -
through including in project preparation mission teams a highway design
specialist to scrutinize the engineering design and technical specifications.
(b)   The Bank Group's supervision efforts were adequate and commensurate
with the project's size and complexity. In critical stages, such as in late
1988 and early 1989, when it was identified that contractors were not
complying with the conditions of the contracts, decisive and firm actions
were taken by the Bank Group. An agreement was negotiated with MOC
and BTTEUC, which amounted to an informal suspension of
disbursements until such time as all previously constructed defective
works had been corrected and the Office of the Engineer's Representative
had certified that the quality of civil works had been restored to meet the
technical specifications. This measure helped ensure that a firm discipline
was established for the acceptance of future works. The ongoing works
were regularly supervised by the Bank Group, particularly in the early
phases of the implementation. Also, because of the BTTE's proximity to
Beijing, short but frequent visits to the site and consultations between
Bank Group missions and MOC/ BTTEUC took place, which do not show
up in Bank Group records as formal missions.
(c)   The Bank Group's performance in the preparation, implementation and
follow-up of the studies has been mixed:
The Highway Finance Study might have benefited from extensive
prediscussions with the Ministry of Finance and MOC in the Central
Government to ensure that the study was regarded by the Chinese
Government as a much-needed and timely undertaking within the
country's overall transport sector strategy. While the terms of reference
were reasonably clear regarding the study's objectives, it received only
cursory attention from the Borrower during the progress of the study and
no formal comments were given on the study's finding by any of the
ministries of the Central Government. The Bank Group's discussions with
HSRI regarding the study's follow-up remained inconclusive, and the
Bank Group was unable to enter into a meaningful dialogue with the
ministries of the Central Government on a strategy for the further handling
of the key issues and recommendations presented in the study's final
report. In light of the impasse, the Bank Group decided to pursue many of
the same objectives of the study but narrowed the scope of the new study
to one province under the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project (para.
44).
The Local Bitumen Study arrived to a more definite conclusion, and the
study's findings had some impact on the increased though still very
limited use of good-quality local bitumen for high-class road pavements.
Nevertheless, the study established the potential for wider use of bitumen



- 22 -
from local refineries capable of producing bitumen with properties
comparable to imported bitumen. Although MOC has been promoting the
wider use of local bitumen for high-class highway pavements, the study's
recommendations for more radical measures have not been pursued in a
resolute manner and in accord with the oil refinery and transport industries
for establishing consistent production quality and efficient mode of
transportation for high-grade bitumen. Similarly, the Bank Group has not
continued dialogue with the Central Government in the interest of
encouraging further action on this matter.
The evolution of the Organization of Expressway Operation and
Maintenance for the BTTE had limited Bank Group participation and
input. It has evolved from the experience gained by BTTEUC's study
tours abroad and the Corporation's own initiatives to adjust such
experience to local conditions.   However, the organization  and
management study report was reviewed by the Bank Group, and its
comments were taken into account in the supplementary report (para. 52).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
67.   Formally, MOC was the designated Executing Agency for the project. However,
MOC, structurally and functionally, as a line ministry, was not suited for such role, and
the executive agency functions were delegated to BTTEUC, which was specifically
established for this purpose. The Corporation represented the three beneficiaries, Beijing
and Tianjin Municipalities and Hebei Province, and assumed the repayment obligations
of the loan and credit. However, MOC retained the functions of the Engineer and the
Engineer's Representative, thus ensuring, to some degree, the independence of the
construction supervision organization.
68.   BTTEUC was a first-time de-facto executing agency for a Bank Group-financed
project and this was a notable element in the way the project was administered,
particularly in the early phases of implementation. BTTEUC was not well prepared for
the administrative requirements associated with Bank Group borrowing or for the
management of major contracts based on ICB conditionalities. The Corporation's role
was further complicated by the fact that most contracting units under the contracts, and
the bulk of the supervision staff, belonged to Beijing and Tianjin Municipalities and
Hebei Province. In the beginning, it was common for the employers and contractors to
have the tendency to communicate directly without the involvement of the joint local/
foreign supervision team and this practice, which conflicted with FIDIC conditions of
contract, took quite some time to overcome. The performance of BTTEUC showed
impressive improvement as the implementation of the project proceeded. It became a
well-organized institution, capable of exercising prudent judgment in critical situations.
It recognized the importance of ensuring the quality of work, and became a supporter of
the independence of the supervision units. It also recognized the limitations of the
contractors, and rather than demanding unrealistic deadlines for completion, gave priority



- 23 -
to ensuring that the quality requirements were complied with. In the case of quality
defects, BTTEUC supported the supervision to get defective works redone as a condition
for processing of progress payments. MOC's role was also supportive in this regard.
While it would be unrealistic to assume that all elements of the works on the BTTE were
executed without quality shortfalls, the BTTE may be regarded as one of the best major
new highways constructed in China to date. BTTEUC also demonstrated initiative and
sound judgment in handling the implementation of the other components of the project.
The training programs were well selected and organized, and considerable care was taken
to choose the right equipment for the maintenance and operation of the BTTE. BTTEUC
also made commendable efforts in setting up an organization, which is expected to ensure
the efficient operation of the BTTE.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
69.   Despite the initial difficulties and some setbacks encountered during the
implementation of civil works, the implementation of the project is regarded as
satisfactory.  The developmental objectives of the project were achieved and are
considered sustainable without perceptible elements of risk. The stream of benefits is
expected to be maintained, or even increase, because of the favorable prospect for
continued strong economic activity in the influence area of the BTTE, which would
translate into continued traffic growth in the corridor, with a high percentage of additional
traffic making use of the expressway.
70.   Overall, the contractors' performance was uneven. After very disappointingly
poor performance the contractors' performance improved but constant vigilance of the
supervision staff was required to mitigate quality defects, which, even so, showed up
rather frequently throughout implementation of the project. The contractors' shortfalls
were attributable to unfamiliarity with contracting requirements to which they had not
been previously exposed, lack of suitable equipment fleet for the type of works and
technical requirements, serious and recurrent cash flow problems, and inexperience in
managing and organizing the construction of high-class highways. The contractors'
relatively poor performance placed an added burden on the construction supervision
teams, which, particularly in the beginning, were handicapped by a lack of experience
with supervision procedures under international contract conditionalities. Credit is due to
the foreign supervising engineers attached to the joint local/foreign supervision team, not
only for their direct involvement in the field in quality control, but also for their extensive
formal and on-the-job training efforts through which they increased the technical skills of
the local supervisors in a relatively short time.
71.   The outcome on sectoral development initiatives under the project through the
three studies has been marginal. The Highway Finance Study had some inconsistencies
that required several sessions of discussions with Bank Group staff.  But more
importantly, there was neither provision nor willingness for its follow-up to bring the
study's finding to a definite conclusion. The Local Bitumen study came up with correct
technical conclusions but it was less articulate in outlining a definite line of actions for



- 24 -
pursuing the issues. It was, primarily, up to Borrower to take the initiative and pursue the
setting up of an interministerial coordinating committee for formulating a plan of action
for expanding the utilization of high-quality bitumen, the production of which on a
broader scale was found to be viable by the study. The Expressway Operation and
Maintenance Study achieved its objective by providing BTTEUC with sufficient
information for setting up the management organizations for the BTTE.
72.   The level of technology transfer through training is not easy to measure due to a
lack of well-defined baseline parameters. The training courses and study tours were well
selected and provided a satisfactory level of exposure to new concepts and incentives for
adopting them selectively in the Chinese environment. However, the program involved
fewer trainees than it could have had with a better mix of training abroad and locally
organized courses/seminars, involving local institutions and a well-balanced participation
of local and foreign experts, although the cost per trainee was lower than under recent
Bank-financed highway projects. The technology transfer through modem equipment for
the operation and maintenance of the BTTE should achieve its objectives and ensure that
the new facilities will be efficiently operated and adequately maintained.
73.   Overall, the project was implemented within the terms of the development credit
and loan agreements, and in substantial compliance with the Bank's procedural
requirements. Credit/loan proceeds were not extended to any component of the project
without obtaining prior clearance from the Bank Group.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
74.   BTTEUC is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the BTTE. Interim
manuals for the management and maintenance of tolling, traffic surveillance and
integrated communication systems of the BTTE were issued in October 1995. The PMS
for the BTTE, developed under the project (para. 40), is also operational and provides the
basis for the scheduling of the periodic and routine maintenance activities for the BTTE.
BTTEUC is in the process of consolidating administrative and technical regulations,
which are expected to be issued during 1997 as an Operations Manual for the BTTE.
Also, BTTEUC has undertaken to submit to the Bank an operation report annually and a
postevaluation of economic benefits every three years.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
75.   Some of the more critical shortfalls noted in connection with the implementation
of the project, which have also been encountered on recently completed and still ongoing
Bank-financed projects, comprise the following:
(a)   The design and technical specification deficiencies in the technical
documentation for the BTTE highlighted the need for the consolidation of
design and technical specification standards for the construction of high-
class highways in China. This is a topic that had been frequently raised
with MOC but without reaching an understanding on proceeding with the



- 25 -
task. The Bank Group should take up this matter with the Central
Government in the interest of formulating a viable solution for the
development of national design standards and technical specifications,
possibly involving local highway design institutions to be assisted by
foreign experts as required.
(b)   The late start and the slow progress made on the preparation of the E&M
works  for  the  BTTE,  covering  tolling,  traffic  monitoring,
telecommunication and lighting systems related E&M works added about
two years to the implementation period of the project.  Substantial
implementation delays for the same reason have been experienced under
other Bank-financed highway projects.  In the future, E&M  design
documentation should be an integral part of the overall design
documentation for major highways, and the Central Government and the
Bank Group should ensure that the design and technical specifications for
the E&M works are ready at the same time as the design and technical
specifications for the civil works contracts of the highway.
(c)   The fact that the contractors and almost all of the supervision staff were
affiliated with the same transport divisions within the Beijing and Tianjin
municipalities and Hebei Province created difficulties in adhering to the
principles of the general conditions of contract, according to which the
employer, supervision and contractor should each be an entirely separate
and independent entity. In the initial phase of the implementation the
separate roles and responsibilities of the three parties were not well
understood, which, apparently, led to confusion and conflicts.  This
problem was gradually overcome to an acceptable degree as the
implementation of the project proceeded, but it was not fully eliminated.
Similar conflicts have also emerged under other Bank-financed projects.
While over the years the financial independence of the contracting entities
has evolved extensively, the staffing of the supervision units are still
predominantly provided from local highway administration units with only
a limited level of independence from the employer and local governments.
It is therefore imperative that the creation of an independent construction
supervision industry be pursued as a matter of high priority, which could
initially provide supervision services in joint ventures with foreign
consulting firms, and eventually on its own. An initiative along these lines
has already been taken under the Second Henan Provincial Highway
Project, the outcome of which should be monitored, and if found
satisfactory, be followed up expeditiously by the Central Government and
the Bank Group.
(d)   It appears that the preparation of the Highway Finance Study was deficient
and lacked sufficient consultation with the Borrower. Furthermore, only
limited efforts were made by the Borrower and the Bank Group to follow



- 26 -
up on the recommendations of the Highway Finance and the Local
Bitumen studies. It has been noted that preparation and follow-up of
studies are frequently deficient, and Bank Group's guidance to ongoing
studies have been often inadequate. Since in most cases studies are
included in the projects at the Bank Group's initiative, the Bank Group
should put much more effort into identifying the expediency and focus of
the studies, and the extent of the borrower's interest in the subject through
more substantive consultation with the borrowers and beneficiaries of the
loan/credit in the project preparatory phase. Furthermore, it is seldom that
sufficient provision is built into the studies regarding a follow-up
mechanism to the likely implementation phase of the studies'
recommendations. The above observations are pertinent to the highway
finance and local bitumen studies carried out under the project.



- 27 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             X
Sector policies                                      X
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development                            X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender issues                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives                             X
Public sector management                                                           X
Private sector development                                                         X
B. Project Sustainability                Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                                    X
Preparation assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                         X
Supervision                                                       X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                      X
Implementation                                                   X
Covenant compliance                                              X
Operation (if applicable)                                        X
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
x



-28 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title                           Purpose                approval Status
Preceding operation
1.   Highway Project                       provincial road network    FY85   completed
Ln. 2539-CHA/Cr. 1954-CHA             expansion/improvement
Following operations
1.   Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project     see footnote La         FY88   completed
Ln. 2952-CHA
2.   Sichuan Provincial Highway Project     see footnote LA         FY88   completed
Ln. 295 1-CHA/Cr. 1917-CHA
3.   Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project    see footnote LA          FY89   completed
Cr. 1984-CHA
4.   Shandong Provincial Highway Project    see footnote La         FY89   ongoing
Ln. 3073-CHA/Cr. 2025-CHA
5.   Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project   see footnote La         FY91   completed
Ln. 3316-CHA/Cr. 2226-CHA
6.   Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project    see footnote LA         FY92   ongoing
Ln. 3471-CHA
7.   Henan Provincial Highway Project       see footnote la         FY93   ongoing
Ln. 3531-CHA
8.   Guangdong Provincial Highway Project   see footnote LA         FY93   ongoing
Ln. 3530-CHA
9.   Fujian Provincial Highway Project      see footnote da         FY94   ongoing
Ln. 3681-CHA
10.  Hebei/Henan National Highway Project   see footnote La         FY94   ongoing
Ln. 3748-CHA
11.  Xinjiang Highway Project               see footnote La         FY95   ongoing
Ln. 3787-CHA
12.  Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project     see footnote La          FY96   ongoing
Ln. 3929-CHA
13.  Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project see footnote La      FY96   ongoing
Ln. 3986-CHA
14.  Second Henan Provincial Highway Project  see footnote La       FY96   ongoing
Ln. 4027-CHA
15.  Second Xinjiang Highway Project       see footnote La          FY97   ongoing
Ln. 3643-CHA
16.  Second National Highway Project        see footnote La         FY97   ongoing
Ln. 3654-CHA
Za These highway projects, typically, have had the following components: (a) construction of a major
highway; (b) improvement of provincial roads; (c) procurement of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) institutional development components, such as RDB and PMS programs, staff training and selected
subsector-oriented studies.



- 29 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                  Date planned              Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  N/A                      06/84
Preparation                                                 N/A                      03/85
Appraisal                                                   10/86                    10/86
Negotiations                                                03/87                    03/87
Board presentation                                          04/87                  05/12/87
Signing                                                    07/87                   09/14/87
Effectiveness                                               09/87                   12/08/87
Project completion                                         06/92                     04/95
Loan closing                                                12/92                   12/31/95
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimate          18.00   50.00   95.00  130.00  150.00
Actual                      13.90   26.15   72.79   90.14  114.69  137.33  148.09  151.40  158.53
Actual as %of estimate      77.21   52.30   76.62   69.34   76.46   91.55   98.73  100.93  105.69
Yearly distribution in %     8.77   16.49   45.91   56.86   72.35   86.62   93.41   95.50  100.00
Date of final disbursement                                                         January 26, 1996



- 30 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated               Actual
Start  Complete        Start   Complete
1.  Expressway Construction             Sep-86   Oct-90        Dec-87   Sept-93
2.  E & M Supply and Installation         -        -           Nov-92   Apr-95
3.  Expressway Maintenance, Operation and  Feb-88   Nov-89     May-92   May-95
Monitoring Equipment
4.  Consulting Services                 Sep-87   Jan-90        Jan-88   Jun-95
5.  Studies                             Oct-87   Jun-91        Jul-90   Jun-92
6.  Staff Training                      Oct-87   Jun-92        Jul-90   Nov-94
7.  PMS for BTTE                        Oct-87   Aug-90        Nov-91   Nov-93
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Length (km)            Traffic (1995 ADT)
Estimated   Actual       Estimated    Actual
Expressway Construction
Section 1: Beijing-Majuqiao      14.0      14.0           5,850     13,100
Section 2: Majuqiao-Nanying     28.0       28.0           4,150     12,900
Section 3: Nanying-Yangcun      30.2       30.2           4,150     11,250
Section 4: Yangcun-Tianjin      36.7       36.7           6,100      9,700
Section 5: Tianjin-Tanggu       33.8       33.8           7,250      5,850
Total                    142.7      142.7
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Studies on Financing Highway Development, Local Bitumen and Organization
for Expressway Operation and Maintenance were included in the Project. The first two
were carried out by the Highway Scientific Research Institute of MOC and the latter by
BTTEUC. The overall cost of the studies was Y 1.42 million, about evenly shared
between the three studies.
The objectives of the studies, in general, have been achieved. However, there was
a lack of effort both on the part of the Borrower and the Bank Group to follow up on the
findings and recommendations of the highway finance and local bitumen studies. The
assessment of the implementation of the studies is presented in paras. 42-51 of Part I of
the ICR.



- 31 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                           Local  Foreign   Total           Local  Foreign   Total
Civil Works
a. BTTE                        81.79   93.88   175.68           151.00  172.78  323.78
b. Two Conn. Roads to BTTE       -       -       -               26.56    14.30   40.86
E&M Works                       5.41   21.62   27.03              4.06    16.20   20.26
Construction Supervision        0.00    4.49    4.49              4.35    4.50     8.85
Equipment                       0.00    5.00    5.00              0.00    6.96    6.96
Staff Training                  0.00    0.81    0.81              0.00    0.80    0.80
Studies                         0.27    0.27    0.54              0.28    0.10    0.38
Road Panning                    0.00    0.20    0.20              0.00    0.20    0.20
Base Cost                    87.47  126.27  213.74           186.25  215.84  402.09
Physical Contingencies          8.75   12.63   21.37              -        -       -
Price Contingencies             7.48   11.08   18.56
Total Contingencies          16.23   23.71   39.93              -       -       -
Land Acquisition               22.11    0.00   22.11             63.08    0.00   63.08
Total Project Cost          125.81   149.98  275.79          249.33  215.84  465.17
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
(Y million)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                           Local  Foreign   Total           Local  Foreign   Total
Civil Works
a. BTTE                        302.64  347.36  650.00            724.80  642.75 1,367.55
b. Two Conn. Roads to BTTE        -       -       -              127.49   68.64   196.13
E & M Works                     20.00   80.00   100.00            22.28    89.17   111.45
Construction Supervision         0.00    16.60   16.60            20.87    16.65   37.81
Equipment                        0.00   18.50   18.50              0.00   25.97   25.97
Staff Training                   0.00    3.00    3.00              0.00    2.99    2.99
Studies                          1.00    1.00    2.00              1.04    0.38     1.42
Road Panning                     0.00    0.74    0.74              0.00    0.75    0.75
Base Cost                    323.64  467.20  790.84           896.48  847.20 1,743.68
Physical Contingencies          32.36   46.72   79.08              -       -        -
Price Contingencies             27.68   41.00   68.67
Total Contingencies           60.04   87.72  147.76             -        -       -
Land Acquisition                81.82    0.00   81.82            235.39    0.00  235.39
Total Project Cost           465.50  554.92 1,020.42         1,131.87  847.20 1,979.07



- 32 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Source                        Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA                                125.0                     133.5
IBRD                                25.0                      25.0
Government                         125.8                     306.7
Total                           275.8                     465.2
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Y million)
Costs La Benefits Lb NPV k ERR (%)
The ICR
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway   3,274.71    209.56    1,109.70  15.7
The SAR
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway   1,387.59   50.45       n.a.     14.5
la December 1995 prices.
Lb First-year benefits.
k Discount rate = 12 percent.



- 33 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agree-            Covenant          Original Revised
ment      Section class(es)   Status Date    Date     Description of Covenant                Comments
Loan      2.02(b)     5        C                      Open and maintain a Special Account in
dollars in a bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank
3.01(a)     5       C                      Commitment to project objectives, meeting
obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement
3.01(b)    10       C                      Adhering to Implementation Program  set
forth in Schedule 4
3.02      10       C                      Commitment to comply with Schedule 3 of
the Development Credit Agreement
3.03(a)     5       C                      The Borrower to  enter into  a Project
(b)                                      Implementation  Credit  Agreement  with
Beijing Municipalit), Tianjin Municipality
and Hebei Province, acceptable to the Bank
4.01 (a)    I        C                     Maintaining adequate financial recording and
(b) (c)                                    meeting auditing reporting requirements
Project    4.02 (a)   5        C                      Establish  and  maintain  an  Expressway
Operating Organization (EOO)
4.02 (b)    9        C                     Within EOO establish and maintain a unit for
monitoring toll rates, traffic flow, traffic
diversion and vehicle axle loads
4.03      9        CP                     Toll rates charged not to exceed 30% of the Partially fulfilled
vehicle operating cost saving for the
Expressway
4.04      13       C                      Borrower to ensure that connecting roads to
the Expressway shall be open to traffic upon
the completion of Expressway
2.05        7        C                     Carry out resettlement actions as agreed
Status:  C     -  Complied with
CD    -  Compliance after delay
NC    -  Not complied with
SOON -  Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP    -  Complied with partially
NYD   -  Not yet due
Covenant Class:
I   -  Accounts/audit
2   -  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3   -  Flow and utilization of Project funds
4   -  Counterpart funding
5   -  Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6   -  Environmental covenants
7   -  Involuntary resettlement
8   -  Indigenous people
9   -  Monitoring,, review and reporting
10   -  Implementation
11   -  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12   -  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13   -  Other



- 34 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY           1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997 Total
Preappraisal  24.3                                                                          24.3
Appraisal           5.2  19.6                                                               24.8
Negotiations             17.9                                                               17.9
Supervision               4.4   5.1  14.5   9.9   9.4   5.7   5.2   3.6   9.9   8.2         75.9
Completion                                                                      11.9   6.8  18.7
Total la   24.3   5.2  41.9   5.1  14.5   9.9   9.4   5.7   5.2   3.6   9.9  20.1   6.8 161.6
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Number  Days    Specialized   Implemen-   Develop-
Stage of Project    Month/     of       in    staff skills La   tation       ment       Types of
Cycle               year    persons   field   represented      status Ll    objectives  problems LZ
Identification     02/85        -        -       EN,EC
Preparation         06/85      3        10      PO,EC,FA
Preappraisal       08/85       6        12       EN,EC
Appraisal           10/86      4        5        EN,EC
Negotiation         03/87      6         -      EN,EC,PO
LC,DO,RA
Board approval     05/87        -
Signing            09/87
Effective           12/87       -        -          -
Supervision 1       10/88      2        5        EN,TS            2            1
Supervision 2      08/89        1       5          EN             2            1
Supervision 3       12/89       1       5          EN             2            1
Supervision 4      07/90        1       5          EN             2            1
Supervision 5       11/90       1       5          EN             2
Supervision 6       11/92      2        5        EN,RA            2            1
Supervision 7      05/94        1       5          EN             2            1
Supervision 8      08/95        1       5          EN            2             1
& Completion I
Completion 2        11/95       1       2          RA             -            -
La  PO: Project Officer; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; EC: Economist; OS: Operations Specialist;
EN: Environmentalist; LC: Legal Counsel; CO: Country Officer; DO: Disbursement Officer;
RA: Research Analyst; TS: Training Specialist.
Lb  1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
la  Typical problems included: design changes, quality deficiency and delays.



- 35 -                     ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Preface
1.   In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway
Project (Report No. 6344-CHA), the economic evaluation was presented for the
construction of a 143 kin, 4-lane divided, controlled-access, tolled expressway connecting
Beijing and Tianjin (the second and the third most populated municipalities in China)
with the new port of Xingang at Tanggu and the necessary connecting roads between
Beijing and Tanggu.
2.    The economic analysis presented in this ICR is based on updated data on traffic,
vehicle operating cost (VOC), economic cost and road user benefits, taking into account
revised assumptions regarding future traffic growth projection. The methodology used in
the economic analysis for this ICR is similar to that used in the SAR and is summarized in
the following:
(a)   capital investment and maintenance costs have been revised to reflect
December 1995 prices and included in the cost stream;
(b)   the benefit stream, also reflecting December 1995 prices, has also been
included, and consists of savings in VOC, reduced traffic congestion on the
existing road, and reduction in cost of accidents;
(c)   a project life of 20 years (1996-2015) has been assumed and the capital
investment period for the expressway is during 1987-1995; and
(d)   full benefits started to accrue on the BTTE in October 1993, although
between September 1990 and October 1993 partial benefits accrued because,
in addition to the opening of the first 72 km section of the BTTE to traffic in
September 1990, two additional sections, 26 km and 11 km in length, were
opened to traffic in December 1991 and October 1992, respectively.
3.    As in the SAR, the highway was divided into five sections.
Section 1:   from Beijing to Majuqiao (14.0 km);
Section 2:   from Majuqiao to Nanying (28.0 km);
Section 3:   from Nanying to Yangcun (30.2 km);
Section 4:   from Yangcun to Tianjin (36.7 km); and
Section 5:   from Tianjin to Tanggu (33.8 km).



- 36 -                     ANNEX I
Cost and benefit analysis were carried out separately for each section as well as the
highway as a whole.
Corridor Traffic
4.    The 1995 corridor traffic and its distribution between the old and the new
highway is presented in the following table, indicating SAR forecast and actual traffic
census data:
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (ADT) FOR 1995:
The New                     Diversion
The Old Road   Expressway   Total Corridor   Factor (DF)
(1)           (2)       (3)=(1)+(2)    (4)=(2)/(3)
SAR:
Section 1               2,146         5,843         7,989         73.1%
Section 2               3,367         4,143         7,510         55.2%
Section 3               8,843         4,146        12,989         31.9%
Section 4               7,838         6,075        13,909         43.7%
Section 5               3,625         7,247        10,872         66.7%
Actual:
Section 1              19,891        13,093        32,984         39.7%
Section 2               4,712        12,902        17,614         72.3%
Section 3              10,061        11,252        21,313         52.2%
Section 4              12,992         9,671        22,663         42.7%
Section 5              17,425         5,861        23,286         25.2%
(Actual/SAR) ratios:
Section 1             926.9%        224.1%         412.9%
Section 2             139.9%        311.4%         234.5%
Section 3             113.8%        271.4%         164.1%
Section 4             165.8%         159.2%        162.9%
Section 5             480.7%         80.9%         214.2%
Sources: BTTEUC and the Bank staff.
5.    As shown above, the 1995 corridor traffic on all five sections (i.e., the sum of
traffic on the parallel sections of the existing arterial road and the BTTE ) was much
higher than the SAR estimates. Also, the actual diversion of traffic to the BTTE had been
at a higher rate than forecast (Sections 2 and 3) or at about the same rate (Section 4),
except for Sections 1 and 5, on which the DF was substantially lower than expected.
However, because of the overall increase in corridor traffic, over and above SAR
expectation, the traffic volume of the BTTE in 1995 well exceeded SAR forecast on each
section of the Expressway.



- 37 -                    ANNEX I
Traffic Projection
6.    The opening of the BTTE caused a relatively quick traffic buildup to respond to
the long pent-up road transport demand along this corridor, particularly during the first
three years. Notwithstanding this, the ICR's traffic forecast for the Expressway is more
conservative than the SAR estimates because: (a) the traffic on Section 5 remained well
below exceptions; (b) the DF ratios for Sections 1 and 5 are still below SAR projections;
(c) the distance savings between some of the parallel sections of the BTTE and the
existing arterial roads are not significant enough to encourage diversion from the arterial
road to the BTTE; and (d) further growth in urban development along the parallel arterial
roads is expected generate local traffic growth, which could limit the rate of corridor
traffic diversion to the BTTE.
7.    The long-term traffic growth rate (1993-2010) for the expressway has been
estimated in the range of 5.4 to 6.8 percent, compared with the SAR estimate of a
uniform growth rate of 8.2 percent for all four sections. The traffic projections by
sections are summarized as follows:
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW HIGHWAY (ADT) BY SECTIONS:
Section 1   Section 2   Section 3   Section 4   Section 5
Beijing-   Majuqiao-  Nanying-  Yangcun-  Tianjin-
Majugiao   Nanying   Yangcun   Tianjin    Tanggu
SAR:
1993                  4,828     3,425      3,426      5,020      5,989
1994                  5,311     3,767      3,769      5,522      6,588
1995                  5,843     4,143      4,146      6,075      7,247
2000                  9,409      6,675      6,675     9,785      11,675
2005                 13,197      9,362      9,362     13,724     16,369
2010                 18,509     13,132     13,132     19,248    22,959
Average growth p.a.
1993-2010           8.2%       8.2%       8.2%       8.2%       8.2%
ICR:
1993                  9,818     9,878      9,045      8,032      5,503
1994                 12,239     12,058    10,516      9,039      5,478
1995                 13,093     12,902    11,252      9,671      5,861
2000                 18,364     18,096     15,782     13,564     8,220
2005                 23,438     23,096    20,142      17,311     10,491
2010                 29,913     29,476    25,707     22,094     13,389
Average growth p.a.
1993-2010           6.8%       6.6%       6.3%       6.1%       5.4%
Note: All figures are rounded.
8.    The projected traffic for the five sections of the expressway for year 1993-2015,
by type of vehicles, is detailed in Table 1 of this Annex. From 1993-95, actual traffic



- 38 -                     ANNEX I
data have been used, while for subsequent years the following growth rates have
assumed:
(a)   basic expressway traffic to increase by 7.0 percent per year between 1995
and 2000, and 5.0 percent per year thereafter;
(b)   generated traffic would be 10 percent of basic traffic.
9.    In the SAR, by comparison, the basic traffic growth rate for the new expressway
was 10.0 percent per year between 1995 and 2000; and 7 percent per year thereafter. The
generated traffic growth rate was assumed to be 55 to 60 percent of the normal traffic. It
was further assumed that some railway traffic, both passenger and freight, would divert to
the expressway.  Diversion of railway traffic has been discounted in the revised
projection because (a) the highway tariffs are much higher than those for rail (about
30 fen per ton-km or passenger-km for highway and 4 to 6 fen per km passenger-km or
ton-km for railway); and (b) the average railway transport distance in Beijing and Tianjin
are generally much longer than the total length of the expressway, so the effect of the
BTTE would be marginal at most.
Economic Costs
10.   Financial costs have been converted to economic costs (Table 2) by applying
shadow prices shown in Table 3. The overall effect of the revised financial costs and
shadow prices that the total economic cost of the project is 116.1 percent higher than the
SAR estimate, both at constant December 1995 prices.
HIGHWAY ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON
(Y million)
SAR                         ICR      ICR/SAR
Mar 1986   Dec 1995              Dec 1995    (in%)
Total Costs           916.41     1,515.26              3,274.71    +116.1
Economic Benefits
11.   The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from (a) VOC savings for
both basic and generated traffic, (b) relieved congestion on the existing road, and
(c) accident cost saving (Table 5).
12.   Based on the actual traffic performance, it is estimated that about 25 to 72 percent
of corridor traffic has diverted to the new highway. The lower traffic level on the existing
arterial roads reduces congestion and VOCs, and the sum of the two produces an average
15 percent reduction in VOCs up to 1995. Thereafter, because of the gradual buildup of



- 39 -                     ANNEX 1
traffic on the existing arterial roads, the savings would be reduced by 1 percent for each
of remaining five-year periods, reaching an 11 percent saving by 2015.
13.   The annual average number of accidents per km per year on the existing road
between 1987 and 1990 (without the BTTE), was 3.20. With the BTTE, between 1991
and 1994, the number of accidents on the old road reduced to 1.77 per km per year
between 1991 and 1994. For the BTTE, the accident rate was 0.71 per km per year. For
estimating future road accident cost savings, it was assumed that the reduction in the
number of accidents, resulting from the construction of the highway, would be one
accident per km per year at a cost of Y 15,000 for each accident.
Overall Economic Evaluation
14.   The overall ERR on the highway investment is estimated to be 15.7 percent
versus the SAR estimate of 14.5 percent (Table 5). Total costs and benefits streams,
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV), for each section of the
expressway are presented in Tables 5A-5E.
SAR                  ICR
Best estimate of rate of return           14.5%                15.7%
NPV (12%, Y million)                     n.a.                1,109.7
Financial Evaluation
15.   The estimated financial rate of return (FRR) against the full costs of the
expressway is 5.2 percent as indicated below, and detailed in Table 6 of this Annex. The
estimate is based on the final estimate of the financial cost of the project as indicated in
Table 2B, and the information provided by BTTEUC regarding: (a) maintenance cost,
(b) projected toll revenues, (c) operating cost for the BTTE, and (d) loan repayment
schedule. The result indicates that the BTTE is expected to recover its full operating cost
and to generate sufficient revenues to repay the Bank loan and IDA credit.



-40 -                       ANNEX I
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS RESULTS
Input Data:
Total cost                                                Y 2,464.99 million
Debt                                                      Y  599.75 million
Equity                                                    Y 1,905.28 million
Period of loan                                                 20.0 years
Loan interest rate (onlending rate)                             4.2%
Grace period                                                    5.0 years
Results
Rate of return on equity                                        6.8%
Financial rates of return:
Best estimate                                                5.2%
Toll revenue (-10%)                                          3.9%
Operating costs (+10%)                                       5.1%
Toll revenue (-10%) and operating costs (+10%)               3.7%
Level of Toll Charges
16.   The expressway is operated as a closed toll system with 9 toll stations along the
expressway. The tolls are determined for four groups of vehicles: (a) passenger cars and
small trucks; (b) medium trucks and buses; (c) large trucks and buses; and (d) truck-
trailers. Toll levels are calculated at a uniform per km rate for the four classes. and
presently are as follows: Y 0.25, Y 0.35, Y 0.45 and Y 0.60 per km for the four
categories of vehicles, respectively.
17.   In the absence of a comprehensive traffic origin and destination pattern and VOC
cost saving calculation for the various trips involved, the ICR used an approximating
analysis to highlight the present relationships between the prevailing toll rates and the
financial VOC savings on the five sections of the BTTE for which economic evaluations
have been carried out and economic and financial VOC costs have been available, as of
1996, as indicated in Table 7.
18.   From the ICR's analysis the following tentative conclusions may be drawn:
(a)   On the average, the toll rates for all types of vehicles, except for tractor-
trailers, exceed 30 percent of the VOC savings. However, on those
sections where the travel distance on the Expressway is significantly
shorter than on the parallel arterial road, the 30 percent of the VOC saving
is close or even higher than the toll rate, such as on Sections 3 and 5. This
could indicate that toll rates higher than 30 percent of the VOC savings are
not necessarily a deterrent to road users, if it results from substantive
distance and time savings. However, wherever the difference between the
travel distance on the parallel section of the arterial road and the section of



-41-                        ANNEX 1
the BTTE is not significant, the VOC saving falls below the toll rate
indicating that the road user is likely to be overcharged in relation to the
benefits gained by using the expressway. Also, small vehicles (cars, small
trucks) seem to pay proportionally higher toll rates than truck-trailers or
even heavy trucks.
(b)   The ICR assessment, even in its rudimentary form, seems to indicate, that
a uniform, strictly per km based toll rate is inequitable because of the high
sensitivity of VOC savings to travel distance/time saving. This would be
advantages in situations when long-distance traffic has built up to such
degree that shorter, more direct trips on the expressway should be
discouraged in the interest of reducing congestion or ensure a high-level of
service condition on the expressway. However, on the BTTE there is still
sufficient capacity, and a better differentiated tolling rates , closer to the de
facto VOC savings, would be appropriate.
(c)   A comprehensive, origin and destination survey-based study could lead to
more reliable conclusions and the determination of toll rates in a more
rational manner. Such a study could also attempt to examine in greater
depth the effect of arterial network congestion on VOCs, which at present
may be underestimated and result in an underestimate of the VOC savings
between trips taken on the BTTE and the sections of the arterial network.



TWe I - Beijing-Tianjin-Tauggu Expressway Trafrw Summary
(ADT)
km                    Of"- (Vlix i.%) Le                                     Rd am                                           ROW codtm                                    AVOW  p"d (bWb=)
I        n         III      IV         v         I-V        I         n         ID       IV         v          I        11        in        IV        v          I        11        In       IV         v          I        n         RI       IV        IV
Om roe&
15.0     15.0       9.0      1S.0      15.0        4          F         F         F         F         F         I         I        11         I         I       FWr       Fair      P-        Foiff      Foir      4S        45       45        45         45
b   19.5      19.5      14.0      2D.0      20.0          1_b   1.0%       1.0%      1.09A     ilo%      LOSA   (P-.d)  (P..d)  (Pr-d)  (Pr-d)  (P-,W)
15.0     13.0      15.0      15.0      15.0        4          F         F         F         p         F       EV.                 EM.       Eitp                Gwd       Good      Good      G..d      God        OD        90       30         80        so
b   20.0      20.0      20.0      2D.0      20.0                 1.2%      1.2-A     1.2%      3.0%      1.7%    a,-td)  oto    OIW-4)  04WW)  (M d)
Sn.11 cW_    -Nkdin BV      Ba-   Svwll Ttuck-   -MO&= Tnwk-     Tnwk -  -TDO. 79&,-   - TOW---
RMI                                      lh                                                                                        WALIWW                                                      WthoM                         Willat
W"-         Wkb ftw;od        p-j-          witb Prqd        Poiga       "k ftojm         Wjd          wm"ea            Wjd          Wkh Projet       Projd        With Projet      Projet       Wikh Projea      projod       vrith ftoja
OM    ER          OW   E)W-    Old    Old  lixprm    Old    Old  Exp                              Old    Old  Eq               Old    Old  Eveu   Old    Oid  ERMN    Old    Old  Evtm    Old    014  EVEM    Old
road     --MY      real    -way        'od        '.W       ."Y       mA          .d      -,my      -d        100      --          od       -,d      -y         v..d      road     -wsy       WWI       rod      -way       roM       mW       -way         W
5.M      3,142     2.750      .477      1,964     1,513     1,992     1,374      618     4,459       884     3.575     3,201     1.276     1.925     2,495       9192    1,513     Z052        196     1,836    23,MS      9,618    13,750
""t                          7.634    3,916     1,719      4.492     Z447      2,045     2.549      1,713      836     5,934      1.101    4,333     4,194      1,391    Z60       3,269     1,224     Z045      Z75S        245     2,510    30,Vn     IZ237    IS.3W
1995                         ,168     4,190     3,979      4.W7      2,619    2,188       2.728     1,833      895     6,330      1,178    5,172     4,497      S.702    Z785      3,497     1,309     z ISO     Z947        262     2.685    3Z"4    13.093    19,891
200                         4:436      5,676     5.580      61742     3, 73     3069     3.SV      2.572     1,2SS     8,906     1,653     7,253     6,293     Z317     3,W       4,905      I.Sm     3,069     4,133       367     3.766    46,262    18,364    27,119S
2005                        14,S04     7,SQO     7,004      8.540     4.2       3.852     4856     3,281     1,575    11.214     Z 109     9,105     7,950     3,047    4,903     61196     2.344      3,852    5,197       469     4,728    53.4S7    23,438    35.019
21110                       1S."O      9,572    9,088      10,992     5.983     4,999     6,232     4,188     2,044    14.507     Z692    131815    20M)       3.889     6,362     7.990     Z"l       4,"9      6173P3      593     6,135    75,355    29. 913    45,442
20 I ,                      23,917    12,217    11,60)     1,1,015    7.635     6,390     7,953     5,344     Z09    18,515      3,436    1S.079    13,083     4.963     8.120    10.1"      3,319     6,380     4.594       764     7,830    %.175    38, I77    57.9198
Arew Read           3.00
Ntgt                  4.0127    3.161      866       2.452     1,976      476      1,579     1,382      196      2,015      889      1,126     1,890     1,2S4      606      1,464      998       476       733       198       585    14,2D9      9.8713    4.331
1994                        4 740     1.959       881      2.8%      Z412        484      I'SBS     1,697      198     2.2m      1,035     1.145     Z 185     1,569       617     1,690     I'M         454       836       241       593    16,462    12,058     4,404
l"5                          5:071    4,129       942      310"       zsft       518     Z020       1,807      213     Z386      1.161     1,225     2.337     1.677       660     IMS       1.290       SIB       a"        2u        636    17,614    12.902     4,712
2DW                          7,113     5,791     1.322     4,346      1,619      727      2.831     Z533       298     3,347      1,629     1.718    31277     2,352       925     Z537      1.810       727      1.254      362       892    24,705    18,096     6,609
2ODS                         9,2711    7.391     1.887      1637      4,619     t.038     3.657     3,233      424     4,532      Z079      Z453     4,323      3,002     1,321    1.3,48    Z310       1,039     1,736      462      1,274    32,531    23.096    9,05
21'                         11 585     9,432     Z 153      7,079     5,895     1.184     4,611    4,126       495      5,452     2.653     Z799      5,339    3,832      1,507    4,132     7.949      1. IS4   2,043       5"       1,433    40.241    29,476    10,765
20 I'5'                     14:786    tZ 038     7 743      9.035     7.324     1,511     5.886     5,267      619      6,95%    3,336      1,572     6,815    4,891      1,924    5,273     3,762      1,511    2,607       752     1,255    51.36(    37,620    13,740
A"m Romd            0.00
"W             20     4,652     ZS%       1.753      Z 776     1.30       967      1.661     1,266      395      3,099      814      Z285      1406      1.176     1,230     J,872      905       %7       L.367      lei      1,136    17,833    9.045      8.788
Im                           5,246    3.365      1.831     3,137     2,103      t.034     1,597     1.473      424     3,39)       946     Z445      2.681      1.367    1,316     21096     1.052     1,034     1,479       210     1,269    19,919    10.516     9,403
1995                         5,613    3.60)     Z012       3.357     Z250       1.107    Z027       1,575      452     1,629     1,013     Z616      Z872      1,463     1.409     Z232      L. 125    1,107     1.533       225     1.359    21.313    11,252    10,061
2m                           7,972     5050     2.422      4,708     3.156     1,552     Z345      Z210       635     5,069      L,420    3,669     4,028     Z052      1,976     3,130     1,578      1.552    2.221       316     1,905    29,893    15.782     4.111
2m                          10,047     6,445     3,602      6.009     4.029     1.981     3,632     Z821       911      6.495     1,813    4.682      5,139     Z613     Z523      3,995     Z014       1.981    Z834        403     7,431   38.151    20,142    18,009
20                          JZSZ       9,226     4,597      7,669     5,141    Z528       4,634     3.3"      1,035     9.290     Z314      5.976    6.560      3,342    1.21S     5.0"      Z571      Z528      3.617       514     3,103    48.692    25,707    22,995
2DI                         16.3"     10.499     5,967      9,789     6,562     3.227     5,914    A.5"       1,321    10,530     2,953     7.627    8,372     4,265     4,107     6,508     3,281     1.227     4.616       656     3,960    6Z 145    32,W9    2P.336
Acm  Rood            0.00
S.b- IV, Yqpew-Ti.Min
lik     26.00     36.70     4,940     Z.570     Z270       ZrA       1,606     1.248     1,636     1,125      sit     3,673       723     21950     2.633      1,044    I'Sag     Z051        303     1,248     1.693       161     1,532    19.380     8.02    11,348
i9%                          5,320    Z892      Z428       3,144      I's"      1,336     1.911     1,265      546     3,9171      814     3,157     2.873     1,17S     1,700     Z240        904     1,336     1.8"        181     1,639    21,151     91 09
515                         5.6"      3.05      Z598      -3,363     1,934     1,429     1,940     I.-A55     595     4.20        970     3.373     3,076     1,257     1,819     Z396        %?      1.429      1.947      193     1.7.54    2Z663               2.992
20010                        7,984     4 3"      3,644      4.717     Z 713    2,004      Z 721     Um         921      5,959     1.221    4,738     4,314      1,763    Z551      3,360     L336      Z004      Z731        271     7,460    31.786    13.364    IS,=
2005                        10. 91     5:50     4,651       6.WA      3.462     2.559     3,470     Z424      1.046     7,605     1558    6,047    55.506     2.2M      3,256     4,289     1,731     ZS59      3,486       346     1140    40.567    1?.311    23.Z56
2110                        13.0[06    7,070     5,936      ?,664    4,419      31265    4,431      31094     1,337    9,705      1,988    7.717     7.OV      2.M       4,155     5,474     Z209      3,265     4,449       442     4,007    51,776    U094    29,682
2D..'                       16.574     S'"s      7.576      9,791     5,624    4,167      5.643     3.937     1.706    IZ380      Z531     9,949     8,958     3.655     5,303     6,979     2.112     4.167     5,676       362     5.124    66,001    26.IS9    37.232
Acco Rod             0.00
Seebm V.- rAqpTWW
993     43.00     33.80     4. W5      76i      3.044      ZTTS      1.101     1.674     1,456      771       685     4.452       495     3,957     Z846        715     2.131     2.224       350     i.674     Z 165       tio    '4055    20,723      5,503    15,220
M                           5.010     1:753     3,257      2,897     1.096     1.791     1.500      766       734     4,727       493     4.234     Z992        712     2.280     Z339        S48     1,791     Z308        110     2.198    21,763     5,471    16.285
1515                         5.361     1,876    3,485      3.089      1,172     1.917     1,604      821       733     5.058       527     4,531     3.202       762     2,440     2.503       SS6     1,917     2,469       117     2.352    23,236     5.861    17.425
2OW                          7,518     2.630     4,998      4,332     1,644     Z688      Z252      1.151     1.101     7,094      740     6,354     4,490      1,069    3,421     3,510       =       Z6811    3.463        164     3.2"     3Z659      8.220    24.439
2003                         91395     3.357     6,238      5,529     ZM        3,01      zrn       1.469     1,403     91054      944      8.110     5,731     1,364    4,367     4,480     1,049     3,431    4,421        2to     4,211   41.632    10491    31,191
2110                        IZ246      4,294     7.962      7,057     Z678      4,379     3."5      1,874     1,791    11.355     1,205    19,350     7,314     1,741    "73       5.718     1,339     4.379     5.642       268     5.37A    53.197    13,389    39.11M
20                          15,629     5.468    10,161      9.007     3,418     5.509     4,VS      Z392      Z2116   14.748      1,339    13,210    9,335     Z222      7,113     7,2"      1,709     5'5"      7.201       342     61859    67.8%     MM        so. SD7
Acea Road
Tow I d &OWTW"TW*PEV..-W
A:    168.00    142.70
B:    166.00    152.70
Lw  c  RoodprAmet,             U. WiLh wd bd.          I_b:  O*thtbvdo.,UmfdwaMrood(Nwiyu%-Y-&-)n2lxm.   Le:  Fi Fl.L  W  VADy. M:Mont*-w                                      _'t:  'k WW.W tbt -         Mok  Bi wAh tbt Wcm  r-*&,    Le:  All the fApm  we roudd.



- 43 -                                         ANNEX 1
TABLE 2A: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC COST SUMMARY
(Y million)
1987       1988       1989       1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995               Total
A. Financhil (Current):
Beijlng-Majuqlao             14.08      24.94      27.71      68.25    31.81     46.44     11.51     10.23     7.00               241.97
Majuqlao-Nanying             27.15      90.44      66.96      52.08    40.56    31.49      11.85    24.16     14.11               358.80
Nanylng-Yangcun              29.89      55.80      45.28      52.39    43.72    28.07    46.65       58.50    17.45               377.75
Yangcun-Tlanjln              36.32      87.33      89.36      68.05    49.54     56.13   146.76   109.14    21.27                 663.90
Tlanjin-Tanggu               33.39      76.77      55.69      12.56    26.72    36.95   201.84   116.09       19.52               579.53
Total                       140.83     335.28     285.00     253.33    192.35    199.08   418.61   318.12     79.35              2221.95
B. Economic (Dec. 1995 prices):
Beijlng-Majuqiao             27.09      46.53      44.96     102.78    44.01     64.27     14.99     11.13     6.69               362.45
Majuqlao-Nanying             52.07     168.18     108.27      78.15    55.90    43.43      15.39    26.19    13.44                561.02
Nanying-Yangcun              57.17     103.41      72.98      78.36    60.10    38.61    60.37    63.22       16.56               550.78
Yangcun-Tanjln              111.13     161.91     144.03     101.81     68.05    77.16    189.89   117.94    20.17                992.09
Tianjin-Tanggu               63.94     142.48      89.90      18.84    36.75    50.85   261.46   125.60       18.55               808.37
Total                       311.40     622.51     460.14     379.94   264.81   274.32   542.10   344.08       75.41              3274.71
I_1 All the figu are rounded.
TABLE 2B: COMPONENTS OF FINANCIAL COST
(Y million, in current prices)
For Economic Evaluation                                                            For Financial Evaluation
Civil Worb:                                                                          Financial Cost
a. BTTE                                            1,367.55                       Cost as for economic evaluation                  2,221.95
b. Acces roads to BTTE                               196.13                      Additional cost items
c. Supplementary civil works                         243.00                       Equipment acquisition                               25.97
E A M                                                    111.45                        Two studies (Hwy finance, local bitumen)            4.53
Staff training                                      2.99
Subtotal                                         1,918.13                       Loan/Credit ervicing                              209.55
Offer Invesunmu Itenu;                                                                         Subtotal                                  243.04
Land acquiition and resettlement                  235.39
Engimeeru deign                                     20.10                               Total                                    2,464.99
Contnmctio supev ion                               37.81
Environmental Survey                                0.90
Management Study for BTTTUEC                        0.47
PMS for BTTE                                         0.75
Administrtie Overhead of BTTUEC                      8.40
Subtotal                                          303.82
Total                                                   2,221.95



Table 3: Shadow Price Calculation
(Y _mon. December 1995 pie.)
Coeivler-MatoqLa                 Mojuqlia-Nylni                    Nonylg-Yaecun                     Yangeun-Timiin                   Tbajin-Tanugu
Conver                                --Totai
-men       - Financial--  Econo                    finanacal-  Ecces-               Financal--- cone- -              Financial-    Econo- --Fn ina bal                Econo.  project
factor Loca      Foreign  Total   ak   Lecal   Ferign  To   _ ic   Local    Foren  Total   ak    lAocal   Foecign  Total   kic  Local   Foreign  Total   n ic                                P
Land                     2.00    25.96      0.00   25.96   25.96   40.41    0.00   40.41   40.41     39.63    0.00   39.63   39.63   53.69    0,00   53.69   53.69   55.09    0.00   55.09   55.09               3   C
Unrilled                100     1199       0.00   11.99   11.99   1E.67    0.00  1.67  1I.67    21.92    0.00   21.92   21.92   34.10    000   34.10   34.10   3373    0.00   33.73   33.73                    - 
Semiskhlied/Tecbnkian    067    1271       0.00   22.71    8.52   lR978    0.00   19.78   13.25    23.47    0.00   23.47   15.72   38.90    0.00   38.90   26.06   35.70    0.00   35.70   23.92                    >
SupervIsr               2.00     4.20     4.14    *.34   12.54    6.54    5.42   11.96   I8.50       5.64    4.68   10.32   15.96    11.20    7.57   18.77   29.97   10.20    5.75   15.95   26.15
MAbterias:                                                                                                                                                /
Sto                    1.00      6.61     6.54   13.15   13.15   10.29    *.56   18.85   18.85      12.25   10.01   22.26   22.26   36.14   24.23   60.37   60.37   24.24   13.61   37.85   37.85               8  0
Timber                  1.00     2.98     2.94    5.92    5.92    4.63    3.84    8.47    8.47       3.11    6.61   14.72   14.72   15.06   10.05   25211   25.11   15.85    8.89   24.74   24.74              (9
Cement                  1.00     5.92     5.87   11.79   11.79    9.21    7.69   16.90   16.90      10.52    8.64   19.16   19.16   24.06   1624   4030   4030    19.44   20.88   30.32   30.32
Sand                   O.8O      3.94     0.00    194    3.15    614    0.00    6.14    4.91         7.6    0.00    7.86    6.29   19.09    0.00   19.09   25.27   12.83    0.00   12.t3   10.26                    LO
Stow                   0.80     16.87     0.00   16.87   13.50   26.26    0.00   26.26   21.01      29.33    0.00   29.33   23.46   63.20    0.00   6820   54.56   51.35    0.00   51.35   41.08
Btuawn                  2.00     931      0.00    9.31    9.31   14.49    0.00   14.49   14.49      15,85    0.00   15.85   15.85   31.06    0.00   31.06   31,06   22.77    0.00   22.77   22.77              -
Othe                    0.10    17.12    17.5S   35.37   31.81   27.73   22.92    50.71   45.16     29.66   24.25   53.91   47,9S   52.20   35.10   87.30   76.86   51.20   22.77   79.97   69.73              '0 (
Fuel:
Dkse                   1.00      5.82     0.00    5.82    5.82    9.07    0.00    9.07    9.07      10.21    0.00   10.21   10.21   14.07    0.00   14.07   14.07   17.72    0.00   17.72   17.72
GaCoie                  100      502      0.00    5.02    5.02    7.81    0.00    7.81    7.81      9.63    0.00    9.63    9.63   12.69    0.00   22.69   22.69   16.97    0.00   16.97   1697
Heavy iO                200      226      0.00    2.26    2.26    3.52    0.00    3.52    3.52       5.09    0.00    5.09    5.09    8.17    0.00    8.17    8.27   12.17    0.00   12.17   12.17 
Otiel                   1.00     2.67     0.00    2.67    2.67    4.15    0.00    415    4.15       5.37    0.00    5.37    5.37    6.90    0.00    6.90    6.90   2282    0.00   22.82   11.82
Water                    0.80     2.26      000    2.26    1.81    3.52    0.00    3.52    2.82       5.09    0.00    5.09    4.07    9.66    0.00    9.66    7.73    9.49    0.00    9.49    7.59                   .4
EzkIck                   1.50     520       000    5.20    7.80    8.10    000   U80    125           7.83    0.00    7.83   11.75   1446   .0.00    14.46   21.69   15.40    0.00   1540   23.20
ConutrucUlo             1200      509       5.01   10.10   10.10    7.93    6.55   14.48   14.48      9.97    8.17  12.14   18.14   21.79   14.59   36.38   36.38   14.64    8.16   22.80   2230                      Z
mccimacaleq_slpse It 2-00         4.69     3543   40.12   40.12    7.30   46.40   53.70   53.70       7.44    6.06   13.50   13.50   15.61   10.47   26.01   26.08   12.42    7.00   19.42   19.42
Othen                    0.10    31.25      0.00   31.25   2S.00   41.62    0.00   41.62   31.90    39.97   32.72   72.69   64.70   64.70   43.52  108.21   95.27   61.90   34.85   96.75   84.37
TOtnl                    132.57    77.43  2611.ff  240.24  24.17    8.44  3MA.1  367.22    048  101.14  405.98  385.41  551.75  161.76  713.51  676.33  564.93  117.91  622.84  591.661
Oval              to                                        6.96                            0.9                               0.9                                                                 5      .95
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I): M^ auioum
I# bawm_-'



-45 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 4: ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(Y per km, December 1995 prices)
--Goo-------- ---------Fafr-----------    -----Poor------
Flat Roll  HRif   Mount. Flat Roil   Hill   Mount. Flat Roll  Hm   Mount
Small car                  0.440   0.460   0.475      0.518   0.538   0.553       0.671  0.691    0.706
Small bus                  0.813   0.965    1.089      1.052    1.222    1.361    1.346   1.500    1.639
Medium bus                  1.281    1.488    1.667    1.702    1.949   2.150     2.244  2.461    2.662
Largebus                    1.436    1.751    2.031    1.975   2.378   2.710      2.393  2.782   3.114
Snalbtruck                 0.625   0.781   0.899    0.702   0.858   0.975         0.858  0.995    1.132
Medlumntruck               0.664   0.818   0.972      0.730   0.897    1.049      0.882  1.049    1.216
Large truck                0.880    1.078    1.276     1.006    1.223    1.414    1.197  1.414    1.618
Tractor/trailer             1.646   2.171    2.625     1.898   2.471    2.953     2.260  2.802   3.300
Note:  Without the project, both road condition and flow will deteriorate quickly with high traffic growth and shift towards
heavier vehicles. Considered 2% p.a. cost increase.



- 46 -                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 5: ECONOMIc EVALUATION (TOTAL EXPRESSWAY)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                                   Benfits-
VOC             Reduced
Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                 Net
Constru   Road                Sav-      ated   Exist     Accid               Cash
Year          -ction  Maint.      Total     ings   Traffic   Road    -ents       Total    Flow
Total: Beijig-Tainjin-Tanggu Expressway
1987         311.40             311.40                                                  (311.40)
1988         622.51             622.51                                                  (622.51)
1989         460.14             460.14                                                  (460.14)
1990         379.94      0.31   380.25     2.04      0.10      0.26     0.01     2.41  (377.84)
1991         264.81    13.51   278.32    62.13       3.11     12.26     0.59    78.09   (200.2)
1992         274.32    27.43   301.75   110.29       5.54     25.67     1.19   142.69   (159.1)
1993         542.10    53.45   595.55   187.46      9.38      58.12     2.31   257.27  (338.28)
1994         344.08    53.45   397.53   241.78    12.08       63.43     2.31   319.60   (77.93)
1995          75.41    53.45   128.86   291.28    14.55       67.89     2.31   376.03   247.17
1996                    53.45    53.45   344.83    17.23      69.47     2.31   433.84   380.39
1997                    53.45    53.45   406.12    20.29      71.08     2.31   499.80   446.35
1998                    53.45    53.45   476.52    23.82      72.75     2.31   575.40   521.95
1999                    53.45    53.45   557.63    27.88      74.45     2.31   662.27   608.82
2000                    53.45    53.45   651.37    32.59      76.17     2.31   762.44   708.99
2001                    53.45    53.45   731.72    36.60      75.60     2.31   846.23   792.78
2002                    53.45    53.45   822.62    41.14      75.04     2.31   941.11   887.66
2003 /_a                80.18    80.18   925.60    46.28      74.48     2.31  1,048.67   968.50
2004 /_a                80.18    80.18  1,042.41    52.10     73.92     2.31  1,170.74  1,090.57
2005                    53.45    53.45  1,175.11    58.73     73.34     2.31  1,309.49  1,256.04
2006                    53.45    53.45  1,303.57    65.15     70.93     2.31  1,441.96  1,388.51
2007                    53.45    53.45  1,446.43    72.30     68.60     2.31  1,589.64  1,536.19
2008                    53.45    53.45  1,605.37    80.25     66.33     2.31  1,754.26  1,700.81
2009                    53.45    53.45  1,782.25    89.09     64.15     2.31  1,937.80  1,884.35
2010                    53.45    53.45  1,979.12    98.96     62.06     2.31  2,142.45  2,089.00
2011                    53.45    53.45  2,178.99   108.95     56.73     2.31  2,346.98  2,293.53
2012                    53.45    53.45  2,399.27   119.96     51.85     2.31  2,573.39  2,519.94
2013                    53.45    53.45  2,642.10   132.10     47.39     2.31  2,823.90  2,770.45
2014                    53.45    53.45  2,909.81   145.47     43.32     2.31  3,100.91  3,047.46
2015                    53.45    53.45  3,204.99   160.22     39.60     2.31  3,407.12  3,353.67
Total  3274.71                    EERR =                                            15.7%
=====                      NPV (12%) =                                      1109.7
First Year Return =.3%
Ia: Major resurfacing.
/ b: All figures are rounded.



-47 -                                      ANNEX 1
TABLE 5A: ECONOMIC EVALUATION (SECTION 1)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs
___________- -            VOC              Reduced
Net  Gcner-  Cong.0n  Reduced                Net
Constru  Road                Sav-      ated   Exist    Accid               Cash
Year         -clion  Maint.     Total      fgs   Traffic   Road    -ents      Total    Flow
Section 1:   Beijing-Majuqiao
1987          27.09             27.09                                                 (27.09)
1988          46.53             46.53                                                 (46.53)
19S9          44.96             44.96                                                 (44.96)
1990         102.78     0.07   102.85     0.20     0.01      0.06     0.00     0.27  (102.58)
1991          44.01     2.33    46.34     6.71     0.34      2.06     0.10     9.21   (37.13)
1992          64.27     4.33    68.60    12.46     0.63      3.83     0.19    17.11   (51.49)
1993          14.99     5.95    20.94    17.14     0.86      5.27     0.26    23.53     2.59
1994          11.13     5.95    17.08    25.62     1.28      7.12     0.26    34.28    17.20
1995           6.69     5.95    12.64    32.04     1.59      7.62     0.26    41.51    28.87
1996                    5.95     5.95    38.43     1.91      7.80     0.26    48.40    42.45
1997                    5.95     5.95    46.09     2.29      7.98     0.26    56.62    50.67
1998                    5.95     5.95    55.28     2.75      8.17     0.26    66.46    60.51
1999                    5.95     5.95    66.30     3.30      8.36     0.26    78.22    72.27
2000                    5.95     5.95    79.53     3.98      8.56     0.26    92.33    86.38
2001                    5.95     5.95    90.19     4.51      8.46     0.26   103.42    97.47
2002                    5.95     5.95   102.27     5.11      8.36     0.26   116.00   110.05
2003 /-a                8.93     8.93   115.97     5.79      8.26     0.26   130.28   121.36
2004 /_a                8.93     8.93   131.51     6.56      8.16     0.26   146.49   137.57
2005                    5.95     5.95   149.13     7.44      8.06     0.26   164.89   158.94
2006                    5.95     5.95   166.71     8.32      7.83     0.26   183.12   177.17
2007                    5.95     5.95   186.36     9.31      7.61     0.26   203.54   197.59
2008                    5.95     5.95   208.33    10.41      7.39     0.26   226.39   220.44
2009                    5.95     5.95   232.89    11.64      7.18     0.26   251.97   246.02
2010                    5.95     5.95   260.33    13.02      6.98     0.26   280.59   274.64
2011                    5.95     5.95   287.68    14.39      6.38     0.26   308.71   302.76
2012                    5.95     5.95   317.90    15.90      5.83     0.26   339.89   333.94
2013                    5.95     5.95   351.30    17.57      5.33     0.26   374.46   368.51
2014                    5.95     5.95   388.21    19.41      4.87     0.26   412.75   406.80
2015                    5.95     5.95   428.99    21.44      4.46     0.26   455.15   449.20
Total       362.45                   EIRR =                                           16.3%
NPV (12%) =                                     158.3
First Year Return                                5.8%
/_a: Major resurfacing.
/b: All figures are rounded.



- 48 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 5B: ECONOMIC EVALUATION (SECTION 2)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Cosa                                   Benefiht             -
________ _-  VOC         Reduced
Net  Gener-  CongOn  Reduced                 Net
Constru   Road               Sav-      ated   Exist    Accid               Cash
Year         -ction  Maint.     ToW       ings   Traffic   Road    -ents      Total    Flow
Section 2:   Majuqi-Nanying
1987          52.07             52.07                                                 (52.07)
1988         16S.1            168.18                                                (16S.18)
19S9         108.27            108.27                                                (10.27)
1990          78.15     0.11    78.26     0.35     0.02      0.05     0.00    0.42   (77.84)
1991          55.90     3.S6    59.76    11.74     0.59      1.56     0.17    14.06   (45.70)
1992          43.43     7.12    50.55    21.63     1.09      2.88     0.31    25.91   (24.64)
1993          15.39     9.80    25.19    29.78     1.50      3.97     0.42    35.67    10.48
1994          26.19     9.80    35.99    40.17     2.00      4.01     0.42    46.60    10.61
1995          13.44     9.80    23.24    47.18     2.36      4.31     0.42    54.27    31.03
1996                    9.80     9.80    54.54     2.73      4.41     0.42    62.10    52.30
1997                    9.80     9.80    63.05     3.16      4.51     0.42    71.14    61.34
1998                    9.80     9.80    72.89     3.66      4.62     0.42    81.59    71.79
1999                    9.80     9.80    84.27     4.23      4.73     0.42    93.65    83.85
2000                    9.80     9.80    97.43     4.89      4.84     0.42   107.58    97.78
2001                    9.80     9.80   109.08     5.47      4.91     0.42   119.88   110.0
2002                    9.80     9.80   122.12     6.12      4.98     0.42   133.64   123.84
2003 /_a               14.70    14.70   136.72     6.85      5.05     0.42   149.04   134.34
2004 /_a               14.70    14.70   153.06     7.66      5.12     0.42   166.26   151.56
2005                    9.80     9.80   171.36     8.56      5.18     0.42   185.52   175.72
2006                    9.80     9.80   188.62     9.42      4.91     0.42   203.37   193.57
2007                    9.80     9.80   207.62    10.37      4.65     0.42   223.06   213.26
2008                    9.80     9.80   228.53    11.42      4.40     0.42   244.77   234.97
2009                    9.80     9.80   251.55    12.57      4.17     0.42   268.71   258.91
2010                    9.80     9.80   276.88    13.85      3.95     0.42   295.10   285.30
2011                    9.80     9.S0   303.87    15.20      3.61     0.42   323.10   313.30
2012                    9.80     9.80   333.49    16.68      3.30     0.42   353.89   344.09
2013                    9.80     9.80   366.00    18.31      3.01     0.42   387.74   377.94
2014                    9.80     9.80   401.68    20.09      2.75     0.42   424.94   415.14
2015                    9.80     9.80   440.84    22.05      2.51     0.42   465.82   456.02
Total        561.02                  EIRR=                                            13.0%
NPV (12%) =                                      52.6
First Year Return =                              4.6%
/a: Majr rsurfacinr.
/_b: All fgures are rounded.



-49 -                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 5C: ECONOMIC EVALUATION (SECTION 3)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                 -                Benefits-
-     VOC              Reduced
Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                Net
Cosntm  Road                  Sav-     ated   Exist     Accid               Cub
Year          -ction  Maint.     Total    ings   Traffic   Road    -Onts       Total    Flow
Section 3:   Narrig-YaY cun
1987          57.17              57.17                                                 (57.17)
1938         103.41            103.41                                                 (103.41)
1939          72.98             72.98                                                  (72.98)
1990          78.36     0.13    78.49      1.49     0.07      0.15     0.01     1.73   (76.76)
1991          60.10     4.16    64.26    46.25      2.31      4.78     0.18    53.52   (10.74)
1992          38.61     7.48    46.09    83.11      4.16      8.59     0.32    96.18    50.09
1993          60.37    10.57    70.94   117.51      5.88     12.15     0.45   135.99    65.05
1994          63.22    10.57    73.79   143.46      7.18     13.00     0.45   164.09    90.30
1995          16.56    10.57    27.13   163.21      8.16     13.91     0.45   185.73   158.60
1996                   10.57    10.57   184.53      9.23     14.23     0.45   208.44   197.87
1997                   10.57    10.57   208.63    10.43      14.56     0.45   234.07   223.50
199S                   10.57    10.57   235.88    11.79      14.90     0.45   263.02   252.45
1999                   10.57    10.57   266.69    13.33      15.25     0.45   295.72   285.15
2000                   10.57    10.57   301.54    15.07      15.60     0.45   332.66   322.09
2001                    10.57    10.57   331.88    16.59     15.47     0.45   364.39   353.82
2002                    10.57    10.57   365.27    18.26     15.34     0.45   399.32   388.75
2003 / I                15.86    15.86   402.02    20.10     15.21     0.45   437.78   421.93
2004 / a                15.86    15.86   442.47    22.12     15.08     0.45   480.12   464.27
2005                   10.57    10.57   486.98    24.35      14.94     0.45   526.72   516.15
2006                   10.57    10.57   533.09    26.66      14.46     0.45   574.66   564.09
2007                   10.57    10.57   583.56    29.18      14.00     0.45   627.19   616.62
2003                   10.57    10.57   638.81    31.94      13.55     0.45   684.75   674.18
2009                    10.57    10.57   699.29    34.96     13.12     0.45   747.82   737.25
2010                    10.57    10.57   765.49    38.28     12.71     0.45   816.93   806.36
2011                    10.57    10.57   834.69    41.74     11.62     0.45   888.50   877.93
2012                    10.57    10.57   910.14    45.51     10.62     0.45   966.72   956.15
2013                    10.57    10.57   992.41    49.62      9.71     0.45  1,052.19  1,041.62
2014                    10.57    10.57  1,082.12    54.10     S.88     0.45  1,145.55  1,134.98
2015                    10.57    10.57  1,179.95    58.99     8.11     0.45  1,247.50  1,236.93
TOtWl        550.78                   EIRR =                                            2S.0%
NPV (12%) =                                     1,065.2
First Year Retum -                               17.2%
I_b: ME firesurfacivg .
I_b: Al figre ate rounded.



- 50 -                                      ANNEX 1
TABLE 5D: ECONOMIC EVALUATION (SECTION 4)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                  -               Benefits-
VOC             Reduced
Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                Net
Constru   Road                Sav-     ated   Exist     Accid               Cash
Year          -ction  Maint.     Total    inga   Traffic   Road    -ents       Total    Flow
Section 4:   Yangcun-Tianjin
1987         111.13             111.13                                                (111.13)
1988         161.91            161.91                                                 (161.91)
1989         144.03            144.03                                                 (144.03)
1990         101.81            101.81                                                 (101.81)
1991          68.05     3.16    71.21    (2.57)   (0.13)      3.86     0.14     1.30   (69.91)
1992          77.16     8.50    85.66    (6.91)   (0.34)    10.37      0.37     3.49   (82.17)
1993         189.89    12.85   202.74   (10.44)   (0.52)    15.68      0.56     5.28  (197.46)
1994         117.94    12.85   130.79    (8.68)   (0.44)    16.78      0.56     8.22  (122.57)
1995          20.17    12.85    33.02    (4.45)   (0.22)    17.96      0.56    13.85   (19.17)
1996                   12.85    12.85      2.38     0.12     18.38     0.56    21.44     8.59
1997                   12.85    12.85      9.21     0.46     18.81     0.56    29.04    16.19
1998                   12.85    12.85    16.04      0.80     19.25     0.56    36.65    23.80
1999                   12.85    12.85    22.87      1.14     19.70     0.56    44.27    31.42
2000                    12.85    12.85    29.71     1.49     20.15     0.56    51.91    39.06
2001                    12.85    12.85    36.96     1.85     19.97     0.56    59.34    46.49
2002                    12.85    12.85    45.98     2.30     19.80     0.56    68.64    55.79
2003 /-a                19.28    19.28    57.20     2.86     19.63     0.56    80.25    60.98
2004 /_a                19.28    19.28    71.16     3.56     19.46     0.56    94.74    75.47
2005                   12.85    12.85    88.55      4.43     19.29     0.56   112.83    99.98
2006                   12.85    12.85   102.55      5.13     18.68     0.56   126.92   114.07
2007                    12.85    12.85   118.76     5.94     18.09     0.56   143.35   130.50
2008                   12.85    12.85   137.53      6.88     17.51     0.56   162.48   149.63
2009                   12.85    12.85   159.27      7.97     16.95     0.56   184.75   171.90
2010                   12.85    12.85   184.44      9.22     16.41     0.56   210.63   197.78
2011                    12.85    12.85   207.91    10.39     15.00     0.56   233.86   221.01
2012                    12.85    12.85   234.37    11.71     13.71     0.56   260.35   247.50
2013                    12.85    12.85   264.20    13.20     12.53     0.56   290.49   277.64
2014                   12.85    12.85   297.82    14.88      11.46     0.56   324.72   311.87
2015                   12.85    12.85   335.73    16.77      10.48     0.56   363.54   350.69
Total        992.09                   EIRR =                                             5.2%
NPV (12%)                                       (418.8)
First Year Retumn =                               0.7%
/_a: Major resurfacing
/_b: All figures are rounded.



-51-                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 5E: ECONOMIC EVALUATION (SECTION 5)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
costs                       ---Benefits
-----------   VOC              Reduced
Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced               Net
Constiru  Road               Sav-      ated   Exist.    Accid              Cash
Year         -ction  Maint.     Total    ings   Traffic   Road    -ents       Total    Flow
Section 5:   Tianjin-Tanggu
1987          63.94             63.94                                                 (63.94)
198g         142.48            142.48                                                (142.48)
1989          89.90             89.90                                                 (89.90)
1990          18.84             18.84                                                 (18.84)
1991          36.75             36.75                                                 (36.75)
1992          50.85             50.85                                                 (50.85)
1993         261.46    14.28   275.74    33.47     1.66     21.05     0.62    56.80  (218.94)
1994         125.60    14.28   139.88    41.21     2.06     22.52     0.62    66.41   (73.47)
1995          18.55    14.28    32.83    53.30     2.66     24.09     0.62    80.67    47.84
1996                   14.28    14.28    64.95     3.24     24.65     0.62    93.46    79.18
1997                   14.28    14.28    79.14     3.95     25.22     0.62   108.93    94.65
1998                   14.28    14.28    96.43     4.82     25.81     0.62   127.68   113.40
1999                   14.28    14.28   117.50     5.88     26.41     0.62   150.41   136.13
2000                   14.28    14.28   143.16     7.16     27.02     0.62   177.96   163.68
2001                   14.28    14.28   163.61     8.18     26.79     0.62   199.20   184.92
2002                   14.28    14.28   186.98     9.35     26.56     0.62   223.51   209.23
2003 /-a               21.42    21.42   213.69    10.68     26.33     0.62   251.32   229.90
2004 /-a               21.42    21.42   244.21    12.20     26.10     0.62   283.13   261.71
2005                   14.28    14.28   279.09    13.95     25.87     0.62   319.53   305.25
2006                   14.28    14.28   312.60    15.62     25.05     0.62   353.89   339.61
2007                   14.28    14.28   350.13    17.50     24.25     0.62   392.50   378.22
2008                   14.28    14.28   392.17    19.60     23.48     0.62   435.87   421.59
2009                   14.28    14.28   439.25    21.95     22.73     0.62   484.55   470.27
2010                   14.28    14.28   491.98    24.59     22.01     0.62   539.20   524.92
2011                   14.28    14.28   544.84    27.23     20.12     0.62   592.81   578.53
2012                   14.28    14.28   603.37    30.16     18.39     0.62   652.54   638.26
2013                   14.28    14.28   668.19    33.40     16.81     0.62   719.02   704.74
2014                   14.28    14.28   739.98    36.99     15.36     0.62   792.95   778.67
2015                   14.28    14.28   819.48    40.97     14.04     0.62   875.11   860.83
Total       808.37                   EIRR=                                            15.6%
NPV (12%) =                                     252.4
First Year Return =                              8.9%
/La: Major resurfacing.
/_b: All figues are rounided.



- 52 -                                         ANNEX 1
TABLE 6: FINANCIAL EVALUATION
(Y million)
Net            Sensitivity
Best Estimates (Total Highway) / I                           Cash                     Revenue
Costs                                  Benefits               Net      Flow     Total  Operating  (-10h/.)
Self-    Loan-                                Total  Operating  Loan    Net    Cash        on    Revenue  Costs  Operating
Year  fmancing  IBRD  Subtotal Maint.  Total    Revenue  Costs   Repay.  Revenue   Flow    Equity  (-10%)  (+10%)  (+10/%)
(1)     (2)   (3-1+2)   (4)   (5-3+4)    (6)        (7)     (8)  (9=6-7-8) (10=9-5) (11=9-2-4)  (12)    (13)      (14)
1987    109.04   47.19  156.23           156.23                                      -156.23   -109.04  -156.23  -156.23  -156.23
1988    323.58   48.38  371.96           371.96                                      -371.96   -323.58  -371.96  -371.96  -371.96
1989    221.95   94.22  316.17           316.17                                      -316.17   -221.95  -316.17  -316.17  -316.17
1990    186.52   94.52  281.04    0.31  281.35                                       -281.35   -186.83  -281.35  -281.35   -281.35
1991    118.78   94.62  213.40   13.51  226.91      15.41    11.40    0.00     4.01  -222.90   -128.28  -224.44  -224.04  -225.58
1992    157.72   63.13  220.85   27.43  248.28      36.91    21.59    0.00    15.32  -232.96   -169.83  -236.65  -235.12  -238.81
1993    409.30   55.11  464.41   53.45  517.86      53.48    21.76   94.61   -62.89  -580.75   -525.64  -586.10  -582.93  -588.27
1994    304.08   48.84  352.92   53.45  406.37    112.94    32.62   95.10   -14.78  -421.15   -372.31  -432.44   424.41   435.71
1995     74.31    13.70   88.01   53.45  141.46    116.78    49.55  128.36   -61.13  -202.59   -188.89  -214.27  -207.55  -219.22
1996                             53.45   53.45    192.00    51.11  140.48      0.41  -53.04    -53.04  -72.24   -58.15   -77.35
1997                             53.45   53.45    275.54    55.08  135.00    85.46   32.01      32.01    4.46    26.50      -1.05
1998                             53.45   53.45    315.47    57.01  153.22   105.24   51.79      51.79   20.24    46.09    14.54
1999                             53.45   53.45    359.49    58.86  158.11   142.52   89.07      89.07   53.12    83.18    47.24
2000                              53.45   53.45    409.66    60.77  164.63   184.26  130.81    130.81   89.84   124.73    83.77
2001                              53.45   53.45    445.58    62.75  171.15   211.68  158.23    158.23  113.67   151.96   107.40
2002                              53.45   53.45    486.06    64.79  177.67   243.60  190.15    190.15  141.54   183.67   135.07
2003                              80.18   80.18    531.63    66.90  185.82   278.91   198.73    198.73  145.57   192.04   138.88
2004                              80,18   80.18    582.90    69.07  193.97   319.86  239.68    239.68  181.39   232.77   174.48
2005                              53.45   53.45    640.51    71.31  202.12   367.08  313.63    313.63  24958    306.50    24245
2006                              53.45   53.45    728.90    73.63  202.12   453.15  399.70    399.70  326.81    39234    319.45
2007                              53.45   53.45    831.32    76.02  202.12   553.18  499.73    499.73  41660   492.13    40900
2008                              53.45   53.45    950.43    78.49    0.00   871.94  818.49    818.49  723.45   810.64   715.60
2009                              53.45   53.45   1089.51    81.04    0.00  1008.47  955.02    955.02  846.07   946.92   837.97
2010                              53.45   53.45   1252.58    83.67    0.00  1168.91  1115.46   1115.46  990.20  1107.09   981.84
2011                              53.45   53.45   1400.55    86.39    0.00  1314.16 1260.71   1260.71  1120.66  1252.07  1112.02
Total  1905.28  559.71 2464.99 1110.26 3575.25           FinancialRateofReturn=        5.2%      6.8%    3.9%/    5.1%      3.7%
-           -       --                              Net Present Value (12%) =  -1007.7   -664.6  -1146.9  -1029.5  -1168.7
/_1: Actual to 1995, estimates forl 996 and 1997, projection thereafter.



- 53 -                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 7: FINANCIAL VOC SAVINGS VS. TOLL RATES
(Y/km, 1996 current prices)
Section of BTTE                                    Smn3a      Med.    Large    Small      Med.    Large  Tractor-
Distance Savingsvs                                    Car       Bus      Bus    Thick    Thick    Truck   Trader
Arterial Route
Section 1:
Beijing-Majuqiao     Savings           -1996        0.19      0.88      1.09     0.38     0.24     0.38     1.88
4.0 km       30% of Savings    -1996        0.06      0.26     0.33      0.11     0.07     0.12     0.56
Section 2:
Majuqiao-Nanying     Savings           -1996        0.16      0.76     0.99      0.22     0.18     0.29     0.83
2.0 kmn      300/o of Savings    -1996      0.05      0.23     0.30      0.07     0.05     0.09     0.25
Section 3:
Nanying-Yacun        Savings           -1996        0.61      2.46     3.05      0.93     0.78     1.17     3.52
15.8 kni      30% of Savings    -1996        0.18      0.74     0.92     0.28      0.23     0.35     1.06
Section 4:
Yangcun-Tianjin      Savings           -1996        (0.05)    0.08     0.14      0.03    (0.09)   (0.08)    0.74
(10.7) kn      30% of Savings    -1996       (0.01)     0.03     0.04     0.01    (0.03)   (0.02)    0.22
Section 5:
Tinjin-Tanggu        Savings           -1996        0.40       1.66     1.96     0.94     0.56     0.86     4.91
14.2 kmn      30% of Savings    -1996        0.12      0.50     0.59     0.28      0.17     0.26     1.47
Average        Savings           -1996        0.26      1.17     1.45     0.50      0.33     0.53     2.38
Total  25.3 km       30% of Savings    -1996        0.08      0.35     0.43      0.15     0.10     0.16     0.71
Snall    Med.    Large   Tractor-
Vehicles  Vehicles  Yehicles  Trailer
BTTE Toll Charges          -1996                                    0.25     0.35     0.45     0.60
30% of VOC Savinos (1996):
Section 1      Beijing-Majuqiao                                           0.09      0.17     0.22     0.56
Section 2      Majuqi-Nanying                                             0.06      0.14     0.19     0.25
Section 3      N-nying-Yangcun                                            0.23      0.49     0.63     1.06
Section 4      Yangcun-Tianjin                                            0.00      0.00     0.01     0.22
Section 5      Tianjin-Tanggu                                             0.20      0.33     0.42     1.47
Average30%ofVOCSavings(FulllengthofBTTE)                                  0.11      0.23     0.30     0.71
Raos: 30% of VOC Savn  Toll Rate
Section I      Beijing-Majuqiao                                           0.34      0.48     0.49     0.94
Section 2      Majuqiao-Nanying                                           0.23      0.40     0.43     0.41
Section 3      Nanying-Yangcun                                            0.93      1.39     1.41     1.76
Section 4      Yangcun-Tianjin                                           -0.01      0.00     0.02     0.37
Section S      Tianjin-TanWgg                                             0.80      0.95     0.94     2.46
Average30%ofVOCSavingp(FulllengthofBTTE)                              |   0.46      0.64     0.66     1.19



- 54 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY EVALUATION REPORT
by BTT Expressway United Corporation
June 1996
The scope of the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu (BTT) Expressway Project is defined in Loan
Agreement (281 1-CHA) and Credit Agreement (1972-CREDIT), and the project is fully
appraised in the World Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 6344-CHA). The
Loan and Credit Agreements were signed by the Ministry of Finance, PRC, the
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development and the International
Development Association on September 14, 1987 and came into force on December 13,
1987. All the objectives of the Project laid down in the Staff Appraisal Report and the
Loan/Credit Agreements have been realized. The present report contains the Executing
Agency's evaluation of the Project.
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The project defined in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan/Credit
Agreements include the following features:
(a)   construction of a 143 km long, dual 2 lanes, controlled access, toll
expressway from Beijing to the new port of Xingang at Tanggu in Tianjin;
(b)   acquisition and installation of the traffic monitoring, telecommunication
and tolling systems for the Expressway;
(c)   provision of consulting services for the construction supervision and
quality control of the Expressway and training of the local supervision
staff;
(d)   provision of basic road maintenance and operation facilities for the
Expressway;
(e)   establishing a data base for Beijing Municipality;
(f)   carrying out the following studies:
(i)   Study on the Method of Financing the Expansion, Improvement
and Rehabilitation of the Highway Network



- 55 -                     ANNEX2
(ii)   Study on Application of Local Bitumen for Road Pavements
(iii)   Study on Organization and Management of Expressway Operation
and Maintenance;
(g)   staff training.
2.    Accomplishments:
(a)   A newly built 142.69 km long expressway out of which 2.29 km, from
Ningchegu Road of Tanggu District to Hebei Road in Tianjin, is Class I
Highway. In addition, a 3.07 km link road, from the starting point of the
BTT Expressway Project to the Third Ring Road in Beijing and another
8.07 km link road, from the end of the BTT Expressway Project to Tianjin
Port as well as to the Tanggu Economic Development Zone and
Preferential Tax Zone, were built.
(b)   The traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems for the
whole Expressway were acquired from Germany, Canada and Spain,
respectively.
(c)   The contract for the supervision consulting services of the BTT
Expressway was awarded to Kampsax International A/S of Denmark. In
addition, the Danish consultants arranged for 25 trainee man-months of
overseas training according to the contract.
(d)   48 items of equipment, of 14 different types, for highway maintenance and
operation were purchased separately from suppliers in Germany, Japan
and USA in 1993 and 1995.
(e)   The three studies have been completed, and the study reports have been
submitted to the Bank.
(f)   The data base, for the specific use in the operation management of the
BTT Expressway, has been successfully developed and put into operation.
(g)   140 man-months of staff training were accomplished in respect of
financial management, traffic engineering, soft ground, road & bridge
maintenance, highway data base, post-evaluation of projects, management
systems, etc.
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The State Planning Commission's document No. JJ[1984]035: "Reply re. Design
Instruction for Jing-Jin-Tang Highway for Automobiles only", granted the Jing-Jin-Tang
Highway for Automobiles only (the original name of BTT Expressway) the right to take
up a loan from abroad (e.g. the World Bank). The State Planning Commission's



- 56 -                    ANNEX2
document No. JJ[1986]1283 of July 1986: "Reply re. Design Instruction for BTT
Expressway", approved that a loan of US$150,000,000 could be taken up from the World
Bank for the BTT Expressway Project. At that time, the Chinese government was in the
process of seeking financial assistance from the World Bank in order to ease the problem
of the country's relative backwardness with regard to communications and transportation,
which was hindering the economic development. The Seventh Five-Year Plan aimed to
develop and improve the highway system by implementing optimum planning for
highway maintenance and construction as well as to upgrade and improve the highway
transportation industry. The Bank had already in 1980 begun preliminary discussions
concerning the highway industry with the Chinese government, and the first batch of
highway projects was confirmed in June 1983. Preparations for the BTT Expressway was
at that time being undertaken by the Ministry of Communications (MOC), and these
efforts were helped by the provision of consultant services, financed by ADAB, by the
highway agency of New South Wales and Mounsell Consultants, both of Australia. On
March 12, 1986 the World Bank made a preappraisal for the BTT Expressway, and the
formal appraisal followed in October 1986. In March 1987 the loan negotiation for the
BTT Expressway was held in Washington, D.C., USA. The delegation of the Chinese
government was led by Mr. Luo Qing from the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Chen Sen
from MOC. The negotiation reached a consensus on the final loan document. On
September 14 of the same year the loan agreement for BTT Expressway Project was
signed by the Chinese government and the Bank, and came into force on December 13,
1987.
4.    During the appraisal, through several discussions with MOC and representatives
from the relevant province and municipalities, the Bank was convinced that due to the
continuous increase of the import and export of goods as well as the development of
tourism in the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu region, one of the most important and crowded
transportation corridors, the traffic volume of the existing Beijing-Tanggu highway had
already far exceeded the original design capacity. In consequence, traffic jams and traffic
accidents frequently occurred.  This situation was extremely detrimental to the
requirement for economic development. It was therefore deemed necessary to build an
expressway to remedy the highly unacceptable state of affairs. This project would,
furthermore, produce additional benefits such as (i) improvement of technical design,
construction and materials specifications and (ii) strengthening of the contracting process,
construction supervision, etc. of the Chinese highway industry. To achieve these targets
staff training, studies, establishment of a data base and a series of measures aimed at the
upgrading of the future highway operation management would be implemented.
III. PROJECT PLANNING AND DESIGN
5.    The Project Objectives expressed in the Bank's appraisal report are:
(a)   to construct 142 km of high standard toll expressway;



- 57 -                    ANNEX2
(b)   technical cooperation in planning, development and maintenance of the
highway network, establishing a road data base; improving the quality of
local bitumen; and identifying the appropriate way to operate and maintain
the expressway;
(c)   training of transportation planning staff;
(d)   giving further support to highway study and research, to upgrade the
standard of design, construction and materials specifications as well as
civil engineering contract documents.
6.   In order to achieve the above project objectives, it was agreed to proceed with the
following items during the final negotiations;
(a)   civil engineering of the 143 km long toll expressway;
(b)   acquisition and installation of electronic, electrical and mechanical
facilities necessary for the Project;
(c)   appointment of Chinese and foreign supervision engineers;
(d)   purchase of facilities for expressway maintenance and operation
management;
(e)   staff training;
(f)   three studies, i.e. "raising funds for expansion and improvement of the
highway network", "the potential for using local bitumen for expressway
pavements", and "organization and management of expressway operation
and maintenance";
(g)   establishment of highway data base.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
7.    The civil works of the 143 km long toll expressway were divided into 4
construction contracts. The international competitive bidding, which was carried out
according to the requirements of the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement", took place
from September 6, 1986 to June 24, 1987, with the International Tendering Company of
the China Technical Import and Export General Company as the representative of the
employer. The result of the tender evaluation was approved by the State Tender
Evaluation Commission and affirmed by the Bank. The successful bidders were 4 Sino-
Japanese/Sino-French joint ventures. The civil works contracts were signed in Beijing on
October 27, 1987. The Chief Supervision Engineer issued order of commence on
November 25, 1987 and the construction formally began on December 23, 1987.



- 58 -                    ANNEX2
8.    The whole of Contract No. 1 and the 72 km long western section of Contract
No. 2 were opened to traffic in January 1991. The eastern section of Contract No. 2 and
the whole of Contract No. 4 (Tianjin viaduct) were opened to traffic on September 30,
1992. The length of expressway under traffic was then 109 km. In September 1993,
upon completion of Contract No. 3, the entire 143 km of expressway came into service.
9.    Contract No. 5 of the BTT Expressway Project comprised the acquisition and
installation  of  electronic,  electrical  and  mechanical  facilities,  including
telecommunication, traffic monitoring and tolling systems for the whole expressway.
Bids were called on October 20, 1990, and opening took place on April 23, 1991 through
four steps: preliminary evaluation, clarification, post-examination of qualification, final
evaluation. The result of the evaluation was approved by the State Tender Evaluation
Commission and affirmed by the Bank. Contract negotiations began in April 1992, and
signing took place in Beijing on August 1, 1992. The construction period lasted from
November 28, 1992 to April 30, 1995.
10.   Selection of consultants for supervision and training was made through limited
international competitive bidding. Kampsax International A/S of Denmark was awarded
the contract. Altogether 248 man-months were utilized for the services. The joint
supervision team, consisting of Chinese and foreign engineers, succeeded in keeping
construction time, quality and cost effectively under control.
11.   Purchase of the maintenance and operation management facilities for the
expressway was carried out in two batches. The first 11 items of equipment, of 2 kinds,
were acquired through direct purchase before the end of 1993. The remaining 37 items of
equipment, of 12 kinds, were purchased through international competitive bidding, and
delivery took place up to July 1995.
12.   Some adjustments have been made to the program for staff training. The training
actually carried out embraced the following 7 topics: maintenance management and
equipment, financial management and accounting, traffic engineering design and
application, road and bridge maintenance, soft ground design and construction,
expressway data base, post-evaluation of expressway projects. Altogether, the training
comprised 140 trainee man-months. The above training played an important role in
upgrading the technical and management level of the staff concerned.
13.   The 3 studies were successfully completed. The topics concerning "raising funds"
and "local bitumen" were both covered by the Highway Scientific Research Institute of
MOC. Their achievements have benefited the macroeconomic policy decision-making of
the Chinese government and have encouraged the use of local bitumen in high-class
highway pavements. The study on "expressway organization and management", carried
out by BTT Expressway United Corporation, has amply demonstrated the need for a well
though out expressway management system.
14.   The data base was developed specifically to serve the needs of the BTT
Expressway. The software development was accomplished by the Highway Scientific



- 59 -                     ANNEX2
Research Institute of MOC from June 1992 to June 1993. The hardware allocation was
completed in August 1993 and was ready for use in November 1993.
V. OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE
15.   The operational experience with the various items provided under the World Bank
loan for the BTT Expressway is predominantly good.
16.   Since the BTT Expressway was opened to traffic its mean annual increase of
traffic volume has been 26.4%. The average traffic volume for 1995 was 10,168 vehicles
per day, distributed as follows: Dayangfang-Majuqiao 16,129 per day, Majuqiao-
Langfang 15,843 per day, Langfang-Yangcun 12,575 per day, Yangcun-Tianjin 6,751 per
day, Tianjin-Tanggu 3,900 per day. The traffic volume in the section Dayangfang-
Yangcun has already exceeded the forecast level, that for Yangcun-Tianjin has
approached the forecast, whereas Tianjin-Tanggu is well below the forecast level.
However, the economic development in the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu region and the
construction of economic development zones along the Expressway strongly indicate that
the operational benefit of the Project will be attained. To this end it is realized that
guiding and restrictive measures should be taken to divert more traffic to the Tianjin-
Tanggu expressway section, to reach the corresponding design target.
17.   The traffic monitoring, telecommunication and tolling systems have ensure the
toll income of the whole Expressway. Furthermore, the timely collection and processing
of traffic data enable modem and effective operation management of the expressway.
18.   The physical conditions of the BTT Expressway is good and no adverse harmful
signs appeared since it was put into service. Therefore, the BTT Expressway have been
awarded the following honorable titles: "One of the greatest Ten Highway Projects since
reform and opening up" by MOC in 1993, the "Special Prize of the National Best
Engineering Design with favorable impact at home and abroad since reform and opening
up" by the Ministry of Construction in 1994, the "First Prize of High-quality Highway
Project" by MOC in 1995, and, finally, the "LUBAN Prize of Civic Engineering of China
(national high-quality project in 1996). The latter is the highest quality prize in China's
civil engineering industry, and the BTT Expressway is so far the only completed
expressway project that has won this outstanding honor. In addition, an important
achievement of a scientific research study: "Complete Sets of Technologies for BTT
Expressway Construction" won the Special-class Prize for Scientific and Technologic
Progress of MOC in 1996.
19.   All the newly purchased maintenance equipment have already been put into
operation for maintenance and emergency rescue operations. The said equipment play an
important role in ensuring traffic safety, fast re-opening of the expressway following
accidents and in providing good operational conditions.



- 60 -                    ANNEX2
20.  In addition to the BTT Expressway, the achievements of the 3 studies have been
put into effect in Hainan Province as well as the Shenyang-Dalian, Shanghai-Nanjing and
Jinan-Qingdao expressway projects, with good results.
21.   The successful implementation of the supervision and the foreign consultant
services contract have played a great role in promoting the supervision system in China
and in introducing the FIDIC Conditions for project administration in construction
contracts. It has also provided the BTT Expressway United Corporation with a high
quality expressway, effectively reducing future maintenance cost.
22.   The development and application of the data base of the BTT Expressway have
provided numerous data for effective monitoring of the operation and management
system. The data base also gives access to useful information for policy decisions by the
management organization.
VI. PERFORMANCE OF ENTITIES INVOLVED
23.   Design Institute: The main designers of the BTT Expressway are the following 5
units: First Highway Survey and Design Institute of MOC, Second Highway Survey and
Design Institute of MOC, Highway Planning and Design Institute of MOC, Highway
Scientific Research Institute of MOC, Chongqing Highway Scientific Research Institute
of MOC. The said units completed all the tender documents, including the design
drawings. They also participated in the review of design variations of major works
during the construction period and the completion acceptance of the works.
24.   Contractors: The contractors were selected through international competitive
bidding. There were 51 Chinese and foreign contractors applying for the civil works
tender documents. Through the prequalification exercise 40 individual contractors and
joint ventures were permitted to submit bids. Public bid opening was held in Beijing on
June 24, 1987. Through evaluation and selection Contract No. I was awarded to the Joint
Venture of China Road and Bridge Engineering Corporation, First Highway Engineering
Corporation of MOC and Nishimatsu Construction Co. Ltd. (Japan); Contract No. 2 was
awarded to the Joint Venture of Tianjin 5th and 1st Municipal Engineering Co. And
Beugnet Co. (France); Contract No. 3 was awarded to the Joint Venture of Tianjin First
Municipal Engineering Co. And Nippon Hodo Co. Ltd. (Japan); Contract No. 4 was
awarded to the Joint Venture of First Highway Engineering Corporation of MOC and
Kumagai Gumi Co. Ltd. (Japan). Calling bids for Contract No. 5 began on October 2,
1990. Ten contractors and joint ventures joined the competition. Bid opening took place
on April 23, 1991. The preferred bidders were: the Joint Venture of SBH Electrical
Engineering Co. (Germany) and China International Trust and Investment Corporation
won the traffic monitoring system; CANAC Telecommunication Co. (Canada) won the
integrated telecommunication system; SAINCO Traffic Control Co. Ltd. (Spain) won the
tolling system; and Tianjin Schroeder Illumination Equipments Co. Ltd. (Sino-Belgium
joint enterprise) won the lighting system.



- 61-                      ANNEX2
The main works completed by the contractors during the contract period were:
subgrade earthwork 16,627,300 m3, soft ground treatment 49 km, bituminous concrete
2
pavement 3,589,500 m , viaducts 4,913 m/2 units, large bridges 1,022.56 m/2 units,
medium and minor bridges 1,794.5 m/44 units, culverts and underpasses 19,242.m/528
units, interchanges 8 units, overpass bridges 27 units, building structures 56,000 m 2/13
locations, 6-core optical cable 150 km, emergency telephones 142 units,
telecommunication center 1 location, changeable message sign 8 pcs., changeable speed
limit sign 12 pcs., meteorological stations 3 locations, video camera 5 units, control
center 1 location, magnetic card toll lane 65 lanes/9 locations, toll center 1 location.
During construction all the contractors complied strictly with the terms of the contracts.
Work quality, progress and construction cost were effectively controlled. The Project
was considered to be of "leading national level and advanced international standard" at
the meeting of the State Acceptance Committee.
25.   Supervision/Consultants: The supervision and the consultant services of the
BTT Expressway, led by Chief Supervision Engineer, Mr. Yang Shengfu, and Chief
Resident Engineer, Mr. Tim Waage of Kampsax A/S Denmark, was fruitful. The 3-level
supervision organization (Office of Engineer's Representatives-Senior Resident
Engineer's Offices-On-site Supervision Teams) consisting of Chinese and foreign
supervision engineers, applied strict management control of to construction quality, time
limits and costs according to FIDIC conditions and supervision routines. The joint
supervision team adopted creative site control procedures, carried out spot checks,
introduced test frequency control and test data statistics for materials and completed
works. In summary, more than 80 management processes were defined and over 260
diagrams for supervision work were produced. In addition, an experience report of 1.1
million Chinese characters was compiled, which has been received with acclaim by the
Chinese supervision community.
The consultants' staff sent to BTT Expressway by Kampsax totaled 9 persons and
248 man-months. The foreign engineers' high sense of duty and serious working attitude
set a fine example for the supervision work of the BTT Expressway. The signing power
delegated to the foreign consultants effectively upgraded the quality control capability of
the supervision management and ensured strict compliance with contract stipulations.
26.   Lessons Learned:
(a)   To select qualified contractors strictly  according to International
Competitive Bidding procedures gives a strong assurance for satisfactory
works quality at a reasonable construction price.
(b)   To execute the supervision system strictly, to give full play to the
consultants' experts, to uphold the authority of the supervision engineers
to allow them to enforce justly and independently the contract conditions,
are the keys to ensure the construction quality.



- 62 -                     ANNEX2
(c)   To prepare bid/contract documents methodically and rigorously is
important to ensure smooth project execution.
(d)   To actively coordinate the Bank's missions and heed the advice given will
expedite project execution.
(el   The preparation of purchase work shall speed up and bring forward.
VII. PERFORMANCE OF EXECUTING AGENCIES
27.   Preparation of Project: In 1978 the Ministry of Communications began the
preparation work for the construction of the Beijing-Tianjin Expressway on the basis of
original investigations for Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Highway.  In 1982, the first
"Feasibility Study Report on Construction of Beijing-Tanggu Highway" was
accomplished. In 1984 the State Council gave approval to list this project as one of the
World Bank's loan candidates for 1985-1987. The Bank project identification mission
for the BTT Expressway took place in May 1984. The second "Feasibility Study Report
on Construction of BTT Expressway" was issued in September 1984, taking account of
the Chinese government's requirement that the BTT Expressway should be a toll road as
well as the Bank's comments regarding supplementary economical and financial
analyses. The preliminary design documents were completed in November 1984, and the
"Design Instruction for the BTT Expressway" was submitted to the State Council. The
Bank carried out the preappraisal in March 1986 and the formal appraisal in October
1986. At the end of the same year, the preparation of the bidding document was
completed. In March 1987 the loan negotiation for the BTT Expressway was held in
Washington, D.C., USA. The loan agreement was signed by the Chinese government and
the Bank on September 14, 1987 and came into force on December 13, 1987.
28.   Implementation of Project: According to the instruction of the State Council,
Beijing Municipality, Tianjin Municipality and Hebei Province organized the Beijing
Company, Tianjin Company and Hebei Company of BTT Expressway as the employers
of the Project, to be responsible for the construction and management of the
corresponding sections of the expressway. In April 1987 the 3 companies formed the
BTT Expressway United Corporation to act as a general representative of the Project, to
be responsible for coordinating and treating matters not suitable for any regional
company alone, including receiving the World Bank's project missions. The three
regional companies would be responsible for the management of civil engineering
contracts, land acquisition and resettlement as well as financial management. The United
Corporation would be responsible for the unified construction and management of
Contract No. 5 as well as the coordination and implementation of the subprojects under
the loan agreement, such as equipment purchase, studies, staff training, data base
development, etc.
The date of closing of the account for the project loan has been extended three
times. The final date is December 31, 1995.



- 63 -                    ANNEX2
29.   Lessons Learned:
(a)   The system  of employer's responsibility carried out on the BTT
Expressway was effective and exact.  From  the beginning of the
construction to current operation management, the United Corporation has
constantly followed up and taken charge of the project so that unnecessary
waste of time and efforts has been greatly reduced.
(b)   The independent supervision system  was effectively promoted and
willingly respected by the employers. An expressway of high quality was
thereby obtained.
(c)   The implementation and arrangement of the project must be well
coordinated. The acquisition of electronic, electrical and mechanical
facilities as well as maintenance equipment should not be disjointed with
the construction of the civil works.
(d)   The contents of studies and staff training should be closely coordinated
with the needs of the project, should serve the project and be subordinate
to the project.
(e)   preparations for the setting-up of the operation management should be
made early in the project, and funds should be allocated in the loan to
cover expenses during the initial stages of management operations.
VIII. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
30.   Preparation of Project: As far back as 1980, during the preparation of the first
report about the economic development in China, the Bank held preliminary discussions
about the highway industry with the Chinese government. In June 1983, when the World
Bank affirmed the first batch of loans for China's highway sector, the BTT Expressway
Project was included. Further discussions about this project, which commenced in 1984,
led to the formal appraisal report of April 17, 1987 (December 12, 1986). This report
identified the project objectives and features, financing plan, project benefits and outlined
a project implementation plan.
31.   Implementation of Project: During the implementation of the project the Bank
worked in close cooperation with the executing agencies. In addition to keeping in touch
with the project through the regular progress reports, the Bank sent missions, twice a year
in average, to inspect the construction site and to assist the executing agencies in
resolving problems in the implementation, so as to ensure that the project would be
smoothly implemented. The aide memoires, which were prepared at the conclusion of
ever mission, recorded the work of the Bank in a clear and concise way.
32.   Relationship with Executing Agencies: The cooperation between the Bank and
the BTT Expressway United Corporation, as well as the 3 regional companies, have been



- 64 -                    ANNEX2
good and cheerful. The Bank officials were understanding and gave full support to
circumvent restraints caused by the particular situation in China. Their missions greatly
facilitated the implementation of the project.
33.   Lessons Learned:
(a)   It must be fully understood that both the Bank and the executing agencies
are working towards the same goal. The cooperation between the parties
must be frank, open and based on mutual understanding and support.
(b)   The implementation of the project nurtured and tempered a batch of
qualified Chinese professional personnel familiar with the international
practice of construction, management and supervision of large highway
projects.
(c)   Since the construction period of this type of project is always quite long, it
would reduce the potential for misunderstandings in the course of the
implementation if the Bank's project officials could be retained
throughout.
IX. OPERATIONAL PLAN
34.  (a)   To make full use of the facilities put into the Project during the
construction period, build a modern management system, continue to
apply the principle of "unified construction, unified management, unified
tolling, unified repayment".
(b)   To work out a series of manuals, systems and regulations for future
operation management, make full use of the data base of the BTT
Expressway, accumulate and unceasingly collect data and information
concerning highway operation, provide a scientific approach to the
operation management.
(c)   To give priority to the work of diverting more traffic to the Tianjin-
Tanggu section.
(d)   To provide a high-speed, simple and safe mode of transportation for the
development zones along the expressway to promote social benefits and at
the same time increase the toll income of the expressway, so as to make
the operation of the BTT Expressway even better.
35.  It has been decided through consultation that the United Corporation will submit
to the Bank an operation report annually and a post-evaluation of the economic benefits
every 3 years.



- 65 -                     ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: SUPERVISION/ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    This Aide Memoire records the major points of discussions and understandings
reached among representatives of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) (Mr. Ren
Jinxiong), the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway United Corporation (BTTEUC)
(Messrs. Tian Ning Shou and Dong Ping Ru) and the World Bank (Messrs. 0. Raggambi
and Huang Bang Ben) regarding the implementation of the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu
Expressway Project on July 1 and 14, 1995.
BTT Expressway
Activities during 1995
2.    Following the understanding reached during the November 1994 Bank
supervision mission's visit regarding the implementation of the still outstanding works
during 1995, the Bank agreed to a further one-year extension of the loan/credit closing
date to December 31, 1995.
3.    The activities identified in November 1994 for execution in 1995 included the
commissioning of the E&M works covering telecommunication, traffic monitoring and
toll operation systems and the delivery of maintenance equipment procured during 1994.
All other works under the project had been completed.
4.    Regarding the E&M works, the commissioning has been completed, the works
have been accepted, and the maintenance periods have commenced. Some pavements are
still outstanding on the telecommunication and traffic monitoring contracts. Maintenance
equipment, except two items, has been delivered.
Resettlement
5.    A Bank Resettlement Mission (RM) visited the project site in November/
December 1994 and had discussions with representatives of BTTEUC and local
governments regarding the execution of the resettlement actions. The RM concluded that
some of the adversely effected people may have initially experienced difficulties in
restoring their standards of living. However, there is a consensus that the project brought
considerable benefits to the people because of the major investments, which have taken
place in the project area, have created job opportunities.
6.    RM  also noted that the proper drainage of underpasses is still a problem.
BTTEUC informed the mission that it had been well aware of this, and has been taking



-66 -                     ANNEX3
measures to alleviate the inconvenience caused through providing pumps and
maintenance crews to remove the water.
Disbursements
7.    The expected final amount of disbursement of the Credit (Credit 1792-CHA)
according to categories is:
Category    (1)   Civil Works                SDR 83,638,000
Category    (2)   Equipment-Part A           SDR   6,366,000
Category    (3)   Equipment-Others           SDR  4,293,800
Category    (4)   Consultant/Training        SDR  4,602,200
Total                                  SDR 98,900,000
8.    The expected final amount of disbursement of the Loan (Loan 2811 -CHA)
according to categories is:
Category    (1)   Civil Works                    $ 17,139,800
Category    (2)   Equipment-Part A                 $4,424,400
Category    (3)   Equipment-Others                 $3,435,800
Category    (4)   Consultant/Training                      0
Total                                       $25,000,000
Preparation of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
9.    The Bank, in its letter dated June 6, 1995, informed BTTEUC about the scope of
and procedures for the preparation of an ICR for the Project. Regarding the economic
reevaluation for the BTT Expressway, request for the submission of relevant data was
also attached to the Bank's letter. During the course of discussions the following key
points were covered:
10.   Economic Evaluation-BTT Expressway
(a)   BTTEUC, if considered necessary, will make direct contact with Mr. Han-
Kang Yen, Research Analyst, Transport Division for clarification of some
aspects of the data, requested by the Bank;
(b)   a traffic flow diagram along the full length of the highway indicating the
volume of through and turning traffic at interchanges will be provided;
(c)   in addition to routine maintenance cost, costs associated with elimination
of defects, further protection or improvement cost will be provided in
sufficient detail on a year-to-year basis; and
(d)   all relevant information will be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1995.



- 67 -                     ANNEX3
11.   BTTEUC's Report. It was agreed that BTTEUC's implementation report(s),
covering all project components (expressway civil and E&M works, supervision,
equipment procurement, staff training, three studies, RDB/PMS development) will be
submitted to the Bank by November 30, 1995. It was further agreed that the reports, in
addition to providing factual information and data, would also cover the qualitative
aspects of the activities. Regarding civil works, all major deviations from original plans
and major variation orders will be reported and discussed with sufficient explanation for
the changes.
12.   Draft CIR Report by Bank Staff. Based on the report(s) and information
provided by BTTEUC, and records available in the Bank, Bank staff will prepare a draft
CIR report, which is expected to be sent to MOC and BTTEUC for review by the end of
January 1996, and BTTEUC's comments on the report are expected to be received in the
Bank by the end of February 1996.
13.   BTTEUC's Summary Evaluation Report (ER). A summary evaluation report,
not exceeding 10 pages will be prepared by BTTEUC by mid-February 1996 and
submitted to the Bank, through MOC/MOF by mid-March 1996. The suggested scope
and the structure for the summary report are indicated in Annex 1 and Annex 2,
respectively.
14.   Future Operation Plans and Monitoring. It was agreed that as part of its plan
for the future operation of the BTT Expressway, BTTEUC would undertake the following
actions:
(a)   Prepare and thereafter maintain an Administrative Operation Manual for
the overall management and the day to day operation of the BTT
Expressway. The manual will include (i) a schedule for taking measures
for improving the operational efficiency of the expressway, such as
enforcing traffic regulations, taking measures for reducing accidents, etc.;
(ii) procedural instructions and formats for the regular monitoring of
traffic volume, prevailing toll rates, toll revenues, budgets and expenditure
statements, maintenance costs, cost of additional investments to improve
the efficiency of the highway system, accident records and any other items
that have a bearing on the operation of the system; (iii) monitoring land
use changes in the highway corridor that could be attributed to the
highway; and (iv) provision for the reevaluation of the economic benefits,
from the end of 1995 in three-year intervals.
(b)   The format for the storage and presentation of the information will be
determined by BTTEUC within the framework of BTTEUC's
administration system.
Note: The original of the Aide Memoire, signed by representatives of BTTEUC and the
Bank Group, is in the Project File.






MAP SECTION



IBRD 19661R
A                             GofZ80                o~oH E BE
BE  I G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~EE
BEIJING  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ITOO~Mt    miHEE
14.0K            -      ossn
Nor~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,O0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       TINI ,  NProose 'INeG
.19.             Singie toc0k oA,,oys
BEI        GS HI                  f                   HEBE- Po,rirCe bou,,daries 
BEIJING- TIANJIN- TANGGU  EXPRESSWAY
cO
~~~~- ~~~~~~~~~ ~~Proposed Projects:                           Existing:
q  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~       -    Expressway              -     Primary roads
-   -Connecting roads            Secondary roads
~-Tolligates             - o-Double track railways
-  1o~~e sin o0Q(o~ so~   Interchanges                 Single track railways
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4]-Service areas                                                              Canals
72.2 Km    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~Highwary administration                                               Rivers
headquarters                 Airports
ci   ~~~~~  TANGGU ~~~~~~~~0    Maintenaince depotsUrnaes
Bus stops
4 78                           a    Towns and villages
7NJIN                                                                                                      --Ioghe'  - Bigs-  Province boundaries
0    Communication points
Terminals (toll plazas)
T/A NJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             10  15  20
s H    Shu.ng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~klmll
0" 0~,,oodo,,,  o o .,   m ZI. ord =0
MORCH 5997






IMAGING
Report No.:          16389
Type:      ICR



