'lb World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6344-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
RELJTNG-TTANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
April 17, 1987
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1986)
Currency name                   =    Renminbi
Currency unit                   =    Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
US$1.00                              Y 3.70
US$0.27                              Y 1.0
US$1.0 million                  =    Y 3.7 million
US$270270                            Y 1.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)             =    10.76 square feet (fi2)
1 square kilometer (km2)             0.4 square miles (mi )
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2            0.47 ac es (ac) = 15 m1u
1 mu                            =    666.7 m5 = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 =    2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 netric ton (m ton'            =    2,204 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AADT      -    Average Annual Daily Trafffic
CADE      -    Computer-Aided Design and Engineering
CHB       -    County Highway Bureau
CTC       -    Central Trucking Company
CTD       -    County Transport Department
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
GNP       -    Gross National Product
HR        -    Highway Bureau
HPDI      -    Highway Planning and Design Institute
H1SRI     -    Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ITC       -    International Tendering Corporatior
MOC       -    Ministry of Communications
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
PHB       -    Provincial Highway Bureau
PTC       -    Provincial Trucking Company
PTD       -    Provincial Transport Department
SAA       -    State Auditing Administration
VOC       -    Vehicle Operating Costs
Vpd       -    Vehicle per day



FoR omcUL uK ONLY
CVNA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Credit and Project Summary ........ . . . . .. . . . . .. .  . .............      iv
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   EconomicSetn .........,, ....1
C.   Investment               .      ............ ..................             2
D.   Transport System.. .....................         .          .... ..       2
E.   Transport Issues and Objectives in the 19809.............                   4
II.   HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A^.   Network .."... ,,.,, .............                                       5
B.   Traffic Growth and  Characteristics6........9s..........                    6
C.   The Vehicle Fleet,,               ..     ....................              7
D.   The Trucking Industry  ....... .                                           8
E.   Vehicle Operating Costs, Trucking Tariffs and Profit.....                   8
F.   Highway Administration.,,...,,,,,,,    ........ ........  . ..   ...        9
G.   Planning, Budgeting and Financing ......................                    9
H.   Engineering           ...                                                  i......... , ,  ,  ,  *  Li
I.   Construction and Maintenance.,......            , , .,                    11
J.   Road Safety........a                                                       12
K.   Staff Training                          .....                              12
L.   Highway Development: Policy and Objectives for 1980s.....                  13
M.    Previous Bank Financed Project in Highway Subsector r.....                13
III.  THE PROJECT
A.    Project Formulation and Preparation.....................                  14
B.   Project Objectives         ......................  ,.            .        14
C.   D etailed Features..  ... ...                     .                     15
D.   Cost Estimates .....g......o............................                   19
E .   F in)a nc ing a                a*    . ...a.a.....a...   ,                    . a   , ,,, ..0.   , .  ........ 6              1 9
F.   imp;lementation ,,,,,,. ,, ....... .**...                                  21
G.   Procurementa.  Effect.............. .            . ..... ..   ..       22
H.   Disbursements,,, ......................,,,. . ,,,.,, .....   24
I.   Auditing, Reporting and M4onitoring.,,, .......................... ,,,,..., 25
J.   Environmental                                Efcs,,, 25
The project was appraised and this report was prepared by S. Teravaninthorn
(Economist) and B. P. Kennedy (Engineer). F. Johansen (Economist) and H. Yen
(Research Assistant) assisted in the appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   The Existing Corridor............ *.......... .                  26
B.   Traffic on the Existing Road (Present and Future) ........       26
C.   Projected Traffic on the Expressways.....................        27
D.   Economic   Evaluation  .................................... .    28
E.   Overall Evaluation and Risks        ...............              29
V.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................         30
TAILES
1.1   Freight Traffic, 1952-1985
1.2   Passenger Traffic 1952-1985
1.3   Investment in the Transport Sector (Including Posts
and Telecomunications)
2.1   Highway Design Standards in China
2.2   Road Pavement Standards
2.3   International Comparison of Vehicle Production in 1930
2.4   Motor Vehicles Manufacturee in and Imported into China,
1980-1984
2.5   Total Freight Transport Handled by State and Social Trucks
2.6   CTC's Vehicle Operating Costs in 1983
2.7   Composition of Vehicle Operating Costs
3.1   1990 Traffic in Terms of Passenger Car Units (PCUs)
3.2   Expressway Design Standards
3,3   Training Program
3.4   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4.1   Transport Between Tanggu Port and Its Hinterland
4.2   Traffic on the Existing Roads Without Expressway, 1984-2010
4.3   Traffic Growth Assumption, 1984-2010
4.4   Total Traffic on Expressway, 1984-2010
4.5   Project Economic Cost Estimate
4.6   Vehicle Operating Costs on Existing Roads and on Expressway
4.7   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
1.    Project Implementation Schedule
2.    Project Monitoring Indices
3.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- iii -
CHATS
1.    Organization of the Ministry of Communications (IBRD 30908)
2.    Organization of the Highway Bureau at the Ministry of Cormunications
(IBRD 26871)
3.    Relationship between Central and Provincial Transport Departments (IBRD
26423)
4.    Organization of the Education and Science and Technology Bureaus of the
HOC (IBRD 26869)
5.    Transverse Sections - Road Foundation and Bridges (IBRD 27825)
KAPS
China Transport System - IBRD 19291
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Location - IBRD 19661



- iv -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   People's Republic of China
Amount:                     US$150.0 million equivalent comprising a Bank loan
of US$25.0 million equivalent and an IDA Credit of
SDR 98.9 million (US$125.0 million).
Terms:                      Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace at
standard variable interest rate.
Credit:  Standzrd.
Project Description:        The project aims to assist the Government in meeting
the road transport demand in one of the most
important and congested corridors in China and in
increaring the efficiency and cost effectiveness of
the highway subsector. Specifically, the project
comprises: (a) construction of a high-standard
tolled expressway (142 km) and two connecting roads;
(b) technical assistance in improving the planning,
development and maintenance of the highway system by
setting up a road data bank on the highway network,
5c) studies on (i) method of financing the expansion
and improvement of the highway network; (ii)
upgrading the quality of local bitumen to be used
for road paving and (iii) identifying the
appropriate way to operate and maintain the
expressway; (d) staff training in the area of
transportation planning; and (e) continuing
assistance in highway-related research and
modernization of design, construction and materials
specifications, and civil works contract
documentation.
Projec. Benefits
and Risks:               The principal benefits accruing to users of the
expressway would be savings in vehicle operating
costs and a reduction in accidents. The expressway
would be the first such tolled facility to be built
in China under international competitive bidding.
Therefore, there is some risk of delays in project
implementation, which could increase costs. This
risk would be reduced by appropriate supervision in
the early project stages. Training would also be
provided to (i.0C) personnel in construction super-
vision and in the maintenance and operation of the
new expressway.



v 
Project Costs:                                             Local  Foreign   Total
--- 7US` milIion)
Expressway constructiotu        87.2   115.5    202.7
Equipment for maintenance,
operation and monitoring
of expressway                   -       5.0      5.0
Consultant services for
supervision, studies, etc.   0.3        5.0      5.3
Staff training                    -       0.8      0.8
Base Cost                  87.5   126.3    213.8
Physical contingencies           8.8    12.6      21.4
Price contingencies              7.4    11.1       18.5
Subtotal                  103.7   150.0    253.8
Land acquisition                22.0       -      22.0
Totai Project Costs /a         125.8   150.0    275.8
Financing Plan
IBRD                            -     25.0      25.0
IDA                             -    125.0    125.0
Covernment                   125.8       -     125.8
Total Financing           125.8   150.0    275.8
Estimated Disbursement:   Bank Croup FY              1988  1989  1990   1991  1992
S ----   (US$millions) … ------
Annual                    18    32    45       35   20
Cumulative                18    50    95      130  150
Economic Rate of Return: 15X
/a   Import taxes and duties are not included in project costs.



CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      During the  aree decades following the foundation of t4e People's
Republic in 1949, China's planners emphasized self-sufficiency and heavy
industry over lignt industry and services. Such development priorities tend
to result in heavy demands for transportation, primarily because of a very
high volume of long haul traffic in bulk materials and fuels. Despite the
more balanced approach encouraged under the recent reforms, China remains a
"transport-intensive" economy and, indeed, Chinese policy statements
repeatedly identify transportation as one of the two most criti al bottlenecks
in the economy; energy shortage is the other. Coal is at the heart of both
bottlenecks, because coal is simultaneously the most important source of
energy and the largest user of transport capacity. This dual protblem with
coal is exacerbated by China's high level of energy consumption per unit of
GDP (about two and a half times that of other LDCs).
1.02      The need to ship large volumes of coal is not the sole cause of the
transportation bottleneck.  The extraordinarily rapid growth of China's
economy overall in recent years--and the accompanying structural
transformation--is exacerbating transportation problems, especially as regards
road transportation and passenger traffic. The Government has made consider-
able efforts to reduce vaste within the transport system (for example, by
eliminating cross hauling of the same commodity, increasing the processing of
raw materials before shipment, and increasing the intensity of road and water-
way utilization) which are certainly desirable. Efficiency enhancement,
fostered by investment in and modernization of China's transportation infra-
structure, institutions and services, will continue to be a top priority in
the development program for many years to come.
B. Traffic
1.03      Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1985 (the last
year for which complete statistics are available) reached 1,276 billion
ton-km, a 27% increase over 1983 for an average growth rate of almost 8S p.a.
since 1979, systematically higher than the growth of domestic product. Con-
servative projections based on these data and expected growth in the economy
as a whole, indicate that domestic freight traffic could approach 3,000 bil-
lion ton-km by the year 2000. The modal split has moved toward a better bal-
anced use of modes with the road share of freight transport increcsing from 9X
in 1980 to 14% in 1985. This trend is expected to intensify with diversifica-
tion and continuing rapid growth of short-haul traffic: indeed, during the
period from 1980 to 1985, the growth of road freight transport reached an
average of 18.4% p.a. which is substantially higher than the growth rate
recorded by any other mode for domestic freight transport (Table 1).



1.04      Passenger Traffic.  Passenger traffic reached 425 billion passenger-
km (p-km) in 1985 -- a 17% increase over 1984, for an average annual growth
rate of over 13% since 1979. Growth might have been even more rapid if it had
not been constrained by the limited capacity of the transport sector, particu-
larly  he railways, to offer more passenger serv:ces.  The modal split has
shifted more rapidly than for freight, and the roads now handle about 36% of
the traffic versus less than 10% in 1952 and 28% in 1977. Despite the recent
rapid growth of passenger traffic, the mobility of the Chinese people is still
much lower than that of people in countries with comparable income levels. By
the turn of the century, passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion
p-km per year or about three and a half times current levels.
C. Investment
1.05      Over the period 1953-1985, some Y 154 billion, or 14% of all new
investments under the Central Government's control went to transport. Roads
received 10% of the transport sector's 1983 share dnd 12% of 1984's (Table
1.3). Compared with other countries, transport investments appear somewhat on
the low side, which nas contributed to transport's being a bottleneck to
economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of coal had
accumulated in Shanxi for lack of transport; some of it was destroyed by
spontaneous combustion. Despite a recent policy of curtailing production to
match available transport, the volume of coal stockpiled in Shanxi increased
during 1984. In addition, rural areas have inadequate road networks to serve
agriculture and rural enterprises, and lack of proper handling facilities in
the ports is hampering the trade of such bulk commodities as fertilizers,
cement, grain and containers. Overcoming thesL bottlenecks will require much
larger investments in transport in future decades. An ongoing comprehensive
transport study in Guangdong and a study on highway financing under this
project (para. 3.12) should help Government identify the appropriate level of
investments for transport as a whole and for each mode of transport.
D. Transport Systems
1.06      The railway system consists of 52,000 operational route-km (or
90,000 km in.luding offshoots and industrial spurs), of which about 9,700 km
are double- or multiple-track and 3,100 km are electrified. The network is
served by 11,100 locomotives, 291,000 freight cars and 19,600 passenger
coaches. At present, 68% of tractive power is still steam, 28% diesel and 4%
electric. Freight traffic density averages 15 million net ton-km per route-
km, the second highest freight density in the world after the Soviet Union and
50% higher than freight density in the United States. Freight traffic reached
725 million t-km in 1984. Growth, which has averaged 5.2% p.a. since 1978,
reached 9% in 1984. Three quarters of all freight traffic involves 10
commodities including coal, iron and steel, grain and construction
materials. The passenger traffic density of 4.2 million passenger-km per
route-Pm also ranks second in the world, this time after India. In 1985,
1.1 billion passengers were carried. The average annual increase since 1978
has been 11% p.a.



- 3 -
1.07      Despite qome possible rationalization in the transport of natural
resources and heavy industrial outputs, transport demand for the major com-
modities is expected to grow rapidl". Although the rail share of the total is
expected to decrease, rail traffic will continue to grow, requiring massive
investments in line capacity, motive power and rolling stock wall into the
future. The Bank has financed three railway projects (Loan 2394-CHA, 1984,
Loan 2540-CHA, 1985 and Loan 2678-CHA/Credit 1680 CHA, 1986), involving line
capacity increases; assistance in the manufacturing of electric locomotives,
passenger coaches and signalling equipment; and assistance to railway manage-
ment. A fourth railwey project is now under preparation.
1.0&      The port and watetway system is romposed of about X09,000 km of
navigable inland waterways and over 18,000 km of coastal line. Domestic
coastal shipping--which offers an alternative to north-south railway--has
grown in recent years but remains underdeveloped. Foreign trade shipping has
grown an average of about 11% p.a. since 1976, reflecting the economic opening
of China to foreign trade. As a result, ports have become congested despite
commendable efforts to achieve high productivity. Most of the 15 major
coastal ports are being renovated or expanded, with particular emphasis on the
construction of container and bulk terminals, the Latter mainly for coal. The
Bank's first transport operation in China was the Three Ports Proje..t (Loan
2207-CHA, 1982), which includes container terminals at Huangpu, Shanghai, and
Tianjin, and a coal berth at Huangpu. The second port project (Loan 2689-CHA,
1986) is financing the construction of 11 additional berths at Tianjin for
timber, construction material, and general cargo. Third and fourth port
projects, providing five berths at Huangpu and four berths at Dalian,
respectively, have been appraised.
1.09      The highway system totalled about 942,400 km of road in 1985.  Since
the early 1980s the network has borne an increasing share of traffir. The
share of road freight traffic increased from 4% in 1977 to 14% in 1985
(Table 1.1), and the share )f passenger traffic increased from 28% to 36% dur-
ing the same period (Table 1.2). This trend is expected to continue as short
haul traffic shifts from rail to road and the demand for road transport
increases with expansion of the service sector, increased processing of
primary materials before shipping and, in particular, the increasing import-
ance of foreign trade as well as the containerization of that traffic.
1.10      Due to the increasing importance of foreign trade, traffic growth
will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main ports and their
hinterlands. And with containerization trends accelerating in line with
higher value commodity production and technology developments, much of foreign
trade is expected to go by road. If road capacity is available in such corri-
dors it is expected to handle normal traffic increases, short-haul traffic
from railways and traffic related to accelerated urban, industrial and port
development. In many corridors road capacity is insufficient; the Beijing-
Tianjin-Tanggu corridor is one of them.
1.11      The highway subsector is discussed in more detail in Chiapter II.



E. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.12      The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic development, and capacity constraints are jvident in all modes. The
most serious transport need is for dramatically expanded road capacity, espe-
cially in rural areas where increased agricultural and small scale industrial
production have created an urgent demand for better farm-to-market transport
services. Road transport will also be called upon to meet a growing share of
the demand for passenger transportation from the increasingly mobile popula-
tion. The railway subsector is also taxed; present network capacity severely
hampers delivery of enprgy supplies (i.e., coal). Although recently initiated
investments in rail line electrification and new line construction are
addressing the problem, it will take sever l years to alleviate bottlenecks
between major mining areas and coastal cif:ies. For the port snd waterways
system, China also needs to expand substartially its facilities to relieve the
growing hindrance to external trade caused i'y inadequate berth capacity and
container handling capacity.
1.13      China's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) recognizes all these
sectoral needs. By the end of the plan period, freight trarfic is projected
to be 45% high,er than in 1985, and passenger traffic 60% higher, with a dis-
proportionately greater share of the increase falling on road transport. To
meet these needs, substantial investments are envisioned, especially in high-
way network expansior., new rail lines, doubl -tracking and electrification of
existing lines, and more berths at coastal ports. The Plan also pr)poses to
secure efficiency gains in transportation from operational improvements; these
include the development of integrated transportation networks, in particular
for coal transportation and for import/export trade, and technological
improvements such as container-handling fac:.lities and intermodal transport
centers. To facilitate these developments, the Plan envisions significant
institutional changes in the sector, including an extension of the policy of
separating the functions of government from those of operating enterprises and
delegating greater authority to the latter (recently begun in the ports
subsector). Continuing adjustment of charges for transportation services is
expected to assisi. the funding of investments in the sector from internally
generated resources.
1.14      The Bank supports the government's oojectives and initiative for
developmint of the transportation sector, and is supporting it  initiatives
with both financial and technical assistance. A highway project (Loan 2539-
CHA/Credit 1594-CHA) involves the construction ot improvement of national and
rural roads, as well as supporting highway research; the project is described
more fully in para. 2.32. Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA, 2540-CHA,
and 2678-CHA/Credit 1680-CHA) have assisted the expansion of capacity on key
routes and the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and
signalling equipment. Two port projects (Loans 2207-CHA, and 2689-CHA) have
financed the expansion of berths and berth handling capacity of three out of
fourteen major ports in China. Besides these subsector-specific operetions,
the bank has recently beggun to assist the government in the conduct of
strategic studies of a wider nature; a review of the utilization of water
transport was recently completed, and a comprehensive transportation study for
Guangdong province is under way.



II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.01      China's roa4 network is the sixth largest in the world, although
relatively underdeveloped. Of the 942,400 km of road in 1985, only 195,000 km
(about 21%) had asphaltic concrete or bituminous coated macadam pavements.
Most of these pavements are of poor quality, have exceeded their design life
and are deteriorating wiih the increased traffic. The current road density of
about 96 km per 1,000 km or 9.0 km per 10,000 population is still very low,
even though in 1985 the network was 1;.6 times larger than in 1949. A com-
parison of China's road density with that of other countries is shown below:
Road Network Density
km/10,000 population            km/1,000 km2
China (1985)                 9.0                         96.54
USSR (1979)                 54.1                         63.71
Korea (1980)                12.4                        476.77
India (1979)                24.3                        488.31
Japan (1980)                95.2                      2,947.95
Brazil (1980)              118.2                        163.85
USA (1979)                 280.2                        673.24
2.02       For the purposes of design and technical specifications, the highway
network is classified as expressway, and classes 1, 2, 3 and 4.  The various
classes are designed for the following average annual daily traffic (AADT)
capacities: expressway for more than 25,000 vehicles; class 1 for more than
5,000 vehicles; class 2 for 2,000-5,000 vehicles; claso 3 for fewer than
2,000 vehicles; class 4 roads, which mainly serve agriculture, for fewer than
200 vehicles. Table 2.1 shows the geometric standards for the various classes
of road. A road pavement specification categorizes paved roads as highest,
high, medium or low quality (Table 2.2).  By the end of 1985, only about 0.04%
and 2.25% of the total road length had been built to class 1 and 2 standards,
respectively. To date, no expressways have been built; this project will help
build the first expressway in China.
2.03       For administrative purposes, roads are clissified as trunk, county,
rural (communal), and special purpose.  Trun' roada, which are the responsi-
bility of the Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs), consist of national and
provincial roads. National roads serve as links between provincial capital
cities, other important cities, autonomous regions, ports, and major transport
terminals. They have been so designated regardless of their class. Provin-
cial roads serve the provinces and cities. Most provincial roads have been
built to standards lower than class 2. County roads, the responsibility of
the County Transport Departments (CTDs), are usually lower th-n class 3. Most



- 6 -
comunal roads, which are built and maintained by local authorities, cannot
meet even class 4 road standards, and some road sections are impassable after
severe rain. The special purpose roads, built exclusively for mining, fores-
try or other purposes, are constructed and maintained by the main user. The
total number of kilometers of each type of road is given below.
Road Network by Administrative Category (1985)
Road                          Length          Z of total
classification                       (km)             network
Trunk
National roads                    110,000              12
Provincial roads                  144,400              15
County                              331,200              35
Communal                            313,600              33
Special purpose                      43,200               5
Total                         942,400              100
2.04      The administrative classification of the network has become more
systematic since 1978, resulting in a fundamental improvement in planning and
management. One of the results has been the identification of some 4000 km of
national road sections which were either missing entirely or substandard and
as such are designated missing road links. Upgrading the national road
network, including the construction of missing road links, is a priority of
the Ministry of Communication's (MOC) road development plan. The Bank's first
Highway Project in China (Loan 2539-CHA, Credit 1594-CHA, 1985) involves the
construction or improvement of about 230 km of the identified missing national
road links.
B. Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.05      Historically the roads in China were designeii for and have carried
only a small percentage of the total traffic. Thus, the recent rap.d traffic
growth especially on the trunk highways has created many capacity and struc-
tural problems. Assuming the current annual g-owth rates of about 15% for
motorized traffic and for vehicle fleet, traffic volume will double in less
than five years. Around some major cities, the annual growth of traffic is as
high as 18-19%, making congestion a serious problem.
2.06      The traffic growth stems not only from the country's rapid economic
growth but also from other factors, including a general shift of short-haul
transport from rail to road. This traffic increase exacerbates the congestion
which primarily results from mixed traffic with the slow-moving vehicles such
as bicycles, tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles impeding the faster moving
vehicles. Multipurpose tractors, in particular, cause congestion on trunk
roads and will not be easily diverted to other roads in the short-term.



- 7 -
Assuming that the present traffic composition Gontinues, many segments of the
existing trunk road network will be saturated within the next five years.
Under the first Highway Project, the Bank is helping the Ministry of
Communications study this problem.
2.07      In 1978, MOC introduced a thorough traffic counting system for part
of the national and provincial road network. The count is made on a 24-hour
basis, three times a month, year-round, and includes nonmotorized vehicles.
However, the traffic counting system should be augmented with more origin-
destination surveys in order to obtain more accurate information on traffic
tlows for highway planning and design. MOC is aware that its traffic analysis
needs to be broadened and is moving toward more comprehensive surveys.
C. The Vehicle Fleet
2.08      Most motor vehicles in China are domestically produced.  Several
features of this production are striking. First, unlike other developing
countries, trucks outnumber cars by about nine to one. Passenger cars are
produced on an annual basiR of only one car per 84,000 population. This is
about 1/4 that of India, 1/28 that of Peru, and 1/135 that of Chile
(Table 2.3). Second, ther are almost no light trucks (less than two-ton
capacity) and few large trucks with more than an eight-ton capacity. Finally,
vehicles have outmoded designs and very low fuel efficiency, with most trucks
being gasoline powered.
2.09      The many manufacturing ?lants each produce only a small number of
vehicles. Of the 70 motor vehicle plants reported to be in operation, only a
few can produce between 15,000-70,000 vehicles per year; some serve only local
demand and produce fewer than 20 vehicles a year. Recognizing the ineffi-
ciency of these operations, the Government is trying to rationalize the
industry by integrating smaller factories into larger companies, with each
factory specializing in producing certain parts and components for a final
assembly plant. The new integrated plants are expected to avoid duplication,
increase specialization and make full use of production equipment so as to
gain economies of scale.
2.10      In 1984 China produced about 181,800 trucks and was ranked tenth
largest among civilian truck producers worldwide, yet this was still not suf-
ficient for the huge and growing domestic demand. The entire stock of trucks
in 1984 was approximately 1.8 million units. Assuming a ten-year life, the
present production would be barely enough to replace retired vehicles. With a
42% increase in freight transport in 1984 (Table 1.1), a shortage of vehicles
is inevitable and the need for trucks with capacities of over eight tons and
less than two tons is expected to be particularly acute. As a result, China
has been regularly importing trucks. Though imports have been few and fluctu-
ating, total vehicle imports increased sixfold from 1983 to 1984 (Table 2.4).



- 8 -
D. The Trucking Industry
2.11      China's trucking fleet consists of public trucks operated by MOC and
"isocial trucks", a term loosely equivalent to "own-account trucks" owned by
factories or any cooperative organization. Competition between public and
social trucks is increasing. Most of the traffic growth in the past two ye.rs
has been absorbed by social trucks (Table 2.5). MOC's trucking industry is
composed of the Central Trucking Company (CTC) and the Provincial Trucking
Companies (PTCs). CTC specializes in modern, large-volume transport,
,ncluding a container trucking service. It handles longer distance inter-
provincial traffic, while the PTCs handle the shorter hauls and intermodal
transfers.
2.12      Both MOC and social trucks share problems of misallocation and mis-
management of truck and fuel resources which result in a simultaneous shortage
of some trucks and underutilization of many others. In some areas the social
trucks have a low load factor and, very frequently, empty back-haul. Average
load factor is about 63% for the MOC trucks and 35% for the social trucks.
Aside from empty back-hauls, there are also problems of fuel efficiency, and
little variation in truck size; the majority of truck fleets have old
gasoline-powered four-ton standardized trucks.
E. Vehicle Operating Costs, Trucking Tariffs and Profit
2.13      Table 2.6 shows the typical vehicle operating costs (VOCs) for
trucks. Operatiag the most commonly used four-ton truck costs hetween Y 0.10-
0.17 (US 2.7-4.6 cents) per ton-km, depending upon the geometric design stan-
dards of the road. Fuel (mostly gasoline) and vehicle maintenance account for
over 40% of total VOCs (Table 2.7). Gasoline, which is rationed by coupons,
has been priced for many years at an average of Y 820 per ton (US$222).
Gasoline sold above the coupon quota is priced at around Y 1,100 per ton
(US$297), and can go up to Y 1,300-1,400 per ton in some remote area. The
price varies regionally to reflect differences in transport and distribution
costs and had been well above the world market price until the recent major
changes in exchange rates. However, with the recent fluctuation in world
market price in late 1985, gasoline price in China was again substantially
above the c.i.f. Singapore cargo price of US$150 per ton in April 1986.
2.14      Each year, the trucking division of MOC issues a set of planned
vehicle operating cost targets and official tariff rates which serve as guide-
lines for trucking companies pricing. (Details of costs and tariffs are in
the project file.) The official tariff rates, ranging from Y 0.18-0.20 per
ton-km, are about 17% higher than the planned VOC target and in theory would
ensure a 17% profit to trucking companies; however, actual VOCS are sometimes
higher. Topography and road conditions is one factor which partially explains
the higher costs; it is expected that an ongoing comprehensive transport study
for Guangdong Province will further clarify the actual relationship between
VOCs and tariff rates. Anothe. factor is the trucking companies' practice of
keeping many old, inefficient trucks that need expensive maintenance and
repair.



- 9 -
F. Highway Administration
2.15      Highways as well as inland waterways and coastal shipping, are
administered by MOC, which is directly under the State Council. MOC has 11
bureaus in 4 groupi under four vice-ministers in charge of roads and road
transport, inland waterways and coastal transport, planning and budgeting, and
science and technology (Chart 1). One of the bureaus is the Highway Bureau
(HB). It has nine divisions. MOC also controls 13 highway institutes and
companies and, indirectly, the Provincial and County Highway Bureaus in the
Provincial and County Transport Departments (Charts 2, 3 and 4).
2.16      HB provides general policy direction and support to the Provincial
Highway Bureaus (PHBs). It issues nationwide policies and regulations, speci-
fying construction standards, and provides technical support to the PHBs and
through them to the County Highway Bureaus (CHBs). It also controls the cen-
tral pool of construction equipment and manpower which can be mobilized to
assist some provincial work if necessary. PHBs have financial independence
and carry out road planning, construction, maintenance and administration of
their roads in line with HB's general policy guidelines; they also o-ersee the
work of CHBs. Although HB determines overall road design standards, field
engineering designs are normally prepared by the Design Institutes of PHBs.
The construction and supervision of works are also done at the PHB level.
2.17      After 1979, the "national road" concept was introduced and HB became
more active in regullating PHBs' con truction and financial decisions. This
was done in an effort to unify the planning and development of the network.
Despite this, the responsibility for the administration, maintenance, and
financing of these roads remained with PHBs. They still construct, maintain
and administer the national roads in their provinces using their provincial
budgets. Only for some very large projects or for major periodic maintenance
would HB plan, construct, and share part of the financial burden.
G. Planning, Budgeting, and Financing
2.18      MOC and the State Planning Commission are responsible for overall
planning of the country's road network, but are directly involved only in
implementing major projects. Approved projects are passed on to lower level
authorities for execution. The actual highway planning has three main
weaknesses: it is not coordinated with the development of the other transport
modes; selection of road investments has not been based on economic criteria;
and design standards and specifications recomaended by HB are frequently not
followed by the provincial implementing agencies because of financial shor-
tages. Although the application of c_onomic criteria for road investments is
now becoming an accepted practice following Bank involvement in the sector,
the other two problems persist. With the present decentralized planning and
budgeting system, it is difficult to maintain road construction standards
throughout the country because quality and design frequently reflect avail-
ability of funds. The provincial authorities tend to set realietic road
budgets that have been adjusted to the predicted road maintenance fee
revenues, but the recommended road standards and quality may be reduced in
line with the actual revenue.



- 10 -
2.19       Planning for the development, expansion, rehabilitation and
maintenance of the road network is extremely difficult because of the absence
of reliable data on the existing network. Not only are road inventories
incomplete, but so are data on existing pavement structures and their bearing
capacities. A start has been made on recording traffic statistics but much
more needs to be done on traffic flows, traffic composition and axle loads.
Soils and materials information needs to be collected and recorded. A study
on the evaluation of existing paved roads under the first Highway Project has
started in Jiangsu Province, and information on about 2,000 km of paved roads
will be collected and recorded. When the methodology for such evaluation is
established the study will be expanded to other provinces. MOC has proposed
establishing road data banks or road sector management information systems at
the Central MOC (in the Highway Scientific Research Institute, HSRI) and at
the provincial Highway Bureau levels to ensure that data on the road network
are systematically collected and recorded. The collection and incorporation
of the information on the existing network into a road data bank will be a
challenging and time-consuming task. It is expected, however, that within ten
years, a national road data bank would be in operation with computer links
established between the Central MOC and all provincial highway bureaus. Under
this project the Bank will provide assistance to start the development of this
data bank (para. 3.11).
2.20      Road Financing.  The lack of reliable and adequate source of revenue
for road construction has created serious problems in China concerning the
financing of highway expansion and improvement. So far, major sources Lf road
financing are: the road maintenance fee collected by the provincial govern-
ment; the vehicle purchase fee collected by MOC; and the capital construction
investment fund from the Central Government. The road maintenance fee is the
main source of revenue and is used primarily for maintenance work. The newly
imposed vehicle purchase fee, though a significant source of funds, fluctuates
with the volume of new vehicles purchased each year. The ailocation from the
Government's capital construction investment budget is now the r.ajor source of
funds for new road construction. However, considering the scarce government
resources and the urgent need for road network expansion (60,000 km to be
completed during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period, 1986-1990), an adequate
and reliable source of funds for road construction should be identified.
Tolling of some major highways cannot be an answer to this massive demand in
network expansion. This project proposes a study to identify a proper
financing system for the road network expansion (para. 3.12(a)).
2.21       Funding from the capital construction investment budget is in the
form of a grant or loan, depending upon whether the project is considered a
national investment. The approved funds can be withdrawn from the People's
Construction Bank, which also supervises the use of funds. The amount of
capital investment funds allocated for highways in 1984 was Y 1.20 billion.
The vehicle purchase fee introduced in May 1985 is 10% of the sale price of
domLstic vehicles and 15% of the value of imported vehicles. In 1985, this
fee produced some Y 800 million, largely as a result of the liberalization of
vehicle imports.
2.22      The road maintenance fee is imposed on all vehicles.  For state
crucks it is a fixed proportion (12%-15%) of total revenues; for social



- 11 -
trucks, it is a lump-sum fee charged on the vehicle-loading capacity
(Y 90-105/capacity-ton/month). MOC imposes a lump-sum fee on social trucks
because accurate figures on their revenues are difficult to obtain and because
MOC hopes a lump-sum fee may encourage efficiency. Because of the different
fee collection aystems, state trucks tend to pay a lower tax than do social
trucks of comparable size. The road maintenance fee is especially costly for
the many underutilized social trucks.  Car and small passenger vehicles are
paying Y 70-100/car/month. No maintenance fee is imposed on vehicles owned by
central, provincial and city governments and such official vehicles account
for the great bulk of the car and small passenger vehicle fleet. The study on
financing highway development (para. 3.12) would examine the matter of the
road maintenance fees and their appropriateness within the broader context of
the review of potential road user charges.
2.23       Total revenues from this fee amounted to Y 5.5 billion in 1985, two-
thirds of which went directly for road maintenance expenditures and one third
for selected improvement of the network, expenditures on workshops, machinery,
equipment, research, training, administration and management. On this basis,
direct expenditures for maintenance of the network averaged about Y 3,900 per
kilometer, which is considered high, but is a consequence of the low standard
and poor quality of the existing roads (para. 2.01).
H. Engineering
2.24       Road and bridge projects are engineered by the Planning and Design
Institutes at the MOC's central, provincial, prefecture and county levels.
Major road and bridge projects are handled by the MOC's Highway PLanning and
Design Institute (HL'DI), by the First and Second Survey and Design Irstitutes,
located at Xian and Wuhan respectively, and by provincial design institutes.
There is no fixed arrangement for allocation of work to the MOC Institutes
based on geographical or technical considerations, the criterion b; ing the
current work load of each Institute. The Highway Scientific Research
Institute provides support and advice on materials, etc., as needed. The
design standards (Table 2.1) and guidelines for engineering design are set by
MOC. Foreign consultants are used on a limited basis and in ,oint venture
with the HPDI or other MOC institutes for specialized studies. Since the
workloads of HPDI and the HSRI are expanding in line with the increase in
traffic on the highway network, the design capacities and research of the
Institutes are being strengthened. Under the Bank's first Highway Project
assistance has been provided through the provision of computer-aided design
and engineering equipment, through site investigation and laboratory research
equipment and through staff training.
I. Construction and Maintenance
2.25       Road and bridge construction in the past was normally done as a
force account operation by construction bureaus attached to MOC headquarters
or to PTDs and CTDs. Previously, the country's major contractor unit, the
China Road and Bridge Engineering Company attached to MOC, formerly undertook
projects abroad financed under China's foreign aid program and now competes
for cc.atracts on an international basis. The State Planning Commission has
recently directed that all major civil works be awarded after competitive



- 12 -
bidding. As a consequence, the domestic contracting industry is growing
rapidly. Some domestic contractors were prequalified to bid in competition
with foreign contractors on two important road contracts financed under the
first Highway Project. Many former construction bureaus have been reorganized
into financially independent contracting companies.
2.26      National and provincial roads are well maintained by PTDs.  However,
maintenance of paved roads is becoming more costly, ranging between Y 3,500
and Y 5,000 per kilometer, due to their poor quality and rapid traffic
growth. The CTD maintenance of county roads is adequate in scope and well
organized, but it has suffered from a lack of equipment. Under the first
Highway Project, road maintenance equipment was provided to several CTDs.
Under the proposed project equipment for the maintenance and operation of the
expressway would be provided (para. 3.08).
J. Road Safety
2.27      Although statistics on road traffic accidents are neither
comprehensive nor reliable, it is evident that the situation regarding road
safety is far from satisfactory. The low geometric and quality standards of
most roads combined with the mix of slow and fast moving traffic are not con-
ducive to road safety. Under the first Highway Project, the Bank is financing
the HSRI in upgrading some of its research-related equipment in support of its
research program covering: (a) a review of the existing system of reporting,
recording and analyzing accident statistics; (b) recommendations on improved
traffic accident data collection, recording and analysis; and
(c) identification of a program for the reduction of traffic accidents.
K. Staff Training
2.28      The staffs of MOC and PTDs are, in general, professionally compe-
tent, but many have not bee.n exposed to new technology and therefore often use
outmoded work methods and equipment. Following the difficult period of the
late 1960s and early 1970s, technical manpower planning and assessment of
related training needs for the highway subsector have only recently been
resumed. Preliminary estimates indicate that MOC would require a substantial
number of engineers, assistant engineers and technicians to meet the proposed
targets in the Seventh Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90). Strengthening
and expanding formal education and ongoing training programs to increase and
upgrade the number of technical staff is urgently needed to meet the demand
for trained personnel during the Plan period.
2.29      MOC's Education Bureau has three major divisions, each responsible
for a specific aspect of staff development: (a) a training division, respon-
sible for training courses to upgrade administrative staff, engineers, assist-
ant engineers, technicians and skilled and semiskilled workers; (b) an educa-
tion division (technical/vocational level), responsible for the educational
and training activities of some 40 technical schools (for mid-level techni-
cians) and some 100 vocational schools (for skilled workers); and (c) an edu-
cation division (engineering level), responsible for three highway institutes,
one transportation school, six maritime, waterway and navigation schools, and
one medical college (Chart 4). In addition, PTDs have their own provincial



- 13 -
transportation technical schools and district training centers and carry out
their share of education and training programs in accordance with general
guidelines issued by the MOC's Education Bureau. Most MOC and PTD institutes,
schools and centers lack the physical capacity to meet the increasing manpower
demand, have scarce and outmoded training equipment, and need to have most of
their curricula upgraded to reflect modern cechnology in the various highway
disciplines. A comprehensive training program was started under the first
Highway Project and support would be continued under the prop^sed project
(paras. 3.14 and 3.15).
L. Highway Development: Policy and Objectives for the 1980s
2.30      Government policy for the highway subsector in the 1980s focuses on
both improving road quality avd -xpanding the network to meet the increasing
demand. This differs from the policy of the past 30 years which emphasized
road length rather than quality and left China with a legacy of substandard
roads that cannot sustain the recent increase in traffic. MOC now realizes
that programs for road network expansion and rehabilitation must proceed
simultaneously, supported by quality improvement programs for construction,
construction materials, road transport equipment, and road transport industry
snaagement .
2.31      The Bank Group's strategy for tha subsector is to support the
Government's twin objectives for highways by assisting the process of network
expansion while helping to direct development policy toward greater quality
improvement. This support is provided within the framework of longer-term
objectives concerned with increasing effic?ency and cost-effectiveness in
meeting the increased transport demand in the subsector. These longer-term
objectives address specific policy, institutional and technological areas such
as: improved economic evaluation techniques for the selection of road invest-
ments; improved intermodal planning; transport tariff and road user taxation
systems; increased efficiency in the road transport industry; improved effi-
ciency in construction through continued support of Government's policy of
competitive bidding and development of the local contracting industry; staff
training; modernization of highway design and updating and improving
construction and material specifications; and supporting highway research.
The proposed project would help to attain some of these objectives throtigh the
studies and training described in paras. 3.12, 3.14 and 3.15.
M. Previous Bank Financed Project in Highway Subsector
2.32      The first Bank Group financed operation in the highway subsector in
China (Loan 2539-CHA, Credit 1594-CHA, 1985) is supporting the Government's
policy and institutional objectives related to (a) modernizing of highway de-
sign and updating and improving construction and material specifications;
(b) increasing the cost effectiveness of highway investments by improving eco-
nomic evaluation techniques for road investments and supporting the move to
competitive bidding for civil works; (c) supporting the highway research pro-
gram, including studies on pavement evaluation, road capacity in congested
areas and road safety; and (d) staff training. The project is also helping in
the construction and improvement of about 230 km of national roads and some
1400 km of rural roads. The project is progressing well. All of the natlonal



- 14 -
road contracts have been awaried and work is proceeding. All the rural road
construction is underway. Pzogress on civil works is presently estimated at
about 30%. Procurement of the computer-aided design and engineering (CADE)
equipment, the laboratory and research equipment and the road maintenance
equipment is well advanced and contracts are expected to be awarded shortly.
Study groups have been set up in the HSRI to carry out the three studies in
the research program and the studies are progressing well. The selection of
trainees for overseas fellowships is underway. The proposed project would
provide continued support to the Government on these and other policy and
institutional objectives in the highway subsector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Preparation
3.01      The Government is seeking Bank Group help to remove the transport
bottlenecks impeding economic growth. The Seventh Five-Year Plan recognizes
the need to expand and improve the highway system; modernize planning, con-
struction and maintenance of highways; expand and improve road transport and
set up improved, strengthened institutions capable of managing a modern high-
way system and road transport industry. Preliminary discussions with the
Government on the highway subsector began in 1980 during the preparation of
the Bank's first economic report on China. A first Highway Project was
identified in June 1983, appraised    November 1984, and approved in May
1985. Discussions on the Beijing-Ti njin-Tanggu Expressway, which is included
in this project, started in 1984.    e project was prepared by MOC with the
assistance of consultants, Maunsell    ' Partners, and the Department of Main
Roads of New South Wales, Australia, X qe services were financed by the
Australian Development Assistance Bureu (ADAB).
B. Project Objectives
3.02      In addition to help meeting the road transport demand in one of the
most important corridors in China by financing the construction of a high-
capacity, tolled expressway, the project would also support the Government's
objectives of increasing the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the
subsector. Specific policy, institutional and technological objectives to be
addressed under the project would be:
(a) identification of the most appropriate method of financing
roadworks;
(b) introduction of improved road planning techniques;
(c) examining the economic and financial efficiency of tolling;
(d) assistance on research to upgrade the quality of local bitumen to be
used for road paving;



- 1S -
(e)  assistance on identifying the appropriate way to operate and
maintain the expressway;
(f)  staff training; and
(g)  continued assistance (started in the first Highway Project) to
modernize design, construction and materials specifications and
contract documentation.
C. Detailed Features
3.03      To accomplish these objectives, the project would include:
(a)  construction of a 142-km, 4-lane divided, controlled-access, tolled
expressway connecting Beijing and Tianjin (the third and fourth most
populated municipalities in China) with the new port of Xingang at
Tanggu and the necessary connecting roads at Beijing and Tanggu;
(b)  consultants' services to help train the MOC and the Highway
Institutes' staffs in the supervisioil and quality control of the
expressway construction;
(c)  provision of basic road maintenance and operation equipment for the
expressway and equipment for monitoring traffic on the expressway;
(d)  assistance, through the provision of equipment and expertise, in
improving road planning by setting up a computerized road data bank;
(e) carrying out studies on: (i) the method of financing the expansion,
improvement and rehabilitation of the highway network; (ii) the
appropriate way to operate and maintain the expressway; and
(iii) the, potential for using local bitumen for road pavements; and
(f)  training of staff from the MOC's Planning Bureau, Highway Bureau and
the Provincial Highway Bureaus (PHBs), in the areas of transport
planning and other highway and transport related topics.
3.04      Construction of the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway.  The existing
166-km, mostly 2-lane road between Beijing and Tanggu passes through some 10
cities or towns of varying sizes; crosses the railway, at grade, at 7 loca-
tions; intersects at grade with 21 roads and has some 100 crossing points for
pedestrian and animal cart traffic. About a fourth of the length of the road
has been urbanized. Existing mixed traffic between the Beijing municipal area
and Tianjin is from 8,000-10,000 units per day. About 70% of the motorized
traffic is trucks. Congestion on the road is serious; vehicle speed in most
sections is very low; near the Tianjin municipal area it is as low as
15 kph. Traffic can be held up for long periods at the Beijing-Shanhaiguan
rail crossing at Yangdi. Furthermore, traffic accidents on the road number
between 500-600 each year or an average of nearly 2 accidents per day.
3.05      A 142-km, 4-lane divided, grade-separated, controlled-access, tolled
expressway with interchanges would replace the existing road and connect
Beijing and Tianjin with the new port (Xingang) at Trnggu. (Chart 5 shows
transverse sections of road foundation and bridges.) With 2 viaducts



- 16 -
totalling 5,500 m in length, 4 large bridges totalling 1,600 m in length, 24
medium bridges of 1,760 m total length, and 28 small bridges of 445 m total
length, the expressway would pass through the northeastern part of the North
China plain (see maps IBRD 19201 and IBRD 19661). The terrain is relatively
flat; the difference in elevation along the expressway is only about 37 m.
The alignment crosses the alluvial plains of the Yongding and Haihe Rivers and
the coastal plain of the Bohai sea--an area of great seismic activity. The
four-lane expressway is expected to provide adequate capacity for traffic
until late 19909 when additional capacity would be needed near Beijing and
Tianjin (Table 3.1). Two connecting roads, a 4.4 km connection to the Beijing
urban ring road and a 7.5 km connection to the Tanggu port area, are included
in the project; however, since the designs are not yet complete and the costs
not known, the cost of the two connecting roads are not included in the proj-
ect costs. Agreement was reached with the Government at negotiations that a
schedule for the construction of those connecting roads would be sent to the
Bank Group by October 31, 1987 and assurances obtained that these roads would
toe completed and open to traffic on completion of the expressway.
3.06      The preliminary engineering and feasibility study for the expressway
was satisfactorily completed by HPDI and reviewed by the Bank Group. The
detailed design was prepared by the MOC's First and Second Survey and Design
Instituites. The design was reviewed and finalized with the assistance of
consultants Maunsell and Partners in association with the Department of Main
Roads, New South Wales, Australia, who also prepared the bid documents and
whose services were financed by ADAB.  The geometric design standards for the
e xir:-3way are shown in Table 3.2 and are appropriate.
3.07      Supervision of Construction.  Since contracting for civil works is a
reCe!lt procedure in China, there is little experience in the supervision of
road constructior. contracts. Training of MOC's and provincial engineers in
itipervi'sory work was started under the first Highway Project but a shortage of
experienced local engineers still exists. To ensure that works on the
expressway are carried out in full compliance with specifications and that
there is good quality control on site, a combined team of MOC and experienced
to e pS consultants  engineers would be set up to supervise the works.  The
consuiriarrs would help establish the syscems and procedures for the super-
v'iscrv work and train the MOC engineers, both formally and on-the-job, in
carrvlw out the supervision of construction.
3.08      Maintenance, Operation and Monitoring Equipment.  Basic maintenance
equipment for the expressway such as trucks, loaders, motorgraders, asphalt
and concrete mixers, asphalt milling machines, pavers, rollers etc. would be
provided under the project. In addition, the project would finance the patrol
vehicleg, heavy-duty tow trucks and ambulances needed for the operation of the
expr cs~;wny and for clearing accidents.
3,09      A special monitoring unit would be established in the expressway
-rprltig uinit to (a) record the relationship between the toll rate and the
rr f.i<c t l.ow on the expressway and the adjacent roads to estimate the traffic
diver,;ion resulting from the tolls and (b) measure the axle loads of the
vehicles using the expressway to ensure that the pavement would be strength-
er.ed wheen needed (para. 3.22). The specialized traffic counting equipment,
,;aveme:r deflection measurement equipment, roughness indicators, and axle load
weLghn!g scales for the monitoring unit would be provided under the proiect.



- 17 -
3.10      The list of maintenance, operation and monitoring equipment needed
for the expressway was agreed upon at negotiations.
3.11      Road Planning.  The basic data needed for the planning, development,
design, construction and maintenance of the road system is lacking in China.
Under the project a start would be made in setting up a computerized road data
bank in the Beijing Municipality. The data bank would include a road-
condition inventory comprising road lengths, type, classification, funetion,
geometrics, pavement type, thickness and bearing capacity, as well as traffic
volumes, material sources and qualities, etc. Expert help, computer hardware
and software would be provided to the Bureau to develop the data system.
3.12      Studies.  Assistance in the form of equipment and foreign expertise
would be provided undab the project for the studies described below to be done
by MOC.
(a) Financing Highway Development
The much needed expansion, improvement and rehabilitation of the
highway network would require massive investments. As mentioned
earlier, new road works are financed by the capital construction
investment budget and augmented from road user revenues from the
road maintenance fee. Another source of revenue, the vehicle
purchase fee, is inadequate and fluctuating; and toll revenues would
ne.ther be appropriate nor adequate for this purpose. A study is
urgently needed to identify the most appropriate method of financing
the expansion, improvement and rehabilitation of the highway
network.
(b) Local Bitumen
The bitumen available locally is of very poor quality and cannot be
used for high standard pavements. Imported bitumen must therefore
be used and this requires foreign exchange expenditures; an esti-
mated amount of about Y 22 million, or UJ$6 million equivalent,
would be spent on imported bitumen for the expressway. MOC proposes
to do a study to identify and attempt to solve the problems related
to the production of bitumen. The study would analyze the bitumen,
the crude oil from which it is made, and the refining process in
order to identify possible improvemet.ts. Expertise would be
provided under the project as needed.
(c) Organization of Expressway Operation and Maintenance
At present China has no experience in operating and maintaining a
tolled expressway. MOC and the Bank agreed that there is an urgent
need for a study to be done to identify the most appropriate organ-
ization to operate this first tolled expressway. The study would
include a review of tolled expressway organizations in other
countries and their suitability for Chinese conditions. Expertise
would be made available under the project to help the study team in
establishing the organization's operating and maintenance and
financial control systems and procedures.



- 18 -
3.13      Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that the studies would be carried out under terms of reference and timing
acceptable to the Bank Group and that the Government and the Bank Group would
exchange views on the findings of the studies and that the Government would
take necessary steps to implement such recommendations agreed by the
Government and the Bank Group.
3.14      Staff Training.  In addition to training directly related to the
operation, maintenance and monitoring of the expressway, the proposed training
program aims at upgrading and modernizing the skills of the technical staff in
the various fields concerned with the highway subsector and would essentially
be a continuation of the training program initiated under the first Highway
Project.  The program has a twofold approach and would:
(a) improve the proficiency of engineers and other staff by sending
abroad selected personnel to attend academic and practical training
c urses as well as relevant international conferences; and
(b)  strengthen the capacity of MOC's highway institutes as well as the
provincial transportation technical schools by:
(i)    purchasing laboratory, computer and photogrammecry equipment,
training aids, and essential technical books and publications;
and
(ii)    inviting foreign academic experts for short visitb to help
upgrade curricula.
3.15      In continuing the program, abol!t 32 officials from MOC and
provincial highway bureaus will be trained abroad in the areas of transporta-
tion planning, soils and materials engineering, transport economics, financial
management and accounting, highway maintenance and equipment management, con-
struction management and supervision including quality control, new construc-
tion material technology and technical interpretation. It is expected that on
their return the trainees would play a major role in the development and
management of the Chinese road system and in the transfer of updated tech-
nology to other highway staff. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that the training would be carried out according to a
program agreed with the Bank Group; the scope and estimated costs of the
training program to be carried out under the project are shown in Table 3.3.
3.16      Consultant Services. A total of about 495 man-months of foreign
consultant expertise is estimated to be needed under the proposed project.
Local expertise available in the various institutes in the sector would be
used to the extent possible. Foreign consultant help would be sought only for
those areas of advanced technology where local expertise is lacking; such
areas include the use of advanced instrumentation for measuring road deflec-
tion and deterioration, analysis of traffic flows, transport economics and
other very specialized fields. Supervision of the expressway road construc-
tion work would be done mainly by a combined team of local staff and experi-
enced foreign consultants; about 40 man-years of foreign expertise is estima-
ted to be needed to help set up and implement the organizational systems and



- 19 -
procedures for- effective quality control on site and to train the MOC engi-
neers in supervision. About 15 man-months of foreign expertise is estimated
to be needed for preparation of the road data bank and for the studies to be
done by MOC or institutes designated by MOC on highway financing, local
bitumen and the organization for expressway operation and maintenance. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the terms of
reference for the consulting services.
D. Cost Estimates
3.17      The total project cost including physical and price contingencies
and land acquisition costs is estimated at about Y 1,129.4 million, or
US$275.8 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$150 mil-
lion or about 54%. Project costs are shown below. All base costs are esti-
mated in December 1986 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10%
of base cost estimates and applied to all components.  Price escalation for
both foreign and Local costs, (a) when expressed in US dollars is based on
expected internat'onnl annual price escalation factors of 3.0% in 1987 and
1.0% from 1988 to iq90; (b) when expressed in Yuan, is based on expected
domestic price escalation factors of 6.5% p.a. from 1987 to 1990. Cost
estimates do not include taxes and duties since all materials and equipment to
be used in the project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
3.18      The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated
from detailed designs and costed at unit prices. The unit prices for the work
items were computed on the basis of MOC's standard manuals for labor and
equipment productivity and the related annually updated costs combined with
the current costs of materials. The unit prices were checked against the unit
prices recently received in bids for major road works financed under our first
Highway Project.
3.19      The base cost per kilometer of the dual 4-lane expressway, excluding
contingencies and land acquisition costs, is about US$1.4 million, which is
acceptable since the expressway includes about 9,300 meters of major bridge
works aind about 33 km. of specialized soft ground treatment works. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about 59% for foreign contractors
and about 50% fur domestic contractors.
3.20      The cost of equipment is based on prices quoted by manufacturers
outside China. Cost estimates for the expressway maintenance, operation and
monitoring equipment are based on manufacturer's current prices and on the
list of equipment agreed at negotiation.
E. Financing
3.21      A Bank loan of US$25.0 million and an IDA credit of SDR 98.9 million
(US$125.0 million equivalent) would finance about 52% of total project costs,
or about 100% of the foreign exchange costs. The Government would provide
about US$125.8 million equivalent to meet the remaining capital costs of the
project. Details of project financing are shown in the following table:



Project Cost Summary
Loan Foreign Loan % of
Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total         (US$   Cost    total pro-
Items                   -----(Yuan million) -----    -      (US$ million)-----  million    Z        ject cost
Construction of Beijing-
Tianjin-Tanggu expressway
A.  Civil works                302.64   347.36   650.00    81.79    93.89   175.68    93.89   53.4    37.0
B. Mechanical and
electrical system           20.00    80.00   100.00       5.40    21.62    27.02    21.62   80.0        8.5
Subtotal                       322.64   427.36   750.00    87.19   115.51   202.70   115.51   57.0    45.5
Supervision of expressway
construction                      -       16.60    16.60       -        4.50      4.50     4.50  100.0       1.8
Equipment etc for expressway
operator, ma. tenance and
monitoring unit                   -       18.50    18.50       -        5.00      5.00      5.00  100.0      2.0
Staff training                      -        3.00      3.00      -        0.80      0.80      0.o0  100.C      0.3
Studies                            1.00      1.00      2.00     0.28      0.28      0.56     0.28   50.0       0.1
Road planning (Data Bank)           -        0.74      0.74      -        0.20      0.20      0.20  100.0      0.1
Total Base Cost                323.64   457.20   790.84    87.47   126.29   213.76   126.29   59.1    49.8
Physical contingencies(10Z)   32.36    46.72    79.08         8.75    12.63    21.38    12.63   59.1         5.0
Total                          356.00   513.92   869.92    96.22   138.92   235.14   138.92   59.1    54.8
Price contingencies             69.59   108.07   117.66       7.48    11.08    18.56    11.08   59.7         4.4
Total                          425.59   621.99 1,047.58   103.70   150.00   253.70   150.00   59.1    59.1
Land acquisition cost             81.82       -       81.82    22.11       -       22.11      0.00    0.0
Total project cost             507.41   621.99 1,129.40   125.81   150.00   275.81   150.00   54.4
Notes:  Exchange rate:  US$1.00 - Yuan 3.70.
All figures are rounded.



- 21 -
Financing Plan
Government      Bank Group         Total
------------- US$ million -------------
Expressway construction                87.2            115.5           202.7
Supervision                              -               4.5             4.5
Equipment                                                5.0             5.0
Training                                 -               0.8             0.8
Studies                                  .3              0.3             0.6
Road Data Bank                           -               0.2             0.2
Contingencies                          16.2             23.7            39.94
Land acquisition                       22.1               -             22.1
Total                               125.8            150.0           275.8
F.  Implementation
3.22      MOC would have overall responsibility for implementing the proj-
ect. The expressway would be constructed under four unit priced contracts for
civil works and one unit priced contract for the supply and installation of
electrical and mechanical equipment for traffic surveillance control, communi-
cations, lighting and toll facilities. The Beijing - Tianjin - Tanggu
Expressway United Company, comprising companies from Beijing and Tianjin muni-
cipalities and Hebei province, would be responsible, under MOC, for imple-
menting the expressway construction contracts. The detailed design has been
completed and the bid documents completed. Prequalification of contractor has
also been done. The procedures for the acquisition of land for the right-of-
way have started; the ground surveys have been completed and agreements with
the villages and production units will be finalized before start of construc-
tion. Construction is expected to start in October 1987 and be completed by
the end of 1990. The works would be supervised by a joint HOC/consultants
team of engineers. Upon completion of the expressway construction, an
organization would be set up to operate and maintain the expressway. The
specific type of organization would be identified in a study to be done under
the project. At negotiations an assurance was obtained from the Government
that this expressway operating organization would be set up, under the
supervision of HOC, after consultation with the Bank Group and would include a
special monitoring unit to carry out the monitoring work agreed with the Bank
Group para. 3.09. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that, as a
condition of effectiveness of the Loan and Credit, MOC would enter into a
project implementation agreement with Beijing and Tianjin municipalities and
Hebei province which would provide for the project implementation
responsibilities of the three local governments and the Expressway United
Company established by them. The project implementation agreement would also
provide for the Beijing and Tianjin municipalities and Hebei province to
provide funds as needed for the expressway maintenance if tolls were
insufficient and for the Beijing and Tianjin municipalities, to be responsible



- 22 -
for the construction and maintenance of the 4.4 km connection at Beijing and
the 7.5 km connection at Tanggu.
3.23      MOC would be responsible for implementing the studies under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank Group and for implementing the training com-
ponent in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank Group. The studies
would start in late 1987 and be completed by end 1988, when the findings of
the studies would be reviewed with the Bank Group. Training would also start
in October 1987 and be continued through the project period. The training of
staff in operating, maintaining and monitoring traffic on the expressway will
be done by foreign experts or equipment manufacturers decided by Highway
Bureau in consultation with the Bank Group. MOC would be generally respon-
sible for the preparation of the road data bank through the Beijing
Municipality.
3.24      MOC would be responsible for selecting consultants to provide the
expertise on supervision and quality control of civil works and for the train-
ing of MOC staff in this work. The experts are expected to start work in
September 1987 to help establish the supervisory organization prior to the
start of civil works. The foreign experts needed for the studies and HSRI
research program would be recruited as needed from October 1987 and during the
period of the studies. It is expected that the procurement of all equipment
for the maintenance, operation and monitoring of the expressway would start in
mid 1988 and be completed by late 1989, well in advance of expressway
opening. The project would be completed by June 30, 1992. Loan/Credit
closing is expected by December 31, 1992.
3.25      An implementation schedule for the proposed project (Annex 1) was
agreed upon with the Government during negotiations.
G. Procurement
3.26      Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table.



- 23 -
Procurement method             Total project
Project element             ICB        LCB       Other              cost
----------- US$ million ----------------
Expressway contracts          240.7          -            -          240.7
(137.4)                               (137.4)
Equipment                       6.0          -            -            6.0
(6.0)                                 (6.0)
Training and consultants         -           -           7.0           7.0
(6.6)         (6.6)
Land acquisition                 -           -          22.1          22.1
(-)           (-)
Total                    246.7                     29.1        275.3
(143.4)                  ( 6.6)       (150.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are tha respective amounts financed by the
Bank Group. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies and are rounded.
3.27      Construction of the expressway (US$240.7 million) under the project
will be carried out under international competitive bidding (ICB) by prequali-
fied firms in accordance with Bank guidelines. The International Tendering
Corporation (ITC) of the China National Tecnnical Import Corporation, in con-
junction with MOC, will organize the ICB.
3.28      Expressway maintenance, operation and monitoring equipment
(US$6.0 million) would be procured by ICB. However, all items or groups of
items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed thle equivalent of US$1.5 million, may
be procured on the basis of a comparison f price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Bank's Guidelines, and in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The ITC, in conjunction with HOC,
would be responsible for all equipment procurement.
3.29      Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would
be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7½% for
civil works and 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is
lower. Since procurement by competitive bidding in the h ghway subsector is
still relatively new in China, all ICB contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost more than US$500,000 would be subject to prior review and
agreement by the Bank Group of procurement documentation.



- 24 -
3.30      Some consultant expertise will be needed in this project.  Local
ezpertise available in the various institutes in the subsector would be used
to the extent possible. Foreign consultant help would be sought only for
those areas of advanced technology where local expertise is lacking. All
consultants would be employed under the terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank Group and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
H. Disbursements
3.31      Disbursement of the Loan and IDA credit would be as follows:
(a) 53Z of the total cost of the expressway civil works;
(b) 80% of the total cost of taie supply and installation of the express-
way mechanical and electrical equipment;
(c) 100Z of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or 100Z
of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 75% of local expenditures for other items locally
procured; and
(d) 100X of the costs of consulting services and overseas training of
staff.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with an initial
deposit in US dollars equivalent of SDR 10.00 million, the estimated average
expenditures for a 4-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars
in a bank acceptable to the Bank Group. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account would be submitted quarterly or whenever the Special Account
is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. A
schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.4, which also shows
the regional highway project disbursement profile; disbursements under the
proposed project are estimated to be completed slightly earlier than the
regional profile shows. Although the international competitive bidding
procurement method is still rather new in China for highways and could cause
problems, any delays are expected to be minimized by appropriate Bank Group
supervision and assistance dur.ng the early stage of the project.
3.32      Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the
expressway civil works and for the delivery and installation of the expressway
mechanical and electrical equipment. Interim certification of civil and
equipment works completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts will be
done by the joint HOC/Consultants supervisory team and certified by the HOC.
Credit disbursements for training overseas will be made against the actual
costs of travel, subsistence and tuition or training fees. Disbursements
against statements of expenditure will be needed for the training component
and for goods or services costing less than US$200,000. Documents supporting
the expenditure statements will not be submitted to the Bank Group, but
instead will be retained by the MOC in Beijing and made available for review
by Bank Group supervision missions.



- 25 -
I. Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring
3.33      A State Auditing Administration (SAA) has been established to make
detailed audits of the Covernment agency accounts. Assurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations that the accounts of project-related
expenditures would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank Group for review within
riz months of the close of each Chinese fiscal yeir. The Bank Group currently
accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
3.34      Project progress reports would be submitted quarterly to the Bank
Group by HOC, based on the project monitoring indices shown in Annex 2. A
Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank Group
not later than six months after the loan/credit closing date.
J. Environmental Effects
3.35      The construction of the expressway should cause no significant
environmental problems. There is very little danger of soil erosion from
expressway drainage since the area along the expressway is relatively flat.
The design and specifications require that temporary and permanent culverts be
provided for all irrigation and drainage canals to ensure that farm activities
are not dis rupted. The new expressway would improve the environment in many
respects. The improved alignment with grade-separated junctions combined with
the separation of the faster-moving vehicular traffic from the slower-moving
bicycles, tractors and animal-drawn carts would reduce the existing congestion
and improve road safety. Furthermore, the reduction of congestion in or near
the cities and towns along the existing road would substantially reduce noise
and air pollution.
3.36      Land acquisition for construction projects is done under the
"Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State Construction" promulgated by
the State Council on May 14, 1982 and as further clarified by a document
entitled "Elucidation of the Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State
Construction" issued by the State Planning Comission, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery and the Ministry of Urban and Rural
Construction and Environmental Protection on June 9, 1983. These regulations
detail the procedures for land acquisition, the range of compensation to be
paid for cultivated land and resettlement, the use of any surplus agricultural
labor resulting from the acquisition and the environmental protective measures
to be taken during construction. Compensation for cultivated land is based on
the average annual cutput for three years prior to acquisition multiplied by
the State prices or the above-quota price (based on actual proportion in the
production unit) or a negotiated price for products with no fixed price.
Settlement allowance per capita is from two to three times the average annual
output value per mu of land and based on the average area of cultivated land
occupied by each farmer. The total amount for cultivated land compensation
and vesettlement allowance is stipulated not to exceed twenty times the annual
output value of the acquired land. Surplus agricultural laborers are absorbed
in other agricultural production linits or employed elsewhere in factories
etc.  The regulations appear fair and equitable and ore strictly enforced with



- 26 -
penalties set for deviations. As stated in para. 3.22, the acquisition of
land for the expressway is underway and will be completed before construction
starts.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. The Existing Corridor
4.01      Rail and road carry the majority of the bulk traffic in the Beijing-
Tianjin-Tangshan corridor. Rail freight transport is about six times that of
road and rail passenger transport is about double that of road. Details are
given in the table below:
Beijing-Tianjin      Year           Passenger transport        Freight transport
traffic                             (million persons)           (million tons)
Railway              1980                5.04                       7.00
1983               5.55                       6.78
Road                 1984                3.20                       1.14
4.02      The 137 km rail section of railway between Beijing and Tianjin is
part of the heavily loaded long-distance trunkline connecting north and north-
east China. At present demand far exceeds line capacity, and the heavy short-
haul freight traffic between Beijing and Tanggu prevents the railway from
playing a more effective role in long distance transportation. Tianjin-Tanggu
railway freight traffic was 3.1 million tons in 1983 (Table 4.1).
4.03      Transport demand in this corridor is expected to grow very rapidly
in the next decade due to the expansion of the Tanggu port and its container
terminal to accommodate increases in foreign trade and investment,the opening
up of market activity, urban expansion and the overall rapid growth of the
national economy. The container traffic at Tanggu port has grown from
240,000 tons in 1981 to 775,000 tons in 1984 and is expected to reach 3.5 mil-
lion tons in 1990. There is thus an urgent need to expand road and railway
capacity in the corridor and to ensure that the two modes are used in the most
cost effective manner.
B. Traffic on the Existing Roads (Present and Future)
4.04      Traffic on the existing road alignment comes from two sources--local
traffic from counties and towns along the road, and major bulk traffic gene-
rated by the Tanggu port. In 1983 the Tanggu port handled about 15 million
tons of cargo of which 5.3 million tons (35%) moved to and from the port by
road. Traffic at the port is 0xoected to double over the next decade (at 8%
growth p.a.), and reach 50 million tons by 2000; the ongoing expansion of



- 27 -
Tanggu port to handle this increased traffic would ensure a very much greater
demand for both road and rail surface transport.
4.05      MOC has made traffic counts every year on the corridor roads.  Two
counting stations set up in 1979 have kept continuous traffic statistics
24 hours s day, year-round. In 1984, MOC conducted an origin-destination
(O-D) survey at several locations on the through road and adjacent links; the
five major sections on the existing corridor are shown in Table 4.2. The
result of this O-D survey shows motorized traffic levels varying from 2,700 to
4,900 vpd, 70% of which are trucks. If tractors, nonmotorized vehicles and
bicycles are included, some 2,300-20,000 units will be added (Table 4.2).
Assuming the growth per annum for each type of traffic shown in Table 4.3,
traffic on the existing roads, without the expressway, would vary from 12,100
to over 25,000 vpd by the year 2000 (Table 4.2). Traffic levels and
composition, by road section, are also given in Table 4.2.
C. Projected Traffic on the Expressway
4.06      The projected traffic on the expressway comes from three main
sources: (a) traffic diverted from the existing road; (b) traffic diverted
from the railway; and (c) traffic generated by the expressway itself. Non-
motorized traffic would not be allowed on the ezpress.way.
4.07      Traffic Diverted from the Existing Roads.  The origin-destination
surveys conducted in 1984 show that the majority of motorized vehicles on the
existing road is through traffic, i.e., 70%-80% of the traffic from Beijing to
Yangcun, 50% each for the Yangcun-Tianjin, and Tianjin-Tanggu sections. It
has been assumed that where the distance between origin and destination is not
more by using the expressway than the existing road, all that O-D traffic
would shift to the expressway. Near the large cities only a 66% traffic shift
has been assumed. Due to time saving, some traffic would also use the
expressway even if it involved a longer distance; this has not been taken into
account. Based on these assumptions, the estimated traffic volume diverted to
the expressway would vary between 2,600 and 5,100 vpd, depending on the
section, in 1990 and increase to 6,700-13,000 vpd by 2000 (Table 4.4).
4.08      Traffic Diverted from Railway.  The expressway between Beijing -
Tianjin would be 22 km shorter t,1an the railway link. This, coupled with the
government's recent policy to use rail for long distance traffic would cause a
large volume of short-haul traffic to shift from rail to road. Freight ship-
pers would be further motivated to use the road instead of the railway because
rail fares for short-hauls of up to 200 km have been increasing, making the
trucking rates more competitive. However, this traftic shift from rail to
road would be gradual since it requires building up the road vehicle fleet;
container trucks are being imported. It is assumed that in 1990, the opening
year, some 33% of passenger and container traffic between Beijing and Tanggu
would shift from the railway to the expressway. Based on this assumption and
the traffic growth rates given in Table 4.3, it is estimated that by the year
2000 the volume of traffic diverted from the railway would be approximately
1,400-1,700 vpd (Table 4.4). A major part of this would be heavy trucks,
containers and buses.



- 28 -
4.09      Traffic Cenerated by the 0pning of Ixpressway.  The new expressway
would generate traffic beyond the normal increase forecast without it. As
travel time is reduced, more trips can be undertaken with the sae vehicles to
respond to the pent-up demand.
4.10      It is assumed that some 40X-50X of the small and medium trucks
traffic, 60Z of container traffic (including the container traffic generated
by the expansion of the container terminal at TangUu, para. 4.03) and 701-90%
car and small bus traffic would be generated at the opening year (Table 4.3).
It is estimated that generated traffic, by expressway section, would be in the
range of 4,000 to 7,000 vpd by 2000 (Table 4.4).
D. Economic Evaluation
4.11      All inputs and outputs for this analysis were evaluated in
March 1986 constant economic prices. Financial cost estimates were converted
to economic costs by shadow pricing. For traded goods, the c.i.f. prices of
imports and f.o.b. prices of exports were used in estimating the cost of
materials and equipment with due adjustment for the cost of inland
transportation. The official exchange rates were used to convert foreign
currencies to Renminbi.
4.12      Capital and Other Costs.  Table 4.5 shows the derivation of the
economic cost from the financial costs. The adjusted economic cost of the
project is Y 916 million. The road requires routine maintenance every year
and periodic maintenance every 10 years. The routine maintenance cost is
estimated at Y 4,000/km for a 4-lane paved road. Periodic maintenance is
estimated at 101 of the construction cost. The estimated net maintenance cost
increase for the expressway compared to the situation without the expressway
is estimated at apprfximately Y 500,000 per year.
4.13      Benefit Expected from the Expressway.  The principal benefits of the
expressway would be vehicle operating cost savings. Of the Y 50 million total
benefit in 1990, the opening year, 42Z would be the VOC savings of normal
traffic, 23X of generated traffic, and 242 of congestion reduction on the
existing road. Other benefits are cost savings from traffic diverted from
railway and accident reduction. The estimate of benefits is based on the
anticipated traffic volume on a nontolled expressway (Table 4.4) and on the
VOC estimated in Table 4.6; the affect on traffic of tolling the expressway
and consequent reduction in benefits are considered below. The benefits would
build up rapidly after the project's completion since the existing transport
corridor is very congested now. Benefits have been assumed constant after the
year 2010 when project facilities would be used to their full capacity. Thea
benefits from other relatively small investments in staff training, studies
and improved road planning are not quantifiable; the present lack of planning
personnel, the lack of exposure to new technology and the absence of reliable
data and data collection systems for road planning all suggest that such
investments would have very high rates of return.



- 29 -
S. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.14      The comparison of benefits ant cost yields on economic rate of
return (EnR) at approzimately 15 (Table 4.7) when traffic is unrestricted by
tolling. The expressway would be tolled and with tolling there are additional
costs (of tolling facilities and their operation) and potentials for lost
benefits (especially in the early years) as some operators will prefer the
higher VOCs on local (untolled) roads to paying the tolls. Experience gained
through monitoring will refine understanding of the critical relationships.
However, based on Bank studies and experience elsewhere in the world, a toll
set no higher than 30X of attributable VOC savings would (a) result in a
traffic diversion uot greater than 152 so that the ERR would remin an accept-
able 131 and (b) produce revenues sufficient to cover at least the operation
and maintenance costs of the expressway. In order to ensure this, agreement
was reached with government at negotiations on the method of calculating the
VOCs anJ assurances obtained that the toll rates would not exceed 30% of the
VOC savings on the expressways.
4.15      Based on sensitivity analysis, the project would remain viable--with
ERR exceeding 131--should costs exceed estimates by 102 or benefits be reduced
by 10, or for combinations of higher cost/lower benefit in the 10 range.
Other risks are principally those of delayed completion of the expressway.
The project seeks to deal with these risks by providing special assistance in
procurement (since ICB for expressway standard highways is a relatively new
procedure in China) and training of construction supervisory engineers;
sensitivity analysis shows that the project with a one year delay in express-
way completion would remain viable.
ERR (X)
Best Estimate
- Non-tolled                                                              15
- Tolled (assumed 15X reduction in traffic volume)                        13
Risk Aaalysis
- Benefit from generated traffic reduced by 501                           13
- Additional benefit from 21 additional traffic growth                    16
- 101 cost increase                                                       14
- 10  cost increase and 101 reduction of benefit                         13



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on:
:a) a schedule for the construction of the 4.4 km road connecting the
expressway to the urban ring road in Beijing and of the 7.5 km road
connecting the expressway to the new port at Tanggu would be sent to
the Bank Group by October 31, 1987 (para. 3.05);
(b) the list of maintenance, operation and monitoring equipment needed
for the expressway (paras. 3.08, 3.09 and 3.10).
(c) an implementation schedule for the training program (para. 3.15);
(d) the terms of reference for the consulting services to be provided
under the project (para. 3.16);
(e) a project implementation schedule (para. 3.25); and
(f) the method of calculating the VOCs (para. 4.14).
5.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) the two connecting road sections would be completed and open to
traffic on completion of the expressway (para. 3.05);
(b) studies would be carried oit under terms of reference and timing
acceptable to the Bank Group and that Government and the Bank Group
would exchange views on the findings of the studies and that the
Government would take the necessary steps to implement such recom-
mendations agreed by the Government and the Bank Group (para. 3.13);
(c) training would be carried out according to an agreed program
(para. 3.15);
(d) an expressway operating organization would be set up under
supervision of MOC in consultation with the Bank Group which would
include a special monitoring unit to carry out monitoring work
agreed with the Bank Group (para. 3.22);
(e) the audited accounts of project-related expenditures prepared by the
State Auditing Agency would be sent to the Bank Group for review
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.33); and
(f) the toll rate would not exceed 30% of VOC savings of the expressways
(para. 4.14).



- 31 -
5.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan and credit would be:
(a) that a project implementation agreement would be entered into by MOC
and the Municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin and the province of
Hebei; and
(b)  that the State Council w-uld have approved the Loan and Development
Credit Agreements.
5.04      With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million for a term of 20 years including a
grace period of 5 years at the standard variable interest rate and an IDA
credit of SDR 98.9 million (US$125.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms. The borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



Table 1.1
- 32 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic
(billlon ton)
Domestic       Pine-    Civil                    Ocean
Year                      Rail    Road /a   waterway /b   lines   aviation         Total      shipping
1952                      60.2      1.4         11.8           -        -           73.4          2.8
Modal split (2)           (82)     (2)         (16)             -       -         (100)             -
1977                     456.8    25.1         102.1         38.7      0.1         622.8        174.1
Modal split (X)           (73)     (4)         (17)          (6)        -         (100)
1979                     559.8    74.5         139.0         47.6      0.1         821.0        317.4
1980                     571.7    76.4         152.3         49.1      0.1         849.6        353.2
i981                     571.2    78.0         150.7         49.9      0.2         850.0        364.3
1982                     612.0    94.9         170.8         50.1      0.2         928.0        376.9
1983                     664.6   108.4         181.1         52.4      0.2       1,006.1        397.7
1984                     724.7   153.6         196.1         57.1      0.3       1,132.0        437.4
1985                     812.5   177.0         225.5         61.2      0.4       1,275.8        532.9
Modal split (2)           (64)    (14)         (17)          (5)        -         (100)            _
Growth rate % p.a.
1952-77                  8.4    12.2           9.0           -        -            8.9         17.9
1979-84                  5.2      9.6          7.3          3.7       -            6.6          6.5
1983-84                  9.1    41.7           8.3          9.0       -           12.5         10.0
!984-85                 12.1    15.2          15.0          7.2       -           12.7         21.8
1980-85                  7.3    18.4           8.2          4.5       -            8.5          8.6
/a  From 1979 includes all road transport not only that done by road transport departments.
/b Excludes ocean going transport which is often included in Chinese statistics. In 1979,
coastal shipping accounted for 85 billion tki  and inland waterways for 54 billion tka.  The
figures for 1982 were respectively 106 and 65 billion tkn.
Note: These data exclude transport by tcaditional means which is certainly sizeable in terms of
tonnage but mostly on short distance.



Table 1.2
- 33 -
CRiXA
BZIJING-TINJIN-TAEGU  XMRSSWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-ku)
Year                      Rail           Road       Waterways   Aviation        Total
1952                       20.1            2.3          2.5           -          24.9
Modal split 2                (81)  '        (9)          (10)         -          (100)
1977                      102.3           44.8          9.8         1.8         158.7
Modal split 2                (64)          (28)           (7)        (1)         (100)
1979                      121.6           60.3         11.4        3.5          196.8
1980                      138.3           72.9         12.9        4.0          228.1
1981                      147.3           83.9         13.8        5.0          250.0
1982                      157.5           96.4         14.5        6.0          274.4
1983                      177.6          110.6         15.4        5.9          309.5
1984                      204.6          133.7         15.4        8.4          362.0
1985                      241.6          154.3         17.2       11.7          424.8
Modal split Z                (57)          (36)           (4)        (3)         (100)
Growth rate 2 p.a.
1952-77                     6.7           12.6          5.6          -            7.7
1979-84                    11.0           16.5          5.9       19.2           12.7
1983-84                    15.2           21.0            -       42.4           17.0
1984-85                    18.1           15.4         11.7       40.0           17.3
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of China.



Table 1.3
CHINA
BEIJING-YIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Investment in the Transport Sector (Including Posts and Telecommunications)
(Y billion)
1st FTP   2nd FYP               3rd FYP   4th FTP   5th FTP
1953-57   1958-62   1963-65   1966-70   1971-75   1976-80   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Railway                                  5.916    10.416       3.395    11.250    17.308        4.047    3.044   1.445   2.637   4.221   5.852    n.a.
Highway                                       -          -          -          -          -          -    1.086   0.799   0.887   0.722   1.196    n.a.
Waterway                                      -          -          -          -          -          -    1.391   1.295   1.545   1.937   2.629    n.a.
Aviation                                      -          -          -          -          -          -    0.275   0.070   0.145   0.299   0.263    n.a.
Pipeline                                      -          -          -          -          -          -    0.054   0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010    n.S.
Subtotal                                                                                             5.850   3.627   5.231   7.185   9.950    n.-.
Post and telecominications                    -          -          -          -          -          -    0.384   0.420   0.490   0.619   0.896    n.a.
Total                               9.015    16.330       5.378    15.001    31.759    30.245    6.234   4.047   5.721   7.804  10.846    17.1
Total Capital
Investment                       58.847   120.609    42.189    97.603   176.395   234.217   55.889  44.291  55.553  59.413  74.315   107.4
Transport and telecommunications
as 2 of total investment               15.3%      13.52      i2.7X      15.4%      18.0%      12.9%    11.2%    9.1S   10.32   13.1X   14.6%   16.0S
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANCGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards In China
Expressway          Class 1            Class 2            Class 3             Class 4
Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-
hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain
area     area      area     area      area      area     area      area      area     area
Number of vehicles
accommodated       ---->25,000-----  --5,000-25,000--  --2,000-5,000---  -----<2,000---  ------<200--
Design travel
speed (km/hr)        120        80      100        60       80       40         60      30        40        20
Surface width (m)   2x7.5    2x7.0    2x7.5    2x7.0            9       7          7       6       3.5       3.5
Subgrade width (m)      26        23        23       19        12     8.5        8.5     7.5    ------6.5---
Minimum radius of
horizontal
curves (m)           650       250      400       125       250      60        125      30        60        15
Maximum gradient(x)    3           5         4        6         5       7          6        8        6         9
Minimum passing sight
distance (m)         210       110       160       75       110      40         75       30       40        20
Nonsuperelevated
radius of hori-
zontal curve (a)  5,500    2,500    4,000    1,500    2,500         600      1,500     350       600       150         W
Source:  Technical Standard on Road Engineering, Highway Bureau, Ministry of Communications, Beijing, 1981.



Table 2.2
-36-
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGU EXPSSWAT PROJECT
Road Pavement Standard.
PavemenL surfacing         Pavement surfacing material         Vehicle accommodation capacity
(number of vehicles/day)
Highest standard          Asphaltic concrete                   >5,000 (expressway and Class 1
Cemnt concrete                        roads)
Hot-mix macadam
High standard             Penetration macadam surface          2,000-5,000 (Class 2 roads)
Cold-mix acadam
Bituminous-coated macadam           300-2,000 (Class 3 roads)
Medium standard            Bituminous-line treatment           50-400 (Class 4 roads)
Graded-aggregate, gravel surface  50-300 (Class 4 roads)
Low standard               Improved earth surface              <S0 (r'aral roads)
Source: Ministry of Communications.



Table 2.3
- 37 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPTrESSWAY PROJECT
International Comparison of Vehicle Production in 1980 /a
Area
Population         Area                 Trucks      Popula-    (sq ku)/
Country           ('000 people)  ('000 sq km)  Cars         & buses    tion/car    truck
China               1,034,750         9,600    11,940       181,800       83,786      58.6
(% of total)                                    (6.8)       (93.2)
India                 680,000       2,974.7    29,183        72,044       23,301      41.3
(% of total)                                   (28.8)       (71.2)
Romania                22,300         237.5    75,020        37,116          297       6.4
(1 of total)                                   (66.9)       (33.1)
Turkey                 45,217         780.6    43,308        29,001        1,032      26.9
(% of total)                                   (60.2)       (39.8)
Peru                   17,293       1,285.2      5,808        4,940        2,977    260.1
(- of total)                                   (54.0)       (46.0)
Chile                  11,136         741.8    18,015         2,136          618    347.3
(% of total)                                   (89.4)       (10.6)
Philippines            47,914         299.7    34,831        32,740        1,375       9.1
(% of total)                                   (51.5)       (48.5)
Malaysia                13,297         329.6    60,582       14,395          219      23.0
(2 of total)                                   (80.8)       (19.2)
/a Data for China are for 1984.
Source: The World Automotive Market.



Table 2.4
- 38
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicles Manufactured in and Imported into China, 1980-84
(thousands)
Type                                 1980      198'      1982      1983      1984
Domestic Production
Total vehicles                     222.3    175.6    196.2    239.8    316.4
of which trucks                  135.5    108.3    121.8    137.1    181.8
as % of total                    (61.0)   (62.0)   (57.0)   (57.2)   (57.4)
Imports
Cars                                  -        1.4       1.1       5.8      21.6
Trucks                              22.0      20.8       7.7       8.4      28.0
Dump trucks                           -        1.5       1.1       2.3       4.8
Chassis with engines                           0.3       0.4       0.9       2.1
Others                                -       17.6       5.8       7.6      92.2
Total                                  41.6      16.1      25.1    148.7
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of China 1982, 1983 and 1984.



39                             Table 2.5
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Total Freight Transport Handled by State
and Social Trucks
Freight volume           Freight density      Average distance
(million tons)          (billion ton-km)             (km)
Public   Social             Public    Social    Public         Social
truck    truck   Total      truck      truck      truck       truck
1978         852    2,406    3,258        27.4       44.6      32.1         18.5
1979         816    2,748    3,564        26.8       47.7       32.8        17.4
1980         760    2,060    2,820        25.5       50.9      33.5         24.7
1981         715    2,922    3,637        25.3       52.7       35.4        18.0
1982         788    3,004    3,792        30.3       64.6      38.4         21.5
1983         791    3,219    4,010        33.5       74.9      42.3         23.3
1984         789    4,545    5,334        35.4      118.2      44.9         26.0
1985         762    4,987    5,749        .35.5     141.5      46.6         28.4
Note:  Percentage of truck distribution in early 1984:  Public trucks = 14%
Social trucks = 86%
Source: Ministry of Communications, 1985
China Statistical Yearbook, 1983



Table 2.6
- 40 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
CTC's Vehicle Operating Cost
Vehicle Operating Cost
Type of vehicle                   1983     1984    1985      1986 /a
4-10 ton trucks                   154.4    129.5   131.4    167.1
(Y/1,OOO ton-km)
Container truck                   1,245                      185.7
(Y/1,000 container-km)
Truck-Trailer                       960                      182.7
(Y/1,000 veh-ki)
Standard 4-ton truck           107-167/b
(Y/1,000 ton-km)
/a   Statistics in 1986 was collected as Y/1,000 t-km for all
types of vehicles, and covered the period from January-
Oc%ober 1986.
/b   Ranges as follows:  Y 107/1,000 ton-km on Class 1 roads; Y
134 on Class 2 roads; and Y 167 on Class 3 roads.
Note: Statistics in 1983-1985 are collected from CTC's branch
offlce in Tianjin, and 1986 statistics is rom CTC head-
office in Beijing.
Source: Central Trucking Company.



41 -                             Table 2.7
CHINA
BEIJING-TIAJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Composition of Vehicle Operating Cost
(.)
Sichuan                    CTC        Country
Cost composition               Province    Shanghai    average        average
Fuel                             28.9         22.0        15.2          26.3
Vehicle repair                   15.2         23.0        17.8          21.7
Overhauls                         4.0          n.a.        9.1            -
Road maintenance fee             15.6          7.0        14.0          14.7
Tires                             9.7          7.0        12.7           6.0
Labor cost                        5.6         17.0         3.5           6.8
Vehicle depreciation              5.4          5.0         8.5           6.2
Administration and misc.         15.6         19.0        19.2          18.3
Total                      100.0        100.0      100.0         100.0
Sources: Sichuan Provincial Transport Office, 1981; Shanghai Transport Office,
1981; Central Trucking Company, 1983; and MOC statistics for country
average in 1984.
Note:    Garoline cost - Y 0.60/liter in 1983, and Y 0.08/liter in 1986
Diesel cost - Y 0.40/liter
Average gasoline consumption - 0.086 - 0.0906 liters/ton-km
Average diesel consumption - 0.065 - 0.073 liters/ton-km.



Table 3.1
- 42 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
1990 Traffic in Terms of Passenger Car Units (PCUs)
Conversion
factor
to car       Beijing-  Majuqiao-  Nanying-  Vangcun-  Tianjin
Items                      equivalent    Majuqiao   Nanying   Yangcun   Tianjin   Tanggu
Small truck                 2.0   (a)       1,498        846        890        946      1,170
(b)      1,680        948        998      1,062      1,310
Medium truck                3.0   (a)       2,607      1,737      1,737      3,165      4,221
(b)       ',907     1,935      1,935      3,513      4,707
Large truck/trailer         3.5   (a)       2,397      1,774      1,774      3,570      4,249
(b)      2,667      1,974      1,974      3,972      4,725
Container                   5.0   (a)       1,030      1,060      1,060      1,595      2,375
(b)      1,665      1,715      1,715      2,580      3,840
Passenger car               1.0   (a)         872        703        703        701        642
(b)        970        783        783        781        714
Bus                         2.0   (a)       1,318      1,122      1,136      1,226        996
(b)      1,466      1,184      1,266      1,366      1,290
Total (in car equivalent)
1990                         (a)       9,722     7,242      7,300    11,203    13,653
(b)     11,355      8,539      8,671    13,274    16,586
2000                         (a)      25,863    19,437    19,609    29,671    35,604
(b)     30,171    23,039    23,233    35,140    42,764
Legend:
(a) - the lower traffic growth assumption; and
(b) - the higher traffic growth assumption.



Table 3.2
_ 43 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Design speed                                                             120 km/hr
Road width                                                                    26 m
Carriageway width                                                      2 x 7.50 m
Median strip                                                                3.00 m
Shoulder
Hard                                                                 2 x 2.50 m
Soft                                                                 2 x 0.75 m
Minimum radius at curvature
Absolute                                                                   650 m
Normal                                                                   1,000 m
Maximum gradient                                                                3%
Minimum passing sight distance                                               210 m
Nonsuperelevated radius of curvature                                       5,500 m
Bridges and culverts
Width                                                               2 x 11.00 m
Design load                                                  Grade 20 + vehicle
Check load                                                  120-ton semitrailer
Pavement
Design life                                                            20 years
Design load                                   Equivalent 10-ton standard axles
Bridge clearances
Class I and II highways                                                  5.00 m
Class III and IV highways                                                4.50 m
Farm access                                                              3.00 m
Pedestrian                                                               2.00 m



Table 3.3
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Training Program
Description                                                          Estimated cost
(US$)
Training Equipment and Materials
Audiovisual training aids and laboratory, computer
and photogrammetry equipment and technical books and
publications for the MOC highway institutes and
institutes in Hebei province and the municipalities
of Beijing and Tianjin                                               85,000
Foreign Academic Expert Visits
Short visits to MOC's Hebeis, Beijing's and
Tianjin's municipal colleges and institutes to give
lectures on spec4al topics (6 visits)                                  30,000
Training Abroad or in China
For staff from MOC and its institutes and Hebei,
Beijing and Tianjin transport departments
Postgraduate study in transportation planning,
transport economics, and soils and materials engi-
neering (3 officials for 12 months)                                 200,000
Training courses and practical secondment on high-
way maintenance and equipment management, con-
struction management and supervision, new construc-
tion material technology, soils and materials engi-
neering (23 officials for 3-6 months)                               200,000
Trainit , courses in financial management and
accounting (3 officials for 6 months)                                30,000
Advanced courses for technical interpreters
(3 officials for 2 months)                                        15,000
Total                                                        560,000



Table 3.4
CHINA
BIEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Estimited Disburrseent Schedule
Estimated cumu-              Disbursement profile
IBRD fiscal year                lative disbursements           of Regional highway
and semester                US$ million           2               projects (%)
1988
December 31, 1987                 10               7
June 30, 1988                     18              12                    7
1989
December 31, 1988                 30              20
June 30, 1989                     50              33                   22
1990
December 31, 1989                 70              47
June 30, 1990                     95              63                   42
1991
December 31, 1990                110              73
June 30, 1991                    130              87                   63
1992
December 31, 1991                135              90
June 30, 1992                    150             100                   80
1993
December 31, 1992
June 30, 1993                                                          92
1994
December 31, 1993
June 30, 1994                                                         100



-46 -                                    Table 4.1
CHINA
BEIJING - TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Transport Between Tanpsu Port and Its Hinterland
('000 tons)
1980                                      1983
Water-                                    Water-
Road   Rail    way   Coastal  Total    Road   Rail    way   Coastal  Total
Between Tanggu and:
Tianjin         1,800  2,240    520   1,490   6,050    4,370  3,100          -        -  7,470
(Z)           (30.0) (37.0)  (8.0)  (25.0) (100.0)   (58.5) (41.5)         -        - (100.0)
Be4jing           400  1,610       -        -   2,010       730  2,200       -        -  2,930
(%)           (20.0) (80.0)      -       -  (100.0)   (25.0) (75.0)        -        - (100.0)
Hebel             130    360      30      810   1,330       240    670    830         -  1,740
(2)          (10.0) (27.0) (0.04)  (61.0) (100.0)   (14.0) (38.0) (47.0)            - (100.0)



- 47 -
CHINA
U IJING-TIANJlN-TAN4GU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Traffic On Existing Road, Without Expressway, 1984-2010
(vpd)
Growth BeiJing- HaJuqiao- Nanying- Yangoun- Tianjin-
rate    MaJuqiao  Nanying  Yangcun  Tianjin   Tanggu
P..                                            /-1       /_2
Traffic On Existing Roads:
1984
Small truck                       639       445       816        732       669
Medium truck                      905       700     1,427        971     1,367
Large truck/trailer               354       883    1,306      1,559    1,165
Car                               747       419        867       766       468
Small bus                         288       214        236       840       233
Subtotal                   2.933     2,661      4,651    4,868      3.902
Others /-2                      8,177     2,317   20,600    7,383        3,000
1990
Small truck   a.      1.04        809       563    1,033         926       846
b,    1.06        906       631    1,158       1,038       949
Medium truck  a        1.09     1,518     1,174    2,393       1,628    2,293
b.     1.11    1,693      1,309    2,669       1,816    2,557
L,arge truck/  a.     1.12        699     1.743    2,576      3,077    2,300
trailer      b.     1.14        777     1,938    2,864      3,422    2,557
Car             a.    1.11    1,397         784     1,622      1,433       875
b.     1.13     1,555       872     1,805      1,595       974
Small bus      a.      1.11       539       400       441      1,571       436
b.     1.13       600       446        491     1,749       485
Subtotal  a.               4,961     4,664    8,065    8,636    6,750
b               5,531     5,197    8,987       9,620    7,522
Others /_2    a.       1.04   10,347      2,932   26,066    9,342        3,798
b.     1.06   11,599      3,287   29,221    10,473    4,256
2000
.          ;~~~_3
Small truck   a.      1.10      2,097     1,460    2,678    2,402        2,196
b.     1.10    2,351      1,637     3,002    2,693    2,461
Medium truck  a       1.10      3,937     3,045    6,207      4,224    5,946
b.     1.10     4,390     3,396    6,923      4,711    6,632
Large truck/  a.    1.10    1,812         4,621     6,681    7,i81       5,964
trailer      b      1.10    2,015       5,027     7,430    8,878    6,633
Car            a.     1.10      3,624     2,033    4,206    3,716    2,270
b.    1.10    4,034       2,263    4,682    4,136        2,527
Small bus      a.     1.10      1,397     1,038     1,145    4,075       1,130
b      1.10    1,555      1,156    1,274    4,536    1,258
Subtotal  a.              12,867   12,097   20,918   22,399   17,507
b.             14,346   13,479   23,311   24,952   19,511
Others /.2    a.       1.10   26,836      7,604   67,607   24,230    9,846
b.     1.10   30,085      8,525   75,793   27,164   11,038
2010
Small truck   a.       1.17    4,125      2,873    5,268    4,726    4,319
b.     1.07     4,625     3,221    5,906    5,298    4,842
Medium truck  a        1.07    7,744      5,990   12,211    8,309   11,697
b.     1.07    8,637      6,680   13,818    9,287   13,046
Large truck/  a.    1.07    3,565         8,893   13,143   15,701   11,733
trailer      b      1.07     3,965      9,889   14,615   17,460   13,047
Car            a.      1.07    7,129    3,999    8,274    7,310    4,468
b.     1.07    7,935    4,451    9,210    8,137    4,971
Small bus      a.    1.07    7,745        2,042    2,252    8,016    2,224
b.     1.07     3,059    2,273    2,507    8,923    2,475
Subtotal  a,              25,312   23,797   41,148   44,062   34,439
b             28,221   26,514   45,856   49,085   38,382
Others /,2    a       1.07   52,791    14,959  132,994   47,665   19,368
b.     1!07   59,183   16,770  149,096   53,436   21,713
Notes 1. Aasumirg urban traffic will use ring road.
2 Includes small/medium trailer, aniaal/human cart and bicycle.
3. a - the lower traffic growth assumption, and
b = the higher traffic growth assumption.



Table 4.3
48-
CHINA
BBIJING-TIANJIN-TANOGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Traffic Growth Assu ption, 1984-2010
(X)
Large
Small  Medium  truck-    Con-            Small   Large
truck   truck  trailer  tainer   Car    bus       bus
Annual growth ratio
until 1990
Lower traffic growth
assumption                   4/a             12/b     20Lb   11      11/b    11/b
Higher traffic growth
assumption                   6      11       14        30     13     13       13
Annual growth ratio,
1990-2000                     10      10       10        10     10     10       14/c
Annual growth ratio
2000-2010                      7       7        7         7      7      7        7
Generated traffic at
opening of expressway /d
(in % of road traffic)        50      40       60        -      90     70        -
/a  Until 1990 it is assumed that smaller freight vehicles will be partly replaced
by larger, more efficient ones on the corridor, and therefore only a low 4-6%
growth rate has been retained.
/b Assumed that short haul traffic will shift from rail to road, in particular
passenger and containers, and thils is reflected in higher growth rates, 20-30%
for container trucks, 12-141 for large trucks, and 11-132 for buses.
/c This rate would mean that by 1997 some 50% of passengers in corridor would
have shifted to bus transport.
/d Made possible by Increased fleet capacity due to time savings; pent-up demand
and possible shift from railway.



-40 *                     TABLE 4.4
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Total Traffic On xproessway, 1984-2010
BeiJing- Majuqiao- Nanying Yangcun- Tianjin-
Majuqiao  Nanying  Yangcun  Tianjin   Tanggu
Diverted From Roads:
1984         2,148    1,487    1,505    2,134    2,559
1990   a.   3,628    2,574    2,596    3,772    4,500
b.   4,089    2,915    2,941    4,305    5,138
2000   a.   9,409    6,675    6,735    9,785   11,671
b.  10,605    7,562    7,628   11,165   13,327
2010   a.  18,509   13,132   13,248   19,248   22,Q59
b.  20,861   14,875   15,006   21,964   26,217
Diverted From Railway:
1984           196      196       200       193       125
1990   a.      411      411       419       406       320
b.     518       518       526       512      472
2000   a.   1,392    1,392    1,41    1,371          929
b.   1,705    1,705    1,736    1,682    1,334
2010   a.   2,737    2,737    2,792    2,696    1,828
b.   3,354    3,354    3,414    3,308    2,625
Generated Traffic:
1984         1,26P      898       907    1,208    1,397
1990   a.   2,174    1,569    1,580    2,129    2,446
b.   2,423    1,748    1,761    2,372    2,726
2000   a.   5,639    4,069    4,098    5,523    6,345
b.   6,285    4,534    4,567    6,153    7,070
2010   a.  11,093    8,003    8,062   10,864   12,482
b.  12,364    8,918    8,983   12,104   13,907
Total Traffic:
1984         3,612    2,581    2,612    3,535    4,081
1990   a.   6,213    4,553    4,595    6,307    7,266
b.   7,030    5,181    5,228    7,188    8,336
2000   a.  16,439   12,135   12,252   16,678   18,945
b.  18,595   13,800   13,930   19,000   21,732
2010   a.  32,339   23,872   24,101   32,808   37,268
b.  36,579   27,147   27,403   37,375   42,750
Notes: 1. Includes Yixingbu, Xuzhuangzi and Yuejin road.
2. Includes Airport East, Junliangcheng and Hebei road.
3. a = the lower traffic growth assumption, and
b = the higher traffic growth assumption.



_ 50                                     Table 4.5
CHINA
IEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU  XRESSWAY PROJECT
Espressvay Economic Coot Estimates
(Y million, October 1986 prices)
Total
Conver-   Local      economic
Financial cost        *ion    economic    cost of
Items                                  Total  Foreign  Local  factor        colt    the project
Construction of Expressway
civil works
Unskilled labor (91)               58.50      -      58.50     0.5      29.25
Technical labor (2Z)               13.00   13.00       -
Equipment (221)                   143.00  100.75   42.25       1.3      54.93
Materials (301)
Bitumen                          60.40   60.40      -
Steel                            24.00   24.00      -
Cement                           16.25   16.25      -
Timber                           15.60   15.60      -
Other construction materials   78.65        -     78.65      1.0      78.65
P.O.L. (141)                       91.00      -     91.00      1.0      91.00
Overhead (10X)                     65.00   65.00       -
Profit (81)                        52.00   52.00      -
Miscellaneous (51)                 32.50      -      32.50     1.0      32.50
Civil Works Subtotal             650.00  347.10  302.90    0.97    286.33         633.43
Mechanical and electrical system
on expressway                     100.00   80.00   20.00       1.3      26.00      106.00
Subtotal                         750.00  427.10  322.90    0.99    312.33         739.43
Physical contingencies (10)            75.00   42.71   32.29         -     31.23       73.94
Land a'cquisition cost                 81.82      -      81.82    1.00      81.82       81.82
Supervision of construction             16.60   16.60      -                            16.60
Equiprient for expressway opera-
tion and monitoring unit /a           4.62    4.62       -                             4.62
Total                            428.04  491.03  437.01    0.99    425.38         916.41
/a   Excludes cost of road maitenance equipment (ostimatd at 752 of total equipment
iWported for project) since the deprociation cost of this equipmmet is included in
the actual maintenance cost of the exproseuy.



- 51 -
Table 4.6
CHINA
EEIJING-TIANJIN-TANSGU EXFRESSWAY PRO,iECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on Existing Roads and on Expressway
(Y/1,000 veh.--km)
Small   Medium    Large  Trailer/                Small    Large
truc;    truck    truck  container    Car         bus       bus
Financial, Existing
Fuel                               106       109       130)      195        69       88      I109
Tires                               14        62        99      208         14       62        99
Mai nteani.-e                      1n6        96        86       4c00      84        84        84
:r ew                               i5        31        36        31        18       31        31
Depr-ecIatiorn                      2Z        29        65       300       55        54       210
Road mainit enance fee              74        68       10C0C     108         0       56        56
Iotdl I8t,                    26        Z95       516    1,242        240 :     375       S8S
1990)          779       442      578    1,391        269       420:)     660
FinarLcIal, E.pressway
Fuel                                99        99       117       169       62        82        99
Tir es                              1-        55        80      184        13        55        B0
Mai rtenanice                       94        86        77      360         76       76        76
F:r-ew                              12        24        26        24        13       24        24
Depreclation                        16        22        5S.o    220        43        45       165
Road mau ntenance fee               74        68       ICI(:I    I108       Cl       56        56
Total           1985           710       354       451     1,065       207       _38       500
Economic, Existing
FuLel                              ICI6      14:6      1.2       198       66        86       106
Tires                               15        44        70       130       10        44        70
Mair.teriance /- 1                 95        86        77       360       76        76        76
Crew                                15        25        29        25        18       25        25
Depreclation                        17        26        59      264        33        32.0     140
Subtotal                      248       287        67       977       203.      261       417
Time value of passengers                      -                   -         17      175       250
Total           1985           248       287       367       977       220       436       667
Conditions by       199() /2       278       321       411    1,1:94      246       488       747
2(:X<:}i       Z'3       -88       494    1,3184      296       585       896
210I           40:)0     465       592    1,567       355       702    1,075
F:c'numic, Expressway
Fuel                                99        96       119       172       59        79        96
Tires                               14        4l1      57        115        9        40        57
Maintenance /-1                     85        77        69      324        68        68        68
Crew                                12        19        21        19       13        19        19
Depreciation                       1I         2(        45       194       26        25       110
Subtotal                      22-       252       711       824       175       231       350
Time value of passengers            -         -    -              -         8       110       123
Total                           22:      252        11       824       1873      331       475
Notes: 1. Assumed 90/. of financial cost.
2. 80th road condition and flow will deteriorate qUIcAly wlth high traffic growth
and shift towards heavier vehicles. Considered 2X. p.a. cost increase.



1
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Economic Rate Of Return (ERR) & Sensitivity Analysis
----------------------------------------------------
(million Yuan)
---------Bas-------------------------------Base Case------__________
---------- Costs-----------  ---------------------------Benefits---------------------------
Net                                         Reduced                    Addition
Construc-  road               VOC    Railway  Generated congestion                 benefits     Net
tion     maint.             net    diverted  traffic  existing  Reduced          (higher     cash
Year   cost     cost      Total  savings  traffic               roads  accidents Total  traffic)    flow
1987   136.00            136.00                                                                  (15.00)
1988   257.00            257.00                                                                  (257.00)
1989   290.00            290.00                                                                  (290.00)
1990   233.00     0.50   233.50    21.30     4.80    11.45    12.30      0.60    50.45     7.52  (183.05)
1991              0.50     0.50    24.90     5.68    13.28    14.41      0.60    58.87     8.69    58.37
1992              0.50     0.50    29.11     6.72    15.40    16.88      0.60    68.71    10.04    68.21
1993              0.50     0.50    34.03     7.95    17.86    19.78      0.60    80.22    11.60    79.72
1994              0.50     0.50    39.78     9.40    20.72    23.18      0.60    93.68    13.40    93.18
1995              0.50     0.50    46.50    11.12   24.04    27.16       0.60   109.42    15.48   108.92
1996              0.50     0.50    54.36    13.15    27.89    31.82      0.60   127.82    17.88   127.32
1997              0.50     0.50    63.55    15.56    32.35    37.28      0.60   149.34    20.65   148.84
1998              0.50     0.50    74.29    18.41    37.53    43.68      0.60   174.51    23.85   174.01
1999              0.50     0.50    86.85    21.78    43.53    51.18      0.60   203.94    27.55   203.44
2000              0.50     0.50    95.40    25.48    SC.,3   59.94       0.30   231.65    34.75   231.15
2001              0.50     0.50   106.28    28.17    56.24    65.09      0.30   256.08    38.64   255.58
2002              0.50     0.50   118.40    31.14    62.60    70.69      0.30   283.13    42.97   282.63
2003              0.50     0.50   131.90    34.43    69.67    76.77      0.30   313.07    47.78   312.57
2004              0.50     0.50   146.94    38.06    77.54    83.37      0.30   346.21    53.13   345.71
2005              0.50     0.50   163.69    42.08    86.30    90.54      0.30   382.91    59.08   382.41
2006              0.50     0.50   182.35    46.52    96.05    98.33      0.30   423.55    65.70   423.05
2007              0.50     0.50   203.14    51.43   106.90   106.79      0.30   468.56    73.06   468.06
2008              0.50     0.50   226.30    56 86   118.98   115.97      0.30   518.41    81.24   517.91
2009              0.50     0.50   252.10    62.86   132.42   125.94      0.30   573.62    90.34   573.12
2010              0.50     0.50   281.11    69.35   148.21   136.92      0.30   635.89    95.38   635.39
ERR =   14.48 %
Cont'd



1
CHI NA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANWGU IXPRESSWAY PkOJECT
-----------------------------------------
Economic Rate Of Return (ERR) & Sensitivity Analysis
-----..----------------------------------------------
(million Yuan)
-----C         I ------     ------sCase 2 ------         ------Case 3-----------------sCae 4 ----------                   -----------Case 5----------
Total                        Total
benefits                     benefits                                                                                               Total
(1/2 to      Nbt             (add the     Net             Total        Wet             Total    Total         Net          Total   benefVts    net
generated    :ash              higher     cash              costs      cash             costs   benefits    cash            costs  (Tolled       cash
traffic)    flow            traffic)    flow               (*10%)     flow              t+10%)   (-10%)      flow                  highway)    flow
(136.00)                    (136.00)             149.60  i149-60)             149.60            (149.60)         136.00            (136.00)
4257.00)                    (257.>O)            282.70  (282.70)             282.70            (282.70)         257.00            (2S7.00)
(U90.00)                    (290.00)             319.00  (319-00)             319.00            (319.00)         290.00            (290.00)
44.73  (l8e.77)              57.97  (175.53)            256.85   206-40)             256 85    45.41  i2l1.45)           233.50    44.82  (188.68)
52.23    51.73              67.56    67.06                0.55    58.32                O.65    52.9e    52.43              0.50    52.29    S1.79
61.01    60.51               78.76    78625               0.55    68.16                0.55    61.84    61.29              0.50    61.03    60.53
71.29    70.79              91.82    91.32                0-55    79.67                0.55    72.20    71.65              0.50    71.24    70.74
03.32    82.82              107.08   106.58               0 55    93.13                0.55    84.31    83.76              0.50    83.20    82.70
97.40    96.90             124.90   124.40                0.55   108.87                0.5c    98.48    97.93              0.50    97.17    96.67
113.88   113.38             145.70   145.20                0.55   127.27                0.55   115.04   114.49              0.50   113.51   113.01
133.17   132.67             169.99   169.49                0.5b   148.79                0.55   134.41   133.86              0.50   132.62   132.12
155.75   155.25              198.36   197.86               0.55   173.96                0.55   157.06   156.51              0.50   154.96   154.48
182.18   181.68             231.49   230.99                0.55   203.39                4.55   183.55   183.00              0.50   181.12   160.62
206.39   205.89              266.40   265.90                0 55   231.10               0.55   208.49   207.94              O.50   205.94   205.44
227.96   227.46             294.72   294.22                0.55   255.53                O.5b   230.47   229.92              0.50   227.48   226.98
251.83   251.33              326.10   325.60                0 55   282.58               0.55   254.82   254.27              0.50   251.31   250.81
278.24   277.74             360.85   360.35                 0.55   312.52               0.55   281.76   281.21              0.50   277.67   277.17
307.44   306.94              399.34   398.84               0.55   345.66                0.55   311.59   311.04              0.50   306.83   306.33
339.76   339.26              441.99   441.49                0.55   382.36               0.55   344.62   344.07              0.50   339.10   338.60
375.53   375.03              489.25   488.75                0 55   423.00               0.55   381.20   380.65              0.50   374.81   374.31
415.11   414.61              541.62   541.12                0.55   468.01               0.55   421.70   421.15              0.50   414.34   413.64
458.92   458.42              599.65   599.15                0 55   517.86               0.55   466.57   466.02              0.50   456.09   457.59
507.41   506.91              663.96   663.46                0.55   573.07               0.55   516.26   515.71              0.50   506.b'   506.01
561.79   561.29              731.27   730.77                0.55   635.34               0.55   572.30   571.75              0.50   561.09   560.59
ERRN    13.29 S               Rk    15.93S               ERh      13.b2                         ERR      12.49 SRR =   13.27 X



~54.                            ANNEX 
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Start    Complete
Part A - Expressway Construction
Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                             09/15/86   12/31/86
Bid period                                                03/30/87   06/15/87
Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                              06/15/87   08/15/87
Appoint supervision staff                                             08/01/86
Select consultants for organization of
supervision of works and award contracts                           08/30/87
Construction of expressway                                10/01/87   12/31/90
Establish expressway organization                                     10/01/90
Part B - Expressway Maintenance, Operation and Monitoring Equipment
Prepa.re specifications and bid documents
and submit for Bank review                             02/01/88   05/01/88
Invite bids                                              06/01/88   08/01/88
Evaluate bids                                             08/01/88   09/01/88
Review by Bank of evaluation and
recommendation for award                               09/15/88   10/15/88
Award contracts                                                       11/01/88
Delivery of equipment                                    01/01/89   11/30/89
Part C - Consulting Services
Assistance in supervision and training for
supervision of construction                           09/15/87   12/31/90
Assistance in Road Data Bank equipment
procurement including function requirement
study, evaluation of proposals, testing, etc.           10/01/87   05/01/89
(part-time)
Assistance in studies, seminars and workshops             10/01/87   01/01/90
(part-time)
Part D - Studies
Organization for operation and maintenance
of expressway                                           10/01/87   03/31/89
Bitumen                                                   10/01/87   12/31/90
Road financing                                            10/01/87   02/20/90
Review studies' findings with Bank                       05/01/89   12/31/90
Agreement with Bank on actions to be taken               01,/01/89   06/15/91
Part E - Staff Training
Selection of trainees                                                10/31/87
Placement of trainees                                 continuous to 06/30/92
Part F - Road Data Bank
Preparation of system                                     10/01/87   continuing
Collection of data                                        11/01/87   continuing
Preparation of software                                  03/01/88   05/01/88
Identification of hardware needs                         08/01/88   08/01/88
Preparation of specifications and bid
documents for computer systems                          11/01/88   01/01/88
Invite bids                                              02/01/88   05/01/89
Evaluate bids                                            05/01/89   07/01!89
Review by Bank                                           07/01/89   08/01/89
Award contracts                                               -      08/15/89
Testing and delivery                                     08/30/89   08/30/90



ANNEU 2
- 5 -
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Project Nonitoring Indices
Actual as   Reason for  Action
Esti-                X of       difference  to be
Project component                                   mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Expressway Construction
Contract awards
Earthworks completed (a3)
Paving completed (km)
Culverts (number)
Bridges (number)
Construction work completed
Maintenance certificate 'ssued
Completion certificates issued
Final cost
Supervision of Construction (man-months)
Consultant Services
Supervision of Construction/Studies/Road Data
Base
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Supervision organization, procedures
and aystems agreed by MOC and Bank
Supervision staff appointed
office and laboratory buildings
constructed
Laboratory equipment in place
Supervision of construction in progress
Expressway Maintenance
Operation and Monitoring Equipment
Prepare specifications and bid documents
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contract
Delivery
Studies
Organization for operation and maintenance
of the expressway
Highway financing
Bitumen
Studies start
Studies end
Review findings with Bank
Action
Road Data Bank
Preparation of system
Collection of d-ta
Software preparation
Identify hardware
Preparation of specification and
bid document for computer system
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Test hardware and software
Delivery



- 56 -                             ANNE  3
CHINA
BEIJING - TIANJIN - TANGCU EXPRESSWAY PROJECT
Selected Documnts and Data Available in the Project File
A,  General Reports
A.1 CHINA - Long-term Development Issues and Options,
World Bank, September 1985
A.2 Statistical Yearbook of China, 1984, State Statistical Bureau, Pac.
B.   General Report and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.1 CHIN: Long-term Development Issues and Options - Annex 6
The Transport Sector, World Bank, Septmber 1985
B.2 Transport Sector Paper, Decembr 10, 1984, AEPTR
B.3 Basic Data on the Chinese Highway Subsector
- Answers to Questions (Chinese with English translation)
c.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.l BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANCCU Construction Project. Feasibility Study
Report, Highway Planning and Design Institute, 1984
C.2 Beijing-Tanggu Expressway: Economic Analysis (F. Johansen),
September 30, 1985



CMINA
PEUINGCTIAJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY
Organization dt the MiniWsr of Communications
EH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
V* ,id   fa  stao sic s    ..t                .       nsofncap"  
am"i ~ee                  Ptaonww   for Foa CrWftM CVMnom.C
Ivu&~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AdIddat                                         A iIrninebaSft2 | _
Pk,rtwrg O9~~~~~~~~~ll.on  Dwh~~Cnvay .M 
IJWM Ixog              I                I                                          I            I      -o
_.& Sh  _ID                           Fo_r Fot    E|no
_} ~~~I P,ww I    I   I=-                        J I CPSI           I Ioes IDI
AC I h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od   I IInICk  I3h0 I0h 



CHINA
BEINJING-TiANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY
Organization of the Highway Bureau
In the Ministry of Communications
V M. fPf r t0cn  h Rooat Trrn
I      -   -  -  -    -  - -  -  - -  -
Gnodeodneral Officeo                                         SeonAid                Dvo
Divoaion               DsN                 Trnsport                 Wn Xrr
Chintra                Ro  Corer ( :Ro  CHsW ttc                     R   oodv tx  Fwy Su     r    dHw
Rooct Bdde          RVct tFaclorv       Eqpt. t act-v       & Design Inst.       DesW Wnst.           Eng. Dq2.g
Coporcit-              XtANt              XftmN               BELONG              V  AN                                o Xa N
October 1985                                                                                                                  VWosdt Boznk-26871



-59 -
Chart 3
CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY
The Relationship Between Central and Provincial Transport Departments
ministry of Commujnications
B ureau                          .                        tul                                      Hiha Bureau1] 
Prov!ncial Transport
Departments                -4
Provilncial Highwav
Bureaus   _        _
,                                i
I         Prefecture &
! c.-:urr\ Transport           - 
LOCOI Mainrenance             Township Authority
Rors for  :Sections
Sfor Sp,ca'                  rj .rCvk S                  . untJV Poaos               Commune Roaads
Purpose
Nore,
Thre nroker lines snow the contrro over pOlIcy &  0m.nistrot e ssues
trre sclti lnes stow thes Frectco  I o)Over tnonClfC3 oecs~    n Js'lh
rpo"cs rrd adtnmnistrafiOve ssues                                                                                          World Bank - 26423



CHINA
BEIJING-TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY
Organ.zation of the Educalion and Science and Technology
BureOus of the MinisTry of Communications
I   .                                               1                    {' ~~~~~.  
L~~~ TL          :r:
l    _7j.L7-__                                            ,_                                               ' 
-- -                                                                                                 - L  __i,
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I  r   - - ~-~ ~-.-. ....-..  i                               _. .  r____  -  r                       §. j  .~.....j   L
' --.    >-..    ,                                        ,
eq  .-..   -. 
i ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~       L~ i__          ___ I~ 
f-H  ~ ~..~.. ..
I L.      _        -___
I  -- _________
I-               I                                                                                                               Y .,u  



- 61 -
Chart 5
CHINA
BEIJING TIANJIN-TANGGU EXPRESSWAY
Transverse Sections
Road Foundation and Bridges
(Units: Meters)
Road Foundation Transverse Section
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      _  ,%.     -, _  _-   ___________
'  -  ' v---------- --                         2 50
kJ 1 __ _ .9 / _ ) ,/L 0 5_ n7.
Sri , l..er
Bridge Transverse Sectior!
If                                        I 'xj          '-



I;-                                      lvl T r  M -            Is                                                                                                                             s     s   
00   5                                                         5                                 R                                                                                                                                                iU
ii  .S  S    R; -                                         .a                                                                   P OPLES
r'_^->k'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                0  D'  X  )'d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-l                                                   4X~~~REUSI                                                                                            JAPAN
ST,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.,_/.y=W EAP1L
05-*
Th.l XS h-,-.5-.                                                  f @ ODrKDY'   N. 
ledde s and s tclstveS 1J Ir e                           <            /~r r ei t                                            f-*    A  a.rn>
Int@tr@/~~~~~~ ~ utI.r>  tfJd;                                                                                                   ~P.    
tert And t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hr *rX .                                                                                                                                                                                    iIce .                r- Vldsyk                                             a  .............. ..
Arch                                 D~~~~~~~~FEMOCRAIC
trror 3rs  r                                                                                                                       n-i -roawn ~ ~ _/)'     ), ¢_'               X ,       5         +       >        > 
40Cr-ON~,rt 'TN                                                                                           ,   1  NN
-       - --- .    .. ..-
P-psmc-  -W.dd In IIc F-,s HigI-woy P,itc |/. j ,t.u. l > Tti(XTr
rrryrraeDd ha ete eyere by(W                                                                                                                      T               '     
rrlryairD.i TThe .deihirNioh                                                                                                                                                                             ,i;
err ireO 'yr   Aport s Pirs ire
iysrir~~ Cyiey-yhyrt
*   P,tll .   te                                                                \        X                r<                                    r      'i-KC{l  1                                                                    CHINA
O .. MooT-rts'                                                                        j                                     ,                               ^A,O                                      BEUING  TMIN- TANGGU DXPRE^SSWAY
any 005riroci yrder ry t,] ) IE- e coo siaioE                                                                                                                                                  8.
_SS;   t0 PED>LF S;L                       _I                                                                      NATIONAL INFRKILOMETERS
a A 9r fttl 1P313 Y-.> lleD r3347 tGw,g  'SiD 18J3lF Zhe, -g  5R}D 193M0 5,1h-n l8e 1835, J=g,                                                                                                                        wLc85    ~h /os1ES5U
ee,e     8353io  5r r 80 855_r  ,__ NO
oyyh Oeyyyfrr.i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~NVMER18



tURD 1960
/\ Andi                                                       l      ig .  / EDJ                   \, fr3                                                              118 4t
GuonZr.oQ                                                                                                                          .%
M~~os~~  k~~dno * ~HEBEI                                               -T                             EE
BE 1       G/fl EM I J                                                              2 G   S H I  o /   H E B E I  \  \  A.r   A   |    _  - Province brour\rz0res   \    \,    80 1HEB ..
-;gngxirarU Q  4~~~~~~  4\                           / kb| tu                     KGfW                                                    ZJ)N  S04 o       ' 9 X 
Sib_li DinNJion                                                7/A                                     i i                                                '
______             - .                                                                                                                          I t   rA
o /  1B E U 14                                                                            t  BEDING - TIANJIN - T^GGU  EXPRESSWAYBI
-  /                                                                                                                   V.'-..t -\ f
\.  JI N    SH H                  Proposed project              Existing:
A,dlg                                                                                           Doub ile track roawoys
S.---Duinge frack ratiways 
Canals
1 H I                                       EB                               xProvince bountdaies                                -                    SOdAf
-VW                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~117         e
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,wr,                                                                                  ,        M,>
W S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H I N A9    ,,, ,,,,,,,,,  
BEUING -TIANJIN - TANGGU EXPRESSWAY
B.,f.W                         ~~~~~~~Proposed Projecfs;        Existing:
Expressway            -        Primary roads
- - -  Connecting roads                Secondary roads
Toilgates             -        Double ttack railways
TSorqin XW*ngan(pwroS)      Interchanges           - --Single track railways
@-Service areas           -- Canals
(Yangc                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highway administration  Rivers
headquarters            F4    Airports
o    Maintenance depots              Urban areas
+ -Bus stops                 a    Towns and villages
u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...Bridges                                          -     Province boundaries
Ybli pbu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Communication points
Terminais (toll plazas)
5         10      15      20
NOWINU91: anla



